ets g ar o ur d t Diab ve ase Sustainability Report h a -b W e ce d.” ” ien ve sc pro ap 2018 DIAB – A WORLD LEADER IN HIGH-PERFORMANCE COMPOSITE CORE MATERIALS Diab has been at the leading edge of composite core material development for over sixty years, supplying a wide range of markets including marine, wind energy, transport, aerospace and industry. This report contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current expectations of the management of Diab Group AB. Although management believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove correct. Accordingly, results could differ materially from those implied in the forwardlooking statements as a result of, among other factors, changes in economic, market and competitive conditions, changes in the regulatory environment and other government actions, fluctuations in exchange rates and other factors. 04 08 10 CEO words / Working The more we sell – Stronger, Lighter, for a Sustainable the more we save Smarter future 12 20 24 ONE Diab Strategy & Stakeholder Governance Involvement 28 Core Sustainability 34 Environmental 40 Zero Waste Responsibility 44 46 48 Financial Zero Corruption Social Responsibility Responsibility / Employees 56 Case Stories 60 Global Compact 62 GRI Content Index Report CEO WORDS In a world shared by 7.7 billion people, sustainability is not By offering our customers innovative technical solutions optional – it is essential. Each one of us is responsible for together with world-class productivity and quality, we are our planet and the future generations who will inhabit it. able to support them from initial concept to finished proAt Diab we understand that our products and solutions are duct. We have come a long way, but we do not rest on our part of the future society. As a concrete example, sandlaurels. It is our ambition to create even more value for wich composites is a driver of the competitiveness of wind our customers. energy. The lightweight materials that we provide enables blades to become longer, which drives down the cost of As a proactive response to many customer inquires, we did energy produced. Diab continues to grow, and the larger a 3rd party investigation of our core materials environmenand more global our company becomes, the greater our tal footprint. By utilizing an established format, responsibility. We believe we need to do our part when it Environmental Product Declaration, EPD, we provide comes to the large issues. That is why we have made complete transparency for our customers. sustainability one of our top business priorities. Our sustainability efforts are divided into four different areas: • Strategy & Governance • Human & Labor Rights • Business Ethics TOBIAS HAHN • Environment CEO February 11, 2019 We follow our certified management systems in accordance with ISO 14001 and ISO 9001. By reaffirming the UN Global GRI Standard Guidelines and External auditors Compact during 2018, Diab is making a long term stateDiab Group’s 2018 Sustainability Report is based on GRI Standards, the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability ment to continuously focus on our sustainable developReporting Guidelines, with Core options. ment. In addition to this we have also reaffirmed our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement for 2018 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB has examined this Sustainability Report and has issued an Auditor's report with and have achieved an approved CO2e-reduction plan in an unmodified opinion. accordance with the Science-Based Targets Initiative, SBTi. Diab is the first company in our industry to make such an The 2018 Sustainability Report is prepared for sustainability achievement and we challenge all our competitors and reporting in compliance with the Annual Accounts Act. colleagues to do the same. 04 WORKING FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Changes in reporting Precautionary Principle or approach Only a slight change has been made in the list of material Our sustainability commitment states: topics and boundaries compared to previous reporting period. The strong focus on health & safety, • We care about our natural resources by continuously CO2e emissions, waste and recycling, efficient energy improving the utilization of raw materials, chemicals, usage and anti-corruption remains. energy, and water, and by minimizing waste. No changes have been made to the social, environmental • Continuous improvement of the environmental and financial areas, but the area Product value has performance of our activities, products and changed. Price and Support before sales have merged services and preventing pollution to ground, air and into Reliable customer , incorporating the other areas and water through the implementation of the principles also reflecting our value Reliability in a better way. in the ISO 14001 stand­ard. • Systematically assessing and optimizing the environmental impact from the design of new and redesigned products. “We care about our natural resources by continuously improving the utilization of raw materials, chemicals, energy, and water, and by minimizing waste.” 06 THE MORE WE SELLTHE MORE WE SAVE Diab – leading the way Diab´s position Diab has been a frontrunner in developing composite Diab is effortlessly working to perfect the details of foam materials for over sixty years. We know that each manufacturing. Making its first site ISO 14001 certified application requires a unique solution. Decades of already in 1998, Diab has since worked in this spirit. Over experience serving various types of industries have the years Diab has removed plasticizers, stabilizers, brought us invaluable insight into products and processes, pigment etc. to ensure that our products are as sustainable making it possible for us to deliver a solution adapted to a as possible. variety of specific needs. A multitude of applications The more Divinycell we sell, the more our customers´ With several product lines, numerous finishing options and applications decrease carbon footprint. Light, strong and kit operations in combination with engineering services smart materials are needed in a sustainable society. and expertise, we can help our customers achieve the most competitive low-weight, high-performance Impact of sandwich design and core structures possible. Discover how composite technology Lightweight materials save our non-renewable resources can help you getting ahead in your industry. and reduce pollution. In addition, our materials have a long and reliable lifecycle, allowing for substantial environmen-­ tal savings over their life time. Over the years our target has always been to give our core materials the best strength-to-weight ratio possible. “Our materials have a long and reliable lifecycle, allowing for substantial environmental savings over their life time.” 08 STRONGER LIGHTER SMARTER Sustainability is at the core of our business Lightness and strength An integral part of Diab’s business concept is that products Who says a strong structure has to be heavy? Engineering and services should have a positive environmental impact dreams can meet harsh reality without compromises. in the applications and processes for which they are used. Sandwich composites significantly reduce weight and Most of the companies that use our products and services increase stiffness, while maintaining or even adding are striving for applications with light and strong designs. strength. Increasing the thickness of the sandwich core This brings positive effects such as reduced fuel consumpyields even greater toughness and rigidity without subtion, increased range and greater load-bearing capacity. stantially increasing weight. And since the support We take the entire product life cycle into account in our structure can be reduced, there are further weight research and development to ensure sustainable products reductions to be had. that are reusable and recyclable. Full design freedom Design a different world Do you have innovative design dreams that you have yet If you can imagine it, we can probably help you build it. to realize? With sandwich composites you can enjoy a treDiab’s high-performance solutions can take products to a mendous freedom to adapt both form and function to higher level of competitiveness by making them stronger, specific application needs without any loss of performance lighter and smarter. Combining advanced sandwich compoor strength. You can easily incorporate compound curves site materials, tailored kits, a wide range of finishing and accurately align outer skins to load paths, maximizing options and a comprehensive range of engineering structural integrity and performance. services, we make it possible to develop the wildest construction dreams in a cost-efficient and sustainable Simply smarter way. The excellent stiffness and strength-to-weight ratio of the sandwich concept serve many ends. Diab’s advanced The ultimate building material core materials enable higher speed, longer range, greater The volume and number of applications of composite pay-load capacity, reduced power demand and reduced materials are growing steadily, continuously penetrating environmental impact. They also offer good dynamic new markets. Lighter than concrete, steel and aluminum, strength, low water absorption and excellent insulation composite materials provide great weight reductions while while minimizing maintenance. maintaining strength. They combine full design freedom with exceptional durability. In addition, they are more sustainable than conventional building materials. 10 ONE DIAB Ratos Proven performance Diab is since 2009 almost wholly owned by Ratos, an Our products and solutions have been used in a wide range investment company that owns and develops unlisted of industries for decades and are all certified according to medium-sized Nordic companies. Ratos´ goal as an active relevant industry standards. This excellent track record owner is to contribute to the long-term and sustainable proves the quality and reliability of our materials and business development of the companies in which they solutions, providing security and proof of performance invest, and to make value-generating transactions. few others can offer. Our dedication to making our business sustainable means that we continually improve Ratos creates value by being the partner that unlocks busievery aspect of our operations. ness opportunities and contributes with ideas, experience, capital and contacts. Ratos´ business is about being Worldwide supply and support entrepreneurial, and a prerequisite for its long-term Diab has a global manufacturing, sales and engineering success is its ability to attract and develop employees and presence. We follow our customers – and even anticipate to build important relationships. their needs – by positioning ourselves in locations that can best support them. We have manufacturing sites in Ratos is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. It has a balanced portstrategic locations around the world, offering our full range folio and exposure to several industries and markets. of materials, plus local representation in many countries – ensuring security of supply, cost efficiency, flexibility and Complete sandwich composite solution local support. With a complete range of high-performance core materials, numerous finishing options and kit operations in combinaVision tion with engineering services and expertise, we present presumably the widest and most valuable offering in the “To be the number one in sandwich composite industry. structural cores globally” Ongoing innovation Ever since the beginning, we have been dedicated to Mission constant innovation, and we are promoting a widespread “To provide stronger, lighter adoption of sandwich composite materials. What people say can’t be done we do every day. and smarter composite solutions realizing a more sustainable world” 12 ONE DIAB One Diab House To take us to our vision to be the number one in structural One Diab contains of blocks of cross-functional teams. cores globally we are implementing a performance The ideal block has one person from each department system based on our values. The system is called One Diab with different kinds of experience. since the goal is to work together across regions, countries, departments and functions. We all belong to the same One This will help us successfully execute our mission to Diab company. provide stronger, lighter and smarter composite solutions realizing a more sustainable world. To visualize our performance system One Diab we have a house, where the foundation is our values. We will always put safety first; caring for our people is the base of every­ thing we do. Can Do Attitude, Reliability, Customer Focus, High Efficiency and Manage Our Cost are all our values that we should live by every day. 14 ONE DIAB One Diab is implemented in Longarone, Siualiai and Laholm, with other plants to follow. Focused Improvement EEM The members of this block will become experts of the Early Equipment Management is a block that will problem-solving method DMAIC (Define, Measure, Analyze, effectively plan, design, manufacture (purchase) and Improve and Control). They will be project leaders, teach start up new equipment at the expected cost and the process to others and be auditors to make certain that performance rates. It is the link between business and we follow the process. manufacturing goals and objectives. Here we use project management methodologies to manage time, money and Continuous Skills Development people resources while reducing the lead-time to start up Members of this block will be the experts in training. They new equipment. will break down all tasks and write instructions with the help from other blocks. EECF The End-to-End Continuous Flows methodology is used Equipment Care to maximize the velocity of information and material flow This block takes care of our equipment and teaches the through the process/system. Business goals and operators to carry out daily maintenance. The members of objectives are thus aligned with the manufacturing goals this block will also be experts on our planned maintenance. and activities. EECF is the link from the customer back through to the supplier(s). Materials, equipment, and Work Place Organization human resources are optimized to meet the order This block removes waste and works toward the 5S fulfillment goals. (Separate, Simplify, Systemize, Standardize, Sustain). Each working place will have all equipment in the right QM place and the right amount available. The Quality block ensures that we, at all levels, have the knowledge and the right conditions to deliver the correct NPI product/service that will effectively satisfy our customers’ New Product Introduction is a methodology that brings expectations and needs. In the Quality block we work, both together all necessary functions to make an effective plan, internally and externally, to make our customers satisfied. develop and manufacture new products from wheat to We use facts/measurement data to develop and maintain bread to satisfy customer requirements and meet internal reliable processes. measures of success. 15 ONE DIAB Diab Values Reliability We cooperate, we help each other out and we work as one We keep our promises, both to each other internally and to global company. Our values indicate what we think is imour customers, partners and others externally. We work for portant and what distinguishes us from the competition. a sustainable society. Our work ethic is strong and we Our values create a culture – a common platform where prove it every day. we can become One Diab even though we speak different languages, have different cultures and are geographically spread. Customer Focus The Diab Values are divided into six focus areas, presented We make sure our customers are satisfied. Understanding below. and sharing their entrepreneurial spirit, we are committed to helping them win by providing the best products and Safety solutions. Safety for people always comes first. Simply put, no one should get hurt while working at Diab. Together, we all take responsibility for each other’s safety. High Efficiency Efficiency and high performance are distinctions of our culture. With clear organization, we make sure that we do the right things at the right time with the right speed. Can-Do Attitude Each one of us is responsible for driving improvement. With a positive, productive approach to work, we take personal initiative – empowering ourselves, our coworkers and our Manage Our Costs company. We stay on top of our costs, globally and locally, knowing that everything and every one has an impact. More than a savings program, this is a mind-set. 16 ONE DIAB Brand names Composites Consulting Group (CCG) Diab, Divinycell, Matrix and ProBalsa are registered tradeCCG is an independent Diab Group company providing marks in countries all over the world. specialty composite technology services. With broad competence that includes everything from design and engineTechnical Services ering to testing, tooling, process optimization and training, Diab Technical Services partners up to help customers we ensure that you can realize the full value of composite maximize the benefits provided by the Diab sandwich designs. concept. We have deep knowledge of sandwich design, production, finishing and kits and our skills cover CCG consists of mechanical and process engineers, material everything from hand lay-up to resin infusion. We help scientists, naval architects and composite technicians with customers choose the most appropriate design procedure many years of experience from a wide range of industries. for each specific case and when necessary validate the Our process consultants routinely work with applications findings with in-house testing. Strategically located around using contact molding, vacuum infusion, RTM and RTM the world, we provide advice and support wherever the Light, prepregs, pultrusion and filament winding, among customers are. others. We can also offer both theoretical and practical training of personnel and then directly assist your team with prototyping and infusion trials. Quantity of products and services provided Diab offers a large quantity of products, amounting to approximately 16,000. The number of services provided cannot be calculated in the same way, but Diab offers technical support to its customers, and additional calculations and support can be had through the Composites Consulting Group (CCG). 18 19 STRATEGY & GOVERNANCE Sustainability Strategy One Planet, One Diab Diab’s strategy for sustainability is built on three pillars: It is crucial to Diab to coordinate its activities, ensure consistency, and share best practice within the global 1. Products organization. The more we sell the more we save the planet – leveraging Diab’s potential contributes to a stronger, lighter and There is special focus on ”Zero waste and closed loop” as smarter future society. the potential for improvement has been identified as significant and will deliver best return on investment in 2. Operations the mid-term perspective, 1-3 years. ”Zero waste and closed loop” – waste that can be reduced must be eliminated to save resources and cost. Materials Governance structure that cannot be eliminated need to find new customers as The legal levels of management consist of the Company’s raw material in new products, to create closed loops. Annual General Meeting, Board of Directors and CEO. The Annual General Meeting elects the Board of Directors and 3. People the Company’s CEO is appointed by the Board of Directors. Sustainability in everything we do – it is our ambition that all business activities in Diab are performed in a resourcesShareholders’ General Meeting effective and ethical manner in line with our Code of The authority of the Shareholders to make decisions Conduct and external commitments to customers, owners regarding comprehensive matters in the name of the and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Company (including Group Companies) is exercised at the General Meetings. The Annual General Meeting for the Within each area selected targets are set that drive the parent company, Diab Group AB, shall take place within activities which are then funded and prioritized in the six months of the Company’s financial year-end, and the over­all strategy and budget process on a yearly cycle. Board of Directors is obliged to discuss the Annual Reports in accordance with the Swedish Companies Act. It is clear that Diab products fit into a future sustainable society as the sandwich core composite solution and its The Board of Directors applications are in many ways superior to traditional soluThe Sustainability Report is subject to the same liability tions mainly built of steel and other metals. The strategy rules as the annual report, which means that the Board is for Diab is to identify the applications where our products ultimately responsible for the report’s establishment as add value both from a financial and sustainable perspec­well as its contents. tive, as this is the only way to secure long-term sustainable solutions. 20 STRATEGY & GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors is responsible for the organization affairs. In background of this overall responsibility, the of the Company and the management of the Company’s Board deals with any matter it considers relevant for the affairs, such as compliance with law and the Articles of Company or the Group. Association. These are, for example, to continuously assess the The Board consists of minimum three members and maxiCompany’s and Group’s financial situation. mum six members with maximum six deputies elected at a Shareholders’ meeting and two members chosen by the The General Meeting of Diab Group AB has established union, with two deputies. an Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee. The Audit Committee, which is a body within the Board, shall In the formal work plan, laid down by the Board, it is defiprepare issues for the Board in accordance with the ned which items should be discussed in the different committee’s tasks. The tasks include quality-assurance meetings in accordance with a specific plan drawn up to of the internal control, establish policies and currently ensure that the Board is able to fulfil its assignments in maintain contact with the auditors. terms of operational control, the establishment of strategic guidelines which are significant to the business The tasks of the Remuneration Committee, which is a body and development of the Company, as well as evaluation of within the Board, shall prepare issues for the Board concerits own actions and the work carried out by the managing ning remunerations. The Committee shall, on the Board’s director. behalf at the Annual General Meeting present guidelines for remuneration and other conditions of employment for The work plan stipulates that a minimum of six board management. meetings should be held during each year. The Company auditors participate in the meeting that deals with the The CEO for Diab Group AB is appointed by the Board of annual accounts. Throughout the financial year, the board Directors and shall handle the day-to-day management members as well as the deputies and auditors receive and co-ordinate the operations of the company and the written information about the Company business, group in accordance with the instructions set by the Board economic and financial position as well as other informaof Directors. That means that the CEO for Diab Group AB tion of significance to the Company. also is Group CEO. Overall responsibility The operating management bodies are created to support The Board is accountable to the shareholders for the orgaand control the operating group structure. Group managenization and management of the Company’s and Group’s ment is executed through DMT (Diab Management Team). 21 STRATEGY & GOVERNANCE DMT Diab Management Team The DMT shall discuss more long-term strategic questions The Operation Network consists of EVP Group Supply and typically meets at least seven times per year. The DMT Chain & Operations (convenes meetings) and all production comprises President & CEO, CFO Finance & IT, COO, site managers. CTO R&D Technology & Development, EVP Region Asia, EVP Region Americas, Sales EMEA & India and EVP HR. Supply chain Diab’s main suppliers supply their raw materials as chemiThe DMT has the overall responsibility for the Group’s cals, except for balsa and a few others. There are in total operations, strategies and financial control. CEO is the 30-40 unique suppliers, mainly located in Europe for IPN chairman of the group. (Interpenetrating Polymer Network) with a few exceptions in Asia for IPN production in Europe. About five suppliers­­ Product Board are located in Asia to support the IPN production in The Product Board deals with tactics around Diab’s offering Zhangjiagang. of core materials, finishing options and positioning. The board include CTO R&D Technology & Development, PET (Polyethylene Terephthalate) production suppliers are Market Segment Managers, Products and Marketing served from Europe, balsa mainly from South America and Manager PES (Polyether Sulfone) from Europe and USA. Investment Committee During 2018 the Operations organisation got further The Investment Committee’s main objective is to prioritize, strengthened with the creation of a Chief Operating Officer decide (under the mandate of authority rights), suggest role, with full responsibility of the strategy and operational investments for CEO or Board decision and follow up on planning for global operations. the investment budget. The committee also suggests investments budget. The committee include CTO R&D Technology & Development, Regional EVPs and CFO. “The overall target for Operations Operations Network is to drive lowest cost and shortest In order to ensure continuous development and same lead times while securing safety, standards between different sites, an Operations network quality and environmental demands.” is formed. The overall target for Operations is to drive lowest cost and shortest lead times while securing safety, quality and environmental demands. 22 DMT Diab Executive Management Team Tobias Hahn Patrik Nilsson Mats Persson Magdalena Sandström President & CEO, Acting CFO, Finance & IT COO CTO, R&D Technology Sales EMEA & India & Development Robert Ramnér Anders Berg Lena Rickard EVP Region Asia EVP Region Americas EVP HR Diversity of governance bodies: Diab Group Board members are divided as follows: DMT members are divided as follows: • 7 men and 1 woman • 5 men and 2 women • 5 persons are in the age group of 30-50 years and • 2 persons are in the age group of 30-50 years and 3 persons are > 50 years 5 persons are > 50 years Diab Group AB Board members Mikael Jonson Torben Bjerre-Madsen Per Magnusson Joakim Twetman Chairman Board member Board member Board member Fredrik Nilsson Valerian Vancea Christopher Dimovski Maria Ek Board member Board member Board alternate Board alternate 23 STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT Stakeholders Customer survey Diab interacts with a number of stakeholder groups on an During the year a comprehensive customer survey was almost daily basis, which brings a range of requirements conducted across all markets and segments. The survey and expectations in relation to sustainable development. was performed by phone interview in local language to provide as good quality as possible. The result was in many Our understanding of which stakeholders that are ways confirming the strategic direction as well as the significant – and what they consider to be important – is areas of competitive strength for the Diab Group. based on experience, commercial relationships and dialogue over a long period of time, as well as events over Analysing such a broad group of the most important the past financial y­ ear. stakeholders gives great input for further improvements. The key improvements identified by DMT are: Stakeholder survey Strengthen the global supply chain reliability. During 2017 a thourough external and internal stakeContinue to engage in customers challenges with Diab holder survey, where Diab mainly operates, was performed unique core composite knowledge . on Diab’s all different stakeholder groups. For 2018 one of Furher strengthen the digital communication with our main stakeholder groups was the focus for this year’s customers. survey. 24 STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT The most prioritized topics for Diab’s stakeholders Anti-corruption measures Reliable supplier Our policy for anticorruption is official. In addition, we are As the sandwich composite industry is growing and the continuously offering internal education on this subject. customer requirements in the supply chain are increasing, It has also been decided to annually record and report the Diab Group has made efforts to improve the performance amount of corruption errands identified globally. during the year. Supply chain has been identified as an area of improvement in our yearly Customer Survey and No child labor more improvements are planned to be implemented during Diab is already putting strong focus on this topic, but will 2019. further strengthen it through continuous work and followup processes in the Supplier Code of Conduct. Efficient usage of resources Diab’s continuous work on using the resources we need In the Supplier Code of Conduct we state the following: for our production in a steadily increasing efficient way is ”All forms of child labor are unacceptable, and documentaalways on our mind, mirrored in our way of working – how tion certifying the age of all employees must be we use our employees and machines through our One Diab available. All forms of work that can have a negative approach and also how we measure ourselves. This we do impact on the child’s right to a healthy childhood and by our global CO2e KPI measurements, since several years development, or that prevent the child´s education, are back, and now even more pronounced with our approved classified as child labor. All forms of violence, compulsion Science-Based Targets, were we see how we perform and the exploitation of children are unacceptable. A person according to our goal in a very clear way. below the age of 15 years is viewed as a child unless local legislation has defined other age for being able to work or for mandatory schooling”. 25 STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT Stakeholders Aim, requirements and expectations Value created Customers Diab believes that sustainability measures Diab’s sustainability work is continuously strengthen customer relationships. Many reviewed by customers, also during 2018. The customers demand that Diab have a Code overall results are good and Diab’s sustainable of Conduct, certified management systems development aims are valued by customers. This and phasing-out of non-sustainable chemiyear we finalized the Life Cycle Assessments cals. Also, as Diab offers resource-efficient (LCA) of our main grades, which means that products, customers expect us to contiwe can now provide thourough Environmental nuously decrease the environmental impact Product Declarations (EPD) to our customers, of our product range during production and who want to have a picture of the environmental in the customer’s final application. footprint connected to usage of our products. Consumers All Diab’s products are sold to industrial Consumers’ views were addressed during the customers. Although this relates to some year via dialogue with customers and the consumer products such as yachts and demands they place on Diab. sports gears, for example, it is unlikely that the product will be linked directly to Diab’s operations. Employees Health & Safety, benefits, social conditions, Fatalities: 0 well-being, development opportunities. Share of employees in risk positions attending training: 100% Further data is available under Social Responsibility 26 STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT Stakeholders Aim, requirements and expectations Value created Suppliers Diab endeavors to have long-term and Over the year the Group has conducted assesstransparent relationships with suppliers. ments, which also addressed sustainability The aim is to ensure the right quality, finanissues. cial stability and sustainable development for both parties. Shareholders The aim for the sustainability work at Diab The major shareholder Ratos has a clear Corpois to create value for shareholders. Diab rate Responsibility Framework that is mandatory ensures this, for example, through efficient for Diab to follow. The status and progress of resource usage and investments in new implementation of the framework is reported to sustainable technology. The integration of Ratos yearly in Q1. sustainability issues in business operations, such as more sustainable products, reduces risks and creates business opportunities. Society Social engagement is an important aspect Diab Group has reaffirmed its support of the Ten and something that is expected by local Principles of the United Nations Global Compact communities where Diab Group operates. in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment As a global company, Diab Group is expected and Anti-Corruption. to undertake measures that contribute to national global sustainable development In 2018 Diab Group got approved science-based goals. targets as the first company worldwide within the composite industry. In this way we have now officially taken our responsibility to strive towards a planet with sigificantly reduced GHG emissions. 27 CORE SUSTAINABILITY How do we manage sustainability All sites have local management and teams within the As no general stakeholder survey was performed this year environmental, social (HR) and financial areas. The only minor changes in the Materiality Analysis were made activities follow Diab global directives, and further local based on meetings and discussions held on Diab’s business strategies are added to this dependent on country, area or strategy within DMT. Diab’s material topics were extracted production specific issues. from this, resulting in the Materiality Analysis presented on page 29. Each site has managers within each sustainability field that report to the corresponding global management. Reporting principles Further, all sites have a sustainability manager/coordinaThe reporting is made on core option and the material tor, all members of Diab global sustainability network and topics identified through the process of the materiality coordinated by VP Sustainability & EHSQ. assessment. A focus on materiality In line with the Ratos CR Framework, Diab reports imDiab’s sustainability report for 2018, in accordance with GRI plementation and status of progress in Q1 annually. The Standards, includes aspects relating to the environmental, framework is continuously updated and revised by Ratos´ financial and social responsibility. Our ambition is for this Head of Sustainability and reflects the wishes of Diab’s report, together with supplementary information, to give shareholders. Each production unit provides quantitative our employees and external stakeholders a transparent and qualitative information in accordance with Diab’s susview of the company’s corporate responsibility activities tainability KPIs. The person responsible for sustainability in and how these interact with our business activities. each company is responsible for assuring the quality of the information submitted. This year’s performance is compaLast year an extensive survey for all external and internal red and verified against information from previous years. stakeholder groups was undertaken, which rendered in a Most of the figures and data are received from the process specific and much deeper survey for one of the major connected to the ISO certification of the different units. stakeholder groups this year, the customers. The results were very satisfactory and are discussed further on page 24. 28 CORE SUSTAINABILITY Diab Materiality Analysis Result 2018 materiality analysis Significance for Diab’s business strategy 6,0 Health and No child safety for labour <15 employees years Reduce CO2 Increased and other GHG Education of recycling and emissions employees safe waste handling Efficient Sustainable usage of product life Fair Support for resources Anticorruption 5,0 cycle competitive fair working measures conditions business Reliable supplier 3,0 4,0 5,0 6,0 Significance for Diab’s stakeholders analysis Social Environmental Financial Product Value 29 CORE SUSTAINABILITY list of material topics All production sites report figures for calculating tCO2e emissions in the software tool “Our Impact” (following the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, GHG). This GHG emission assessment quantifies all scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gases produced by Diab´s global activities and also the scope 3 emissions required by SBTi. Area Sustainability target Performance in 2018 Environmental Responsibility Efficient usage The target for 2022 is approximately 2016 (which is our base year for SBT) of resources 8 tCO2e/tons sold product. The reason for approximately 11 and 2018 approximately giving it an approximate value is because 10 tCO2e/tons sold product. of its dependence on the mix of products produced. This varies to a certain extent each year. Reduce Diab got the earlier set Science-Based During 2018 the building of the solid biofuel boiler CO2 emissions and Targets (SBT), in order to reduce GHG close to the Laholm production site was started up other greenhouse emissions, officially approved. The targets in order to supplying heat to Diab AB during the gases (GHG) are set in line with the level of decarbonizafirst part of 2019. This will significantly reduce the tion required to keep the global temperatucarbon footprint for this site during the coming year. re increase below 2°C compared to pre-industrial temperatures 30 CORE SUSTAINABILITY list of material topics Area Sustainability target Performance in 2018 Environmental Responsibility Increased recycling The Group-wide objective is for the volume The global waste level remains more or less the and safe waste of waste to be reduced by 50% from 2016 same during the year as our base year 2016. During handling until 2022. the year a cross-functional program for waste reduction has been launched, with the purpose to accelerate the implementation of best practices and new technologies in the operations organisation. The effects of this, significantly decreased waste volumes, will be seen starting in 2019. The program is reporting to DMT. During the year a cross-functional program for waste reduction has been launched, with the purpose to accelerate the implementation of best practices and new technologies in the operations organisation. The program is reporting to DMT. Sustainable Diab markets sustainable products as they Diab continuously develops and improves product life cycle significantly contribute to reduced usage sustain­able products. During 2018 new products of fossil fuels and other types of energy. At within both the PET and IPN range were developed the same time the products enable efficient with significantly improved properties, reducing building of and recovery of renewable carbon footprint not only for Diab but also for the energy as for example windmills. products of our customers and end-users. 31 CORE SUSTAINABILITY list of material topics Area Sustainability target Performance in 2018 Social Responsibility Health & Safety To continually reduce the number of acciAll facilities record an LTA and this year the mean for all employees dents and illnesses in the workplace is an value for all sites was 20,0. This is a high number vs essential objective. LTA is one of our main general industry benchmark and additional efforts KPIs. Our long-term target here is of course to reduce the LTA have been put in place at the to achieve an LTA of 0. European sites. We are expecting to curb the negative trend during 2019. No child labor No incidents, either internally or externally, No incident identified during the year. < 15 years are acceptable. Support for fair ”Support for fair working conditions” for No incident of discrimination. working conditions Diab includes Non-discrimination, Freedom of association and Collective bargaining, Forced or compulsory labor, Human rights assessments and Supplier social assessment. No incidents, either internally or externally are acceptable. Education of Diab empowers continuous learning, both Our e-learning platform “Smarter” was introduced in employees external and internal. Diab has performed May 2017 to Top management, the Sales & Technical and recorded Health & Safety Training for organization, the Operations Management Team, many years. and HR managers. As of December 31, 2018, a total of 410 users had been registered. 32 CORE SUSTAINABILITY list of material topics Area Sustainability target Performance in 2018 Financial Responsibility Anti-corruption There should be no cases of bribery, corrupThe Group has a whistleblowing system and one measures tion or cartel formation. Continued active event relating to corruption or inadequate business information for employees. ethics were recorded in 2018. Fair competitive This is a KPI for Diab and should be During the year one whistleblower incident was business measured as the amount of whistleblower registered. incidents handled per year. This KPI shall remain low. Reliable supplier We keep our promises, both to each other As the sandwich composite industry is growing and internally and to our customers, partners the customer requirements in the supply chain are and others externally. We work for a increasing, Diab Group has made efforts to improve sustainable society. Our work ethic is the performance during the year. Supply chain has strong and we prove it every day. been identified as an area of improvement in our yearly Customer Survey and more improvements are planned to be implemented during 2019. 33 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Risk assessment and environment natural gas within the group is the main contributor to the The topics in the risk assessment carried out by DMT are CO2e emissions connected to energy consumption in the graded based on the level of probability multiplied by the group. Moving away from natural gas to renewable energy severity. The topic with the highest risks within the would be an efficient way ahead to reduce the carbon footenvironmental area, but still only at a moderate level, was print. As a consequence of this Diab in Laholm signed and identified as permits for production and the risks for them agreement 2017 with an external partner to change the to be changed or cancelled. natural gas boiler for a solid biofuel boiler. This has now been executed during 2018 and the building of the new A plan is set and rolled out to deepen the local risk assessboiler is well in progress, see separate information on this ment at each production facility in order to identify the on page 56. This is considered a renewable heat source and different aspects around the permits that deviate between the CO2e emissions will be significantly reduced in Laholm the different sites. DMT is set to be main responsible for as soon as the equipment has been built and has started to this topic, where actions have been fully implemented. deliver energy to the Laholm facility. Energy All data for energy consumption is measured values from Diab’s Sustainability policy clearly states the importance of all production sites. These are put into the software “Our caring about natural resources as energy by continuously Impacts” that is designed to help conduct high-quality improving how it is utilized. Each operating site is assessments of an organization’s greenhouse gas measuring and keeping track of the usage of energy, which emissions.­ is also reported internally on a monthly basis and annually to shareholders. Our Impacts is a flexible accounting service that brings together extensive research databases and carbon and During 2016 Diab also implemented a yearly calculation on energy expertise. In addition, this tool continuously CO2e emissions, which clearly showed that the usage of receives updates on scientifically-based emission factors for energy calculations. Below the energy consumption in MWh during 2018, (2017 values in brackets) from electricity and heating together with other kinds of fuel consumption for all sites and offices combined: Fuel Type Fuel Type Electricity Heating Steam Total Non Renewable Renewable Consumption Consumption Consumption MWh 1,884 (1,750) 1,170 (1,241) 44,193 (41,737) 85,308 (84,328) 1,812 (1,301) 134,367 (130,357) 34 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Emissions Diab’s sustainability policy clearly states a strive for contiThe consolidation approach for emissions is operationuous improvement of the environmental performance of nal control, and the tools used for the calculation is the our activities, products and services, preventing pollution software Our Impact, provided by Ecometrica. The GWP to ground, air and water through the implementation of rates used are GWP of Kyoto Gases (IPCC 2007): the principles in the ISO 14001 standard. Greenhouse Gas GWP By the implementation of the yearly CO2e emissions calcuCarbon dioxide (CO2) 1 lations, a global and deeper understanding of all Diab Methane (CH4) 25 activities and their corresponding contribution to GHG Nitrous oxide (N2O) 298 emissions in Scope 1 to 3 has been achieved. In accomplishBiogenic (CO2) 0 ing this, Diab realized the aim to commit to set companyBiogenic (CH4) 24 wide emissions targets based directly on climate science, CO2e 1 which were officially approved during 2018. The KPI, mentioned under Core Sustainability, showing tCO2e tons / tons sold product, can also be considered as All of Diab relevant gases in the Kyoto Protocol, see table the GHG emissions intensity ratio for the organization. In GWP of for Diab relevant Kyoto Gases (IPCC2007), have this all types of GHG emissions are included from direct been included in the calculations, which have been carried (Scope 1) and energy indirect (Scope 2) and the parts of out in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A other indirect gases (Scope 3), required by SBTi. As for the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. calculations mentioned above all Kyoto gases are included. Below the tCO2e emission volumes divided per scope is 2016 is the base year for tCO2e emission calculations. The shown for Diab Group in 2018 (2016 values in brackets), total tCO2e emissions for 2018 were 8% higher than in total. As can be seen Scope 3 is by far the largest: for 2016. The main reason for this is the machinery and equipment investments made related to the facility move Market-Based, tCO2e: from Kunshan to Zhangjiagang and also “One roof project” • Scope 1 18,153 (17,009) in Lithuania, where 2 factories became 1. This means that • Scope 2 17,881 (16,739) the main reason for the tCO2e emissions increase is not • Scope 3 79,200 (73,088) connected to Diab’s other activities although increased • Total 115,234 (106,836) emissions connected to materials purchased and electricity • Biogenic 0 (30) and heating also is seen. This is mainly caused by a higher production rate in China in 2018 compared to 2016. 36 Life Cycle Assessement (LCA) and Environmenal Product Declaration (EPD) Diab strives to continuously increase the knowledge of the way in which our products and processes make an impact on our environment and our planet. This forms the base for the ability to improve. Our products generally contribute to reduced energy consumption and fuel usage and also to increased efficiency in different systems. But we want to do more. As already mentioned, we have performed calculations on all our global activities regarding CO2e emissions since 2016, which clearly point out which actions are necessary for us to implement in order to move toward minimizing our emissions. We have recently expanded the scope and, together with a third party, performed LCAs on our main grades. This work has rendered EPDs (Environmental Product Declarations), recently finalized and ready to be presented to our customers. The LCA study starts with the extraction of the natural resources. It also covers transport from the supplier and finally presents production and packaging at Diab all the way up to the factory gate. We don't use any secondary materials or recovered energy and we don't make any assumptions. Thus the assessment is based on the entire process, from cradle to gate”. The product life after gate exit from Diab depends on customer usage. The full assessment is presented with facts and data, covering the potential environmental impact, use of resources, waste production and output flows. The data is presented for each grade in their respective EPDs. The most well-known potential environmental impact – the global warming potential (GWP) was calculated for IPN foam to 7.60 kg CO2e/kg IPN and the corresponding value for PET foam to 4.12 kg CO2e/kg PET. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Science-Based Targets, SBT As the first company within the field of composite Per Hökfelt, Group VP Sustainability EHSQ, comments: “We materials in the world, Diab has set SBT which have been are proud to be the first company in the world within the approved by the Science-Based Targets initiative, SBTi. composite industry to have set science-based targets and we want to challenge our colleagues in the business to do According to the Paris agreement, governments have the same.” committed to strive to prevent dangerous climate change by limiting global warming to less than 2 degrees Celsius. Cynthia Cummis, Director of Private Sector Climate The agreement is accelerating the transition into a low Mitigation at World Resources Institute, member of the carbon economy and companies worldwide need to SBTi steering committee said: “We congratulate Diab urgently adapt to this, take the lead and do their part. International for their newly approved SBT. By setting a target that aligns with global efforts to mitigate the worst The SBTi, which is a collaboration between CDP, UNGC, WRI effects of global warming, Diab International are future and WWF, aims to help companies set SBT as a powerful proofing their operations and priming themselves to thrive way of boosting their competitive advantage in the during the low-carbon transition.” transition to a low-carbon economy. The setting of science-based emission reduction targets ensures that a company’s strategy is in line with the latest scientific findings and that a business is resilient and prepared to adapt to the changing regulatory and business “As the first company within the field environment. of composite materials in the world, Diab has set science-based targets which have been approved by the Science-Based Targets initiative.” 38 ZERO WASTE Reduce, reuse, recycle IPN by-products Zero Waste is a goal that is ethical, economical, efficient The IPN waste is not possible to use in new IPN foam core, and visionary, to guide people in changing their lifestyles instead this is reused in other material flows. IPN and practices to emulate sustainable natural cycles, where by-products created from the waste stream are associated all discarded materials are designed to become resources with IPN core production. We wish to increase the market for others to use. for this waste stream in order to convert it from a cost for Diab into something positive that could generate business. Zero Waste means designing and managing products and processes to systematically avoid and eliminate the volume Agglomerator and negative environmental impact of waste and mateAgglomerators have been installed in Longarone, Italy, to rials, conserve and recover all resources, and not burn or recycle our internal waste of PET (which is the material bury them. used in our P, PN, PY and PX grades) and also in DeSoto, USA, to recycle our internal waste of PES material (which is Implementing Zero Waste will eliminate all discharges to the material used in our F grade). land, water or air that are a threat to planetary, human, animal or plant health. Waste We measure our waste in many different ways to be able “Implementing Zero Waste will eliminate to sum up the actual contribution of our waste to our total carbon footprint. all discharges to land, water or air that are a threat to planetary, human, animal Handle waste includes the final stages of the waste, either or plant health. put in landfill or incinerated. Raw material to produce waste includes all the materials that Diab uses in order to produce the waste. Energy to produce waste includes all energy needed to produce all waste. Transport waste is waste that we transport between facilities. 40 ZERO WASTE Water discharge by quality and destination The measured water supply to Diab was calculated to a The non-hazardous waste disposal methods used and total of 4.93x106 m3. 4.87x106 m3 of these are supplied to their percentage of the total waste amount are shown Longarone. The main part is taken from the river passing below (2017 values in brackets): the factory and is used as cooling water. The water is • Landfilled waste: 74% (74%) recycled to the river after having passed the cooling • Incinerated waste: 24% (24%) system. • Recycled waste: 2% (2%) The same process is used in Laholm but the amount of The waste disposal method is generally decided by the water from the river here is not measured and therefore waste disposal contractor and as the IPN waste, which is not calculated. In Zhangjiagang, the process utilizes a the main part, is difficult to incinerate, only the landfill alcooling water unit, as the climate is warmer most part of ternative remains for several production sites. the year. The remaining water used in Laholm, Longarone and Zhangjiagang and the other sites is clean water used Balsa production in Ecuador – Zero waste in offices and for minor parts of the factories. Parts of the incinerated waste within Diab are connected to the waste from the balsa core production in Ecuador. Waste by type and disposal method Here, almost 100% of the waste from the different proThe contracted external waste management to handle our duction steps is incinerated in a chimney at our local site hazardous waste have all necessary approvals for all the and this is producing direct heat to operational processes. operations handling and finally to incapacitate our By this approach the production waste leaving this factory hazardous waste. is as close to zero as you can get in reality. “The waste from the balsa core production in Ecuador is as close to zero as you can get in reality.” 42 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Every company within Diab has a responsibility to fulfill Location of operations legal requirements and to maintain a high standard of The company has production units for material in Sweden, business ethics as well as ensuring compliance with Italy, USA, China and Ecuador. Material processing takes national policies and laws regarding financial responsibility. place in the production units as well as in China and Lithuania. All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements: Scale of the organization 2018 Diab International AB (Sweden) 556509-3027 (2017 values in brackets) Diab AB (Sweden) • Total Number of Employees (December): 1271 (1273) Diab Sweden AB (Sweden) • Total number of Operations: 6 (7) Diab ApS (Denmark) • Net sales of MSEK 1496 (MSEK 1439). Split between Diab GmbH (Germany) Private sector and Public Sector: 100% Private sector Diab AS (Norway) • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and Diab Ltd (UK) equity per December 31, 2018 is published on Ratos´ Diab SAS (France) website Diab SpA (Italy) Diab UAB (Lithuania) Risk assessment and compliances Diab Sp. z o.o. (Poland) The outcome of the risk assessment done by DMT, as Diab Spain S.L. (Spain) described under “Environmental responsibility”, on the Diab (Kunshan) Co. Ltd (China) risks related to compliances is pointing out failure in Diab Composite Materials & Technology Co. Ltd. (China) adhering to international trade regulations and Diab New Material (Zhangjiagang) Co. Ltd. (China) restrictions. Since a control function now has been built Diab Core Materials Private Ltd (India) into Diab’s Salesforce CRM-system, that control countries Diab Australia Pty Ltd (Australia) and companies with international sanctions as well as Diab South East Asia Co. Ltd. (Thailand) export permits, the risk to fail in adhering to international Diab Holdings Inc. (USA) including: trade regulations and restrictions has significantly been • Diab Ecuador S.A. (Ecuador) reduced. • Diab Investments Inc. (USA) • Diab Americas LP (USA) 44 ZERO CORRUPTION Risk assessment and corruption Awareness The outcome of the risk assessment done by DMT, as desWe make all our business partners and employees aware of cribed under “Environmental responsibility”, on the risks the Code of Conduct and we provide the information and related to corruption, pointed out corruption risks in China, training necessary to understand and comply with it. We India, former Soviet Union and Ecuador. The risks are inform all employees about the Code of Conduct through connected to contacts with customers, agents, distributors our e-learning program and via our intranet. and suppliers. An external e-learning on anticorruption training was rolled out a few years ago starting specifically Diab has a confidential whistleblowing procedure in place with employees on positions assessed with higher risks for whereby potential breaches can be reported confidentially, corruption. This was further broadened during 2017 to and we follow up on reported incidents in a thorough and cover the main part globally of white collar employees. responsible manner. During 2018 an anti-corruption training platform was purchased. A third party guarantees that the content is The operation within Diab still assessed for risks after the continuously up-to-date but the e-learning is now owned actions described above is in Zhangjiagang, China. This by Diab. This focused improvement on an accurate antifacility correspond to 17% of the operational sites. corruption training that covers the main part of the employees worldwide together with the possibility of more A thorough global education on the organization’s antifrequent training sessions is predicted to reduce the risk of corruption policy and procedures, together with general corruption significantly. training on anti-corruption is undertaken on regular basis for all employees. Anti-corruption At Diab, we make it a rule to act with integrity at all times. During 2018 Diab had one confirmed incident of corruption. Our business principles commit us to comply with all rules and regulations in each country where we operate and to not accept any form of corruption. Anti-corruption is specifically stated in Diab’s Code of Conduct that is published on our website. 46 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY UN Guiding Principles and ILO convention Diab Code of Conduct Diab´s approach to Human Rights is based on the UN To ensure that we meet the commitments to our stakeGuiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our holders and interact with our colleagues, customers, partpolicy is built on our Human Rights Statement below and ners, internally as well as with local and global society, in a applies to all entities within the Diab Group. respectful and correct manner, we have implemented the Diab Code of Conduct. This document is available on our Diab looks to those Human Rights defined in the Universal website and is meant to provide guidance on how to act in Declaration of Human Rights and its two corresponding any given situation. covenants, The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and The International Covenant on Economic, Social The Diab Code of Conduct describes the way we respect and Cultural Rights. human and labor rights and defines the business ethics we expect all of our employees to show. Diab’s approach to its business operations is informed by the ILO International Labor Organization’s Declaration on We believe that fulfilling our corporate social responsiFundamental Principles and Rights at Work, The Children’s bilities is instrumental in meeting our commitment and Rights and Business Principles and the United Nation´s reaching our targets. Global Compact, to which we are signatories. To this end: Human & Labor rights and working conditions at • Safety for our people always comes first. Simply put, no Diab one should get hurt while working at Diab. Together, we Human Rights, such as the right to nondiscrimination, all take responsibility for each other’s safety. are relevant for the social aspect of our business. And the • We work in strict adherence with regulatory requireaspects of working conditions will affect issues such as ments. safety and first aid. • We are a trustworthy partner for our business associates. As a global company, we have a considerable impact on the • We work in close cooperation with local society and entire range of Human & Labor rights as well as the worcontinuously focus on minimizing the impact on the king conditions at our sites. In order to know and show that environment on a local and global scale. we respect these rights, we need to have certain policies and processes in place. 48 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Discrimination Whistleblower system During 2018 Diab Group had no incident of discrimination. No operations have been subject to human rights reviews or human rights impact assessments during 2018. Diab’s Risk assessment of child labor Code of Conduct is very clear on human rights, which are Operations within Diab are assessed to have very limited the guidelines followed by all operations. If any breakage risk of child labor, young workers exposed to hazardous against the Code of Conduct is conducted this would be work or forced or compulsory labor. notified in the whistleblower system. During 2018 there has not been any reported incident on infringements on The risk for child labor, young workers exposed to hazarhuman rights. dous work or forced or compulsory labor is assessed as possible for suppliers to our China operations. Diab has global suppliers and the problem is primarily associated with smaller local suppliers in China. Direct materials for production in China are mainly supplied by global European suppliers, where the risk for child labor, young workers getting exposed to hazardous work or forced or compul“Operations within Diab are assessed sory labor is assessed as very low. to have very limited risk of child labor, young workers exposed to hazardous Supplier Code of Conduct Indirect suppliers have not been audited, but have been work or forced or compulsory labor.” invited to sign our Code of Conduct. In those cases a Supplier Code of Conduct has been sent, it has been accepted and signed, but at present it is not always offered. The main measures to be carried out in order to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor and to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor is to continuously increase the rate of acceptance of all suppliers in all regions, direct and indirect, to sign the Supplier Code of Conduct. 50 EMPLOYEES Health & Safety Training Diab has performed Health & Safety Training for a long available.The training programs aim to provide general time, recording it on all production sites with reports on information and knowledge about Diab and our materials, a monthly basis. The reported training rate for the whole but also in-depth knowledge of the Sales and Technical Diab Group from 2014 to 2018 is calculated as the hours area. Each module has been developed by various senior of training per totally worked hours and shown in percent, co-workers with long and deep knowledge of each area. as seen below. During 2019-2020, our plan is to introduce ”Smarter” to all Health & Safety Training Rate, % co-workers globally. We started during Q4 2018 to introdu2014 0.14 ce e-learning in Laholm and local HR is now developing the 2015 0.33 local Smarter platform with training programs/moduls for 2016 0.30 co-workers at that site. 2017 0.40 2018 0.43 The plan is also to continue developing specific moduls in the program ”Ways of Leading” for all line managers, that E-learning will help them develop their leadership skills. The planning Our e-learning platform “Smarter” was introduced in May also involves carrying out annual mandatory trainings 2017 to Top management, the Sales & Technical organizathrough the portal, as well as importing previous tion, the Operations Management Team, and HR managers. e-learnings to create a complete training platform. As of December 31, 2018, a total of 410 users had been registered. 12 training programs consisting of more than 80 modules “Our e-learning program Smarter have been launched. Each module is between one and provides knowledge about Diab twenty minutes long and includes various steps – a slide and our materials.” show with or without voice, videos, download files or links to external webpages where extended information is 52 EMPLOYEES Information on employees and other workers The majority of the organization’s activities are carried out by Diab employees, the total number of which is presented below. The data is compiled through local and global HR. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender: Men Women Total 1001 270 1271 Total number of employees (permanent and temporary), by employment type: Men Women Total Full-time 997 256 1253 Part-time 4 14 18 Total number of employees by employement contract (permanent and temporary), by region: Men Women Total Australia 7 1 8 China 144 62 206 Ecuador 102 9 111 France 4 2 6 Germany 5 1 6 India 6 3 9 Italy 245 7 252 Lithuania 205 97 302 Norway 3 1 4 Poland 2 1 3 South Korea 1 0 1 Spain 3 3 6 Sweden 217 55 272 Thailand 2 5 7 UK 5 2 7 USA 50 21 71 Total 1001 270 1271 53 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Risk assessment and Health & Safety The LTA for the Group is high vs general industry benchSwedish safety regulations. mark. During the year we have got an increase in the numbers and additional activities at the Europeean site Nomenclature used: have been put in place during 2018 to reduce the number Lost Time Accidents (LTA): Accidents that result in an of accidents. We are expecting to curb the negative trend employee missing the next regularly scheduled workday during 2019. or shift. Diab records LTA per million of worked hours (including temps, but excluding contractors, and only accidents All facilities record an LTA and this year the mean that have happened within our premises, not on the way value for all sites was 20,0. This is a high number vs to/from work). general industry benchmark and additional efforts to reduce the LTA has been put in place at the European Occurrence index: LTA + Recordable (Accidents that result sites. We are expecting to curb the negative trend during in an employee not missing the next regularly scheduled 2019. workday or shift) per million of worked hours (including temps, but excluding contractors, and only accidents that Recorded Health & Safety data have happened within our premises, not on the way to/ Data collected in each production site on a monthly basis from work). within this field include types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and number Sick leave rate: percentage of not worked hours in relation of work-related fatalities. The data is recorded according to to worked hours due to sick leave. Recorded data Health & Safety Values for all sites measured during 2018 (2017 values in brackets) LTA Occurrence Index Sick Leave Rate, % Laholm, Sweden 29.3 (19.7) 48.0 (36.6) 5.6 (5.7) Longarone, Italy 31.1 (29.7) 31.1 (32.1) 4.6 (4.9) Siauliai, Lithuania 29.1 (23.1) 31.5 (34.7) 8.1 (8.5) DeSoto, USA 5.2 (0.0) 20.8 (8.5) 1.6 (1.4) Kunshan, China 3.0 (5.5) 8.9 (13.8) 1.0 (1.6) Zhangjiagang, China 9.4 (5.1) 12.6 (15.4) 0.9 (0.4) Duran, Ecuador 9.7 (6.0) 12.9 (9.0) 1.7 (1.2) Diab Group 20.0 (14.3) 26.3 (22.8) 3.9 (3.7) 54 CASE STORIES Laholm’s largest industry becomes 100% fossil free with Adven Diab AB has signed an agreement for the supply of hot “Our production operates for almost 24 hours a day and water and heat with energy company Adven AB. By we are therefore highly dependent on our energy solution switching to biofuel, Diab’s production facility in Laholm being reliable. We therefore see it as a great advantage will be 100% fossil free by 2019. that Adven, with its long experience in industrial heating, can handle all operations and be the partner that helps us The production plant in Laholm, which today uses fossil to continue developing both how we use and reuse natural gas as its energy source, will have changed entirely energy”, says Anna Bjelm, VP Operation Sweden/Lithuania to biofuel by Q2 2019. This energy transformation is Diab AB. expected to reduce the company’s carbon footprint by 6000 tCO2e annually. For Diab’s part, it was important that the energy conversion was not only climate-friendly but also cost-effective. “-With our product you will be able to manufacture the Wood chips cost less per kilowatt hour than natural gas, energy-efficient cars, boats and aircraft of the future. and by installing the heat pump some of the heat that However, when we evaluated our own climate impact, it today is released into the nearby river Lagan, can be became clear that a large part of our carbon footprint could utilized. be linked to the energy use in our factories. With the new energy solution in Laholm, we are taking a big step forward “Diab is one of the industrial enterprises that lead the in our effort to deliver products for a future sustainable way, daring to make a true difference to both the environsociety”, says Per Hökfelt, Group VP Sustainability EHSQ. ment and the finances by converting to 100 percent renewable energy. The project in Laholm is something we A biofuel plant will be established next to Diab’s production are really looking forward to working with and developing facility in Laholm, installed and operated by Adven. In over time, together with Diab”, says Andreas Lanneström, addition to the biofuel boiler system, a heat pump plant will Sales Manager for Adven Industrial Solutions in Sweden. be installed, making it possible to use 20-30 % of the “-We are building infrastructure to increase energy waste heat generated in the production plant, heat that efficiency and the use of renewable energy. This project can be reused in the factory. with Diab is a good example of the possibilities we see in the Swedish market”, says Ilkka Niiranen, CEO Adven Diab has chosen a full-service solution from Adven, which Sweden. means that Diab can focus on its core business, while Adven manages the operation of the energy facility. The agreement between Diab AB and Adven was signed Knowledge of and experience in industrial heating was a in January 2018 and the plant will be completed during Q2 decisive factor when Diab chose supplier and partner for 2019. The contract is valid for a fifteen-year period. the extensive energy conversion faced by the factory. 56 CASE STORIES Battery-powerd ferries with their own charging Anstein Aa came up with the idea of building a battery pack solution into a floating dock. Made using 1000m2 of Divinycell H100, The renowned Norwegian boat builders Brødrene Aa have a glass fiber sandwich composite with core from Diab, it’s 40 built two lightweight ferries of carbon-fiber sandwich commeters long and five meters wide with a height of approxposite materials for sustainable sightseeing in the vulneraimately three meters. It features a battery pack of 2.4 MWh ble Norwegian fjords and are currently constructing a third. and a 40 m3 diesel tank, as well as a 20m3 tank into which Unlike the first hybrid ship, the second catamaran Future of waste water can be emptied. The solution, currently called the Fjords is powered by batteries only and the third one, Power Dock, is ideal for smaller quays with limited space the Legacy of the Fjords, will also be all-electric. In order to where it can quickly be put into place without much charge the vessels in an efficient way, Brødrene Aa had to preparation work. invent their own Power Dock. A third ferry Light weight required by battery-powered engines The next vessel in the fleet, the Legacy of the Fjords, will In order to reduce energy consumption and allow the also be used for passenger traffic, sightseeing and Future of the Fjords to travel the 18 nautical miles conferences. Technically, it is quite similar to Future of the between Flåm and Gudvangen on battery power only, Fjords with the same specifications and suppliers. Where Brødrene Aa had to make it as light as possible. The vessel ”Legacy of the Fjords” wants its base is not settled but is powered by two 450 kW electric motors. The battery they are in discussion to operate in the urban area of the capacity is 1,900 kWh, requiring the possibility to charge Norwegian capital, Oslo. They are in dialogue with Oslo 2.4 MW power when at quay. That is why both the hulls harbor to agree to build a departure hall where they can get and the superstructure of this state-of-the-art catamaran the charging. In addition, the interior will be re-designed to were constructed using lightweight carbon-fiber sandwich better accommodate conference needs. composite materials, resulting in a weight reduction of approximately 50 percent compared to traditional Fruitful cooperation materials. In addition, the solution has offered a great deal Diab has been working with Brødrene Aa since 1974 and of construction freedom, allowing for a design that together they have developed several fast-going ships in efficiently reduces waves and thus the impact erosion Divinycell FRP and CRP reinforced panels. As an early of the vulnerable shores of the Nærøyfjord, while giving champion of carbon-fiber sandwich constructions, Brødrene ample space for passengers who want to enjoy the view. Aa appreciates the reduced weight and the increased strength of the material. Compared to fiberglass sandwich A power issue and aluminum, carbon fiber provides four times the rigidity Aurland Energi, which delivers 1.2 MW to charge the first of fiberglass reinforcement, as well as two to three times hybrid sister ship Vision of the Fjords, was not able to the tensile strength. supply enough power from the network for quick charging. After many rejected suggestions, Technical Manager www.braa.no 58 GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT Diab – our commitment to sustainable business What does it mean for Diab as a company? In order to confirm our commitment to sustainability, As a member of the UN Global Compact, Diab commits to: Diab has signed up as a member of the United Nations • Continue the development of our business operations Global Compact. Through this membership we are given so that the UN Global Compact and the Ten Principles an international framework supporting our sustainability always are part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day efforts. We also send a clear signal to our stakeholders operations, including in subsidiaries and the supply on our commitment to operate according to the principles chain: of the UN Global Compact and we gain a possibility to share • Advocate the UN Global Compact and the Ten Principles experience and learn from other member organizations. via available communications channels. • Communicate annually with our stakeholders on our What is the UN Global Compact? sustainability efforts and the implementation of the UN The UN Global Compact is the world’s largest corporate Global Compact principles, and post this Communication sustainability initiative with over 9,900 participants in 160 on Progress (COP) on the UN Global Compact website. countries. It was launched by Kofi Annan in 1999. Its aim is to transform the world, creating a sustainable and inclusive global economy that delivers lasting benefits to all people, communities and markets. To make this happen, the UN Global Compact supports its member companies to do business responsibly by following the Ten Principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. 60 GRI CONTENT INDEX This report has been approved by the Board on February 11, 2019. Diab Group´s sustainability reporting refers to calendar year 2018. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. This is Diab Group´s second sustainability reporting according to GRI and Diab Group intends to report annually. In line with the Global Compact (GC) commitment, Diab Group submits a Communication on Progress (COP) that presents the task of implementing GC´s principles. The sustainability report is prepared based on GRI´s principles in order to determine content and ensure quality. Stakeholder dialogues and materiality analysis are the basis for Diab Group´s sustainability issues. GRI GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Number Omission Standard Standard Number Title Section Number Title GRI 102 General 102-01 Name of the organization Diab Group AB Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-02 Activities, brands, products 12 One Diab + Website Disclosures and services GRI 102 General 102-03 Location of headquarters Laholm, Sweden Disclosures 62 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Number Omission Standard Standard Number Title Section Number Title GRI 102 General 102-04 Location of operations 44 Financial Responsibility Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-05 Ownership and legal form Ratos 96%, Disclosures Management & Board 4% Limited company GRI 102 General 102-06 Markets served Americas, Europe, Asia, Disclosures Australia and Africa GRI 102 General 102-07 Scale of the organization 18 One Diab, 44 Financial Disclosures Responsibility, Ratos´ website GRI 102 General 102-08 Information on employees 53 Employees Disclosures and other workers GRI 102 General 102-09 Supply chain 22 Strategy & Governance Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-10 Significant changes to the 22 Strategy & Governance Disclosures organization and its supply chain GRI 102 General 102-11 Precautionary Principle or 6 Core Sustainability Disclosures approach GRI 102 General 102-12 External initiatives Website Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-13 Membership of associations Sweden: IKEM, Svenskt Disclosures Näringsliv, Unionen. Sv.Ing., Ledarna, IF Metall. Italy: Industrial Association (Chemical & Plastics). Ecuador: Cámara de Comercio Guayaquil. USA: Global Society of plastic Professionals, National Marine Mfg Association. 63 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Number Omission Standard Standard Number Title Section Number Title GRI 102 General 102-14 Statement from senior 4 CEO words Disclosures decision-maker GRI 102 General 102-16 Values, principles, standards Website Disclosures and norms of behavior GRI 102 General 102-18 Governance structure 20-22 Strategy & Governance Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 26 Stakeholder Involvement Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-41 Collective bargaining Employees with collective Disclosures agreements bargaining agreements are engaged in Italy, Sweden and China. They represent 78% of the personnel. GRI 102 General 102-42 Identifying and selecting 24, 26-27 Stakeholder Involvement Disclosures stakeholders GRI 102 General 102-43 Approach to stakeholder 24-27 Stakeholder Involvement Disclosures engagement GRI 102 General 102-44 Key topics and concerns 24-25 Stakeholder Involvement Disclosures raised GRI 102 General 102-45 Entities included in the 46 Financial Responsibility Disclosures consolidated financial statements GRI 102 General 102-46 Defining report content and 28 Core Sustainability Disclosures topic boundaries GRI 102 General 102-47 List of material topics 30-33 Core Sustainability Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-48 Restatements of information None during the year Disclosures approach GRI 102 General 102-49 Changes in reporting 34 Core Sustainability Disclosures 64 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Number Omission Standard Standard Number Title Section Number Title GRI 102 General 102-50 Reporting period The reporting period for the Disclosures information provided is 2018 GRI 102 General 102-51 Date of most recent report The Sustainability Report Disclosures Issued February 12, 2018 GRI 102 General 102-52 Reporting cycle The reporting cycle is annual Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-53 Contact point for questions Per Hökfelt Disclosures regarding the report Group VP Sustainability EHSQ per.hokfelt@se.diabroup.com GRI 102 General 102-54 Claims of reporting in 62 GRI Content Index Disclosures accordance with the GRI Standards GRI 102 General 102-55 GRI Content Index 62 GRI Content Index Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-56 External Assurance Website Disclosures GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material 30 Core Sustainability Approach topic and its boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach 28 Core Sustainability and Approach and its components for subject specific information about sustainability control see each focus area respectively GRI 103 Management 103-3 Evaluation of the For subject specific information Approach management approach about sustainability control see each focus area respectively GRI 205 Anti205-1 Operations assessed for 46 Zero Corruption corruption risks related to corruption GRI 205 Anti205-2 Communication and training 46 Zero Corruption corruption about anti-corruption policies and procedures 65 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Number Omission Standard Standard Number Title Section Number Title GRI 205 Anti205-3 Confirmed incidents of 48 Zero Corruption corruption corruption and actions taken GRI 302 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within 36 Environmental Responsibility the organization No energy has been sold from any of the production sites GRI 305 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) 38 Environmental Responsibility GHG emissions Location-Based, tCO2e: 18,042 GRI 305 Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) 38 Environmental Responsibility GHG emissions Location-Based, tCO2e: 13,224 GRI 305 Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) 38 Environmental Responsibility GHG emissions Location-Based, tCO2e: 56,972 GRI 305 Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 38 Environmental Responsibility Total Location-Based, tCO2e: 88,238 GRI 305 Emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 40 Environmental Responsibility GRI 306 Effluents and 306-1 Water discharge by quality 44 Zero Waste Waste and destination GRI 306 Effluents and 306-2 Waste by type and disposal 44 Zero Waste Waste method GRI 306 Effluents and 306-3 Significant spills 0 significant spills Waste GRI 403 Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and rates of 54 Social Responsibility Health and injury, occupational diseases, Safety lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities GRI 404 Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per 17 One Diab Education year per employee 66 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Number Omission Standard Standard Number Title Section Number Title GRI 405 Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance 53 Employees and Partly Equal bodies and employees 23 Strategy & Governance legal proOpportunity hibitions GRI 406 Non406-1 Incidents of discrimination 50 Social Responsibility discrimination and corrective actions taken GRI 407 Freedom of 407-1 Operations and suppliers in Not folAssociation which the right to freedom lowed toand Collective of association and collective day * Bargaining bargaining may be at risk GRI 408 Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at 50 Social Responsibility significant risk for incidents of child labor GRI 409 Forced or 409-1 Operations and suppliers at 50 Social Responsibility Compulsory significant risk for incidents Labor of forced or compulsory labor GRI 412 Human Rights 412-1 Operations that have been 50 Social Responsibility Assessment subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments GRI 414 Supplier Social 414-1 New suppliers that were 50 Social Responsibility Assessment screened using social criteria GRI 414 Supplier Social 414-2 Negative social impacts in a-e. 0 Assessment the supply chain and actions taken * but a part of our improvement process to get in place 67
