COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Contents INTRO ENVIRONMENT About this report 3 The 10 principles and the 18 Environment and climate sustainable development goals This report constitutes the statutory report 22 Turning towards renewable energy on Corporate Social Responsibility cf. § 99a of 4 Our responsibility the Danish Financial Statements Act. 5 Semco Maritime ANTI-CORRUPTION 6 Business model 24 Anti-corruption and anti-bribery This report is published annually together 27 Whistleblower arrangement with the Annual Report. 7 Strategy and stakeholders This report also constitutes our Communication HUMAN RIGHTS OVERVIEW of Progress under the UN Global Compact. 8 Supplier Management 28 Targets, progress and ambitions 10 Giving back to society 30 Our policies on responsible practices LABOUR 11 Health, wellbeing and development 15 Safety is part of our DNA SEMCO MARITIME I 2 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW The 10 principles and the sustainable development goals We are committed to running our business in a way that supports the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and we contribute directly to the 7 sustainable development goals (SDGs) mentioned below. The SDGs were defined by the United Nations General Assembly and they reflect the greatest challenges globally and promote sustainable growth. HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 1 Principle 3 Principle 7 Principle 10 Businesses should support and Businesses should uphold the freeBusinesses are asked to support Businesses should work against respect the protection of internadom of association and the effeca precautionary approach to encorruption in all its forms, including tionally proclaimed human rights. tive recognition of the right to colvironmental challenges. extortion and bribery. lective bargaining. Principle 2 Principle 8 Make sure that they are not comPrinciple 4 Undertake initiatives to promote plicit in human right abuses. The elimination of all forms of greater environmental responforced and compulsory labour. sibility. Principle 5 Principle 9 The effective abolition of Encourage the development child labour. and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. SEMCO MARITIME I 3 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Our responsibility We want to meet all challenges in an environmentally, ethically and socially responsible way. We continue to develop Semco Maritime with a strategic approach to cost-effective and sustainable models that differentiate us from our competitors, create value for our customers and keep our focus on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Our customers demand high-quality projects delivered at the right time and at the right cost. Our global presence means many stakeholders and a potentially great environmental impact. We strive to meet each new challenge in an environmentally, ethically and socially responsible way. Our purpose is clear. We want to play an important role in meeting the world’s growing energy demand in a safe and sustainable way. This is reflected in our projects and solutions for the global energy sector. We use the 10 principles as a good common frame of reference, and together with the Sustainable Development Goals they serve as a solid platform and guideline for all our CSR activities. The principles and development goals set the basis of cooperation not only for Semco Maritime, but also for suppliers around the world. Steen Brødbæk, CEO SEMCO MARITIME I 4 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Semco Maritime at a glance Semco Maritime is an international engineering facturing to installation, commissioning and subSERVICES AND SOLUTIONS and contracting business undertaking and solving sequent service as well as rental of manpower and • EPCI projects assignments across the value chain in the global supply of tailor-made components, systems and • Construction and fabrication energy sector. solutions. • Installation and commissioning Since 1980, our specialist competencies have proviSemco Maritime has about 1,300 employees, who • Yard and workshop facilities ded a platform for the work carried out at all stages secure our customers cost-effective project mana• Upgrades and refurbs of offshore and onshore assignments – from prelimigement and operations from the head office in nary analyses over design, procurement and manuDenmark and subsidiaries in 12 other countries. • Maintenance, modification and service • Products, components and technology • Manpower and consultants ORGANISATION • Headquarters in Esbjerg, Denmark • Subsidiaries in Norway, UK, Germany, Singapore, Central America and the USA LIABLE MANAGEMENT • Steen Brødbæk, President and CEO • Jørgen Devantier Gade, President and CFO READ MORE ABOUT SEMCO MARITIME: www.semcomaritime.com/about SEMCO MARITIME I 5 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Business model Value creation cle Project cy dev e ct li f elo p m Promises n en tio je yp e t ro pl Safety: Safety is part of our m Motivation Markets rg Co En DNA. We always aim at redue cing the number of industrial Service and Front End accidents to zero. maintenance Engineering We aim at meeting Customers: We bring our Design expertise into play to provide the increasing inspiration and optimise value global demand for Project across the supply chain to deenergy in a safe and management liver safe solutions that always sustainable live up to expectations. manner. Procu r Employees: We offer a safe Renewables Oil & Gas e and motivating workplace with an c em en t unique opportunities for deten Engineering work, procurement velopment. ain an d m and construction d co ns Owners: We intend to deliver an t c profitable growth and make our ns ru owners proud. Op er n tio at io We lend assistance to our customers at all project stages SEMCO MARITIME I 6 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Strategy and stakeholders Corporate Social Responsibility division uses risk assessment tools that match their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives enline of business and take the type and size of each courage organisations to take responsibility for their project into account. actions. To make sure that our business is in line with 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, we have Business management system integrated a CSR Policy and a Global Compact proOur business management system is available to cedure in our organisation. all employees and gives easy access to all policies, procedures, instructions and templates. This way we The objective of Semco Maritime is to develop straensure: tegic and cost-effective solutions that create value for customers in a socially responsible way. • That the quality of products and services delivered by Semco Maritime and suppliers CSR and risk management in our projects meet specified requirements. As part of our project execution, all projects refer to • That our working environment and safety the overall Semco Maritime CSR policy (see page 30). meet statutory requirements and own policies and objectives. We have a strong focus on potential risks in all projects. All risks are registered, and the probability and • That our activities consider the environment. consequence of each risk is assessed and mitigated. • That Semco Maritime remains an attractive Risk management starts in the tender phase and wor king place providing development opporcontinues throughout the project life cycle. Each tunities for the individual employee. Strategy towards 2020 Our 2020 strategy »First Choice Stronger core for value creation« aims at consolidating and strengthening our position. In order to reach our goals, we must ensure a safe and motivating working environment by: • Developing our competencies across the organisation • Ensuring an inspirational and motivating working environment • Always keeping our safety promise SEMCO MARITIME I 7 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Supplier Management In Semco Maritime, we wish to incorporate values model allows for a more targeted approach towards and attitudes that support a responsible dialogue the application of resources to ensure compliance ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 with our stakeholders and suppliers. Our focus is on with our Code of Conduct and mitigate the growing the supply chain risks, especially relating to human risks of an increasingly globalised supply chain. • Successful evaluation of 80% of rights and our responsibility in ensuring compliance suppliers via electronic supplier selfwith international norms and development goals. Semco Maritime is facing competitive pressure from assessment database. the markets it is operating in. Customers continually • Implementation of Strategic Sourcing Supplier Management programme demand lower prices, faster delivery and greater initiative to qualify new suppliers in During 2018, we continued the development of our va-lue, all of which Semco Maritime strives to deliver. low-cost countries. Supplier Management programme launched in 2017 A key strategy to meet these expectations is to use with the introduction of a new supplier risk assessment suppliers from low-cost countries (LCC) which are • Improved Strategic Sourcing capability and tier-based supplier segmentation model. The often less developed than existing source countries. in our Singapore office. AMBITIONS 2019 Supplier Combined Risk Map • Introduce several new low-cost country (LCC) suppliers for key goods A B C and materials. • Continue focus on long-term supplier Strategic AS BS CS relationships and develop a solid Spend LCC supplier base. Operational AO BO CO Dimensions • Maintain an 80% evaluation coverage. Low-value AL BL CL • Further improve supplier self-assessment and registration for more efficient evaluation. HSEQ Dimensions  Tier I: High combined risk – Full qualification required  Tier II: Medium combined risk – Self-assessment and registration of required certificates  Tier III: Low combined risk – Acceptance of Code of Conduct only 8.7, 8.8  Tier IV: Inactive suppliers and P-card Low-value suppliers only SEMCO MARITIME I 8 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW This is especially true when it comes to human Supplier Management rights, the rights of workers and workplace safety. Workplace safety is by far the area of concern where Management Tier I Tier II Tier III Tier IV* we encounter the highest risk. We look at workTheme place safety broadly and include not only access to personal protective equipment (e.g. eye and ear protection, helmets, gloves etc.), but also appropriate • Full HSEQ qualifi• SSA • Acceptance of • None training and instruction, excessive working hours, cation including • Registration of Code of Conduct Supplier Self-Asdiscrimination, workplace culture and, most imporcertificates • No known violasessment (SSA) tions of internatiotantly, the right to stop work that is not safe. Qualification and audit • Financial due nal norms diligence as requi• Full commercial red post risk asSuch protections and rights seem commonplace due diligence sessment to people working in more developed countries. However, in less developed countries, suppliers have not yet adopted safety cultures fully aligned with our own »no compromise – we care« mindset. Our • Full KPI scorecard • Full KPI scorecard • Commercial • None responsibility is therefore to help these suppliers • Monthly reporting • Quarterly KPI scorecard self-assess their workplace safety and environment • Half-yearly perforreporting • Biannual perforand develop improvement plans that bring them mance review • Annual performance reviews Performance up to a compliant level in the first instance and then meetings mance reviews help them continually improve so that safety and a healthy work environment become their competitive advantage. Our risk-based supplier segmentation model allows • VP sponsorship • Director sponsor• No sponsor • No coffee our team to focus on suppliers posing a higher risk ship • Half-yearly mana• Management • Watch for techand to identify issues and implement improvements gement reviews • Annual managereviews as needed, nology or serthat create the most value for the affected workers • Partnership/ ment reviews but at least once vice-level stepouts. Relationship every 5 years and communities. This in turn brings additional alliance approach • Preferred supplier approach (guideline) value to Semco Maritime and to our customers • Take it or leave through improved relations with suppliers and local it approach stakeholders. *Tier IV: Dormant suppliers with no current or planned spend (within next 18 months). SEMCO MARITIME I 9 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Giving back to society In 2018, we supported various CHARITY HEADSPACE charities, humanitarian projects and • Families with children with cancer giving young people a chance! projects in our local community. • Hospital clowns: An initiative spreading We have an ongoing cooperation with Headhappiness and laughter among children in space, an organisation that is very close to our SPORTS Danish hospitals! hearts! We support EFB the leading football club in • The Danish Red Cross (the national subscription) Headspace gives advice and guidance to young Esbjerg! We also support other sporting events in people with problems. Semco Maritime is part our local community: CULTURE of the business network and therefore offers • Vestkystløbet • Tall ships Race temporary employment contracts for young • Blue Water Staffetten • Energiens Folkemøde (Energy mass meeting) people who are referred to us by Headspace. • Royal Run • Musikhuset Esbjerg Fundamentally we believe in inclusion and we (Esbjerg Performing Arts Centre) know that with a little support, this vulnerable We use these events to encourage our em• The Fisheries and Maritime Museum group of young people will become a valuable ployees and their families to participate and be in Esbjerg resource in the labour market! active together. SEMCO MARITIME I 10 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Health, wellbeing and development We want to create an attractive workwith room for diversity and personal development! Sickness absence In order to make sure that we keep focusing on mitiplace where each individual has the gating the mentioned risks, we have decided to moopportunity to develop both personally nitor the points below. In addition to our biannual saand professionally. tisfaction survey, we have added 3 measuring points Target  2.8 % that help us assess the wellbeing of our organisation: We do not discriminate nor let our decisions be affec• Sickness absence ted by employee affiliation with trade unions or other associations. Nor do we interfere with the forming of • Personal development dialogue meetings any trade unions or other associations in the work• Satisfaction survey (biannual) place. As a global company we recognise the diversity 2018: 3.0 % • Voluntary turnover rate of our employees. Therefore, we do not accept discrimination based on nationality, ethnic heritage, sexual Sickness absence orientation, political affiliation, religious belief or age. In 2018, the overall sickness absence rate was 3.0 % We see diversity as a strength and want to maintain a whereas the result was 2.9 % in 2017. Our overall obculturally diverse staff! jective is 2.8 %. 2017: 2.9 % We do not use force, threats or disciplinary means to We constantly monitor the sickness absence reports, and force people to work nor do we withhold identificaa close cooperation between Human Resources and our tion papers or wages to forces employees to work. All Social Counsellor ensures that we address irregularities employees have individual contracts drafted and apthrough a constructive dialogue between our Social 2016: 3.4 % proved in accordance with international and national Counsellor, the relevant manager and the employee in legal requirements. We do not employ nor support the question. We have a sick leave procedure that helps us use of child labour. Our commitment to respect the ensure regular contact between Semco Maritime and above is set out in our policies (see page 30). the employee on sick leave and which aims to reduce the duration of leave. Creating and attractive environment 2015: 3.9 % We aim to create an attractive working environment Personal and professional development that considers both the mental and the physical We strongly believe in the value of open and honest health of our employees. We do not want to risk dialogue and in creating room for personal developcausing illness among our employees due to a poor ment. In Semco Maritime, the Personal Developworking environment. Our greatest asset is our peoment Dialogue (PDD) is the tool that we use to creaple – and we know that we are at risk of losing them te a confidential space in which the manager and if we fail to create an attractive working environment employee can have a safe and honest face-to-face SEMCO MARITIME I 11 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Completed PDD meetings dialogue about all aspects of life as a Semco Maritime average rate was 4,1 (on a scale of 1 to 5 where 5 is the employee. One important aim of the dialogue is to best). In 2016, the overall result was 4.0. connect personal values to our company values. 85 % 80% Job satisfaction workshops are held in all depart77 % Through this dialogue, we want to give the employee ments following our satisfaction survey. During the 73 % increased influence on his/her own career path workshops, which are facilitated by a HR represenwhile at the same time identifying development tative, the manager and his/her team have an open potential and individual training needs. The outdialogue about the survey result. During these meetcome of the dialogue is an individual action plan ings, the team discusses how to maintain the posifor the coming year. tive results and how to improve the below-average results. A team action plan is agreed upon following Our goal is to make sure that at least 85 % of all oneach workshop. The next survey will be completed shore employees complete their PDD. However, in in 2020. 2018, only 77 % reported (via the satisfaction survey) that they had completed their PDD. This is a 3 % Employee retention and voluntary turnover decrease compared to 2017. One explanation could We want to retain our dedicated employees, and be that we have welcomed many new employees use the satisfaction survey as an indicator of the 2016 2017 2018 Target in 2018. Most often, newcomers are not called for a satisfaction level among our employees. Combining PDD during their first year of employment. the results of the satisfaction survey with the staff turnover rate gives us a good indication of our atIn 2018, we have developed a tool for monitoring the tractiveness as a workplace. Job satisfaction number of completed PDD meetings. The aim of this Target: 4,0 tool is to increase the number of completed PDDs It is only natural that some people leave us of their 5 through a more structured follow-up. We expect to own free will, as they often have specialist compebegin the implementation of the tool in 2019. tencies also in demand at our competitors. Our goal 4 is that the staff turnover rate remains below 10 %. In 3 Job satisfaction survey 2018, the turnover rate was 6.8 % and this is accepIn 2018, we completed our biannual job satisfaction table. We will continue to monitor the turnover rate 2 survey. The survey includes all white-collar and bluewhile aiming to increase our employer branding collar employees except for offshore employees. The activities, as this will be even more important in the 1 survey analyses the knowledge and understanding of years to come. 0 our employees in terms of our strategy, management 2013 2016 2018 satisfaction, cooperation, work life balance etc. 86 % of Women in management positions our employees completed the survey and the overall Our line of business has been significantly overrepreSEMCO MARITIME I 12 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW sented by men for many years and this is also still the Furthermore, our goal is that 25 % of the board memWomen in Semco Maritime case when we look at the overall gender distribution. bers elected at the general meeting are to be women However, we see great potential in a diverse workforce (equivalent to 1 woman) in 2021. In 2018, none of the and we know that an impotant step is ensuring a more members of the Board of Directors elected at the diverse management team. We therefore strive to ingeneral meeting were women and in ‘other executive crease the ratio of the underrepresented gender, i.e. positions’ women currently represent 23 %. 100% women, in management positions. 86% To achieve our objectives we have launched an interSemco Maritime has set the goal that women must ocnal management education (talent camp) with the 77% cupy 35 % of ‘other executive positions’ (which include goal of also developing female talents and strengthC-level + SVP, VP, Directors, Managers) by 2021. en their management skills. Target: 35% Target: 25% 23% 14% Other executive Board Overall gender positions members distribution Alexia is Innovation Lead and in charge of bringing innovative ideas to life. Voluntary turnover Acceptable turnover rate: < 10 % 12 8 4 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 SEMCO MARITIME I 13 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Strong focus on human values! drugs and alcohol, which are not compatible with At Semco Maritime we genuinely care about the wellwork and the workplace. However, employees can ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 being of our employees and are very proud to have our always contact our social counsellor for professional • Sickness absence was 3.0 %. own in-house social counsellor (since 2007). This role is support and assistance. Our social counsellor also at the very core of our efforts to ensure a strong focus spars with the senior management team in order to • 77 % of employees completed their on people and on human values. ensure the highest level of well-being. annual PDD. • Voluntary turnover: 6.8 %. Our social counsellor, is available to all employees AND Activities • Campaigns to inform offshore workers their families at any time. An employee can always ask In 2018, we completed several campaigns to make of our social counselling services. for support, e.g. in case of mental or physical illness, sure that our employees know where to turn if they that might require cooperation with psychologists, need help.. We saw a need for more information • Women in management positions: 23 %. hospitals, municipalities, patient associations or other among our offshore workers as too many did not relevant partners. know that the counselling services are for everyone. AMBITIONS 2019 Consequently, we have aimed some information cam• Maintain a low sickness absence rate Semco Maritime has a zero-tolerance policy towards paigns at this specific group. in 2019. Target remains 2.8 %. • PDD target is 85 %. • In 2019, we will focus on employee retention and on keeping the voluntary Data protection / GDPR turnover at an acceptable level (10 %). From 25 May 2018, the EU legislation became more restrictive and required new standards • Next job satisfaction survey to for data security, authorisations and transparency. We have initiated actions to: be held in 2020. • Protect our employees’ and customers’ personal data. • Women in management positions: 35 % in 2021. • Increase the awareness of data privacy for persons handling personal data. • Female board members: 25 % in 2021. • Comply with the new legislation. We have prepared a privacy policy that applies to all current and future employees. The privacy policy and other relevant GDPR documentation are available to employees through our business system. The privacy policy is also available through our website: http://bit.ly/SemcoPrivacyPolicy 3.4, 3.5 5.1, 5.5, 5.5.2 8.6, 8.7, 8.8 SEMCO MARITIME I 14 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Safety is part of our DNA ZERO harm to employees, stakeholders, our assets and the environment. Global safety statistics 2018 At Semco Maritime we have defined a new safety LTAF: Lost time accident frequency * Target: 0 motto: »Safety is part of our DNA«. This statement 3,5 indicates that safety is one of our core values and that it is embedded in everything we do. We believe 3,0 that all incidents can be prevented by approaching 2,5 work proactively and by learning from experience. We 2,0 know that if we fail to put safety before everything else, we risk that people get injured or even die while 1,5 doing their job. 1,0 We strongly believe in a continued focus on Safety 0,5 Leadership. This means that if our leaders show their 0 commitment towards safety, they will be able to lift 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 our Safety Culture to a level that makes our ultimate goal of zero accidents a reality. TRIF: Total recordable incident frequency (includes LTA, RWI and MTI) ** Target: < 2.3 Safety performance 2018 10 During 2018, we unfortunately experienced an alarming rise in the number of incidents and highpoten8 tial near misses (situations with a high risk of very serious injuries or death). These incidents and near misses 6 have been investigated, and no patterns as such were identified except that the root causes of all incidents 4 and near misses were related to human behaviour. Below are some of the initiatives taken to increase 2 focus on safety across the organisation. 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Safety awareness courses Safety awareness refresher courses have been com*LTAF: Number of LTAs / million worked hours. (LTA: The injured person is unable to perform his job for more than 24 hours) pleted for managers and blue-collar workers in our **TRIF: (Fatalities + LTA + RWI + MTI) / total number of exposure man hours x 1.000.000 workshops. SEMCO MARITIME I 15 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Safety culture survey SEMCO MARITIME: 3.251 0 3 5 ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 Action plans to improve safety Safety culture is good • LTAF: 2.1 • TRIF: 6.0 / mio working hrs. • Safety culture survey: 3.251. Besides, safety awareness courses have been held for mains at almost the same level (332) in order to keep • Safety talks completed: 381 (goal 328). foreign project hired employees at our site in Northfocus on all levels of management. ern Jutland in their native language. This was a good initiative given the cultural differences and helped Safety culture survey AMBITIONS 2019 the project employees understand the importance of We have also carried out a safety culture survey to • LTAF: 0 safety awareness and reporting.The main purpose of measure the safety culture on all operational and the safety awareness courses was to strengthen our offshore sites. • TRIF: < 2.3 / million working hours. safety culture and safety behaviour and to provide a • Safety culture survey: Score exceeding common point of departure. The safety questionnaire contains 50 questions and 3.25 in average at operational sites. is divided into 7 headlines: • Safety talks completed: 332. Safety talk • Management safety priority and ability • Establish a Safety Value Committee. A »safety talk« is a communication tool for managers to remind employees that health and safety are im• Management safety empowerment portant. The talk can help employees recognise and • Management safety justice control hazards when at work and outside working • Workers’ safety commitment hours. Safety talks demonstrate the commitment Safety talks • Workers’ safety priority and non-acceptance risk 381 of employers and employees to health and safety. If only the manager acts as a role model and a safety • Peer safety communication, learning ambassador, the purpose of the safety talk has been and trust in safety ability Target fulfilled. • Workers’ trust in effectiveness of safety systems 328 199 In previous years, we have not been able to reach The target for 2018 was to exceed 3.25 on a scale from our target of 328 registered safety talks. However, in 0-5. The overall result was 3.251, which was satisfac2018, we did a consistent monthly follow-up with the tory, especially as the response rate was 64.3 % an relevant managers, and progress was also reported increase compared to 2017. In 2019, the survey will to the top management. Our extended focus paid only include operational and offshore sites, and we off and we managed to complete AND register 381 aim to further improve the response rate and to keep 2017 2018 safety talks in 2018. Our target for 2019, however, rethe score above 3.25. SEMCO MARITIME I 16 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Safety campaigns many different tools to improve safety at work. HOWThis work will involve ALL departments in 2019. Safety campaigns play an important role when we try EVER, common sense is very important if you want to By the end of 2019, ALL employees will therefore to increase focus on safety culture and safety awarestay safe. know the meaning of our new motto and feel the ness. In 2018, we completed the following campaigns: importance of their own safety dedication. Global campaign: Global campaign: How is safety part of your DNA? Among several initiatives, we will establish a Safety Safety is part of our DNA! With this campaign, we put focus on our new safety Value Committee with employees from across the Introduction of our new safety motto.We urged each motto and try to inspire employees to think about organisation. The most important purpose of this employee to submit a private picture to HSE, stating what safety means to them. committee is to define the Semco Maritime safety the reason why he or she wants to return home safely. behaviour behind our new value. The picture could be of one’s family, pet, sporting Our safety work continues friends or other. We will continue to work with our new motto and try to signal that safety is promoted as a core value in Offshore campaign: Semco Maritime. Safety is also common sense This campaign focuses on common sense in relation We need to define what we mean when we talk to safety. Safety can be very abstract, and we have about »safety and being safe« in Semco Maritime. Safety campaign to raise the level of safety awareness at Semco Maritime. Campaign in the airport to remind people that safety is also »common sense«. SEMCO MARITIME I 17 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Waste management at Hanøytangen, Norway. In 2018, our yard at Hanøytangen reached an amazing recycling rate of 99 %. This is the result of a strong and close cooperation between our local HSE coordinator and the waste supplier Franzefoss Gjenvinning AS. Yard routines are regularly updated and staff are trained on an ongoing basis also through participation in »environment days«. Hanøytangen is equipped with a very functional and permanent station. In addition, customised environmental stations are set up for each project. Both the environment, employees and customers benefit from our strong focus on HSE. Theme day at Hanøytangen: Plastic waste and the ocean how can we help solve the waste challenges of the future? SEMCO MARITIME I 18 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Environment and climate We aim to reduce our negative environWaste management and energy consumption mental impact by using resources We aim to reduce our environmental impact by using CO2 neutral website resources most efficiently, reducing energy consumpWe have joined the CO2 neutral efficiently and reducing energy contion and ensuring an efficient waste management website initiative in order to neutralise sumption. through maximum recycling the emissions originating from our website and website users. We are aware of our potential role in mitigating climate Our waste recycling has once again improved due to change and in conserving natural resources. We know ongoing staff training at our sites. We also organise that we risk contributing unduly to climate change and specific »environment days« with a focus on improving Nordic Swan Ecolabel depleting the world’s finite resources. We have et ambitiwaste separation and strengthening our cooperation Our stationery is made from environous goals to limit our impact and believe that »a responwith local waste handling companies and municipalities. mentally friendly materials. At present, sible approach« is a »preventive approach«. all stationery and almost all envelopes We have changed our way of measuring our energy carry the Nordic Swan Ecolabel. We know that a large share of our emissions is caused consumption. We used to measure Kwh/employee but by our energy consumption (electricity and heating). decided to look at Kwh/working hour instead. FurtherHowever, the recent mapping of our CO2 emissions more, we have decided to divide the energy consumpFSC® The Forest Stewardship Council (see page 20) will probably call for a review of our goals. tion into locations as this makes it easier for us to idenAn international non-profit label for wood and paper. FSC is your guarantee that tprinted material is from a FSCcertified forest. No more wood is cut Waste recycling Kwh / working hour than the forest is able to regenerate Energy consumption/working hrs: 5 % naturally. Kwh/h 100 10 Goal: 90 % ISO certified 80 8 6.45 6.42 Certified according to ISO 14001 98% 99% 75% 6.37 60 6 (see page 31). 40 4 20 2 1.89 IC ECOLAB 0.78 0.90 0.96 NO RD EL 0 0 Denmark Hanøytangen Stavanger 2016 2017 2018  Staget (yard)  Esbjerg (office)  Stavanger (office) SEMCO MARITIME I 19 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW CO2 emissions 2018 tify the areas needing additional focus. So far, we are only able to monitor three of our locations, but our goal is to monitor all locations similarly.  Staff transportation (plane, train, ferry, bus) It is obvious that there is not much to be improved  Fuel at our headquarters in Esbjerg. Consequently, we will focus on our yard at Staget in Esbjerg.We have  Waste and recycling developed an action plan containing specific things  Scope 1 and 2 43 % 33 % that need to be improved at this location in relation emissions to energy management.  Vehicle and fuel consumption Mapping our CO2 emissions As a new initiative in 2018, we started to map our CO2  Electricity and emissions. Initially, we wanted to map the emissions heating from our shipping activities, but we ended up extending our scope (see pie chart). 8% To create an overview of the greenhouse gas emis7% 8% sions (GHG emissions) in Semco Maritime, we used the online tool »Klimakompasset.dk«. The carbon 1% calculator is based on the GHG protocol, which is a global standardised framework used to measure and manage emissions from both private and pubScope 1: All the direct sources of GHG emissions such as burning of fossil fuels in production lic operations. The carbon calculator divides GHG facilities and the vehicles owned and leased by Semco Maritime. This scope includes emissions emissions into three scopes: Scope 1 is the direct that we can control directly. emissions, whereas scope 2 and 3 are the indirect Scope 2: Includes the indirect GHG emissions related to consumption and purchasing of emissions. electricity and heat. Developing a carbon footprint ladder Scope 3: All indirect GHG emissions, which are not part of scope 2. This might be suppliers, energy In 2018 we also started to develop a carbon footprint consumption related to the use of products, business travels, waste management, water supply ladder and the work is ongoing. We know that we and wastewater treatment, transportation of goods etc. are on the very first step of the ladder; the awareness phase. We have only just begun to develop a framework and are about to initiate internal discussions SEMCO MARITIME I 20 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW about our carbon emission and environmental impact. ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 • Savings on energy consumption/ In 2019, we expect to start in-house discussions working hours: 0,5 % (DK only). about our CO2 emissions in order to raise awareness of our impact and to identify initiatives to reduce the • Recycling of waste/total amount impact. Discussions will be based on our mapped of waste: 90,66 %. emissions (with »staff transportation« as one of the • Development of carbon ladder. major sources of air pollution). framework and starting the mapping of our CO2 emissions. AMBITIONS 2019 • Savings on energy consumption/ We want to keep our environmental working hours: 5 %. impact to a minimum and ensure • Recycling of waste/total amount the best possible use of resources. of waste: min. 90 %. • Starting to raise awareness of our Dorthe Ulsø, Director HSE&Q CO2 emissions through in-house campaigns (what can YOU do?). Concrete actions in 2019 • CO2 saving ideas: Initiate an »idea bank for CO2 saving ideas« and encourage employees to contribute ideas. 3.9 7.2, 7.a • Discuss new goals: Can we limit emissions caused by staff transportation? • Waste: Continuing awareness-raising globally and provision of facilities for recyclable materials. • Energy consumption: 11.6 12.4, 12.5 Special focus on our yard in Esbjerg where there is still room for improvement. 12.6, 12.6.1 SEMCO MARITIME I 21 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Turning towards renewable energy We want a larger share of our turnover towards the renewable energy industry. Our offto come from renewables shore wind activities continue to increase and now Some of our major account for 31 % of the total revenue! offshore wind projects: Renewable energy, and especially offshore wind, is getting more and more of our attention and is At Semco Maritime we design and engineer elec• Horns Rev becoming an important part of our strategy. We trical infrastructure systems for wind farms and • Burbo Banks believe that the renewable energy market will conconstruct onand offshore substations. We continu• West of Duddon Sands tinue to grow. We have developed a strong position ously aim to reduce the cost of green renewable • Walney I within offshore substations for offshore wind farms. energy. Therefore, our engineers and specialists In short, we specialise in bringing energy to shore! focus on optimising each design element of the • Walney II substation and the balance of plant (BOP). We al• Northwind Initially, we provided services for the oil & gas inways strive to optimise the way we bring energy to • Nordsee Ost dustry, but our business is turning more and more shore! • Borkum Riffgrund I • Anholt • Rødsand B • Gunfleet Sands • Robin Rigg • Lillgrund • Princess Amalia (Q7) • Nysted • London Array • DanTysk • Sandbank • NordSee One • Bligh Bank • Horns Rev 3 • Hornsea • Northwester 2 Borkum Riffgrund 2 SEMCO MARITIME I 22 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Offshore wind accounts for 31% of the total revenue! The Hornsea Z13 substation in stormy weather in the British part of the North Sea. SEMCO MARITIME I 23 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Anti-corruption and anti-bribery We have always focused on honesty and As a global company dealing in various countries and and bribery. Therefore it was a natural step for us to fairness, but in recent years, transparency across different cultures, we know that we run the establish a formal whistleblower policy and whistlerisk of being directly or indirectly involved in corrupblower rules (2016). During 2017 and 2018, we focused has become increasingly important. Transtion and bribery. However, corruption and bribery will on informing employees about the whistleblower parency is also driving force behind our never be an acceptable part of doing business with arrangement, and in 2018 we published the whistlesuccessful introduction and implementaSemco Maritime. blower policy on our website. tion of a new whistleblower arrangement. We are strengthening our focus on promoting transIn 2018, we were informed of two potential corrupAs a signatory to the UN’s Global Compact parency and honesty in everything we do. tion cases under the whistleblower arrangement. since 2007, we are committed to the highest Our ultimate goal is to help eliminate The reporting of the two cases and standards of integrity, honesty and fairness corruption the subsequent handling confirm in all internal and external relationships, in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. SEMCO MARITIME I 24 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW that the system works as intended; One of the cases We have based our anti-bribery and corruption policy showed that Semco Maritime was blacklisted by a on the 6 principles of the Bribery Act 2010 (UK): ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 customer due to an erroneous suspicion of corruption • Whistleblower arrangement establiswithin our company. The matter was investigated and 1. We have proportionate procedures: hed and in force. cleared with the customers’ compliance officer and we • By designing and implementing this »anti-bribery are now receiving orders from the customer again. We policy« and by having current, suitable and pro• Whistleblower policy made available will continue to repeat the message internally to make portionate »anti-bribery procedures« for handling to external contacts on our website. sure that everyone knows where to report cases of risk exposures in our markets. • We were informed of two possible corrupcorruption or bribery. • By synergising the necessary resources of our CEO, tion cases under the whistle-blower arranCFO, legal department and HSEQ department gement. Both cases were investigated by Anti-corruption ensuring appropriate attention to our anti-bribeour legal department and solved efficientSemco Maritime and its Group Companies’ (Subsidiarry and corruption policy and procedures. ly and professionally. This confirms that ies’) employees shall not directly or indirectly accept, our setup works as intended. solicit or offer bribes, kickbacks, facilitation payments • E.g. by capping gifts at € 100.Other promotions, or any other unjustified advantages in order to improsponsorships and hospitality gestures are reguperly influence or gain an unfair business advantage lated in each case based on specific individual AMBITIONS 2019 from any governmental or private legal entity or other. criteria. • Continue the implementation of the whistle blower arrangement across the organisation. • Arrange sessions to inform new colleagues about our code of conduct and our Anti-bribery and corruption anti-corruption initiatives and to make sure that also newcomers know where to report cases. • Monitor number/types of cases under the whistleblower arrangement. PREVENT MONITOR REACT 16.5 SEMCO MARITIME I 25 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW 2. We have top-level commitment: • By allocating, whenever necessary, specific resour• By making our Code of Conduct readily available • This means that our CEO and CFO »own« the ces (legal as commercial) to: supply (from simple on our website along with the updated versions of anti-bribery policy. purchase orders to full-blown EPC contracts incluour Communication on Progress (COP) report and ding operation & maintenance (O&M), purchasing, Global Business Manual, including the anti-bribery • By having an internal Culture and Development agents and consultants). and corruption policy and procedures. programme and a General Counsel who proactively sponsors the policy whenever necessary. 4. Due diligence is made: 6. Monitoring and review: • By having our Senior Vice Presidents inform em• By inserting an anti-bribery clause in Corporate • By having established a Business Ethics Commitployees of the policy/procedures on an annual basis Contract Review Guidelines; tee or other suitable legal internal body to annu(via the intranet or similar internal communication • A specific set of questions on the anti-bribery ally review and adjudicate on instances related channels). and corruption policy is now included in our interto our anti-bribery and corruption policy and nal auditing rules established by the HSE&Q procedures. 3. Risk assessment is made: department. • By regularly modifying, updating and adding • By evaluating, as applicable, the risks associated to the anti-bribery and corruption policy and with potential and current projects in terms of: 5. Communication is performed: procedures during reviews and monitoring by (i) geography, (ii) industrial sector, (iii) nature of • By bringing focus to the anti-bribery and corruption our HSE&Q department. transaction and (iv) scope and nature of necessary partnerships. policy through, among others, introductory courses for new employees. Send us an e-mail: whistleblower@semcomaritime.com SEMCO MARITIME I 26 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW The formal whistleblower policy and rules The detailed whistleblower policy is available to all; internally in our Business Management System together with a template for reporting and externally on our corporate website. Any suspicious or noncompliant behavior The General Counsel shall facilitate to The reporting person and the person or actions/omissions in connection with any take appropriate action on any report being reported are with due consideraanti-bribery or any other relations of breach within reasonable and due time to: tion to legislative rights and obligations of internal financial and/or other relevant policies · Investigate (if necessary sided by external legal best possible informed about any investigation of the SEMCO MARITIME Group of Companies or counsel, accounting specialists and/or other also with due consideration to; (i) the facts of any external laws, rules codes or otherwise can necessary external resources or specialists) any finding process and investigation, (ii) the right as from December 15, 2016 anonymously be reported report, and an investigated person to respond to the investo the General Counsel and Corporate Counsels of tigation and/or the findings/report to take due · Bring the legal conclusion of any investigated the SEMCO MARITIME Group of Companies. consideration to the investigated person’s right to reporting to a hereto formed »board« consisprotect one’s personal and any other interests ting of and in each incident as applicable: The General Counsel and Corporate Counsels and (iii) the applicable legislation at all times. must as applicable minimum cc the CFO (and A. The CEO/CFO and General Counsel always to Corporate Counsel(s) B. The Head of HR and as relevant and as on any reported incident), the startup of any case decided by the General. and any later process and/or reporting. Reporting Counsel in each incident: The reporting person is secured anonyto the General Counsel and Corporate Counsels C. An external lawyer, external accountant mous reporting with due consideration can take place by anyone by telephone, e-mail D. And/or any other relevant resources to the applicable, relevant legislation. and/or writtenor any oral communication. E. As applicable a Board Member of the Semco The reported person is also considered (as far Maritime Group of companies’ mother possible under the applicable legislation and company Semco Maritime in Denmark (The company policies) duly protected under the Chairman of the board). to investigate, conemployment laws rights and obligations against If the report is not anonymous – howclude and act on each incident of reporting. employment consequences due to any reported ever the reporting person’s identity can acts/omissions. be asked to be kept anonymous by the reporting person. If so, then any reporting The latter means that the employment laws are There can be (severe) employment shall be kept anonymous with regards to the duly considered throughout any investigation, consequences for a reported person reporting person’s identity at all times with due reporting and/or actions/omissions in each and ultimately a criminal investigation consideration to the applicable legislation. incident. and termination of the employment (as applicable in each incident). SEMCO MARITIME I 27 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Targets, progress and ambitions This overview sums up our targets, progress and ambitions within the four sustainability themes human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Targets Progress in 2018 Ambitions Human rights By the end of 2018, we have successfully evaluated  Successful evaluation of 80 % of suppliers Maintain an 80 % evaluation coverage and further 80 % of all suppliers via our electronic supplier via our electronic supplier self-assessment improve supplier self-assessment and registration. self-assessment database. database. for more effective evaluation. Focus on long-term supplier relationships and  Implementation a Strategic Sourcing initiative to Introduce several new LCC suppliers and continue building a solid supplier base in low-cost countries. qualify new suppliers in low-cost countries. focus on long-term supplier relationships and develop a solid LCC supplier base. Labour Sickness absence rate: 2.8 %  3.0 % Target remains 2.8 % Completed personal development dialogues: 85 %  77 % PDD target is 85 % Voluntary turnover rate: < 10 %  6.8 % Voluntary turnover rate: < 10 % Job satisfaction survey: 84 % completed the survey.  86 % completed the survey. New satisfaction survey will be completed Overall overage score of 4.0  Satisfaction level: 4.1 in 2020. Number of female board members: 25 %  0% 25% of board members must be female (by 2021). Women in management positions: 35 %  23 % 35% of women in management positions (by 2021).  On target  In progress  Actions and extra focus needed SEMCO MARITIME I 28 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Targets Progress in 2018 Ambitions Safety TRIF: below 2.3  TRIF: 6.0 TRIF: below 2.3 LTAF: 0  LATF: 2.1 LTAF: 0 Safety culture survey: above 3.25  3.251 Safety culture survey: Above 3.25 Safety talks: 328  381 Safety talks: 332 Environment Savings on energy consumption/employees: -5 %.  Savings on energy consumption/ Savings on energy consumption/ and climate working hours: -0.5 %. working hours.: -5 %. Recycling of waste: 80 %.  Average recycling across sites: 90.66 .% Recycling of waste: min. 90 %. Set the framework for mapping of carbon footprint.  Development of carbon ladder framework Begin raising awareness about our CO2 emissions and our first mapping of CO2 emissions. through internal campaigns. Anti-corruption Continue the implementation of whistleblower  Whistleblower arrangement established and Continue the implementation of the whistleblower arrangement and making sure that everyone knows in force. Infor about the arrangement was made arrangement across the organisation. Arrange how and where to report available to externa website users. sessions to inform new colleagues about our code of conduct and anti-corruption initiatives.  First two cases reported under the Monitor the number of cases filed under whistleblower arrangement. the arrangement.  On target  In progress  Actions and extra focus needed SEMCO MARITIME I 29 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Our policies on responsible practicesally,ally and socially responsible way These are some of our most relevant Code of Conduct contains our values and ethical developed with the formulated strategy in mind policies that help us meet challenges in guidelines. All employees must know and understand and is based on the values and attitudes that are the not only the guidelines of the Code of Conduct, but hallmarks of our corporate culture. We want to proan environmentally, ethically and socially also the values on which it is based. We are all comvide a healthy environment and promote a healthier responsible way. mitted to abide by the wording and the rules of the lifestyle among our employees without invading Code of Conduct and to help others do so. their personal space and lifestyle. CSR in general CSR Policy POL-SEMCO-0001 Inclusion Policy Drugs and Alcohol The objective of Semco Maritime is to develop stratePOL-SEMCO-0006 P-SEMCO-0087 gic and cost-effective sustainability models that create Inclusion is part of Semco Maritime’s strategy to create Semco Maritime has a zero tolerance towards the differentiation to others and value for customers. We an attractive workplace and a necessary element for possession and consumption of drugs during working will challenge and develop what we do best in a socialour ability to adapt to the never ending development hours. We expect all employees to come to work withly responsible way. CSR covers the initiatives launched of employees, customers and the company as a whole. out being under the influence of alcohol or drugs. by Semco Maritime to protect the environment, ensure good working conditions and care for society GDPR beyond legal requirements. Employee Health Policy Privacy Policy POL-SEMCO-0022 POL-SEMCO-0012 This policy describes the details on the processing, Global Compact Procedure The health policy of Semco Maritime has been use and disclosure of the personal data relating to P-SEMCO-0082 By acceding the 10 UN Global Compact principles, Semco Maritime commits itself to prepare a COP report that documents the development and progress within the different areas. The COP report is published on the Global Compact website. We consider the process a mechanism for assessing and demonstrating our actions in relation to the incorporation of responsible practices into day-to-day operations. Human Rights Code of Conduct – POL-SEMCO-0013 We have formulated a Code of Conduct specifically aimed at employees, partners and suppliers. The SEMCO MARITIME I 30 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW your job application and the hiring process and, if Physical/Psychological Bullying, employed with Semco Maritime, the details on the Harassment and Violence THIRD-PARTY CERTIFICATES employment relationship and the hiring-out of labour POL-SEMCO-0015 to customers, etc. Quality management The purpose of this policy is to describe the ISO 9001 following elements in Semco Maritime: Labour This standard is based on a number • Our attitude towards workplace violence and the Personnel Policy – POL-SEMCO-0011 of quality management principles course of action to be taken afterwards The personnel policy applies to all Semco Maritime including a strong customer focus, • Our attitude towards psychological workplace viothe motivation and implication of top employees, regardless of title or position. The policy is lence and the course of action to be taken afterwards management, the process approach reviewed on a regular basis and is based on the follow• Our attitude towards physical and psychological and continuous improvement. ing core ideas: harassment, including sexual, ethical, political and religious harassment and the actions to be Environmental • Semco Maritime shall be an attractive workplace taken afterwards management systems characterised by commitment, reliability and ISO 14001 responsiveness. Safety, Environment and Climate This standard specifies the require• It shall be possible to make a career in Semco HSSE Policy – POL-SEMCO-0019 ments for an environmental manageMaritime and the individual employee shall be able Our core business is to create safe solutions within the ment system to be used by an organito use his or her talents and abilities to the full. oil & gas industry and the renewables market, as we sation for enhancing its environmental • In Semco Maritime we are continuously changing see an increasing demand for reliable and sustainable performance. and developing our processes. Therefore, we also energy. Our main focus areas are: expect our employees, our most important resource, Occupational health and • Zero harm to employees and stakeholders, to participate actively in the process. our assets and the environment. safety management systems OHSAS 18001 Anti-Corruption and Bribery • Deliver a quality that makes us the first choice for customers. Compliance with the OHSAS 18001 POL-SEMCO-0016 standard enables us to demonstrate Employees shall not directly or indirectly accept, solicit that we have a system in place for Whistleblower Arrangement or offer bribes, kickbacks, facilitation payments or any occupational health and safety. P-SEMCO-0378 other unjustified advantages in order to improperly influence or gain an unfair business advantage from any Our whistleblower arrangement allows employees to raise a concern about a potential criminal act and/or Learn more: governmental or private entity. other serious risk that could pose a threat to Semco www.semcomaritime.com/downloads/ Maritime A/S, the Semco Maritime Group of Companies download-hsseq-certificates or any of their employees. SEMCO MARITIME I 31 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 Semco Maritime A/S Esbjerg Brygge 30 DK-6700 Esbjerg CVR-nr.: 25 49 07 62 Tlf. 79 16 66 66 semco@semcomaritime.com www.semcomaritime.com #semcomaritime Dropbox\Marketing\Brochurer\Responsibility COP 040419 subh
