United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals Communication on Progress 2019 Debut Outland Denim Communication on Progress One Period Covered: July 2018 until 31st July 2019 United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 2 Communication on Progress 2019 Outland Denim Mission Statement Outland Denim crafts premium denim jeans designed to bring the worlds of our seamstresses and our customers closer together. We source the finest raw materials from around the world while offering sustainable employment and training opportunities to women and men rescued from human trafficking and sexual exploitation. We strive to execute our brand vision and imbue all that we do with excellence, creativity and integrity. #ZeroExploitation Outland Denim seeks to pursue zero exploitation in every aspect of its business. To be accountable to this mission we are aligning as a signatory to the UN Global Compact Network’s Ten Principles. Outland Denim Founder and CEO, James Bartle, signed a commitment to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of Outland Denim. The 17 Sustainable Develop Goals provide a global frame of reference for Outland Denim to bring innovation and creativity to drive genuine change. Outland Denim’s purpose and desire is to see this positive social and environmental change in every sphere of its influence. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 3 Communication on Progress 2019 Date of Signature: 23rd October 2019 Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Outland Denim reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Outland Denim seeks to pursue zero exploitation in every aspect of its business. To be accountable to this mission we have aligned as a signatory to the UN Global Compact Network’s Ten Principles. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, James Bartle Founder / CEO of Outland Denim United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 4 Communication on Progress 2019 Outland Denim and the SDGs SDG 4 – QUALITY EDUCATION Outland Denim aims for each staff member to have the SDG 1 – NO POVERTY opportunity to be upskilled, informed and empowered, Outland Denim works to ensure fair wages are paid three of the core values behind our company’s education throughout its global supply chain. Within all operations in focus. Within our production team, staff are given the Cambodia, staff wages are calculated using a company opportunity to be upskilled in different areas of the made ‘Living Wage Methodology’. This is integrated with manufacturing process, as well as progressing staff into training & development programs designed to educate our leadership positions. Outland Denim also focuses heavily staff on finance, health, and an array of topics that aim to on extra-curricular educational training such as, English make our employees custodians for their families and the language, health & finance. We also offer an in-house broader community. apprenticeship program for community members who desire to use the skills acquired with Outland Denim as a stepping stone to employment. SDG 2 – ZERO HUNGER Food is factored into Outland Denim’s living wage methodology, which makes provision for a nutritious SDG 5 – GENDER EQUALITY household diet. Additionally, Outland Denim has provided a Outland Denim’s business model is centred around health training module on breastfeeding & infant care. This empowering women and their families through education, particular SDG is something that can be improved. Outland employment, training and opportunity. Within our company Denim currently provides budgeting training and has structure, over 50% of management positions held in ambitions to develop an agriculture program, which will Australia are held by females, and in Cambodia, more than extend beyond our workforce, & a nutritional well-being 70% of management and section leader positions are held class for staff members. by females. Outland Denim values its ability to provide opportunities of empowerment and development to both men and women. SDG 3 – GOOD HEALTH & WELLBEING Outland Denim offers a detailed health training program covering a range of topics that are both culturally and SDG 6 – CLEAN WATER & SANITATION gender appropriate. Outland Denim is in the process of As a manufacturing business, we believe it is our establishing an infirmary in which all staff will have access responsibility to utilise scarce water resources responsibly. to basic healthcare, free of charge. Our new health training This extends to our new Wash & Finishing Facility, which program will now also include mental health. Through the ensures sustainable wash recipes and finishing techniques infirmary, we aim to identify the key causes of illness in our are used for 100% of Outland Denim products. We use staff’s lives, as well as their families, and strategically zero harmful chemicals in our facilities, which also develop solutions with our social impact partners to promotes good worker health. An area that Outland improve the general health and well-being of staff. Denim has recently delved into has been the impact of clean water and sanitation on workers’ health, family health and staff productivity. Within the business, the implementation of a water and sanitation program are planned to align with our medical clinic with a focus on educating staff about safe sanitation practices and water hygiene, as well as greater insight into living qualities and water availability in local homes. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 5 Communication on Progress 2019 SDG 7 – AFFORDABLE & CLEAN ENERGY SDG 9 – INDUSTRY, INNOVATION & INFRASTRUCTURE Outland Denim has implemented energy saving strategies Innovation is part of the Outland Denim framework as the through choice of machinery and behavioural practices. business is stretched across two major industries ethical This is a field Outland Denim has great interest to fashion and sustainable manufacturing. The development develop. The new Outland Denim Cut & Sew facility is of our Cut & Sew Facility, together with the acquisition of equipped with solar energy, and our Wash House Facility a Wash House Facility, mean that we have control over utilizes LPG gas and high steam recovery technology to innovation and our own infrastructure while also run our machines. Outland Denim’s goal is to find ways to influencing the fashion industry for good. Our utilise 100% clean and renewable energy in all facilities, as membership with the Global Fashion Agenda, the well as encouraging staff toward using renewable energy Australian Fashion Council and other industry bodies solutions in their personal lives. mean we are able to contribute to the ongoing conversation around sustainability. Our investment into innovative projects designed to support regeneration of the ecosystem, while ameliorating the effect caused by SDG 8 – DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH our production of garments, is significant and should bear Outland Denim was founded as an avenue for the fruit in 2020. provision of decent work under excellent conditions for people vulnerable to poverty, exploitation and modern slavery. It continues to deliver on its mission, expanding its workforce by 80% over 18 months, while being SDG 10 – REDUCED INEQUALITIES inclusive of those experiencing underemployment, poor Outland Denim exists to create positive change for some conditions in garment factories and other adverse of the world’s most vulnerable people using the vehicle of circumstances. This widening of our doors has increased beautifully crafted denim jeans. We employ a “zero our influence and the potential for further growth. exploitation” business model designed to improve the Economic growth is a key factor to furthering our impact. ecological, social and economic status of entire Under our business model, providing staff with the communities. To reduce inequalities, Outland Denim has opportunity to develop their skills allows for more rapid been active in hiring staff from a range of backgrounds, progress and greater productivity. Furthermore, we are ethnicities and religions, as well as staff with physical cognisant of the challenges wrought by the Industrial disabilities. As a majority of Outland Denim's employees Revolution 4.0, particularly within the garment industry, are women, educational programs and policies have been and believe we have a responsibility to equip our staff for implemented to support women’s rights. Through technological change while advocating for the rights of consistent work, career progression opportunities and fair workers within the garment trade. We believe an wages, Outland Denim improves incomes to not only environment of sustainable, holistic employment reduce inequality, but also boost economic growth. partnered with a genuine care of people and mutual benefits for all, have the power to facilitate transformation for those who are the most vulnerable into respected, vibrant, informed individuals who positively impact their families and communities. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 6 Communication on Progress 2019 SDG 11 – SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES SDG 14 – LIFE BELOW WATER As Outland Denim is able to continue to work with our Outland Denim sees the importance of putting things staff, there is a growing trend of our staff becoming back the way you found them. We are working towards custodians in their respective communities. We pride improving the quality of our current filtration system so ourselves on our staff's ability to use their own knowledge that we can recycle our water in the near future. to empower others, and Outland Denim will always assist Cambodians, like many other cultures, rely on the with this. Centralising the community around educated, aquasystem for food, income and transport. Tackling this informed and valued individuals with decent work and a SDG will have a positive ripple effect on others. Garment living wage, is how Outland Denim is positively impacting care instructions and customer education are both growth in communities in Cambodia and abroad. additional ways Outland Denim seeks to minimise its As we grow, we believe that we will be able to make impact on life below the water. New product designs are greater positive contributions to the communities in currently being implemented to reduce microplastics and which we operate. synthetic fibres. SDG 12 – RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION SDG 15 – LIFE ON LAND SDG 12 is where Outland Denim can make strides in the As a company we believe that human life and livelihoods fashion industry. By promoting sustainable fashion’s “buy are inextricably connected to the land, and that our better quality, make it last” philosophy, while creating ability to preserve, restore and utilise land resources quality premium products that can be re-worn and reresponsibly now will have a dramatic impact on future used, we can impact consumers’ consumption habits. generations. Our environmental stewardship begins with Further to this, we manufacture our products according the use of organic cotton, known for its restorative and to seasonal demand to avoid excess over-production. regenerative properties, and zero harmful chemicals in our products, and extends to resource management projects linked to our stand-alone production facilities. By reducing overall pollution through the responsible SDG 13 – CLIMATE ACTION handling of water and waste, there is a significantly Outland Denim has the potential to make a big impact on reduced effect on soil and water quality, and therefore climate action through manufacturing, brand practices & biodiversity. We value and utilise sustainable raw technology. A goal of Outland Denim is for all materials, which is why we consciously choose suppliers manufacturing facilities to utilize renewable energy, for all with the highest relevant certifications that focus on our shipping and logistics to be carbon neutral, and to social & environmental impact. constantly evaluate the impact of each of our products. One major project Outland Denim is pursuing is the implementation of textile recycling, which will reduce the overall impact of carbon emissions and improve soil, water and air quality in regions where textiles are dumped or burnt. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 7 Communication on Progress 2019 SDG 16 – PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS SDG 17 – PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS Education workshops are provided to all Outland Denim We believe partnerships are vital to the realisation of Cut & Sew Facility employees to equip them with genuine sustainable change across the fashion industry and knowledge of human trafficking, which affects an global trade in goods and services. Outland Denim will estimated 40.3 million people globally. The impact of this continue to input into relevant government policy such as knowledge amongst our staff base has resulted in Australia’s Modern Slavery Act and Inquiry into Australia’s investigations to uncover exploitation of various forms, Aid Program. We pursue partnerships through people being freed from trafficking situations, and collaborative research and development projects with survivors receiving access to restorative justice and support universities, businesses and key industry bodies, in addition while reintegrating back into society. This is one way to to engaging key stakeholders such as impact programmers, bring justice to the oppressed and to mitigate vulnerability retailers, consumers, NGOs and media in our work. to exploitation in the first place. Outland Denim partners with frontline anti-trafficking agencies and government authorities to see peace and justice restored in situations where it has been violated. HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 8 Communication on Progress 2019 High Level Implementation Outland Denim has established its own Cut & Sew Facility where 100% of its products are manufactured. Outland Denim was founded to create a mechanism More recently, Outland Denim has also taken through which victims of human rights abuses could ownership of its own Finishing Facility. This finishing gain meaningful and sustainable employment in order facility cultivates technological progress towards to lift themselves out of the cycle of poverty and finding lasting solutions to both economic and abuse. We not only believe that business should environmental challenges in Cambodia, a Least respect and protect human rights, but also that Developed Country according to the UN(1). The facility business can help in the process of restoration where increases opportunity to provide new jobs and abuses have occurred. To this end, we not only fully technical training, while promoting energy efficiency support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other environmentally friendly processes. and seek to ensure its principles are upheld in all that we do, but we actively advocate its implementation in This unique control and oversight within our business business and supply chains across industry. allows for complete transparency of all standards at both these stages of the supply chain and removes the To list some of the ways we engage in this space, risks involved in outsourcing production. Outland Outland Denim: Denim has established these facilities to provide sustainable employment and training opportunities to women and men rescued from human trafficking, has supported and informed legislation around sexual exploitation and other adverse circumstances. Australia’s Modern Slavery Act and the Inquiry into Australia’s Foreign Aid program; Approximately 14.5% Outland Denim’s full-time regular regularly engages in speaking events advocating for employees have come from NGO partners working with business to not only uphold basic human rights but go beyond compliance to create positive impact; people who have come out of human trafficking and has been an active member of the Freedom other forms of exploitation(2). However, approximately Business Alliance; 75% of employees have come from exploitative provides staff and community training around situations or from a position of vulnerability to Modern Slavery; being exploited(3). are members of the Gold Coast Anti-Slavery Alliance; Outland Denim’s Ethical Trading Policy is available actively engages with ‘Fashion Revolution’ including online and is firmly established on respect for human participation in the ‘Who made my clothes?’ and labour rights. It has been set upon the foundation campaign of The Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code, and, in turn, has been working with Nottingham University’s the International Labour Organization’s Four Rights Lab on world first research calculating the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Outland ‘Freedom Dividend’; Denim requires all supply chain partners to meet or provides thought leadership and benchmarking exceed the standard outlined in its Ethical around human rights to the fashion industry Trading Policy. through participation on industry bodies such as the Global Fashion Agenda and Australian Fashion Council. 1. https://www.un.org/development/desa/dpad/least-developed-country-category-cambodia.html 2. Correct as of the 31st October 2019 3. Correct as of the 22nd August 2019 United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 9 Communication on Progress 2019 Implementation at the Manufacturing Level Opportunity Human Rights Outland Denim’s Cut and Sew Facility First Tier Employing those that have come from situations of poverty, modern slavery, exploitation or other human Outland Denim is elevating lives through a holistic rights abuses. Outland Denim is partnered with employment model. frontline rescue agencies and trained counsellors to support employees. From our inception we have made people the driving force behind our work and continue to stay true to this mission. Training We believe no person nor community should suffer in the Training is provided for unskilled applicants without pursuit of fashion, and endeavour to influence the experience in the garment industry. Applicants are industry for the betterment of the world, its inhabitants then developed through cross training on various and the next generations. machines and up-skilled through this process. We believe an environment of sustainable, holistic Education and Community Influence employment partnered with a genuine care of people, has Staff are educated on a broad range of topics, with a the power to facilitate transformation for those shadowed core focus on Health, Financial Management, Human by the past, into respected, vibrant, informed individuals Trafficking and English. who positively impact their families and communities. Wages These individuals are being equipped with knowledge that Outland Denim works to ensure staff are paid wages can radically remodel communities and industry. Through adequate for a decent standard of living. Living wage health education, human trafficking awareness, self research sources such as Wageindicator.com and the defence classes and other programs, we are seeing a Anker Method, are utilised to inform our living wage ripple-effect of knowledge infuse into communities. The methodology. Outland Denim has customised some impact of this knowledge results in improved family health parametres of the methodology to be fitting to and safety as well as people being freed from situations of location and actual household compositions of trafficking and other forms of exploitation. Better yet, this Outland Denim employees. Outland Denim also knowledge can prevent exploitation in the first place. consults with locally based freedom businesses, NGOs and Cambodian professionals to discuss and Our holistic model has been developed in collaboration assess wage levels on an ongoing basis. with our employees to determine their needs and the needs of their families. We consult with professionals from 100% of full-time regular employees have the various industries to develop training workshops that work opportunity to earn wages affording a decent around our production schedule. standing of living, relative to the location of the facility in which they work. A full-time regular To design a truly holistic and transformational model in employee has completed their apprenticeship and/or our work environment, it’s crucial to take into account the probation contract with Outland Denim before they condition of the local garment industry, the culture of our commence working in a regular, full-time position. employees, and common locality issues for the community in which we work. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 10 Communication on Progress 2019 In addition to the above four core areas, Outland Denim Grievance systems have been implemented that has developed labour rights policies around areas such include the establishment of Shop Stewards, as: Child and Forced Labour, Gender Equality, Women’s anonymous grievance boxes, anonymous phone Rights, On-boarding NGO Clients (often from numbers to call in the local language and one-on-one backgrounds of trauma), Grievances, Media and Privacy, interviews. One-on-one meetings in the local Ethical NGO Partnerships and Mental Health. language has proved to be a very effective way of bringing any concerns a staff member has to the surface. Upper management is informed immediately Outland Denim has also taken the following measures to and action plans are discussed and put in place as prevent human rights violations in its facility: soon as possible. Outland Denim has dedicated a full-time Outland Denim has informed its employees about the employee to the role of Social and Environmental grievance system and has supplied a copy of the Impact. This role includes focus on the well-being grievance system in the local language to each and holistic support of our employees in employee. Cambodia, as well as assessing the human rights Due to the nature of the work Outland Denim does in and environmental standards of supply chain working with employees from potentially traumatic partners. backgrounds, Trauma Informed Care (TIC) training Outland Denim’s Social and Environmental Impact has been run for Outland Denim’s management team Manager has been sent to training under Bureau members working in Cambodia. This training has been Veritas on Internal Social Compliance Auditing as conducted by International Justice Mission (IJM). well as training around Living Wages with Social Human rights, labour violations and corruption can Accountability International. easily slip under the radar for a company when Outland Denim is aware of the challenges, communication is not clear and everyone is on a dynamics and sometimes unintentional negative different page about what is important. Working impact on one culture to another when working cross-culturally, Outland Denim’s management staff cross-culturally. Outland Denim has employed a bring a myriad of valuable skills to the table. To part-time Cultural Connections Liaison to build a enhance their capacity for effectiveness in their roles, foundation of understanding and strengthen we conduct weekly culture training modules focusing practises of working cross-culturally. This on unpacking the complexities of cross-cultural work consultation for management and employees, plus while equipping staff with practical tools.. Through the hands-on support for team members of all this training, our staff are better able to face labour nationalities, has ensured human rights are and human rights violations, and corruption issues as understood from differing cultural viewpoints, they surface, in ways that speak to the root of what established correctly and upheld in the best way drives the issues to begin with. possible. ELEVATE’s Responsible Sourcing Standard provides a Outland Denim’s Administration and Finance third party audit assessment on Outland Denim’s Manager has been sent to training courses on the Social Compliance standards at its Cut & Sew Facility. Cambodian Labour Law, to ensure Outland This audit takes place every two years and provides Denim’s practises at least meet, if not exceed, the corrective action plans for Outland Denim minimum standards set by the local government. management to review and utilize to improve its standards. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 11 Communication on Progress 2019 Measurement Development Workshop Results Workshops run by industry professionals for the Approximately 14.5% of current full-time regular development of Outland Denim employees at its Cut & employees have come from an NGO partner that is Sew Facility (First Tier) have included: working with people coming out of the situation of trafficking and other forms of exploitation(4). February 2018 Self Defence Workshop 87.5% of staff said this workshop increased their Approximately 75% of employees have come from confidence about what to do in a dangerous exploitative situations or from a position of vulnerability situation; Staff members also shared information from this to exploitation(5). training with their daughters and other members of their communities; The level of vulnerability to exploitation is assessed Staff quote(6) (translated from Khmer): She told her considering the employee’s previous situation/s. Risk family about what she learned in the various factors for vulnerability may include: feeling fearful in their trainings. She especially liked the self defense class previous place of work due to safety standards, since sometimes she is headed back home at night after work and it makes her feel safer and more intimidation, harassment, or lack of basic rights under the prepared. international labour laws; limited or unregulated options for work due to lack of education; receiving less than a minimum wage; experience of trafficking or forced labour; July 2018 The General Health Workshop sole income earner for dependents with limited safety 85% of staff increased their knowledge of how nets; long-term unemployment; significant debt; member diseases are spread; of a people group experiencing severe marginalisation or 78% of staff increased their knowledge of child nutrition; discrimination; severe physical or learning disability. Staff quote (translated from Khmer): The children’s health training was really helpful. Before she had it, Outland Denim interview each staff member when they she had no idea how to help her kids. She was able commence work with the company, and then again after to tell her family members about this. Most people six months of employment. Staff that had come from she spoke to had no idea. situations causing vulnerability to exploitation are informally assessed as to whether employment with March 2019 Financial Management Workshop Outland Denim has been part of changing their level of vulnerability. xx% of staff that found the topic helpful to their lives: As of August 2019, 93.75% of Cut & Sew Facility 97% Increasing savings 90.5% Managing and reducing debt employees (formerly vulnerable) assessed using an 76% Planning for children’s education internal methodology have reported a reduced level of 90.5% Managing family spending vulnerability to exploitation due to employment with 87.5% Understanding dangerous debt Outland Denim. In November and December 2019, 90.5% How to start a business Outland Denim is further developing its model of 4.75% Did not find the workshop helpful assessing levels of vulnerability. 4. Correct as of the 31st October 2019 5. Correct as of the 22nd August 2019 6. All staff quotes taken from one-on-one Post Six-Month employment interviews United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 12 Communication on Progress 2019 March 2019 Financial Management Workshop June 2019 Human Trafficking Awareness Workshop Staff quote (translated from Khmer): She worried 100% of staff now know how to respond and refer a lot about money before. Now she can provide when encountering a situation of Human for herself and send money home to her Trafficking; mother….She has become wiser with her money 74% of staff now understand the signs of human since working here and taking the financial trafficking; workshop. She is happy with the work she gets to 97 = number of staff directly trained on the topic do here. of human trafficking; Staff quote (translated from Khmer): She’s been able to help sponsor her nephew to go to school. March 2019 Management only Trauma Informed She’s also been sharing with those in her Care Workshop neighbourhood about anti-trafficking and giving them the hotline phone number cards so they 40% of the management team increased in their know who to call if they suspect a situation of understanding of the direct impact of trauma, human-trafficking. that could be affecting Outland Denim employees from backgrounds of exploitation or other forms of trauma; 60% of the management team increased in their As at August 2019, approximately 92% of Outland understanding of how to identify stress areas Denim Cambodia employees have shared knowledge that could be affecting Outland Denim from their training workshops with others in their employees from backgrounds of exploitation or families and communities. other forms of trauma. To give context around the need for Outland Denim’s May 2019 Sexual Health Workshop development workshops, of our Cut & Sew Facility staff, approximately 42% have not gone past a 90% of staff know how to protect themselves from sexually transmitted diseases; primary (Grade 6) level of education and 100% of staff know where to go for a health approximately 17% of staff have not gone past a 4th screen in their local community; Grade level of education. Staff quote (translated from Khmer): She liked the values and health training because she Outland Denim strongly believes that education understood and felt she could apply those well. around the aforementioned topics (and others) is She told her mum about what she had learned about and how much she appreciates working for a crucial part of the holistic approach required to us. She feels care from us and that we want to combat modern slavery and the further respect her rights and see the staff do well. exploitation of people. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 13 Communication on Progress 2019 External Monitoring and Evaluation At the end of the research project, the Nottingham team will use the information collected to calculate Outland Denim, in addition to its own internal and describe the freedom dividend possible with audit and assessments, is supported through Outland Denim’s unique business model. This data the following external avenues in monitoring will be shared broadly through both Outland and and evaluating its performance in the area of Nottingham’s communication channels and will hold human rights. great academic, political and commercial weight taking the fight against slavery and exploitation to a ELEVATE Audit new level. The data has potential to influence Outland Denim monitors and evaluates industry, education and political policy on a performance through an external audit that is global level. conducted every two years to the ELEVATE Responsible Sourcing Standard. The findings and corrective action responses are shared online and NGO Partnerships Outand Denim’s NGO partners are working on the with the Ethical Fashion Report in Australia. The front-lines to rescue, protect and support survivors next external audit is due to be conducted before of human trafficking and sexual exploitation. After mid-March 2020. rescue, the NGOs look for safe, and if possible (though rare), trauma-informed workplaces for their University of Nottingham clients as part of their reintegration into society. Outland Denim has partnered with the University of NGO clients who become Outland Denim employees Nottingham’s ‘Rights Lab’ in 2019 to undertake a are able to: earn a stable income, gain a sense of study that calculates the ‘Freedom Dividend’ of purpose and fulfillment, flourish, and rebuild their Outland Denim's unique approach to business. lives. Outland Denim’s NGO partners have made it Research indicates that when people are freed from clear that there is nothing else comparable to what slavery or extreme poverty the entire community they are able to offer their clients with Outland is transformed for the better (hence ‘the freedom Denim. Our partners have shared a desire for more dividend’). Nottingham aims to build up a businesses to come alongside their clients as they comprehensive picture from interviews and records, rebuild their lives. about the people who work with Outland Denim, and how their lives have been impacted as a result of working in the Outland Denim Cut & Sew Facility. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 14 Communication on Progress 2019 NGO Partner Quotes Destiny Rescue rescues children from red light November 2019 districts, brothels and sexually abusive situations. International Justice Mission To protect the poor Rick Baltzersen from violence by rescuing victims, bringing the Director of Corporate Partnerships (formerly Country Manager of Cambodia) criminals to justice, restoring survivors to safety and strength, and helping local law enforcement build a “Outland Denim has served as a vocational training and safe future that lasts. employment partner for Destiny Rescue for many years and we’re grateful for the partnership. By establishing its Mr. Andrey Sawchenko production center in a rural location, Outland has allowed us Regional Vice President, Forced Slavery Hub to provide sustainable employment opportunities to trafficking survivors in an area where the jobs are often “IJM has worked closely with dozens of Cambodian difficult to obtain. A job at Outland provides a good income, trafficking survivors who are returning home after years of benefits, and growth opportunities. This is empowering for exploitation abroad. Many have left their homes to find work, our clients because it helps them on their journey of only to be tricked, trapped and exploited by deceptive—and resiliency and self sufficiency.” often violent—employers. Yet even when a victim is rescued from this exploitation and able to return home, they often face the same lack of opportunities that made them Jen Cooper vulnerable to trafficking in the first place. Business that Aftercare and Reintegration Manager Cambodia provide employment opportunities in vulnerable communities across the country, like Outland Denim, are critical in “The Clients of Destiny Rescue greatly value the securing a stable livelihood for survivors who are back extraordinary opportunity to be trained and employed with in freedom, and enabling them to stay safe from Outland Denim. Having suffered and survived the trauma of re-exploitation.” trafficking, exploitation and family crisis such as debt, an opportunity to gain skill and employment with Outland means they are provided with workplace safety, a new hope for the future and generational change.” United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 15 Communication on Progress 2019 Awards and Certifications Outland Denim has compiled the following list of certifications and awards, connecting to its work in the field of human rights. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 16 Communication on Progress 2019 Manufacturing Facility Goals for 2020 2025 First Tier Outland Denim, in addition to its own internal audit and assessments, is supported through the following external avenues in monitoring and evaluating its performance in the area of human rights. Education and Staff Support Goals United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 17 Communication on Progress 2019 Impact Measurement Goal 2020 2025 Outland Denim is working with an impact measurement partner that has developed a methodology, that once customised, will provide a system that allows Outland Denim to capture data across each area of impact and influence, and have it centralised into one collection point. The impact data would be digitised and updated on a continuous basis to allow for clear communication and validation of impact, as well as helping to inform Outland Denim’s decisions towards zero exploitation. Impact Measurement Areas and Desired Outcomes United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 18 Communication on Progress 2019 Implementation at the Supplier Level Trainings provided by supplier: -Rights to freedom of association Human Rights Denim to Cotton Second and Third Tier -Grievance System -Human Rights/Health and Safety As consumer awareness grows about the behind-thescenes machinations of fashion, brands and suppliers have In addition to numerous other industry recognised to be stirred to embrace transparency as the new normal, certifications, the primary supplier holds the Global rather than seeing it as going 'above and beyond'. We Organic Textile Standard (GOTS) to provide 3rd party share with our suppliers that we are looking to lead the verification that the social and environmental criteria way in this area and that we need their support to do it. standard is met from the gin level to final fabric. Outland Denim has an extensive supplier procurement Primary Raw Material Organic Cotton process that includes our Ethical Trading Policy, The denim Outland Denim sources contains cotton verification of certifications held, an in-depth supplier that has been grown on certified organic cotton farms assessment form, labour rights risk assessment, raw in Turkey. materials transparency, wage evidence, audit evidence and, as often as possible, in-person visitations to the A representative from Akasya, an organic cotton farm facility by Outland Denim personnel. agency, has signed Outland Denim’s Ethical Trading Policy and they have been able to provide information on three independent auditors monitoring the farm Primary Material Denim level (3rd Tier). Outland Denim’s Primary denim supplier, Bossa in Turkey, has been visited twice by Outland Denim personnel. Working with transparent suppliers is of the utmost Organic EU (Control Union) Turkey organic certification Joint Health and Safety Unit (OSGB) importance to Outland Denim and this supplier discloses ISO 9001:2008 (Quality Management System) in-depth annual audit information to Outland Denim. The Primary supplier has disclosed the factory names By choosing organic cotton and eliminating toxic and locations of its facilities for public publishing, as well and harmful chemicals, farmer and family health is as the details of the raw material suppliers. respected via cleaner ground, air, water and food supplies. All suppliers have signed Outland Denim’s Ethical Trading Policy which can be viewed on the Outland Denim website. According to the Textile Exchange(7), organic cotton production has put nations rich and poor on par with one another. China, India, Tanzania, Turkey, and the Labour Rights Assessed on the Primary Supplier Level USA are the top 5 growing nations. Higher financial returns help raise the local income, empowering Regular and transparent audits farmers and elevating them into positions of leadership Anonymous Grievance System and governance within rural communities. Unions allowed Collective Bargaining Agreements in place Outland Denim has plans to visit the farm level in Child & Forced Labour Policy person in 2020. 7. https://textileexchange.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/Textile-Exchange_Achieving-SDGs-Through-Organic-Cotton.pdf United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 19 Communication on Progress 2019 Supplier Level Goal for 2020 2025 Second and Third Tier Supply Chain Project Outland Denim has plans in development for a supply chain project that goes beyond compliance and traditional audit methods. Outland Denim has conducted risk assessments on human rights abuses commonly found in the locations of both second and third tier primary suppliers, and has a goal to design what we consider to be a best practice, end-to-end solution for ensuring zero exploitation in textile supply chains. Outland Denim has been in communication with numerous stakeholders including human rights based NGOs working in Turkey, organic cotton experts, other brands sourcing in Turkey, and an experienced modern slavery investigator who is supporting Outland Denim to pilot best practice supply chain methodologies to reduce exploitation. Outland Denim would define a methodology (potentially with a certification processes) and once piloted with results, establish an assurance program to be adopted throughout the fashion industry to effectively monitor supply chains. Phase One of the Supply Chain Project involves an in-person trip by Outland Denim Social and Environmental Impact Manager, in collaboration with industry experts, to the farm level of the supply chain. From this raw material level the Outland Denim team will work their way through the supply chain to the final product. Currently Outland Denim plans to have their team on the ground in Turkey in 2020. LABOUR 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 20 Communication on Progress 2019 Implementation at the Manufacturing Level This consultation for management and employees, Labour Outland Denim’s Cut and Sew Facility First Tier plus the hands-on support for team members of all nationalities, has ensured labour rights are understood Outland Denim has taken actions at its facilities from differing cultural viewpoints, established correctly and upheld in the best way possible. to adequately ensure labour rights are upheld for all employees. Outland Denim’s Cut & Sew Facility Outland Denim’s Administration and Finance Manager and Finishing Facility are very cautious to ensure that has been sent to training courses on the Cambodian Labour Law, to ensure Outland Denim’s practises at employees are hired without bias toward backgrounds, least meet, if not exceed, the minimum standards set physical disability, gender, faith or ethnicity. Outland by the local government. Denim’s Employment Policies and Code of Conduct Grievance systems have been implemented that can be provided upon request. include the establishment of Shop Stewards, anonymous grievance boxes, anonymous phone Outland Denim has developed labour rights policies numbers to call in the local language and one-on-one around areas such as: Child and Forced Labour; Gender interviews. One-on-one meetings in the local language Equality; Women’s Rights; On-boarding NGO Clients has proved to be a very effective way of bringing any (often from backgrounds of trauma); Grievance Policy; concerns a staff member has to the surface. Upper management is informed immediately and action Media and Privacy; Ethical NGO Partnerships; and a plans are discussed and put in place as soon as Mental Health Policy. possible. Outland Denim has also taken the following measures Outland Denim has informed its employees about the grievance system and has supplied a copy of the to prevent labour violations in its facility: grievance system in the local language to each Outland Denim has dedicated a full-time employee employee. to the role of Social and Environmental Impact. This role includes focus on the well-being and holistic Due to the nature of the work Outland Denim does in support of our employees in Cambodia, as well as working with employees from potentially traumatic assessing the labour and environmental standards backgrounds, Trauma Informed Care (TIC) training has of supply chain partners. been run for Outland Denim’s management team members working in Cambodia. This training has been Outland Denim’s Social and Environmental Impact conducted by International Justice Mission (IJM). Manager has been sent to training under Bureau Veritas on Internal Social Compliance Auditing as well as training around Living Wages with Social Accountability International. Outland Denim is aware of the challenges, dynamics and sometimes unintentional negative impact on one culture to another when working crossculturally. Outland Denim has employed a part-time Cultural Connections Liaison to build a foundation of understanding and strengthen practises of working cross-culturally. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 21 Communication on Progress 2019 Human rights, labour violations and corruption can The Ethical Trading Policy covers the easily slip under the radar for a company when following categories: communication is not clear and everyone is on a different page about what is important. Working cross-culturally, Outland Denim’s management staff 1. No Forced Labour bring a myriad of valuable skills to the table. To 2. No Child Labour enhance their capacity for effectiveness in their roles, 3. No Discrimination we conduct weekly culture training modules focusing 4. Respect for Freedom of Association & Collective on unpacking the complexities of cross-cultural work Bargaining while equipping staff with practical tools.. Through this training, our staff are better able to face labour 5. No Harsh or Inhumane Treatment and human rights violations, and corruption issues as 6. Safe and Hygienic Working Conditions they surface, in ways that speak to the root of what 7. Wages Are Paid drives the issues to begin with. 8. Working Hours Are Not Excessive ELEVATE’s Responsible Sourcing Standard provides a 9. Regular Employment third party audit assessment on Outland Denim’s 10. Traceability of Suppliers and Raw Materials Social Compliance standards at its Cut & Sew Facility. 11. Health and Safety of products This audit takes place every two years and provides 12. Environmental & Community Awareness corrective action plans for Outland Denim 13. Confidentiality of information management to review and utilize to improve its standards. 14. Legal Requirements 15. Code Implementation Implementation at the Supplier Level Furthermore to the above policy requirements, Labour Denim to Cotton Second and Third Tier Outland Denim has supported suppliers as necessary, by providing resources and examples of Outland Denim’s Ethical Trading Policy, for all parties ways to create and/or strengthen their child labour contributing to the supply chain, is firmly established on remediation plans. respect for human and labour rights. It has been set upon the foundations of The Ethical Trading Initiative Outland Denim has provided information and Base Code, and, in turn, the International Labour explained concepts such as living wages and the Organization’s Four Fundamental Principles and importance of transparency, to further educate our Rights at Work. Outland Denim requires all supply supply chain partners. chain partners to meet or exceed the standard outlined in it’s Ethical Trading Policy. Criteria of this policy require that the company Outland Denim is seeking to do business with upholds the freedom of association and collective bargaining and the elimination of forced labour (including employee protection around recruitment fees), child labour and employment discrimination. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 22 Communication on Progress 2019 Measurement Outland Denim is proud to have a diverse workforce made up of a mix of backgrounds, genders, ethnicities, beliefs, ages and abilities. After six months of employment, Outland Denim conducts private interviews with employees at its Cut & Sew and Finishing Facilities. The following charts contain information from these interviews. In addition to internal interviews and anonymous surveys with employees, Outland Denim also allows for and encourages anonymous employee interviews for staff members to meet and share openly with non-Outland Denim personnel. Following tables are accurate as of the 1st November 2019 United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 23 Communication on Progress 2019 Outland Denim’s Cut and Sew and Finishing Facility Employee Breakdown: Following table accurate as of the 1st November 2019 United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 24 Communication on Progress 2019 Employee ages range from 16 years old up to 44 years old. 76% of employees are between 26 and 37 years. 4.76% of Outland Denim’s production staff at the Cut & Sew Facility have physical disabilities. Roles held by women in Outland Denim include: seamstress, section leaders, administration staff and management team members. Outland Denim values equality and women’s empowerment and seeks to foster and encourage this through its business model. Primary Supplier (Denim) Facility Employee Breakdown: Following table accurate as of 20th August 2019 Ages range from 21 years old. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 25 Communication on Progress 2019 Transparency Outland Denim chooses to work with supply chain partners that are willing to be transparent with their information, not only in providing it to Outland Denim but also allowing it to be displayed publicly. 100% of Outland Denim’s supply chain partners allow Outland Denim to display their company information and location publicly online. The following images are taken from the 2019 Ethical Fashion Report, which grades 130 companies from A+ to F, based on the strength of their systems to mitigate against the risks of forced labour, child labour, and exploitation in their supply chains. Though Outland Denim still has room for improvement, particularly in the raw material tier, it was awarded A+ across each of the four main categories. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 26 Communication on Progress 2019 United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 27 Communication on Progress 2019 Supply Chain Labour Goals 2020 to 2025 Outland Denim’s Supply Chain Project development and implementation (2020 2025)(8). Outland Denim’s Social and Environmental Impact Manager to visit organic cotton farms to monitor social standards. (2020) Monitoring farmers income to ascertain that fair cotton prices and wages are being paid. (2020-2023) Outland Denim’s Social and Environmental Impact Manager to visit all 2nd tier supplier facilities to ensure social compliance and that corrective action plans are being followed. (2021-2023) Create best practise support for supply chain partners with free training, plans and programs to improve social conditions for all workers. For example, child labour remediations plans, improved immigrant worker practises, training on trafficking awareness. (2021-2023) ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environmental Sustainability Mission Statement To significantly reduce the ecological impact of jean manufacturing and consumption through minimal energy and water consumption, as well as a reduction in waste, while encouraging customers and staff to consider the full life-cycle of their jeans through the issuing of post-consumer information and introducing interactive consumer programs and campaigns. We aim to work only with suppliers and stakeholders who share our environmental values and who are making efforts to improve their own sustainability practises to encourage a broader reduction in environmental impact and the preservation of our planet’s resources. Outland Denim’s Environmental Policy can be viewed here. 8. As referenced under ‘Human Rights’ United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 28 Communication on Progress 2019 Implementation We believe in looking beyond transparency, to actively and collaboratively engage our suppliers throughout our supply chain in the discussion about sustainability and conducting business responsibly, and ensuring that they do, to the best of our ability. Beyond our compulsory Ethical Trading Policy, which all Outland Denim suppliers must sign, our suppliers must have all the relevant certifications for ethical and environmental compliance, and also undertake regular external auditing. Outland Denim has undergone an external auditing process through our participation in the published Baptist World Aid Ethical Fashion Report (in which we scored an A+). Outland Denim is also Australia's first B Corporation denim brand. B Corporation membership requires a strong commitment to the environment through policy and practise. Additionally, we are also engaged with researchers, scientists and local enterprise to bring a new level of environmental practise into our business by working on projects that will reduce our carbon footprint and add environmental value to the communities in which we do business. Outland Denim has employed an in-house Social and Environmental Impact Officer, which further demonstrates our commitment to these areas of our business. The most significant area of environmental impact for denim production is the washing and finishing. It is for this reason Outland has chosen to create its own facility, made operational in 2019. Introducing Outland Denim’s first stand-alone Wash and Finishing Facility Our classical production style, combined with state-of-the-art finishing techniques result in premium finished products with less environmental impact. In the last 12 months Outland Denim has invested into its own finishing facility to be able to wash and finish the products with less environmental impact in comparison to traditional washing and finishing. Ownership allows for a unique level of care, control, oversight and monitoring of environmental standards. These standards are outlined in our Ethical Trading Policy and Chemical Management statement. The following assertions surrounding the environmental impact reductions of the finishing facility, have been provided by the manufacturer of the machinery, until further data can be collected. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 29 Communication on Progress 2019 MADE WITH LASER MADE WITH E-FLOW MADE WITH OZONE Removing the need for water Uses up to 95% Less water Uses up to 65% Less water intensive washing and heavy 40% Less energy 20% Less energy chemical use makes laser production 90% Less chemical use than 80% Less chemical use than the most environmentally friendly traditional techniques. traditional techniques. washing process available to the garment industry today. E-flow works by converting Outland Denim replaces the atmospheric air into nanobubbles, traditional technique of using harsh Investing in technology established coated with just the right amount chemical bleaching agents to age by market leader Jeanologia, our use of water and chemical to create a jeans with the use of Ozone, the of Laser technology offers a whole ‘nanobubble skin’ homogeneously greenest oxidising agent available. new range of designs without transferring both water and Ozone washing significantly reduces compromising the integrity of our chemical onto the garment. This the amount of water, energy and jean. By utilizing this state-of-the-art unique combination of digital chemical usage in this wash process machinery, Outland Denim can offer programming and innovative while still producing the same water-wise fades, abrasions, whiskers science release just the right authentic effect. and fabric distressing with amount of input needed at each excellent consistency. phase of the wash to produce numerous, high level finishing effects, without the use of pumice stones. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 30 Communication on Progress 2019 MADE WITH ZERO HARMFUL CHEMICALS We exclusively use Green-screen, Bluesign or Standard 100 by OEKO-TEX (R) certified chemicals, while following a strict adherence to the ZDHC Manufacturing Restricted Substance List (MRSL). In using sustainable chemical alternatives, the integrity of the product is not decreased, but the impact on the environment is. By eliminating hazardous chemicals such as heavy metals, alkylphenols and volatile organic compounds, the effect on the environment is significantly reduced. CHEMICAL MANAGEMENT STATEMENT OUR CHEMICAL COMMITMENT Outland Denim is committed to ensuring safe and All manufacturing and wet-processing facilities must sustainable chemistry management throughout our abide by the requirements the ZDHC Manufacturing entire supply chain. Outland Denim values every Restricted Substance List (MRSL) Outland Denim has customer and staff members health and safety and adopted. Final products and raw materials must meet ensures each process follows industry leading textile the requirements of the Apparel and Footwear chemical management standards. Outland Denim is International RSL Management (AFIRM) Groups RSL committed to reducing the amount of hazardous Outland Denim has adopted. Outland Denim requires chemicals used within our manufacturing process each supplier and its subsequent supply chain to meet and final products. the standards set by these chemical management lists. Outland Denim will ensure suppliers receive these lists and that both lists are regularly updated and checked against relevant research and legislation. Any suppliers that are not able to abide by the RSL and MRSL Outland Denim has adopted, must inform Outland Denim before the Supplier Ethical Trading Policy is signed. Outland Denim requests RSL and MRSL documents from all suppliers. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 31 Communication on Progress 2019 Measurement The following image is taken from the Baptist World Aid’s Ethical Fashion Report. This report assesses the efforts of companies to mitigate their environmental impact. 11 questions were asked in order to measure a company’s impacts on climate, chemical management practices, water usage, use of sustainable fibres, provision of take-back and repair programs, and completion of an environmental impact assessment. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 32 Communication on Progress 2019 Energy Use and Carbon Neutral Initiatives The denim mill holds the Global Organic Textile Outland Denim’s Cut & Sew Facility has three solar Standard (GOTS), Oeko Tex Standard 100, ISO panels installed. These panels are estimated to be 14001:2004 Environmental Management Systems Certificate, Global Recycle Standard (GRS), Recycle providing about 7% of the electricity needed. Claim Standard, ISO 50001 Energy Management System Certificate and ISO 9001 Quality Management Outland Denim’s chosen power supplier for our System Certificate. Australian headquarters is POWERSHOP, Australasia's Outland Denim’s zipper supplier utilises water largest 100% renewable generator. POWERSHOP is recycling during their dyeing process. The mining of certified carbon neutral, and was ranked Australia's metal for use in zippers and studs for jeans can cause a multitude of environmental impacts that are felt for greenest power company by Greenpeace for two generations. Outland Denim is reducing its impact by years running. using a supplier that is part of the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals Initiative (ZDHC), which aims to Outland Denim employees use Goodwings wherever reduce the usage of hazardous chemicals and their possible, to access 100% carbon neutral hotel discharge into the environment. The supplier is also stays for their professional and personal use. Standard 100 by OEKO-TEXⓇ Certified as evidence that their products and practices have been tested Goodwings also support a nonprofit charity from each against harmful substances. booking commission. Outland Denim’s thread supplier is safeguarding environmental health by being part of the ZDHC Recycling and Other Environmentally Friendly Initiatives Initiative; reducing greenhouse gas emissions; Outland Denim prioritises suppliers that have increasing usage of biofuels; controlling effluent water implemented environmentally friendly practices in their in accordance with local legislation as well as their own production operations. global standards; and being ISO 14001 ‘Environmental Management Systems’ certified. They also hold Standard 100 by OEKO-TEXⓇ Certification as Outland Denim’s pocket lining is now being crafted evidence that their products and practices have been from 35% recycled polyester. The recycled tested against harmful substances. The supplier polyester is made from REPREVE, a fiber made recycles plastic for use in the company’s facilities and, from recycled plastic bottles. 100% of the with their effluent treatment plant, they are able to wastewater from the facility manufacturing the recycle up to 95 per cent of the water used during the pocket lining is recycled. dying process. Outland Denim used recycled cardboard for the Outland Denim’s leather brand patch supplier adheres pocket tops, attached to the back-pocket of each to European restricted substance lists, recycles 40% of pair of jeans. the water used, utilises solar and significantly reduces Outland Denim sources buttons, burrs and rivets the consumption of natural gas and release of CO2. produced with recycled metals. Outland Denim’s supplier of Jacron (vegan) patches, The denim mill Outland Denim sources from uses a have established environmental improvement water-saving dyeing process saving 87.5% water. programs in the areas of OHS, production, safety, The denim mill has conducted reports for water and air emissions. The patches are made with reductions on pollution and global warming. It has zero harmful chemicals. been working to divert waste from landfill through its product recycling initiatives. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 33 Communication on Progress 2019 Outland Denim uses cardboard boxes produced locally Our order information envelopes are sourced from to our manufacturing facility, which reduces carbon NovaPress and are made out of 100% recycled stock. emissions. These boxes contain 50% recycled content Austcor boxes are made with 64-68% recycled cardboard and are for shipping stock from the Cut & Sew Facility content. to the brand headquarters. Outland Denim has partnered with universities to find longTo protect the denim products en route to our global term solutions and create best practice in relation to the stockists, Outland Denim garments are shipped in circular economy. certified EN 13432 biodegradable bags made with 40% Outland Denim is currently preparing to donate unsold cassava starch. stock to a not-for-profit that is distributing good quality Outland Denim recognises that a lot of waste can be clothing to disadvantaged Australians. found at the shipping stage of an e-commerce To date, Outland Denim has donated textile waste to: business. To combat this each Outland Denim piece not-for-profit social enterprises and NGOs for training, bought online is delivered to our customers in a sampling and product development purposes; recyclable and compostable cardboard box from University students for education, research and design Austcor, members of the Australian Packaging projects; Covenant Organisation, that has been designed for artists for artworks designed to raise awareness of easy re-use in the event a return or exchange is ethical fashion and the people behind the products we required, as well as a ‘thank you’ card made from 100% purchase; post-consumer waste by PrintTogether. researchers looking into various textile waste solutions; Company Environmental Goals for 2020-2025 The Water Project Goals Cambodia’s wastewater treatment and purification systems are underdeveloped and do not meet the needs of Cambodian 1. Re-use 100% of viable water used in civilians. As a result of the combination of industrial pollution and production. insufficient treatment, four million Cambodians do not have access 2. Provide all staff and their families with clean to safe drinking water. As international aid continues to further its & affordable drinking water. impact in rural and underdeveloped communities providing water 3. Utilize rainwater where possible for and safe sanitation, the impact of sustainable industrial water practices has not been improved. Two of Cambodia’s largest industrial use. export markets, garments and rice, are both heavily reliant on 4. Be a subject of a case-study evaluating the water, however the effect of water use in the garment industry has effects of water recycling on water & plastic downstream effects on the environment and economy. Pushing pollution in the garment sector. the Cambodian garment sector to recycle and reuse textile 5. Provide water & safe sanitation education to wastewater will stimulate international importing of filtration technology, develop generational environmental and wastewater Outland Denim staff and surrounding engineers, and significantly reduce water pollution and use. communities. Investment in this area will help achieve the Royal Government of Cambodia National Action Plan to ensure every Cambodian has access to water, sanitation and hygiene by 2025. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 34 Communication on Progress 2019 The Waste Project Goals The manufacturing of textiles accounts for more than 1.2 billion tonnes of CO2 equivalent per year, contributes 5% 1. Pilot a textile recycling facility in Cambodia. of the total global emissions and accounts for more than 2. Establish a plastic free facility. 706 billion Kg of CO2e through the production of 3. Utilize rainwater where possible for industrial use. polyester for textiles. By creating business models that 4. Allow all Outland Denim Customers to reuse / are focused around utilizing renewable energy, make recycle their garments. conscious decisions about shipping and logistics & act to 5. Reduce overconsumption & non-value products reduce the excessive consumption of raw materials, the (NVP). CO2 impact will decrease. Raw Material Environmental Goals for 2020 Waste is a key issue facing the globe right now. With growing populations, increased consumption and Outland Denim aims to further reduce its environmental unsustainable resources, the issue of waste needs to footprint through increasing its use of buttons, burrs and be addressed. From the use of raw materials, to the rivets crafted with more sustainable colours and finishing processes. Outland Denim is looking into a range of life span of products and avenues of recycling, sustainable metal colours made without any companies need to start thinking about the products electroplating processes. By eliminating the they are using and producing to ensure that it is not electroplating process, the sustainable metal colours use only economically sustainable, but environmentally. less water and less chemical substances as well as saving With an overabundance of textile waste being electricity usage and thermal energy. No harmful substances are used due to removing any galvanic generated amongst the industry, textile process during production. The sustainable metal manufacturing has a lot to answer for. Finding colours provide a solution that will confidently minimize sustainable solutions to textile recycling will allow for a Outland Denim’s environmental footprint. greater utilization of raw material energy inputs, while Outland Denim commits to changing its thread over reducing secondary pollution and landfill masses. from a core spun poly cotton thread, to EcoVerde, a 100% recycled premium polyester core spun thread. The Carbon Project Goals Waste plastic is collected from various industrial and 1. Create a product that is 100% carbon neutral. post-consumer sources. Used plastic (PET) bottles are a significant proportion. These are collected, sorted, 2. All manufacturing facilities utilize renewable cleaned, ground to flakes and then melted down and energy. extruded into the fibre and filaments from which 3. Conduct a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) EcoVerde sewing threads are made. Because it consists measuring the impact of Outland Denim’s Carbon entirely of recycled plastic fibres, EcoVerde has a Footprint. significantly lower carbon footprint than virgin fibres. 4. Allow all Outland Denim Customers to reuse / Outland Denim aims to begin using Natulon Zip Tape as recycle their garments. it is made from recycled materials, such as PET bottles 5. All domestic & international logistics are carbon and other post-consumer materials using the latest neutral. material recycling technologies. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 35 Communication on Progress 2019 Outland Denim will introduce two new denim qualities for the next production run. One quality is 100% organic cotton, reducing the release for microplastics during wash and the use of synthetic fibres. The second new denim offered will be constructed with 43% lyocell 40% recycled cotton 17% organic cotton, to increase Outland Denim’s use of recycled content in its products. Outland Denim’s hang tags will soon be produced using recycled paper. Recycled polyester thread will be used as string to attach the hang tags to the products. Outland Denim has a goal to change the interlining of its jean waistbands to an option crafted using recycled polyester fibres. We hope to be able to begin utilising this new recycled interlining in 2020. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Due to Outland Denim’s zero tolerance for corruption, Outland Denim’s Ethical Trading Policy states: Outland Denim, its manufacturers and suppliers, shall carry out their activities in an honest, upright and transparent way, keeping for these purposes an appropriate accounting records system that facilitates the traceability of their decisions, as a preventive measure versus any type of corruption, bribery and extortion that might arise. Manufacturers and suppliers shall not manipulate or influence their workers, nor shall they forge any files or records in order to alter the verification process regarding compliance with this Code.Our company persuades through prices, performance, quality and suitability of its products and services. We expect the same of our partners, manufacturers and suppliers. No personal advantages may be requested, assumed offered or granted for a preferential treatment in connection with the negotiation, placement or execution of an order. As a rule, no personal advantages may be offered or granted to officials, including officials from foreign states. As a rule, no gifts shall be granted or accepted. Exceptions apply only with generally customary occasional or advertising gifts and with gifts, which correspond to custom and politeness in a country. Manufacturers and suppliers shall neither offer nor accept remuneration of any kind, which seeks, or may be perceived to seek, to affect the impartial judgment or the objectivity of such parties appointed by Outland Denim to carry out inspections and compliance audits in connection with this Code. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 36 Communication on Progress 2019 Implementation A person who is honest, says and does what is true, including following the laws of the land and company. Risk Assessments for Supply Chain Partners They do not say one thing and do another. Outland In addition to the Ethical Trading Policy, Outland Denim training workshops also talked about how when Denim addresses the issue of corruption in its supply we choose not to practice these values, we actually are chain by conducting risk assessments of its main only thinking of ourselves and immediate short-term supplier locations. This informs Outland Denim rewards, which undermines the company, individual around the monitoring and assessing techniques livelihood, the families that depend on this livelihood, required to investigate for forms of corruption in the communities we contribute toward, and even various locations. sometimes to wider impact of our countries and Employee Training our world. Outland Denim has organised training for a senior member of management in the role of Finance and Looking at the values in this way, is a way of standing Administration, in both Labour Law and Taxation to against corruption by promoting what irradiates it. In ensure Outland Denim’s compliance with government breakout groups during the trainings, staff worked regulations. Training has also been provided by Bureau through how it would impact their families, Veritas, to Outland Denim’s Social and Environmental communities, country and world if they lived out the Impact Manager, on Social Compliance. One of the values we learned. Each group recognized a number of ways Outland Denim works to combat and address the benefits in each of those categories. root causes of corruption, is by investing in the education and training of its employees. Foreign Management Training For Management Working Cross-Culturally In 2019, Outland Denim has begun running workshops during work hours, on the company values. These Human rights, labour violations and corruption can values are: easily slip under the radar for a company when communication is not clear and everyone is on a 1. Integrity: េសចកីសុចរ ិត/ different page about what is important. Working cross2. Honesty: ភាពេសះ តង់ culturally, Outland Denim’s management staff bring a myriad of valuable skills to the table. To enhance their 3. Honour: កិតិយស capacity for effectiveness in their roles, we conduct 4. Generosity: សប ុ រសធម៌ weekly culture training modules focusing on unpacking 5. Excellence: ភាពលឥតេខះ the complexities of cross-cultural work while equipping staff with practical tools. Through this training, our At Outland Denim we have been teaching our staff what staff are better able to face labour and human rights it means to be people of integrity and honesty, two of violations, and corruption issues as they surface, in our company values. Within both of these trainings, the ways that speak to the root of what drives the issues to staff learn that integrity requires honesty and honesty begin with. requires integrity. A person of integrity knows what is right, thinks what is right and does what is right, even if no one is looking. United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainable Development Goals: 37 Communication on Progress 2019 Accounts Outland Denim has staff in Cambodia and Australia Outland Denim has not been involved in any legal employed to closely monitor transactions and cases, rulings or other events related to corruption accounts systems. The information goes through a and bribery. Outland Denim has an external audit third party accountancy firm, an internal company to conduct audits of the facility every two Bookkeeper, Operations Manager and Finance years. Once complete, this report is reviewed Manager, however, the CEO is also directly immediately by senior management. accessing account and transaction information. Outland Denim accounts are closely monitored to In the instance of a situation of possible corruption ensure identification of any suspicious payments being found in connection to Outland Denim’s which could be related to bribery or corrupt business operations or partners, Outland Denim’s behavior. There has been no such incident reported grievance policy and system can be engaged to in the period. take the information or concern to the correct channels of senior management. Other Anti-Corruption Initiatives Outland Denim has honesty and integrity at the As Outland Denim seeks to pursue zero exploitation very core of its purpose and framework. Aligned in every aspect of its business, all concerns are closely with this is our commitment to transparency taken seriously and third party consultation, as well at every level as outlined in section 15.1 of our as the necessary law enforcement channels, Ethical Trading Policy and with provision for are utilised to assist in appropriately handling verification of this in section 15.3. the situation. As a certified B Corporation member, Outland Denim adheres to the high standard of governance and traceability required by B Corporations and actively supports and engages with other business within this body to further in a holistic way what it means to be a ‘business for good’ including ethical and transparent processes and operations. Membership and engagement with other bodies seeking transparent and ethical behavior from business, such as The Freedom Business Alliance, Fashion Revolution, Anti-Slavery Australia, Baptist World Aid and International Justice Mission (to name a few) demonstrate our firm commitment to go above and beyond complience with regard to ethical and transparent business behahavior to benchmarking and advocacy in this space.
