Sustainability Report 2018 Valcambi SA Via Passeggiata CH-6828 Balerna, Switzerland © Copyright 2019 Photos courtesy of Cooperativa Minera Limata Ltda – AFC 12, CAMBIO and Macdesa mining operations Table of contents Letter to stakeholders 1 Valcambi at a glance 2 Our approach to sustainability 3 Governance and ethics 5 Stakeholder engagement 7 Materiality 9 Our commitment to the UN 10 Sustainable Development Goals Our products and services 11 Customer satisfaction 14 Our people 15 Workforce composition 16 Fair and equal opportunities 17 Health and safety 18 Employee training and development 19 Our supply chain 21 Responsible supply chain 23 Human rights and labour standards 28 Products traceability 29 Our environment 31 Climate change 33 Materials 35 Water 36 Waste 37 Our contribution to social and 39 economic development Economic value generated 40 Sustainable development in mining 42 communities Charitable Giving 43 Our certifications and accreditations 44 Our memberships 46 Reporting practices 48 Letter to stakeholders I will never forget my first ever visit to a mine. The ongoing tragedy in Minas Gerais, Brazil – the It really reinforced for me the delicate balance unbearable loss of life, the human suffering and within the mining and metals sector – the desire and the damage to the environment – make us push our the need for these precious metals weighed against efforts to continue driving responsible mining practices the moral obligation to constantly check ourselves even harder, and never to compromise. as an industry. Whilst we source the materials needed for so many end-products, we must ensure Today, our task of driving sustainable development our activities do not leave a negative dent on the cannot be borne by any one company or any one communities and the environments in which we industry. This is why we need to increase real work. That first visit taught me that we must look to collaboration across the industry and with new share best practices to drive sustainability wherever partners. possible and, at Valcambi, we seek to do this all the time. Technology is a great example. The digital age has fuelled the desire and the means for greater At the beginning of 2018, an important participant in transparency. Customers, suppliers, regulators, the cobalt sector approached me, keen to learn about investors, NGOs and, not least, end-consumers want Valcambi’s expertise in responsible mineral sourcing to know where the precious metals come from, how that he had heard so much about. We immediately the products are made and how the manufacturing embraced the opportunity to share our approach and, process impacts the planet as well as its people and in doing so, to benefit not only the broader minerals communities. Data and advanced digital technology, sector, but also to make a profound positive impact on like blockchain, allows us to drive traceability. In 2018, the world at large. Why? Because climate change is we partnered with Emergent Technology on Emergent’s the biggest challenge of our lifetimes, and perhaps our blockchain technology to trace the provenance of gold children’s as well. Addressing climate change requires from mines, to the refinery, and through to vaults. a transition to cleaner energy. The World Bank says this transition will be extremely minerals-intensive. And a At Valcambi, we collaborate on many fronts – lot of the necessary minerals – lithium, cobalt, nickel, from responsible sourcing, to supporting manganese – will come from developing countries. appropriate standards setting and leveraging digital technology to advance practices – To allow these resource-rich developing countries to with our clients, business partners, NGOs, benefit from the increasing demand for such minerals, governments, civil society, and the private the clean energy transition itself needs to be managed sector, including our competitors. responsibly, pragmatically and sustainably. In the same way, for us in the precious metals sector, a large Today, the flow of information is unprecedented, proportion of the minerals we source and refine comes exposing every institution to the kind of oversight and from developing countries. accountability that was unimaginable even ten years ago. Valcambi sees this as a great opportunity to shine The idea of humanely and ethically-run mines, a light on the steps we are taking to alleviate issues that respect the environment and benefit the where they exist, and to make the case for responsible communities and the host countries, is not new behaviours and sustainable development in the to Valcambi. We have been at the forefront precious metals sector. I am pleased to share all this in of promoting responsibly mined and sourced this report. gold for many years, establishing standards that go beyond even those developed by This report serves also as Communication of Progress for OECD Due Diligence Guidance and the LBMA the UN Global Compact. Responsible Gold Guidance. Michael Mesaric CEO & Board Member 1 Valcambi at a glance OUR VISION To be the global leader in gold refining and manufacturing recognised for creating sustainable value and a better gold industry for all OUR MISSION Combining our expertise, passion and innovation, we offer unique products and services of the highest quality, going beyond our clients’ expectations and driving responsible practices, transparency and sustainability OUR VALUES Conformity, Integrity, Responsibility, Confidentiality & Respect Valcambi, Swiss-based world-leading Au, ag, pt, pd refining precious metals refiner and manufacturing operating since 1961 Annual combined refining capacity: 152 employees 2.000 tons 100% owned by Product throughput: Global Gold Refinery AG Au 3.8 tons bars and coins per day Location: Balerna, Switzerland Ag 1.8 tons bars and coins per day CLIENTS Mining companies including Premium luxury watch manufacturers Large Scale Mining (LSM) and Artisanal Digital and tech manufacturers and Small-Scale Mining (ASM) International, governments and central banks Jewellers SERVICES PRODUCTS Transportation Manufacturing Cast and minted bars Coins and Medals Control Financing CombiBarsTM Sbead Assaying Insurance Round bars Armillary coins Refining Storage Grain Alloys Green GoldTM Semi-finished products 2 Our approach to sustainability 3 We refine a most precious natural resource that stands We examine the ways in which we source raw the test of time. We have a responsibility to nurture materials, how we refine them and how we the natural world that provides our precious materials, manufacture the products we sell. We also and we value all the people that contribute to making carefully reflect on how we design and deliver these materials available and transforming them into the services we offer. the products we use. Responsibility is a fundamental part of who we are as From the miners who extract the raw a company, and it is one of our core values. materials and our various suppliers, to our employees who refine, manufacture and sell In addition, we use our sectoral leadership position our products and our clients who buy and to advocate and drive responsible and sustainable transform them into goods the world uses practices and encourage the industry and supply every day; smartphones, the jewellery we chains actors to join forces in the various initiatives that wear, the medical equipment the world needs, aim to create a more sustainable gold industry for all. everyone is a vital part of the chain. We are committed to protecting the natural environment and bringing long-term benefits to all This report is structured according stakeholders. to the four pillars of sustainability established by Valcambi and We have long considered how our business may affect across which we measure and society and the environment, and we have worked hard over the years to integrate environmental and manage progress in sustainability: social considerations into our core business practices. our people, our supply chains, our environment, and our social and We consider the ways in which we support economic contribution. miners in conducting responsible practices. 4 Governance and ethics OUR VALUES At all times, we are guided by our values of Conformity, Integrity, Responsibility, Confidentiality & Respect Our values are set out in our global Code of Conduct and expressed through our business principles, policies and standards. They underpin the way we manage the social, environmental and economic effects of our operations, and how we govern our business. Governance Board of Directors Valcambi’s Board of Directors is responsible for setting and overseeing the strategy, the organization structure, and the sustainable agenda of the company. The Board comprises of two members, including Valcambi’s CEO. Management The CEO and five senior executives are responsible for the execution of the strategy including the sustainability strategy and its implementation. Personnel Commission The Personnel Commission consists of five elected workforce members. They represent the interests of both unionized and non-unionized personnel. Periodical meetings are held with the CEO and a Human Resources representative to discuss topics chosen by Commission members. Legal and Compliance The Legal and Compliance Officer is responsible for overseeing and managing regulatory Officer (LCO) compliance issues, with particular focus on Business Due Diligence to ensure that management and employees are in compliance with the rules and regulations of regulatory agencies, that company policies and procedures are being followed and that behaviour in the organization meets Valcambi’s Code of Conduct. Accreditation The three-person cross-functional team deals with issues concerning sustainability, quality, & Management environment, health & safety and communications. Systems (AMS) 5 Governance and ethics We commit to complying with applicable laws and We expect our employees, and those with whom we regulations and to upholding high standards of business do business, to comply with our standards. For this, ethics and transparency. Our policies and management we actively promote awareness of our standards and systems support this commitment, guiding how we implement systems and controls to monitor and ensure operate and behave and holding everyone at Valcambi compliance. to clear and strong principles related to the workplace, human rights, communities, the environment and Any information regarding incidents related to any integrity. form of corruption or bribery as well as misconduct, dishonest or illegal activities occurring at Valcambi Our policies & Code of Conduct: have to be reported. All the members of the • Precious Metals Supply Chain Policy Board of Directors, the Management Committee, • Grievances Whistleblowing Policy the Responsible Sourcing Committee, the Sales • Code of Conduct Department and the Logistic Department have received relevant communications and have followed training Corruption and bribery are considered potential risks with regards to the business practices, including antiin the precious metal supply chain. Valcambi’s ethical corruption policies. In the reporting period, we have standards, as described in our Code of Conduct and delivered such information and training to 21 persons our Precious Metals Supply Chain Policy, request (100% of our impacted employees and operations). behaviours that do not tolerate any form of corruption or bribery. DUE DILIGENCE To assess our corruption risk we conduct due diligence on all potential and existing counterparties (individuals and companies), the locations of their operations, and the countries of origins of the precious metals. In 2018, following our risk analysis we identified 16 cases that required countermeasures to mitigate potential risks. These measures included on-site visits at the counterparty’s premises such as trading offices and mining sites. These visits revealed no non-conformity to our standards. 6 Stakeholder engagement We are continuously seeking sustainable, mutually We regularly engage with a number of stakeholder beneficial outcomes for our business and the people groups. These efforts include personal face-to-face with whom we engage and work, with the ultimate contact with employees, customers, suppliers and goal of creating a fairer and more sustainable gold business partners, as well as written communications, industry for all. sometimes on a daily basis. We also interact regularly and in various ways with other stakeholder groups Working in partnership with our stakeholders, including local communities, industry organisations, we look for solutions to the challenges facing non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and the the gold industry, and for improvements that media, as described in the stakeholders table. can benefit our sector and the world at large. When engaging with these stakeholders, we focus In striving to achieve this, building strong and on specific areas of interest reflected in our material sustainable relationships based on trust and topics, as described in the section Materiality. respect is of the upmost importance. 7 Stakeholder engagement Shareholder Type of engagement Actions Shareholders Periodical meetings Periodical reports Board Periodical meetings Compliance with laws Monthly reporting on business progress Adoption of sector best practices Monthly conference calls Management Periodical meetings Objectives & strategies sharing KPI definition Employees Quarterly report (newsletter) Professional training Important communications updated Compensations and bonuses on notice-boards Meetings with union representatives Code of Conduct Coordination meetings Corporate website Company events Work climate survey Sustainability Report Customers Periodical Customer Satisfaction Surveys Satisfaction of their requests and expectations On-going communication Corporate visits Interactions through industry associations Refinery visits Client on-boarding process (Due Diligence) KYC (Know Your Client process) Website Sustainability Report Suppliers Client on-boarding process (Due Diligence) Clear and detailed contracts KYC (Know Your Client process) Updated and precise information KYP (Know Your Product process) Website, e-mail, telephone Suppliers Evaluation process Code of Conduct Competitors Meetings organized by industry associations Joining mutual projects Website / Meetings Local & National Institutions, Monthly communication Compliance with laws and regulations Authorities Information meetings On-going dialogue Local communities Website / Sustainability Report Sponsorship Public services Regular communication / Website Security training exercises Trade & Industry Periodical meetings Partnering on various industry programs Associations Joining proactive monitoring programs Joining fairs and events NGOs national Meetings / Website / Sustainability Report Communication activities & international Media Meetings / Website (news section) Press release Sustainability Report Media relation 8 Materiality We initially conducted a materiality assessment in 2015 people” was too broad a topic, and this is now to prioritize our sustainability activities. covered under “Workforce composition”, “Fair and equal opportunities”, “Health and safety” We reviewed this assessment throughout 2017 and “Training and development”. and 2018, incorporating the evolving interests and concerns of our key stakeholders, identified through As a result of our review, our materiality matrix and our engagement with them, and the various impacts respective material topics reflect the issues deemed of our business. most current and relevant to our business and our stakeholders. In doing our 2018 review, we decided to rename a number of the material topics to make This report provides information devoted to each material them more explicit and to better facilitate our topic covered in the four sections of the document. reporting. For example, we found that “Our Materiality topics Lower priority Medium priority Top priority OUR PEOPLE Governance & Ethics OUR ENVIRONMENT Responsible supply chain OUR SUPPLY CHAINS OUR CONTRIBUTION Transparency TO SOCIAL AND Human rights & Importance to stakeholders ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Employee fair & equal labour standars OUR APPROACH TO opportunities SUSTAINABILITY Product traceability Occupational health & safety Employee training Sustainability development & development in mining communities Climate change Water and waste Significance of impacts on society, environment and economy 9 Our commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals We have aligned our approach to sustainability with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which were adopted by UN Members States to eliminate poverty, reduce inequality, and protect our planet. Supporting ASM: artisanal and small-scale gold mining (ASM) sector plays a crucial role in offering a way out of poverty for millions of miners and their families around the world. Through the work we are doing with the ASM sector, we support miners improve their practices so they can access global market and have better working conditions and livelihood. At local level: we seek to create conditions that allow people to access quality jobs that stimulate the economy. The majority of our employees are Swiss, Italian or local residents, contributing to regional economic growth. Occupational health and safety: protecting and promoting the health and safety of our employees is our number one priority. Through training and our continuous improvement program monitored by clear KPIs, we work towards our ‘zero incident rate’ target. Protecting and promoting miners’ health and safety: a large part of our support to ASMs includes protecting the health and safety of the ASM miners but also of the community surrounding the mines. We do this through funding or promoting the use of personal protection equipment and supporting the miners in having a responsible approach to the way they use/handle chemicals and hazardous substances, including mercury. Saving water: our Water Saving Project, resulted in a 75.6 per cent reduction in water consumption in 2018 vs 2016. Responsible environmental practices in gold mining: informal ASM often creates environmental damage. Part of our support to the ASM sector focuses on supporting miners in adopting responsible environmental practices. Management of mercury: we joined the UN Global Mercury Partnership to fully support the ratification and effective implementation of the Minamata Convention on Mercury*. Over the last two years, we have increased the proportion of renewable energies in our energy mix, we have reduced our energy consumption and we have decreased CO2 emissions from our operations. Driving a sustainable and responsible gold sector that benefits all requires strong partnerships. Over the years we have been working in close collaboration with mines, NGOs, civil societies, governments and the private sector to improve and monitor standards within the gold mining sector. * The Minamata Convention on Mercury is an international treaty designed to protect human health and the environment from anthropogenic emissions and releases of mercury. 10 Our products and services 11 12 We place great pride in the products and All our products leave our factory with clear labelling, services we offer to our clients, and seek to either stamped or, when this is not possible as in the exceed their expectations with an unshakable case of gold and silver grain or certain semi-finished commitment to take responsibility for products, accompanied by a certificate. The stamp or certificate includes data on weight, metal description, sustainability across the entire product fineness, Hallmark (CHI Essayeur Fondeur) and, where life cycle. appropriate, a serial number. For this, we continuously invest in our laboratory and Along with our products, we offer innovative and tailored production capabilities, technical capacity and knowservices to meet each of our clients’ needs. Whether it how. is transportation, financing or storage, we will work to offer the best solutions to each individual client under This allows us to offer traditional products and services Valcambi’s one-stop-shop model. of the highest quality including cast and minted bars, grains, medals and coins, and truly innovative products that give broad options to our clients. INNOVATIVE PRODUCT CREATIONS Valcambi CombiBar™ is an innovative style of a 50g gold investment bar, comprising 50 detachable 1g bars. It offers the possibility of breaking the bar into groups of 1g gold bars or into 50 separate 1g pieces. Valcambi Armillary coins (A’coins) are unique to Valcambi. The round, 999.9 one-ounce piece of fine gold, an investment product with a hole in the middle, is made of four ¼-ounce 999.9 legal tender gold coins issued by the Cook Islands. Attached to each other in concentric circles, they can be twisted into a piece of art resembling an armillary sphere, or separated into four single ¼-ounce gold coins. The entire piece, as well as each individual coin, can be worn as a piece of jewellery. The multifunctional character of each of the four A’coins maintains the purpose of a CombiBarTM but includes a level of possible functions previously not obtained by any coin. Valcambi GreenGoldTM, a product unique to Valcambi since 2008, is a fully traceable gold from mine to client. Its origin is fully documented and independently validated. 13 Customer satisfaction Assessing how satisfied our customers are • Customer turnover and sales statistics. with our products and services is essential • Feedback from customers (emails / phone calls). to ensure the success of our client’s business and our own. Regular customer surveys, the latest conducted in We are proud to report that, based on 2018, and the following instruments and indicators their feedback throughout 2018 and allow us to measure how we are doing on all aspects in previous years, our clients were of our activities and to drive continuous improvement: very satisfied with our products and • Visits report (to measure overall satisfaction). services. • Customers’ complaints (where we also monitor the resolution time with the objective of keeping it short). 14 Our people 15 Workforce composition Our people are the most important asset of our business. of which 152 were permanent employees and 14 We need a safe, healthy and engaged workforce to drive temporary employees. our operations, to accelerate innovation and technology, and to contribute positively to our partnerships with The 1.3 per cent reduction in the number of employees stakeholders. We want to be an employer of choice and compared to 2017 is owed to changed markets and to a company that continues to attract, develop and retain natural staff turnover. Increased mechanization and job talented and engaged employees. To achieve this, we rotation in our processing departments allow for more nurture our employees by creating an environment that flexibility and staffing restructure. honours individual abilities and that offers meaningful In 2018, we saw a turnover of 2.6 per cent. opportunities to contribute to the company’s success. This is supported by competitive remuneration Thirty per cent of Valcambi’s employees are Swiss and benefits linked to performance. We encourage or local residents, 70 per cent are cross-border a collaborative culture that enables us to achieve commuters, mainly Italians; all four members of our the highest consistency and quality in our products top management are local residents. and services. Only 3.9 per cent female employees, 1.3 per cent male In 2018, Valcambi employed a total of 166 people, employees of our workforce have a part-time contract. 154 152 2017 2018 145 142 128 127 26 25 9 10 Total Female Male Full-time Part-time Number of employees per gender, full-time and part-time The precious metal sector has traditionally been a male-dominated industry, especially in the production areas. Despite this, Valcambi increased the proportion of women in the administration area, where they hold either management positions or highly specialized roles (accounting, compliance, health & safety, human resources, sales). 127 (128) MEN WOMEN 100 (104) 25 (26) 22 (19) 21 (18) 2 (6) 5 (5) 2 (2) Employees Production Sales Management Gender diversity per work type 2018 (2017) 16 Fair and equal opportunities Valcambi supports: • Equal opportunity and remuneration for women and men and no discrimination regarding sex, age, We pride ourselves on our lengthy nationality, religion and sexual orientation. retention record, which reflects the • Guaranteed minimum wage; in 2018, 96.8% of our rewarding working environment we workforce earned more than the minimum wage. offer (more details in the “Economic value generated” section). All employment contracts are aligned with the 2018 mandatory Swissmem collective employment agreement of the mechanical and electrical engineering industries that Valcambi joined in 2003. EMPLOYEE RETENTION In 2018, 82% of all employees had worked at Valcambi for more than five years, and 8% of them for more than 25 years The average stay of an employee of Valcambi is 13 years < 10 YEARS 10-20 YEARS > 20 YEARS 47% 40% LENGHT OF EMPLOYMENT 13% 17 Health and safety Precious metals refining can present health and safety risks. It involves the handling of large volumes of materials, environments of extreme temperatures, and Our safety target remains to achieve use of chemicals among other things. For Valcambi, a “Zero Incidents rate”. For this, our protecting and promoting the health and safety of our employees receive training on an employees is a number one priority at every level, within ongoing basis. the plant and in the administrative offices. Health and safety is supervised by Valcambi Health and Safety Manager, in collaboration with the Human Resources (HR) department. Permanent employees Temporary workers Male Female Male Female Nr of Occupational Accidents 6 0 0 na Nr of Non-Occupational Accidents 10 3 1 na Fatalities 0 0 0 na Occupational diseases 0 0 0 na IR*100’000 2.78 0 0 na LDR*100’000 24.12 0 0 na AR (%) 5.23 2.59 6.04 na Injury Rate (IR): frequency of injuries, relative to the total Absentee: worker absent from work because of incapacity time worked by all workers during the reporting period. IR of any kind, not just as the result of work-related injury or (included minor injuries). disease. Lost Day Rate (LDR): impact of occupational diseases and Note: Absentee excludes permitted leave absences such accidents as reflected in time off work by the affected workers. as holidays, study, maternity or paternity leave, and compassionate leave. Note: The lost day rate is expressed by comparing the total lost days to the total number of hours scheduled to be worked Note : We consider 220 work days/ year; by workers in the reporting period. Total number of days scheduled to be worked by workers =FTE*220*; Absentee Rate (AR): measure of actual absentee days lost, Total number of hours scheduled to be worked by workers expressed as a percentage of total days scheduled to be =FTE*220*8; worked by workers for the same period. The events with less than 8 hours absence are not considered. All data are collected by the HR department as worked happened to male permanent employees. Our 2018 hours lost. For each occupational injury, Valcambi injury rate is slightly higher than those in the two Health and Safety Manager performs an investigation previous years. While the gravity of these injury events and prepares a report with a description of what has decreased, we will continue working towards happened and the causes, and corrective actions taken reducing events happening year-on-year through reto prevent recurrence of incidents. enforcing training and KPIs. In 2018, we registered a limited number of injury The absentee rate slightly increased in 2018 versus 2017 events of small relevance – two open wounds, one in due to non-occupational injuries and nonoccupational the category of sprains and strains, two of concussion diseases. and internal injuries type and one chemical burn that 18 Employee training and development We offer a diversified programme made of mandatory health and safety, IT, languages, lean manufacturing, and optional training and development sessions. finance, fire service, quality management, compliance, sworn assayer, precision measuring instruments The training topics touched multiple aspects including and taxation. TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT 1 339 hours dedicated to training in 2018 108 employes received training for an average of 12.40 hours each 19 20 Our supply chain 21 Precious metals refiners are a focal point of the value incoming material and as a semi-finished or finished chain and act on two sides: as a service provider for product provider to the global precious metals market. Primary feeds Secondary feeds Green Gold BGI, Fairtrade, Industrial & old RJC Eligible from mines Fairmined Mines jewellery recycled Total traceability KYP Valcambi’s client onboarding Working process Working process Working process Working process Reception Reception Reception Reception KYC Statement Statement Statement Statement Refining Refining Refining Refining Due Diligence Finished products BGI, Fairtrade, Finished Green GoldTM Fairmined CoC Material products X 22 Responsible supply chain Operating responsible supply chains is vital area but, more specifically, from conflict-affected and to the sustainable success of our business high-risk areas*. and of our sector, and to the sustainable development of the countries from which the Our approach to responsible supply chains raw materials originate. aims not only to protect our business, but also to drive best practices in our sector. We are aware of the risks of inadvertent involvement * OECD definition of conflict-affected and high-risk areas: Conflict-affected in, or contribution to, negative activities that may be and high-risk areas are identified by the presence of armed conflict, widespread violence or other risks of harm to people. associated with the extraction, processing, trading, handling and exporting of precious metals from any Our approach to conflict minerals We have long recognised that, in some places, mining the OECD Due Diligence Guidance, LBMA Responsible can be associated with violence, human rights abuses Gold Guidance, the RJC Chain-of-Custody, World and environmental degradation. However, when Gold Council “Conflict-Free Gold Standard” and Doddmanaged responsibly, mining can be a source of social Frank Act Section 1502. and economic development. This is why, for Valcambi, 2. Promote responsible mining as described in the avoiding sourcing from countries considered as high next section. risk is not a solution; we believe this would adversely impact the mining communities and businesses operating responsibly in the region. Our approach is two-fold: By supporting the development of rigorous standards and appro1. Make sure that our sourcing is not directly or priate regulatory frameworks, and indirectly associated with, or contributing to, negative accompanying miners in adopting impact. For this, we have developed our own internal responsible practices, we can help sourcing processes and due diligence to evaluate improve global mining conditions and manage our risks, and select our sources. These are aligned and go beyond internationally accepted over the long term. standards and responsible business practices, including 23 Responsible supply chain Responsible mining and sourcing We believe that a sustainable future for precious metals including the jewellery and electronic ultimately depends on the responsible development sectors as well as with civil society and of the three sources of our gold, silver, platinum and governments. By working together, we can palladium raw materials: large-scale mines (LSM), contribute to the setting of robust standards artisanal and small-scale mines (ASM) and recycled and legal frameworks for responsible mining sources. and sourcing that we believe protects the Our sustainability journey begins with the way we interests of, and provides benefits to, all. source our precious metals materials. In 2016, Valcambi initiated the development of a We continuously seek to minimise the impact grievance platform which received the support of precious metals mining, particularly ASM, has on the actors including Apple. The online cross-industry environment, while making a positive contribution to platform aims at screening and addressing grievances the communities from which we source. We develop linked to smelters and refiners present in global supply close relationships with artisanal and small-scale chains. It is now in its final stage of development under miners and assess the approach they take in relation to the lead of the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI). human rights, labour practices and the environment. We facilitate this using our own set of due diligence In the absence of meaningful regulations, voluntary processes and tools. When we identify gaps in their standards and collaboration across sectors are the practices, we will look to support the mining operation best means to advance change and improve practices in improving those practices. in the long term. We also use our brand as a platform to raise awareness of and drive responsible mining and sourcing practices and the protection of human rights. We seek to positively influence practices beyond our business by collaborating with Please read Valcambi’s ASM business case (page 25) the mining sector and downstream users that provides examples of works we are involved in. Working with responsible counterparties Importantly, our due diligence practices may go beyond the first counterparty delivering the Operating a responsible supply chain material where needed. These counterparties requires assessing and managing our may include transit zones for transportation risk with all counterparties including and traders among others. our sourcing suppliers and those buying our products. For this we use We review on an ongoing basis our counterparties’ our own due diligence processes assessment as part of our continuous improvement aligned with the most stringent processes. industry standards. For all of our products, a documentary-based traceability system is in place and third parties perform audits on our practices on a regular basis. To ensure those standards are respected and upheld, we apply KYC (Know Your Client) and KYP (Know Your Product) Due Diligence practices in order to identify our upstream and downstream counterparties. 24 Responsible supply chain Valcambi’s ASM business case Valcambi sources and refines mined products from is enormous. We must ensure those impacts are all large-scale mines (LSMs) and artisanal and smallpositive. scale mines (ASMs). While sourcing responsibly from LSMs is fairly straightforward, sourcing from ASMs is Valcambi wants to make humane, well-run considerably more complicated. and flourishing ASMs a key part of its value chain, and to play a significant role in ensuring Despite the complexity. Valcambi is committed to the highest standards for ASMs within the sourcing from ASMs helping to ensure their access to precious metals industry. global markets so they can grow, prosper and support the local communities they are part of. Valcambi has been at the forefront of Why do we make this commitment? The answer is promoting responsibly ASM-mined and simple. sourced gold for many years, establishing standards that go beyond those developed by An estimated 15 million people rely directly on OECD Guidelines and the LBMA Responsible Artisanal and Small-scale Gold Mining (ASGM) for their Gold Guidance. livelihoods, and the sector indirectly touches the lives of an estimated 25 million more people. While ASMs Through conducting extensive due diligence, we produce 20% of the world’s gold output, a staggering ensure that we are not associated with, and do not 90% of employment in the gold mining industry is in contribute to, activities that have harmed people or the the artisanal and small-scale sector. This means the environment. impact of the sector on livelihoods and communities 25 Responsible supply chain But Valcambi’s ultimate objective is to promote the best Through this work and support, ASMs can gradually practices of ASM by supporting miners in their efforts attain the level of standards that enable them to access to redress any environmental, labour or accounting global markets and prosper. violations in their procedures. “Formalization was not an easy job”, comments We strive for this through broad collaboration with Melquiades Ala Ccahua, General Manager of Cambio, various groups, partnerships and associations, an artisanal mine in the Arequipa region of Peru. “But including the European Partnership for Responsible once you are formalized, everything is easier. We want Minerals (EPRM), the Swiss Better Gold Association to develop Cambio in a structured way and are on the (SBGA), the Better Gold Initiative (BGI), Fairtrade and way to Fairtrade certification, with the support of the Fairmined. Fairtrade team.” Valcambi and Cambio have just signed a long-term supply contract. Throughout 2017 and 2018, Valcambi chaired the Standard Committee on the development of CRAFT (“The Code of Risk-mitigation for ASM engaging in Formal Trade”) developed by the Alliance for Responsible Mining (ARM) and RESOLVE. CRAFT aims to serve as a tool for all actors in the gold supply chain to collaborate on the mitigation of mining-associated risks and promotion of the continuous improvement of environmental, social and economic practices in the ASM sector. Valcambi is a member of the SBGA, whose aim is to support the more socially inclusive and better environmental practices of ASMs and to facilitate their access to global markets. We are also very active as For those reaching certification such as Fairtrade, part of the Technical and External Affairs committees Fairmined or the BGI criteria, they can also benefit of the SBGA. from the premiums available to them. The miners use these premiums to reinvest in their mining operations Valcambi is a founding member and strategic partner or to benefit their community. in the EPRM, whose aim is to increase the percentage of reliably produced precious metals from conflict“Last year with the Fairmined premium, we invested in affected and high-risk areas. The EPRM supports the an ambulance and health and safety equipment, and conscientious extraction of minerals in a way that we built a new kitchen for the workers and a soccer contributes to local development and moves the ethical field for the community to use.” Comments Herberth minerals agenda forward globally. This Partnership has Chirinos Olivera, General Manager of Macdesa, a attracted the interest of technical and digital giants – mine situated in the Arequipa region of Peru. “It’s really among them Intel, Apple, Samsung, Intel and Philips – helped improve our working conditions.” who have become actively involved in its program for the promotion of responsible artisanal mining. Valcambi furthered its commitment to supporting responsible mining at the International Conference of the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR) in Kenya in September 2018. There, we outlined our approach to due diligence and underscored the strict criteria that we follow in sourcing from ASM. This in turn contributed to the development of the due diligence ASM gold strategy for the 12 member states of the ICGLR. 26 Responsible supply chain “Buyers of responsible gold help transform our ASM as a sector is in the midst of a great transformation communities”, comments Nicolas Santo president of and, as is inevitable when a seismic shift occurs, the board at Cambio. paradoxes abound. Gold sourced by Valcambi from ASM is not commercially viable given the limited volumes available, and when we factor in the transport, refining, segregation and traceability costs. At the same time, demand for artisan metals has never been greater and is growing at an astonishing rate, especially in the jewellery sector. The path to sustainability is never without obstacles, and that is true for any sector. While the mining sector has taken great strides, much remains to be done. Corruption, a lack of expertise, the inability to access financing and inadequate governmental oversight do not vanish overnight. “Consumers buying Limata gold have made it possible It is imperative we work together in for my kids to receive education and prepare for the cooperation with the ASMs themselves, future.” Says Javier Mamani Condori, father of two and with NGOs, civil societies, governments and Supervisor of Operations at Limata, a mine located at the private sector to improve and monitor 4600m above sea-level in the Department of Puno, practices and standards within the ASM South Peru. sector. At the same time, we must be realistic about the magnitude of the challenges we face as we continue to search for holistic, permanent and far-reaching solutions to the problems confronting ASMs. Valcambi will continue to embrace the challenges and the opportunities presented by ASMs and continue to advocate and be a catalyst for constructive change in the ASM sector. Since Valcambi first began engaging with ASMs, we have signed a number of long-term supply agreements with ASM operations and more are in the pipeline. 27 Human rights and labour standards Respect of human rights Valcambi frames its commitment to human rights in exposure of young workers to hazardous line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and work and forced or compulsory labour. Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational We systematically conduct on-site visits to Enterprises, and the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for ensure the respect of human rights. In doing Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflictso, we not only comply but go beyond the affected and High Risk Areas. We comply with the OECD Due Diligence Guidance, Fairtrade and GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and uphold the framework set by the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Fairmined standards for gold and associated Development, and with relevant sector standards precious metals from artisanal mining. such as the LBMA Gold Guidance and the Responsible Jewellery Council Code of Practice and Chain of We ask all our counterparties to confirm their Custody Standard. commitment to not tolerate any form of child labour and we actively cooperate with international organizations Valcambi Legal and Compliance Officer is responsible to support projects that aim to respect and support for overseeing and managing all aspects related to human rights. human rights. He/she ensures that management and employees act in compliance with the rules and regulations of regulatory agencies and are aware of any potential risks of dealing with potential and current Our approach to human rights has business partners. informed the development of a number of projects and initiatives For the part of our supply chain related to including a UN International Labour sourcing of ASM products, as outlined in Organisation (ILO) project in the the ‘Responsible supply chains’ section, we Philippines, a World Bank project conduct the most extensive due diligence on gold mining in Sierra Leone, and scrutinising every aspect of the mining a USAID initiative on responsible operation’s practices. The first aspects gold value chains in the DRC. relate to the respect of human rights, with a special focus on child labour and Labour standards We ensure that our operation is a place where employees and contractors are treated with respect and are free from discrimination or We confirm that we have screened abusive labour practices. 100 per cent of our new business partners involved in the precious Valcambi confirms social responsibility standards by metals supply chains, and that we collaborating with suppliers to ensure that they follow have identified actual or potential international standards on freedom of association negative social impacts in none of and collective bargaining, forced labour, child labour, the cases. harassment or abuse, disciplinary practices and discrimination, among other practices. 28 Products traceability The latter have already undergone at least one refining cycle. Investment products (such as coins, cast bars Product traceability has been at the or minted ingots), jewellery and industrial recoveries forefront of Valcambi’s practices from other sectors fall in this category. since the company’s outset. Mined gold refined at Valcambi is traceable from the mine up to the statement process With the increasing public awareness of the potential (weighing, melting and assaying). risks associated with the mining, processing and trading of precious metals, traceability has now After the statement process, the materials are in the become a prerequisite in our industry. most cases co-mingled and refined in a continuous process. Precious metals origin can be divided into two groups: 1. Mined precious metal coming directly from mines. Track and trace products are accompanied by a docu2. Recycled precious metals. ment to attest to their supply chain. ENHANCED TRACEABILITY Valcambi processes the following products with enhanced traceability standards: Products realised according to the RJC Chain of Custody standard, originating from recycled or grandfathered sources. Thanks to our traceability procedures and related records, we are able to trace back from the finished products up to the incoming material used. RJC CoC products are accompanied by the RJC CoC Transfer. Valcambi GreenGoldTM, a product unique to Valcambi since 2008, is fully traceable gold from mine to the end customers. Traceability is maintained through the entire process, from the mine through refining and final delivery, and origin is guaranteed through full segregation and documentation, and independent validation by third-party supervisory and auditing processes. Valcambi GreenGoldTM is sourced from mines that operate in accordance with some of the highest social and environmental standards and regulations. ASM gold – Fairtrade, Fairmined, SBGA/BGI, and non-certified is kept separated throughout the entire refining and manufacturing process. Fairtrade and Fairmined products are identified according to the standards and the supply chain information is uploaded in the Fairtrade or Fairmined traceability tools. 29 30 Our environment 31 Precious metals refining and manufacturing require a ment does not stop at our own operations. significant amount of water and energy and inevitably We expect our suppliers to actively contribute generate GHG emissions and waste. to reducing the environmental impact their activities have and we only work with Monitoring, minimising and managing counterparties which can demonstrate that our impacts on the environment is high they seek for optimal solutions in the areas on Valcambi’s agenda. We work hard to of shipping, transportation and processing. continuously improve our energy efficiency, For this reason, all new suppliers are being reduce the use of chemical products, screened using environmental criteria. monitor and reduce our emissions, our water consumption and waste disposal. Along with On the upstream side, we have long recognized the implementing our own systems, we keep potential negative impacts gold mining can have abreast of new technology development that on the environment and are actively involved in we could adopt to support our efforts. supporting various programs and projects that aim at driving environmentally responsible practices. In 2016, We are periodically monitored by local authorities to Valcambi joined the Global Mercury Partnership, the which we regularly report our results, and we carry out UNEP’s initiative on mercury established to support the internal controls on a regular basis. Minamata Convention’s objective of reducing mercury use in gold mining for the protection of human health Our commitment to protecting the environand the environment. According to the environmental impact analysis operated to achieve ISO14001 and OPIR certification, the environmental risks related to Valcambi’s production are considered moderate to low. X 32 Climate change Emissions Valcambi operates in a very industrialized area with measure and analyze our 2017 GHG emissions, which a high traffic density. We believe that air quality is a are reported in this report (our 2018 GHG emissions crucial issue, which is why we monitor our emissions were not available at the time of production of this regularly, working with the best abatement systems, report and will be reported in 2019). Our direct and always kept in the best conditions. indirect GHG emissions were as follows: • Scope 1: 1,178.3 tCO2 eq. According to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GGP), • Scope 2: 1,519.0 tCO2 eq. direct and indirect emissions can be categorized as • Scope 3: 1,932.5 tCO2 eq. follows: • Scope 1: greenhouse gas emissions from sources Our total amount of CO2 emissions has been reduced owned or controlled by the organization. by 9.8 per cent between 2016 and 2017. The most • Scope 2: indirect emissions of greenhouse gases important reduction in CO2 emissions is related to deriving from the generation of electricity electricity. While the amount of electricity we consumed purchased by the organization. between 2016 and 2017 was very close, CO2 emissions • Scope 3: other indirect greenhouse gas emissions fell from 2,039.1 to 1,519.0 tons of CO2 equivalent. This that are a consequence of an organization’s operais due to the fact that Valcambi’s electricity supplier tions, but are not directly owned or controlled by the increased the proportion of renewable energies in its organization such as commuting employees, energy mix, thus significantly reducing the emission business trips, production of purchased goods, factor (tCO2/kWh). emissions from use of products sold. Valcambi does not emit ozone-depleting substances In 2018, we commissioned a specialized company to into the atmosphere. CO2 EMISSIONS 9,8% reduction in CO2 emissions 39% 39% 33% 42% GHG GHG EMISSIONS EMISSIONS 2016 2017 22% 25% SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 33 Climate change Energy use The small decrease in our energy consumption in • 11.10% Photovoltaics 2018 compared to 2017 is owed in part to a decrease • 1.81% Wind in production volumes and in part to better regulation • 0.14% Biomass of the temperatures in the work areas introduced in • 65.24% Other non-verifiable sources October 2018. We expect the effect of temperature regulation to be more visible in 2019. We are aware of the impact that the production of electricity from non-renewable sources has on the We purchase electricity from the local distributor AGE environment, and we continuously look to optimize our which consisted of the following mix for 2017 (2018 consumption by finding the right balance of costs and data not yet available): benefits. • 21.75% Hydroelectric ENERGY USE 3,2% reduction in energy utilization 2017 2018 55 421 53 663 33 449 33 042 21 972 20 621 Electricity Natural gas Total Energy consumption (in Gigajoule) 34 Materials We continuously look to reduce the quantities Despite the increased volume of precious metals of chemical products we use. We do this by processed, the consumption of material remained taking advantage of technical developments unchanged thanks to a continuous optimization of our and by seeking better solutions for production production processes. such as using less environmentally-impactful The secondary feeds material inflow has increased in reagents and sourcing precious metals from 2018 by 11.8% to 890 tons. secondary feeds. It is critical that we use and handle these chemical During 2018 we consumed 1,144 tons of materials substances in a responsible way to avoid negative (chemicals and consumables, excluding precious impact on the environment and health. Valcambi trains metals) compared to 1,164 tons in 2017. More than 50 its employees and contractors on the dangers and risks per cent of total consumption of materials utilized associated to these products, and on management comprised the top three chemicals used in the refining techniques. process, all acid and alkaline solutions. X 35 Water Centuries ago the site where Valcambi’s operation production requires. In 2016, Valcambi undertook now resides used to be a lake. For this reason we a large water saving project making as its mission benefit from rich groundwater source in the immediate to preserve the local water resources. This required vicinity of our premises. important investment – involving the construction of a closed circuit system for the production of chilled Within this topography, we know how critical it is not water needed for the cooling of the production plant – to pollute our grounds and to manage the materials we and extensive work. use in the most responsible way, as described in the previous section of this report. We are proud to report this resulted in a decrease of our water consumption of around 65.4 per cent versus In addition, we are well aware of the high consumption 2017 and 75.6 per cent versus 2016. of water the activity of precious metals refining and WATER 75,6% WATER SAVING In 2016, Valcambi undertook a large water saving project making as its mission to preserve the local water resources This resulted in a decrease of our water consumption of around 65.4 per cent versus 2017 and 75.6 per cent versus 2016 207 151 75,6% 65,4% 146 462 WATER SAVING WATER SAVING versus 2016 versus 2017 50 550 2016 2017 2018 Water consumption (in m3) 36 Waste The efficient management of hazardous and nonrecyclable waste is collected by specialised and legally hazardous waste is at the heart of Valcambi’s practices. authorised recycling companies. Valcambi generates three types of waste: The recyclable waste collected was divided as follows: • Domestic non-recyclable wastes generated by Valcambi canteen activity are collected by the local 2016 2017 2018 garbage collection company (not tracked). • Recyclable waste that can be transformed into Wood 20,8t 17,8t 11,2t reusable materials, reducing the consumption of Paper 13,5t 13,0t 22,8t raw materials, is collected by specialised, legallyrecognised recycling companies. Metals • Special wastes with environmentally friendly disposal 28,6t 23,2t 31,0t (Al, Cu, Ferrous) require a set of specific technical and organisational measures and are collected by specialised companies Plastics 29,5t 19,4t 9,4t legally recognised for disposal. Other recycling 57,6t 56,6t 55,6t materials In 2018 we produced 4.5 tons of special waste, a reduction of 0.3 tons – 6.3 per cent – versus 2017. Total 150t 130t 130t More than 30 per cent of these special wastes were mineral and synthetic waste oils, about 11 per cent empty packaging of chemicals, and 10 per cent waste In 2018, we released 48,022 cubic metres of waste solvents. water, a reduction of 66 per cent compared to 2017 as a result of the water saving project (see GRI We have developed a strict waste management system 303-1). The waste water is pre-treated in our on-site and we work only with-disposers that guarantee the Waste Water Treatment Plant before being sent to highest quality standards. One hundred per cent of the Sewage Treatment Plant. WASTE 6,3% reduction of special waste production 66% reduction of waste water release 37 38 Our contribution to social and economic development 39 Economic value generated To our region Over the last year, and despite the global slowdown in the precious metals market, Valcambi had a positive economic performance development. Our contribution to the economic progress of the region in which we operate is represented by the salaries and benefits we CONTRIBUTING TO paid, the direct and indirect taxes we contributed and REGIONAL ECONOMY our purchase of goods and services. The total direct taxes paid by Valcambi at the communal, cantonal and federal level amounted to 28,6 per cent of our Net Profit Total labour expenses amount to 22,6 per cent of our total turnover To our employees We offer advantageous contractual agreements, we is part of our incentive to attract qualified professionals guarantee good social performance and we endeavour and retain them. to constantly improve our work environment. We did not receive any financial assistance from the Remuneration is based exclusively on the evaluation Government in 2018. of skills and experience; the variable remuneration is assessed against a balanced scorecard of individual and team-based performance objectives. Despite the global economic slowdown, 100% of our workforce received a performance bonus in 2018. REWARDING AND Our pension plan is managed by an external third party INCENTIVISING OUR based on Valcambi’s advice with regards to investment EMPLOYEES strategy, asset classes and risk profile. The risk profile chosen is in line with our overall risk approach culture. 100% of our workforce received Risk must be measurable and manageable, considering a performance bonus in 2018 that these assets belong to our employees and have the purpose of guaranteeing financial security during The pension benefits we offer are retirement. We have the obligation to find a healthy mix superior to those required by between capital preservation and a return on assets. the Swiss Law on Over the last year we have maintained a coverage ratio Occupational Pensions of approx. 114 per cent in 2018. The benefits we offer are superior to those required by the Swiss Law on Occupational Pensions, since a generous pension plan 40 Economic value generated To our suppliers For the purchase of products and services, Valcambi In 2018, we partnered with Emergent Technology favours local suppliers (based in Ticino). Suppliers Holdings LP (Emergent) on Emergent’s blockchain outside of Switzerland are only chosen when a technology to trace the provenance of gold from mines, comparable product or service is not available locally. to the refinery, and through to vaults. Valcambi made its gold available to Emergent for them to develop In 2018 our sourcing from local suppliers increased their technology. In addition, Valcambi Green Gold compared to 2017 by three percent, confirming our kilobars were used to produce Emergent’s first 1000 trend to buy local. When buying abroad, Valcambi buys G-CoinTM tokens in 2017. G-CoinTM tokens are a digital mainly from neighbour countries Italy and Germany, certificate of title to physical, responsibly-sourced and only 0.2 per cent of products and services are gold. The digital tokens can be used for payments and purchased in other countries. investment. Our relationship with our suppliers is based In 2018, we initiated a partnership with a tech start-up on true partnership and goes beyond to develop an anti-counterfeit technology. In this case purchasing a product or service from them. again, we made Valcambi gold available for them to We work together to develop new solutions, develop the technology. technologies and products, for the benefit of both parties and the industry. BUYING LOCAL In 2018 Valcambi sourced more than 60 per cent of products and services from local suppliers 2017 2018 61,5% 58,4% 32,5% 25,3% 13,2% 9,1% Ticino Rest of Switzerland Abroad Proportion of spending on local suppliers 41 Sustainable development in mining communities The precious natural resources we source hold great operations in conflict-affected or high-risk areas. potential for development but may also fuel violence, human rights abuses and negative environmental We are particularly proud of the work we have been impacts, undermining endeavours towards doing to advance responsible practices in the ASM development. This is particularly true of precious sector, the details of which are presented in Valcambi’s metals mined by artisanal and small-scale gold mining ASM business case (page 25). At Valcambi we have long recognised that, by promoting and supporting the adoption of responsible practices in the ASM sector, we can improve working conditions and livelihoods for millions of miners and their communities, while protecting the local environment. By conducting responsible practices, miners can access global markets and prosper economically. A responsible gold mining sector also contributes to the sustainable development of mineral-rich developing countries. X 42 Charitable giving Every year, through our corporate giving programme human services, health, education, arts, and disadvanwe donate in financial contribution to local nonprofit taged people. organisations, initiatives and institutions focused on CORPORATE GIVING In 2018, we contributed to World Vision, an international NGO, to sponsor five children from Peru, Nepal, Mozambique, Tanzania and Georgia A sport event for handicapped children in Ticino Offertory Swiss Solidarity, an NGO, to support homeless people in Switzerland The sponsorship of a local artist/painter THE WONDERFUL CHILDREN WE ARE SPONSORING “Supporting the cause of disadvantaged and vulnerable children and protecting their rights is very close to my heart.” says Michael Mesaric, CEO of Valcambi. This is why since 2003, through World Vision, an NGO focused on overcoming poverty and injustice, Valcambi has been sponsoring five children from diverse regions of the world. The programme focuses on improving the physical, emotional and social well-being of the most vulnerable children. “It is much more than just a financial contribution, it is about giving love and emotional support.” adds Mesaric. “It’s wonderful to dialogue with the children and follow their life, some of them since a very young age.” Valcambi has been sponsoring Santosh from Nepal since he was 3 years old, he is now 17. We also sponsor 13 years old Anelia from Mozambique, Olivia from Tanzania who is 11 years old, Elene from Georgia, 9 years old and Jhefferson from Bolovia, 6 years old. 43 Our certifications and accreditations 44 Our various voluntary certifications and accreditations, guidelines, derive from, and testify to, our commitment together with our compliance with and conformance to a culture of excellence. and adherence to the highest industry standards and Certified standards ISO 9001 Quality management systems – requirements ISO 14001 Environmental management systems – requirements BS OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series RJC COP Responsible Jewellery Council – Code of Practice RJC CoC Responsible Jewellery Council – Chain of Custody Fairtrade Fairtrade standard Gold ASP Fairmined Fairmined Authorized Supplier RGG LBMA Quality management systems – requirements Accreditations ISO 17025 General requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories (first laboratory in a refinery accredited by the Swiss Federal Authorities) Volontary commitments CFSP Conflict Free Smelter Program SEC U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Dodd-Frank Act Section 1502 GRI Global Reporting Initiative Integration of the ‘Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply OECD Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High Risk Areas – Supplement on Gold into Valcambi systems SWISSMEM Swiss mechanical and electrical engineering industry and associated technology-oriented sectors A United Nations initiative to encourage businesses worldwide to UN Global Compact adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies, and to report on their implementation WGC World Gold Council – Conflict Free Gold Standard 45 Our memberships 46 We believe in the power of joining forces to achieve Working in collaboration with the SBGA, the BGI, the more. This is why we are an active member of many EPRM, the OECD and the World Bank, the Global industry associations, partnerships and projects Mercury Partnership, Fairtrade and The Alliance for through which we exchange knowledge and Responsible Mining, we are supporting the ASM sector experience, seek solutions to issues, and deepen our in working to improve its practices so that these small understanding of the many challenges facing our mines can access global markets. sector and the world at large. For example, through the EPRM, we have been opening a dialogue with We are members of, or involved with, the following actors in the cobalt sector looking to learn from our organisations: expertise in responsible sourcing and due diligence. ACI Suisse Association Cambiste Internationale Suisse AITI Associazione Industrie Ticinesi ASFCMP Association Suisse des Fabricants & Commerçants de Métaux Précieux CME Chicago Mercantile Exchange COMEX Commodity Exchange – Accredited Refinery DMCC Dubai Multi Commodities Centre EPRM European Partnership for Responsible Minerals EPMF European Precious Metals Federation Fairtrade Max Havelaar Fairmined Fairmined Certification System was developed by Alliance for Responsible Mining (ARM) IGE Istanbul Gold Exchange – Accredited Refinery ILAC/MRA International Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation IPMI International Precious Metals Institute IPMI European Chapter of the IPMI LBMA London Bullion Market Association – Good Delivery Refinery LCTA Lugano Commodity Trading Association LPPM London Platinum and Palladium Market – Good Delivery Refinery, Referee MCX Multi-commodity Exchange of India – Accredited Refinery NYMEX New York Mercantile Exchange – Accredited Refinery RJC Responsible Jewellery Council SBGA Swiss Better Gold Association SILVER Fund to promote the Silver Industry SWISS TESTING Association of Swiss laboratories (STS 114) TOCOM Tokyo Commodities Exchange UNGC United Nations Global Compact 47 Reporting practices 48 The Valcambi sustainability report 2018 provides an There were no significant changes to the structure of overview of our efforts to promote a more sustainable the company or the supply chain during the reporting gold sector, and a more sustainable world, through our period. products, operations, people and partnerships. The reporting period is January to December 2018. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. No External Assurance The report’s content covers business, environmental has been conducted. Our reporting cycle is yearly and and social issues that have a direct and significant our latest sustainability report was issued in July 2017. impact on our company, our employees, communities and/or our strategic partners, as well as issues that our Valcambi is a signatory of the UN Global Compact. organisation has a unique opportunity to influence. The contact point for questions regarding the We identified these issues through a materiality report is Virginie Bahon, Valcambi Head of assessment we initially conducted in 2015, and that we Corporate Affairs and Communications. E-mail: have been reviewing on an annual basis since 2017. Virginie.Bahon@Valcambi.com Our operational and management teams provided content and data for this report. UN Global Compact Index Principles Global Compact Principles Page Human 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 28 human rights 2 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human right abuses 28 Labor Standards 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition 17, 28 of the right to collective bargaining 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 28 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor 28 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 16, 17, 40 and occupation Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 24 to 26 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 32 to 37 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 24 and technologies 32 to 37 Anti-Corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its form, including extortion and 6, 23, 24 bribery 49 For the GRI Content Index Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for all disclosures included align with the appropriate sections in the body of the report. GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Omission GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures GRI 102: General 102-1 Name of the organization 2 -Disclosures 2016 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 2, 3 -102-3 Location of headquarters 2 -102-4 Location of operations 2 -102-5 Ownership and legal form 2 -102-6 Markets served 2 -102-7 Scale of the organization 16 -102-8 Information on employees and other workers 16, 17 -102-9 Supply chain 22, 23 -102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 49 -102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 4 -102-12 External initiatives 43, 45 -102-13 Membership of associations 47 -102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 1 -102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 5, 6 -102-18 Governance structure 5 -102-40 List of stakeholder groups 8 -102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 17, 28 -102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 7, 8 -102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 7, 8, 14 -102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 9, 14 -102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statement 2 -102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 9 -102-47 List of material topics 9 -102-48 Restatements of information 49 -102-49 Changes in reporting 9, 49 -102-50 Reporting period 49 -102-51 Date of most recent report 49 -102-52 Reporting cycle 49 -102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 49 -102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 49 -102-55 GRI content index 50 to 54 -102-56 External assurance 49 -50 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Omission Material topics Economic performance GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 40 -Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 40 -103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 40 -GRI 201 economic 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 40 -performance 2016 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 40 -Market presence GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 16 -Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 16 -103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 16 -GRI 202 Market 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local 17 -presence 2016 minimum wage 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 16 -Procurement practices GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 41 -Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 41 -103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 41 -GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 41 -practices 2016 Anti-corruption GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 6 -Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 6 -103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 6 -GRI 205: Anti205-1 Operation assessed for risks related to corruption 6 -corruption 2016 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 6 -policies and procedures Materials GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 35 -Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 35 -103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 -GRI 301: 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 35 -Materials 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used 35 -51 Energy Page number Omission GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 34 -Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 34 -103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 -GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 34 -Energy 2016 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 34 -Water GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 36 -Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 36 -103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 36 -GRI 303: 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 36 -Water 2016 Emissions GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 33 -Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 33 -103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 33 -GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 33 -Emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 33 -305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 33 -305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 33 -305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 33 -Effluents and waste GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 37 -Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 37 -103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 37 -GRI 306: Effluents 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 37 -and waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 37 -Supplier environmental assessment GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 32 -Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 32 -103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32 -GRI 308: Supplier 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental 32 -environmental criteria assessment 2016 52 Employment Page number Omission GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 16 -Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 16 -103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 16 -GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 16 -Employment 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are 40 -not provided to temporary or part-time employees Occupational health and safety GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 18 -Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 18 -103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 18 -GRI 403: Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 18 -health and safety 2016 days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Training and education GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 19 -Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 19 -103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 19 -GRI 404: Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 19 -education 2016 Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 16 -Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 16 -103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 16 -GRI 405: Diversity and 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 16, 17, 40 -equal opportunity 2016 Child labor GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 28 -Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 28 -103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28 -GRI 408: 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 28 -Child labor 2016 child labor 53 Forced or compulsory labor Page number Omission GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 28 -Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 28 -103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28 -GRI 409: Forced or 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents 28 -compulsory labor 2016 of forced or compulsory labor Supplier social assessment GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 28 -Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 28 -103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28 -GRI 414: Supplier social 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 28 -assessment 2016 Marketing and labeling GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 29 -Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 29 -103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29 -GRI 417: Marketing and 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 13, 29 -labeling 2016 54 Acronyms and abbreviations Ag Silver Al Aluminium ASFCMP Association Suisse des Fabricants & Commerçants de Métaux Précieux ASM Artisanal Small-Scale Mining ARM Alliance for Responsible Mining CoC Chain of Custody CRAFT The Code of Risk-mitigation for ASM engaging in Formal Trade Cu Copper FTE Full-time equivalent GGP Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHG Greenhouse Gas GJ Giga Jules GRI Global Reporting Initiative H&S Health & Safety ICGLR International Conference on the Great Lakes Region ILO International Labour Organization IT Information Technology KPI Key Performance Indicator KYC Know Your Client KYP Know Your Product LBMA London Bullion Market Association LPPM London Platinum and Palladium Market LSM Large-Scale Mines NGO Non-Governmental Organization OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OPIR Ordinance on Protection against Major Accident RJC Responsible Jewellery Council SBGA Swiss Better Gold Association SDG UN sustainable development goals tCO2 eq. tons of CO2 equivalent 55 56
