SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ŽIVJETI ZAJEDNO CONTENTS CONTENTS STATEMENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE MANAGEMENT RETIREMENT PLAN BOARD OF HT BENEFITS ANTI-CORRUPTION MATERIALITY TOPICS OF HT AND CONTRIBUTION TOWARDS ETHICS AND EMPLOYEES’ DIGNITY UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS DIVERSITY REFLECTIONS OF THE INFLUENCE OF HT IN THE PUBLIC MAMFORCE standard KEY MACROECONOMIC AND MARKET TRENDS IN CLIMATE CHANGE, ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS MARKET CLIMATE CHANGE Ripple Effect ECONOMIC VALUE ENERGY Comprehensive fastcharging corridor network in DIGITAL SOCIETY southeast Europe DIGITAL INCLUSION HT ecologically managed 138,500 old mobile phones HT the winner of the award for the largest investment in Greyp electrical bike connected with HT eSIM technology digital technology BIODIVERSITY DIGITAL LITERACY MATERIALS Generation Next Paper Idea Knockout Water Hack It! Hackathon EMISSIONS Cooperation of HT and Croatian Makers OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Internet of Things Magenta 1 B2B Run WARP Future Communication program ASSESSMENT OF THE IMPACT OF PRODUCTS AND Sea Hero Quest SERVICES ON HEALTH AND SAFETY WOMEN STEM AWARDS Ten Guidelines on Electromagnetic Fields CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS COOPERATION WITH LOCAL COMMUNITIES CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE MANAGEMENT ECOMOBILE VOICE AND DATA QUALITY OF MOBILE NETWORK ARTT.HR FIRST DIGITAL MUSEUM IN CROATIA FREE EDUCATION OF SENIOR CITIZENS INTERDISCIPLINARY LABORATORY VIŠNJAN ON USE OF INTERNET SMART PAY PHONES IN ZADAR THE FIRST NATIONAL COMPARATIVE RESEARCH ON CHILD AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNIVERSITY OF DUBROVNIK SAFETY ON THE INTERNET AND HT BRINGS TOGETHER ACADEMIC COMMUNITY AND SHARE THE POSITIVE, BLOCK THE NEGATIVE BUSINESS SECTOR SMART BUS STOPS IN RIJEKA IMPACT ON EMPLOYEES COMMUNICATION WITH EMPLOYEES SUPPLY CHAIN HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT DESCRIPTION OF SUPPLY CHAIN LIFE-LONG LEARNING 2 CONTENTS PROFILE OF HT GROUP OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE Schematic representation of ownership structure APPROACH TO GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT BOARD SUPERVISORY BOARD GENERAL ASSEMBLY COOPERATION WITH BUSINESS INTEREST ORGANIZATIONS CERTIFICATES 3 STATEMENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD OF HT 4 STATEMENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD OF HT STATEMENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD OF HT Dear readers, I am very pleased to be able to present to you the HT internet speeds by 38 percent, and 4G network capacities by Sustainability Report for 2017. As the market leader and 34 percent. Large investments have given to us and to Croatia the leader of digital transformation in Croatia, through it we an important international recognition of P3 research that has present to you the breakthroughs in the field of responsible pronounced our mobile network the best in Croatia and the and sustainable business. mobile Internet in Croatia as one of the best in Europe. One of This year’s report is a major improvement compared to the the great projects we have launched, which will change in the previous one where we focused on determining the materiality coming years the core of the company so that the user is firmly for the purpose of a relevant and balanced representation of set in the focus of all our processes, is the business and digital HT's influence. Now, for the first time, we have defined the 17 transformation of HT. We want customers to be able to easily goals of sustainable development HT has the greatest impact and flexibly do business with us via digital channels. on and gives a key contribution to. I am very proud that this We are still leading the development of the Smart City conceptyear we can show a much more detailed insight into our role based solutions. We firmly believe that smart planning and in achieving Croatia's sustainable development and digital organization of urban life based on digital solutions can transformation. radically improve the quality of life in cities. Our solutions Without any hesitation I can say that the leitmotif of our focused on solving the problem of organizing parking, waste business in 2017 was the maximum effort to digitalize the collection and public transport have been recognized for economy and society. We are aware that the new wave of innovation within the Deutsche Telekom Group. In Croatia, we technological change is unstoppable, just as the wave of continue to develop an EV charging network, the use of which changes implied by a digital revolution is. It already changes is doubled every year. the way we live, work, cooperate, communicate, entertain, and HT remains committed to the fundamental principles of inform. corporate social responsibility defined by the UN Global Technology revolutionizes the ways of producing and Compact initiative whose signatory we have been since providing services, education systems, health care, waste 2007. The ten fundamental principles of the initiative allow for management, transportation, and other important systems. transparent reporting on everything we do. Technology encourages communication, new business models, I hope you will read our new report with interest and, most enables creativity and new solutions in all areas of our lives. importantly, comment on it so that we could continue to further The effects of digital transformation are multiple and have farimprove our business practices and impacts. reaching consequences on society and the environment. As a society, we must be prepared for such great changes, and we see our responsibility here. Davor Tomašković I am deeply convinced that we can help Croatia exploit all President of the Management Board of HT the opportunities brought by this latest wave of technological change and thus positively affect the future. One way is to realize the Digital Agenda for Europe that has set concrete measures and goals to enable citizens and businesses utilize digital technologies in the best possible way. We have made great progress in this area by investing heavily in infrastructure and innovative services. In 2017, we invested over HRK 1.7 billion, 8.5 percent more than in the previous year, and remained the largest private investor in Croatia. In 2017, HT provided optical access (FTTx) for 374 thousand households and speeds higher than 30 Mbit/s for 879 thousand households. We have significantly increased speeds and capacities of the mobile network. We increased mobile 5 MATERIALITY TOPICS OF HT AND CONTRIBUTION TOWARDS UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS MATERIALITY TOPICS OF HT AND CONTRIBUTION TOWARDS UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS In 2016, HT defined the key (material) topics for its responsible and sustainable business. Specially designed process included an analysis of the attitudes and expectations of different groups of stakeholders on the activities of HT, its positive and negative impacts, and an in-depth insight into the challenges of sustainability, competitiveness, customer relationships and impact management from the perspective of Maruška Vizek (The Institute of Economics), Dejan Ljuština (PwC), Vesna Mamić (Croatian Trade Union of Telecommunications), Dražen Lučić, Ph.D., Domagoj Jurjević (HAKOM) and Vladimir Jelavić, Ph.D. (Croatian Association for Carbon Footprint Reduction). Key material topics for HT were also determined. By selecting the topics, HT has met the basic prerequisite for the preparation of the sustainability report 2016 according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the leading global framework for sustainability reports (non-financial reports). “Large infrastructure companies “Telecommunications are like HT have additional no longer just infrastructure responsibility for infrastructure, and services, but rather digitalization of the society and infrastructure plus services development of awareness of plus content” digitalization and infrastructure” Domagoj Jurjević Maruška Vizek, Ph.D. Key HT's impacts in order of importance are economic value, impact on employees, customer relationship, digital society, “The role of digitalization in the climate change, environmental and health protection, supply society will be significant, a chain management, and cooperation with the local community. Part of the preparation of the Sustainability Report for 2017 substantial portion of jobs will was to re-examine the relative importance of each individual topic in relation to the previous reporting period. The analysis disappear, and future professions has shown that key impacts remain the same but get different will be knowledge-based” rank by the order of importance. The most important shift is seen in the assessment of the importance of digital society as Dejan Ljuština a key area of HT's impact. 6 MATERIALITY TOPICS OF HT AND CONTRIBUTION TOWARDS UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS A COMPARATIVE PRESENTATION OF THE ORDER OF IMPORTANCE OF MATERIAL ISSUES OF HT FOR 2016 AND 2017. 2016 MATERIAL TOPICS BY IMPORTANCE 2017 MATERIAL TOPICS BY IMPORTANCE Economic value Management that takes care of Economic value Management that takes care of aligning short-term and long-term aligning short-term and long-term goals, taking decisions that take into goals, taking decisions that take into account not only the immediate result account not only the immediate result but also the possible results over a but also the possible results over a longer period (expanding the time longer period (expanding the time horizon of decision-making), creating horizon of decision-making), creating value for HT and society. value for HT and society. Impact on employees Preserving the reputation of a good Digital society Contribution to the achievement of the and attractive employer, respecting Digital Agenda of Europe, which aims the natural limitations of employees to enable citizens and businesses to ensure their well-being and make the best of digital technologies. health, respect for the rights of all Responsibility for infrastructure and employees, the possibility of balance development of fixed broadband between private and business life, infrastructure, better access to winning and retention of employees new generation and higher speed with digital skills, understanding networks, cooperation with the state specifics of particular generations, related to infrastructure development relations between employees and the in areas where this is not economically management and the role of trade viable, development of new innovative unions. products and services that will be useful in different areas. Teaching literacy to young generations and future consumers, supporting the state's efforts in digital literacy, collaborating with the state on digital literacy projects, and contributing to the adoption of the STEM knowledge and skills needed to face a new wave of technological change. Customer relationships Simplifying customer experience Customer Simplifying customer experience and and communicating with customers relationships communicating with customers by by changing the emphasis on changing the emphasis on technical technical terms and descriptions terms and descriptions of technology of technology to customers’ needs, to customers’ needs, providing providing them with accurate and them with accurate and complete complete service information, pricing, service information, pricing, and and cost calculation method. Good cost calculation method. Good ratio ratio between service cost and between service cost and quality, quality, rewarding loyal customers. rewarding loyal customers. Ensuring Ensuring a high level of data security a high level of data security and and protection against data theft, protection against data theft, privacy privacy protection and child rights protection and child rights protection, protection, accessible and simple accessible and simple communication. communication. 7 MATERIALITY TOPICS OF HT AND CONTRIBUTION TOWARDS UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 2016 MATERIAL TOPICS BY IMPORTANCE 2017 MATERIAL TOPICS BY IMPORTANCE Digital society Responsibility for infrastructure and Impact on Preserving the reputation of a good development of fixed broadband employees and attractive employer, respecting infrastructure, better access to the natural limitations of employees new generation and higher speed to ensure their well-being and networks, cooperation with the state health, respect for the rights of all on infrastructure development in employees, the possibility of balance areas where this is not economically between private and business life, viable, development of new innovative winning and retention of employees products and services that will be with digital skills, understanding useful in different areas. Teaching specifics of particular generations, literacy to young generations and relations between employees and the future consumers, supporting the management and the role of trade state's efforts in digital literacy, unions. collaborating with the state on digital literacy projects. Climate change Defining HT’s carbon footprint and Environmental and Possible impacts of electromagnetic utilizing the potential of integrated health protection emissions, monitoring and informing communication impact on changing the public about the latest scientific customer behavior patterns, knowledge, e-waste management and increasing energy efficiency, and disposal of hazardous waste, use of significantly utilizing renewable energy low-carbon equipment, product life sources. expectancy estimates and efforts to prevent waste the circular economy. Environmental and Possible impacts of electromagnetic Climate change Defining HT’s carbon footprint and health protection emissions, monitoring and informing utilizing the potential of integrated the public about the latest scientific communication impact on changing knowledge, e-waste management and customer behavior patterns, disposal of hazardous waste, use of increasing energy efficiency, and low-carbon equipment, product life significantly utilizing renewable energy expectancy estimates and efforts to sources. prevent waste the circular economy. Supply chain Evaluation of suppliers, preventive Cooperation with the New innovative approaches and management anti-corruption mechanisms, ensuring local community partnerships with other businesses fair market conditions for all suppliers, and the academia to improve the effective procurement management quality of management in local bulk planning and unification of communities (with an emphasis on material procurement with a view to towns) and increase the involvement reducing costs. of citizens, the business community and city services. Contribution to the improvement of the tourist offer by using advanced digital solutions and better management of the supporting capacities of tourist destinations. Investments in digitalization of culture and gaining STEM knowledge and skills through various donation projects. 8 MATERIALITY TOPICS OF HT AND CONTRIBUTION TOWARDS UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 2016 MATERIAL TOPICS BY IMPORTANCE 2017 MATERIAL TOPICS BY IMPORTANCE Cooperation with the Donation projects, volunteering, Supply chain Evaluation of suppliers, preventive local community opening new jobs. management anti-corruption mechanisms, ensuring fair market conditions for all suppliers, effective procurement management bulk planning and unification of material procurement with a view to reducing costs. The HT reporting team attended a workshop as part of the result in nearly two trillion USD of additional revenue in the ICT preparation of the 2017 Sustainability Report. The aim of sector. It is estimated that out of the two trillion USD, ICT could the workshop was to acquaint team members with the UN generate revenue of USD 0.4 trillion by connecting 2.5 billion Sustainable Development Goals defined in the Transforming users to new services, and USD 1.6 trillion from providing new our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development services within eight key sectors (energy, agriculture, health, resolution adopted at the UN General Assembly on September education, housing, mobility and logistics, labor and business, 25, 2015 and determine those that HT has the greatest impact and production). on and directly contributes to their achievement. The aim of the workshop was to link the present and future activities of The members of the reporting team assessed that HT had HT with the sustainable development goals, so that HT could the greatest impact and contributes the most directly to five report on how it already contributes to them and how it could sustainable development goals. The goals are ranked accoreven further contribute to their realization. ding to the importance assigned by the team members, and a comparative overview of the SDGs whose achievement accorThe ICT sector and the mobile industry have already recoding to the Global System for Mobile Communications (GSMA) gnized the importance of sustainable development goals for mobile industry has the greatest direct impact on and can play achieving additional revenue and identifying new business a critical role in their realization points to similarities and diffeopportunities by reducing costs through increasing efficiency rences in assessment. They reflect the fact that each company and reducing waste. Jeffrey D. Sachs, Director of the Earth determines for itself the order of importance of contributing to Institute and special adviser to the UN Secretary-General each individual SDG, depending on the specifics of the market Ban Ki-moon says that in realizing sustainable development and social environment and the complex network of mutual goals “ICT is the most powerful tool we have in dealing with relationships and influences. In linking the current and future major world problems ending poverty and hunger, securing activities of HT with the sustainable development goals and a universal access to basic services and enabling transition to the indicators that HT has already reported on in the previous low-carbon economy.” sustainability reports, this report applied the methodology of the Expert Group on the International Telecommunication¹ According to the Global e-Sustainability Initiative predictions, which was presented in the document Joint Proposal of ICT SMARTer 2030, 75 percent of the population by 2030 will be Indicators for Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) indicator networked over mobile phones and the internet, which could framework. 9 MATERIALITY TOPICS OF HT AND CONTRIBUTION TOWARDS UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS THE MOBILE HT DIRECTLY CONTRIBUTES TO INDUSTRY (GSMA) DIRECTLY CONTRIBUTES TO Build resilient infrastructure, promote Reduce discrepancies between urban and sustainable industrialization, and foster rural development in broadband coverage. innovation. The communication infrastructure should serve as a catalyst for the development of other industries and the development of the local economy. Ensure inclusive and quality education More extensive use of ICT in education and promote lifelong learning enhances the positive attitude opportunities. towards learning, the development of technological skills of teachers and digital literacy, access to digital content and lifelong learning. Make towns and communities inclusive, Communication infrastructure safe, resilient, and sustainable. encourages local economy development in poor communities. Using mobile phones to transfer funds and shop (mobile money) enables access to microfinance. Promoting inclusive and sustainable Mobile operators reduce the use of economic growth, employment and energy and apply energy efficient decent work for all. practices. The mobile industry supports and enables environmental monitoring through the Internet of Things, which enables governments and institutions to collect key data for climate change management. Provide access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for everyone. 10 MATERIALITY TOPICS OF HT AND CONTRIBUTION TOWARDS UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS To better understand its influence and contribution to the sustainable development goals, HT will conduct research among all major public stakeholders during the preparation of the next Sustainability Report. The goal is to get an external assessment of HT's influence and contribution and compare it with the self-assessment by the reporting team to gain a complete picture of the economic, environmental and social impacts of crucial importance for responsible and sustainable business. Indirect contribution to SDGs Direct controbution to SDGs 11 MATERIALITY TOPICS OF HT AND CONTRIBUTION TOWARDS UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS COMPARISON OF THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS AND HT’S MATERIAL TOPICS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS MATERIAL TOPICS ••economic value ••digital society (digital inclusion) ••digital society (digital inclusion and literacy) ••customer relationship ••climate change ••digital society (digital literacy) ••cooperation with the local community ••climate change ••impact on employees ••customer relationship ••climate change ••cooperation with the local community Reflections of the influence of HT in the public One of the basic criteria for determining the quality of a report Concerning infrastructure investments, it has been emphasized is that it has to describe positive and negative aspects of the that HT increased its investments by HRK 177 million in the impact of the action. Media reporting about HT's activities is a first nine months of 2017 alone or by 18 percent compared to reflection of HT's performance that enables a holistic overview the same period of 2016 and continuously invests in improving of HT's impact on the economy, society, and the environment. the availability and quality of services, increasing the download speed, better network access and technology which is ready to HT's announcement that it will carry out IT transformation meet the huge growth in demand for broadband internet, the over the next three years to be able to participate in Croatia's greater availability of which is important for the entire economy, preparation for digital transformation was positively perceived. but also for reducing the gap between rural and urban areas. Also positively received was the news that HT has the best There was also a warning that Croatia was faced with increamobile data and voice service across all networks in Croatia, as sed outflow of highly educated professionals due to insufficient confirmed by the P3 Communications test, which awarded HT the P3 incomes and despite high gross wages, as a result of high tax Best in Test certificate, an international recognition of quality. burden on income. 12 MATERIALITY TOPICS OF HT AND CONTRIBUTION TOWARDS UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS REFLECTIONS OF THE INFLUENCE OF HT IN THE PUBLIC HT’s efforts in popularizing STEM from the kindergarten age The issue of the “right of way” payment (the annual fee that was also positively perceived because of a significant increase HT, as the owner of the communication infrastructure, has to in need for STEM experts. The position of HT was emphasized pay to the owners of land, paths and roads the infrastructure that “STEM is not a trend but a decision” and that it works clogoes through, the amount of which depends on the kilometers sely with STEM faculties and enables students to participate in that HT uses in the area of a particular town or municipality) realizing ideas on the international market without leaving Crowhich HT must pay to natural and legal persons, municipaliatia. An example given was the cooperation with the Faculty ties, towns, and the Republic of Croatia under the Electronic of Electrical Engineering and Computing in Zagreb HT signed Communications Act attracted public attention as part of the a five-year cooperation agreement with to allow students to discussion on amendments to the Electronic Communications exchange knowledge and practice with HT’s STEM staff and Act. The proposers of the Act are accused of “favoring HT at increase prospects for participation in international projects. the expense of the municipalities and towns” because they removed the term real estate manager from the final proposal, The media also reported on HT's announcements that they will which would allow HT to pay “the fee to a town or municipality continue to develop the infrastructure, products and services to only when the town or municipality shows a deed stating that prepare Croatia for the coming changes (such as smart cities), they own the road or path”. However, HT responded that it i.e. solutions for smart bus stops, lighting, parking and more. In regularly pays fees to all municipalities and towns, i.e. that it the Smart City segment, it is recognized that HT, together with pays the right of way for all legalized real estate. its strategic and local partners, is currently the only provider of comprehensive solutions for local self-government, such The media also talked about the issue of the unfavorable as smart municipal waste management, smart parking, fleet position of long-term service users of telecommunications opemanagement, shaping cash register and sales solutions saving rators, feeling of citizens that mobile operators can set up base local budgets all over Croatia, from Koprivnica to Dubrovnik. stations wherever they want and that there is no one to protect Dubrovnik was an example (a segment of smart municipal wathem from harmful emissions, and the attitude of the Croatian ste management) of how with the introduction of smart waste Association for Protection from Electromagnetic Radiation that storage systems, BigBelly and SmartBelly, utility companies accitizens are right to feel so because “laws are modified to suit hieved operating savings of 73 percent and started collecting mobile operators”. The Croatian Association for the Protection 50 percent of useful waste that was not previously separated. from Electromagnetic Radiation has also warned of an increase in the allowed radiation exposure limits, with which, according During 2017, human resource management practices were proto their estimates, the Ministry of Health lowered the existing blematized the most. Media focused on lay-offs and “massive standards for electromagnetic radiation protection. employment of students and agency workers”. This is the issue raised by Vesna Mamić as well, deputy chairman of the CroaFurthermore, the media expressed dissatisfaction of a part of tian Telecommunications Trade Union, during the definition of the minority shareholders with the proposed dividend amount. key (material) topics for responsible and sustainable business Raiffeisen's compulsory and voluntary pension fund manaof HT. She pointed out that there is a visible “transition to unsegement companies, a private and institutional investor with cure forms of work where you cannot plan your own life”. The the largest shareholding of 9.1 percent of HT shares and the news of “second instance verdict ruling on the discrimination Croatian War Veterans Fund, which owns 6.7 percent, were on grounds of age, marital and family status in case of worker dissatisfied because their counter-proposals on the dividend D.T.” also was widely publicized. amount were not adopted. 13 KEY MACROECONOMIC AND MARKET TRENDS IN TELECOMMUNICATIONS MARKET KEY MACROECONOMIC AND MARKET TRENDS IN TELECOMMUNICATIONS MARKET During 2017, positive trends in economDomestic demand and primarily private consumption are the main drivers of growth in 2017. Public spending also conic activity started in 2015, following a tributed to this growth after a few years of its negative and six-year recession continued. Real GDP neutral contribution. After the 2015’s long-awaited growth rate that continued in 2016, the investments began to slow down growth was 2.8 percent, driven primarin 2017 due to the impact of lower public sector investments ily by export and household consumpand the restructuring of operational business and financial restructuring of Agrokor, the largest food production and retail tion growth. For the fourth consecutive company. Export continued to record good results as commodyear, positive trends were recorded in ity exporters increased their market share and because the results in tourism are even better than the year before when industrial production and retail trade the highest growth rate was recorded. However, large internal turnover. There was also a further redemand and relatively high import content in tourism have contributed to an additional increase in import due to which the covery of construction activity, and total contribution of net export to GDP growth was negative.³ tourism had a record season for anothThe Croatian telecommunications market revenue in 2017 er year in a row. Labor market trends continued to recover to HRK 14 billion and is the highest in in 2017 show employment growth and five years. But it is smaller compared to the pre-2012 period. The Croatian telecommunications market last year was mostly strong drop in unemployment. After a affected by HT, with its organic growth and the acquisitions. three-year period marked by a decrease The purchase of Crnogorski Telekom is the first regional step forward and the biggest acquisition so far and is a major and in the prices in the economy, the averimportant step forward into the regional market. Furthermore, age inflation in 2017 was at relatively the Croatian Competition Agency prolonged the temporary management rights of Optima Telekom for a three-year period, low levels. The acceleration of annual i.e. until July 10, 2021, and Optima telekom successfully inflation, albeit modestly, was also merged H1 telekom. contributed by the prices of services, HT maintained its leading position in all segments of the telewhereby the rise in the cost of waste communications market, and revenue growth was contributed by mobile communications revenues and growth in system collection largely annulled the positive solutions. Net profit in 2017 was HRK 863 million, down effects of cheaper telecommunication by 7.5 percent compared to 2016.⁴ Without the influence of Crnogorski Telekom, net profit was lower by 10.8 percent. The services. The high liquidity trend of the net profit is affected by higher amortization due to increased financial system continued, and the infrastructure investments and increased value adjustment of assets and receivables. Realization of capital investments in external imbalances of the domestic 2017, compared to 2016, increased by 17.2 percent, including economy were reduced.² the contribution of Crnogorski Telekom. Without this contribution, realization of capital investments increased by 8.5 percent compared to 2016 and amounted to HRK 1,745 million. 14 KEY MACROECONOMIC AND MARKET TRENDS IN TELECOMMUNICATIONS MARKET The end of the year was marked However, despite significant capital investment growth, HT still faces numerous barriers to digitalization of the economy by the P3 independent internaand society. The key role of the Government here is that it can provide more favorable conditions for investments that will tional award for the best mobile ensure rapid digitalization of society through its policy and network in Croatia and one of the legal solutions. best mobile internets in Europe. Key issues that currently hinder even bigger investments: Investments in fixed line network have enabled optic access for 374 thousand households. Access speeds of new gener1. Croatia has the most expensive radio frequency ations are available for 879 thousand Croatian households.⁵ spectrum in Europe. In the mobile segment, 4G network capacity increased 34 2. Infrastructure construction requires payment of 38 percent, and mobile Internet speeds increased by 38 percent parafiscal charges. In other member states of the on average with speeds of up to 350 Mbit/s. The end of the EU telecommunications companies do not pay the year was marked by the P3 independent international award for fee for the right of way of electronic communication the best mobile network in Croatia and one of the best mobile infrastructure over public land. HT pays it every year internets in Europe. Thanks to the increased capacities of IP in Croatia, and the right of way fee is 10 percent of core network, the modernization of the aggregation network the value of the entire fixed market. and the increase in mobile Internet speeds, the volume of data 3. Complicated administrative procedures that slow traffic from visitors during the tourist season increased by 330 down investments percent due to new roaming regulation. 15 ECONOMIC VALUE ECONOMIC VALUE During 2017, HT kept its focus on improving customer experience and developing new services by investing in STEM generations, digital and business transformation, new generation infrastructure and technology. Business and digital transformation of HT started in May 2017. This transformation is a major operation in the HT system and includes full shutdown of a high number of the existing IT system which are replaced with convergent and optimized systems, which will change the very core of the company. It is anticipated that business processes will be reduced by 70 percent during the transformation, the number of automatics steps will be increase by 57 percent, and the service portfolio will be simplified by as much as 50 percent. The main goal of transformation is to position HT as the leader in customer experience in all markets where it operates. At the beginning of January 2017, HT acquired effect, the amount of investment in 2017 increased by HRK 137 76.53 percent stake in Crnogorski Telekom for million or 8.5 percent compared to 2016, totaling HRK 1,745 a purchase price of EUR 123.5 million. This million. The main areas of investment, driven by increased qualtransaction is part of HT's growth strategy by ity of service, customer satisfaction and further development of expanding into regional markets. By acquiring the digital society, are in the field of building fixed optical and significant synergistic effects, HT is expected to gain additional mobile 4G access networks, IP network backbone and new value with this acquisition for its shareholders and customers. service platforms for voice and television. The precondition for continuous economic development is modern electronic communication and digitalization and “We have a very successful year computerization of the society. Introduction of new information-communication technologies achieves the conditions behind us in which all financial infor further social and economic development of the state, i.e. the transition towards digital society and the economy based dicators increased, and we contion digital technologies.⁶ The strategy of HT is based on the nued with significant investments quality of services, customer satisfaction and further development of broadband access, and the development of innovative in infrastructure and company value-added services. transformation. We have compleThe global digital revolution has been going on for many years tely shifted downward trends and and has been substantially changing and affecting all areas of life and work. However, in Croatia, the further development created prerequisites for growth, of the digital economy and society is somewhat slower than expected due to a number of different reasons, such as comand by buying a majority stake in plicated administrative procedures, parafiscal charges, among Crnogorski Telekom at the bewhich the most prominent are the right of way of electronic communication and the most expensive radio frequency speginning of 2017, we stepped into ctrum in Europe. the regional market. We continue HT's biggest contribution to digitalization of to look for the opportunities for Croatia is through continuous high investments in electronic communications infraregional expansion. We remain structure, i.e. the availability and speed of broadband internet in the fixed and mobile focused on the growth strategy network. Total investments of HT in infrastructure and innoof Hrvatski Telekom as the leader vative services in 2017 amounted to over HRK 1.7 billion with numerous associated positive multiplier effects on the econoin the domestic and regional telemy and the society in general. The amount of the Company's investment in 2017 has increased by HRK 277 million, or 17.2 communications and digital servipercent, including the contribution of Crnogorski Telekom in ces market.” Davor Tomašković, president of the amount of HRK 140 million compared to 2016. Without this the Management Board of HT 16 ECONOMIC VALUE DIRECTLY GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE OF HT GROUP Directly generated and distributed economic value of HT Group DIRECTLY GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE (EVG&D) REVENUES IN HRK MILLION 1. revenues from core business 7,756 2. profit from the sale of long-term assets 72 3. revenue from rent 30 4. financial revenues 38 5. dividend from HT Mostar ― TOTAL 7.896 DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE IN HRK MILLION costs of regular operations (including salaries of non-employees of the HT Group, does not include staff costs and 1. 5.638 value adjustments) staff costs (salaries and benefits) of HT Group employees, all benefits to employees, including voluntary pension 2. fund, insurance, company cars, health protection (medical check-ups, interest subsidies for housing loans, public 1.073 transportation, severance payments) payments to equity holders 3. dividend 491 613 interest costs 122 payments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia (income tax and real estate tax, no deferred taxes, penal4. ties at all levels, state and local 180 profit tax 180 community investments (voluntary contributions to charities and research institutes (unrelated to company commercial research), non-governmental organizations, contributes to improving community infrastructure such as 5. recreational facilities, direct costs for social programs including artistic and educational events); those investments 2 do not include investments where their purpose is of a commercial nature or which are guided exclusively by the needs of the core business TOTAL 7.506 RETAINED ECONOMIC VALUE (“DIRECTLY GENERATED ECONOMIC VALUE” MINUS “DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE”) IN HRK MILLION 1. directly generated economic value 7.896 2. distributed economic value 7.506 TOTAL 390 17 DIGITAL SOCIETY • DIGITAL INCLUSION HT the winner of the award for the largest investment in digital technology • DIGITAL LITERACY Generation Next Idea Knockout Hack It! Hackathon Cooperation of HT and Croatian Makers13 Internet of Things WARP Future Communication program Sea Hero Quest WOMEN STEM AWARDS DIGITAL SOCIETY HT's role and responsibility in the digitalization of the society is to provide all citizens with the fast internet service, which requires large investments. As one of the strongest Croatian investors, HT leads the digital transformation with a long-term focus on the continuous achievement of the goals of the Digital Agenda of Europe. Digital Agenda Goals for Europe: •• availability of broadband access •• the basic access for all EU citizens by 2013 •• fast access (30 Mbit/s or more) for all EU citizens by 2020 •• ultra-fast access (100 Mbit/s or more) for 50 percent of EU households by 2020 Accordingly, the plan is to cover •• a unique digital market more than one million households •• digital inclusion by the end of 2020 with internet. •• increasing the use of the Internet to 75 percent of The space for further growth is in the EU population by 2015 areas related to the core telecom•• public services munications business, i.e. providing •• research and development new services to customers and the •• increasing the allocation for information and comICT segment that implies digitalimunication technology to EUR 11 billion zation of the economy. Digitizing •• low-carbon economy products and services will make the cities smart, and the economy more competitive and HT has an important role to play here. For digitalization of the society, connectivity and high-speed internet access are essential. At the same time, it is important for the company to digitalize itself, to increase the number of online services and for customers to communicate more and have more interactions with the company through online channels. By implementing these activities HT directly contributes to the goals of UN sustainable development. 20 DIGITAL SOCIETY DIGITAL INCLUSION DIGITAL INCLUSION In 2017, HT has enabled access to the new generation Speeds are also increasing as is the coverage of fixed access networks (NGAs) for 58 percent of households with broadband internet. a rate of >30 Mbit/s, of which 20 percent at a rate >100 Mbit/s, while the optical HT was the first in the market to introduce a Hybrid Access access network (FTTx) is available for fixed-mobile convergence service aiming to increase speeds 374,000 households. HT today offers the for fixed users that have the technical capability to achieve highest mobile network speeds up to lower speeds (at the moment maximum speeds up to 10 350 Mbit/s, while a pilot project starts Mbit/s)⁹. This gives fixed users access to internet speeds up in Karlovac where users will be provided to 30 Mbit/s simultaneously using fixed and mobile networks. with download speeds up to 550 Mbit/s⁷. The service provides an optimal complement to the fixed ⁸It is the first commercial application of network access network, while safeguarding the resources of multiple antenna technology, which is the the mobile network, which is not the case during the use of foundation of the 5G network. the so-called FMS service (FixedMobile Substitution). COMPARATIVE OVERVIEW OF HT INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT IN RELATION TO THE PREVIOUS REPORTING PERIOD 2016 2017 HT owns 80 819 kilometers of cable in transport, aggregation and HT owns 86 526 kilometers of cable in transport, aggregation access networks. and access networks. HT provides broadband internet access service with a minimum HT provides broadband internet access service with a minimum of 30 Mbps for 54 percent of households and of 100 Mbps for 16 of 30 Mbps for 58 percent of households and of 100 Mbps for percent of households. 20 percent of households (households with a capacity of 100 Mbps are included under the minimum of 30 Mbps). The coverage of the mobile broadband service with a minimum The coverage of the mobile broadband service with a minimum downlink rate of 1 Mbps is 79 percent for the territory of the downlink rate of 1 Mbps is 80 percent for the territory of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. 97 percent for the inhabitants. Republic of Croatia, i.e. 98 percent for the inhabitants¹⁰. It leases out 6 821 kilometers of pipes and 233 000 pairs of It leases out 7 417 kilometers of pipes and 216 000 pairs of copper cable for ULL. copper cable for ULL. It leases and uses four fiber optic distribution networks built and It leases and uses ten fiber optic distribution networks built and maintained by other telecom operators. maintained by other telecom operators. It shares more than 100 antenna poles with other operators. It shares more than 218 antenna poles with other operators. It leases 78 100 electricity distribution network poles. It leases 82 000 electricity distribution network poles. It leases 51 kilometers of pipes. It leases 52.5 kilometers of pipes in the cable channels of other infrastructure operators. It leases 91 100 m2 of space/land for placement of EKI mobile It leases 91 100 m2 of space/land for placement of EKI mobile network and 10 914 m2 of space/land for placement of EKI fixed network and 10 914 m2 of space/land for placement of EKI network. fixed network. Ut has 19 707 universal service users in the Republic of Croatia. It has 16 894 universal service users in the Republic of Croatia. 21 DIGITAL SOCIETY DIGITAL INCLUSION Increasing user speeds in the access part of the network also As part of the TV platform modernization to improve customer requires an increase in bandwidth in the aggregation and core experience, HT migrated its users to the new NextTV platform part of the network. The activities of extending the traffic links with the latest user interface (new transcoding technology between the central IP locations have been completed, thus inHEVC was used to improve image quality) with the replacement creasing the bandwidth by 400 percent, i.e. from 40 Gbps to of user STB devices. Interoperability has also been introduced 200 Gbps. Intensive activities on the modernization of the local that allows sharing of content between IPTV and OTT part of aggregation network throughout the Republic of Croatia have the service. continued to increase the permeability, service stability and increase quality at the end user. HT the winner of the award for the largest investment in digital technology At the Digital Takeover Conference, held on March 14, 2017, in the Branimir Center in Zagreb, hosted by 24sata, awards were given to digital business leaders in Croatia, the companies that define the digital market and apply best practice in their businesses. HT won the acknowledgment for the biggest investment in digital technology because of the investment of HRK 5.7 billion in the development of the digital market and telecommunications network in Croatia over the past five years. 22 DIGITAL SOCIETY DIGITAL LITERACY DIGITAL LITERACY Generation Next Generation Next is a new HT communication platform that unifies all company's projects A new wave of technological that help prepare Croatia for a new wave of technological change. With the concrete conchange is coming. tribution of HT to the popularization of STEM skills in science, technology, engineering and Generation Next invests mathematics in all areas of life, Generation in people who are ready Next, is the project through which HT shares its advanced technological know-how of the to take advantage of the international working environment with the society, monitors all innovations and impleopportunities brought by ments projects in the area of internet security and investment in Croatian culture. new times. This means that Generation Next also presented the winners we include young people of HT's donation contest, through which the company continually rewards and supports in STEM projects that the best STEM projects in Croatia. The total amount of donations worth HRK 700,000 change the society and this year is divided into three categories Education of young help their development and people, Education of teachers, and Innovations. future careers. The projects The winner of the Education of young people category is the project HT Campus by Astronomical Society Višnjan, of the we supported within the Education of teachers category the project Advanced Internet donation competition this of Things (IoT) technologies in Croatian schools by the Institute for Youth Development and Innovation, and in the Innovation year again will increase category the best project was The first Croatian hydrogen charging station by the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering and the number of students shipbuilding of the University of Zagreb. educated to use modern The initiator of the Advanced Internet of Things (IoT) technolotechnologies. However, this gies in Croatian schools is the Institute for Youth Development and Innovation. Through the IoT project, 100 teachers and year we have also focused on mentors will be trained to work with IoT technologies that will transfer acquired knowledge to 800 children across Croatia. educating mentors to enable Along with 20 free educational materials students and mentors knowledge transfer. will get the equipment that enables education and direct appliBoris Drilo, member of the Management Board cation of IoT technologies in practice. The project includes two creative competitions, as well as a large collaborative project and Chief Technical and Chief Information whose aim will be to create atmospheric conditions meters that Officer of HT will show their status in real time.¹¹ Idea Knockout The first place at Idea Knockout 2017, the largest regional technology competition contest organized by the Bug magazine and its general sponsor HT, went to the startup CircuitMess from Karlovac behind which is the eighteen-year-old Albert Gajšak who designed the MAKERbuino game console intended for learning basic knowledge from STEM areas (science, technology, electronics and mathematics). MAKERbuino is a gaming console that is supplied in parts and needs to be put together following online instructions, a process through which user develops passion for programming, electronics and technology. Only after putting it together is it possible to play with it. 23 DIGITAL SOCIETY DIGITAL LITERACY Hrvatski Telekom is an important part of this project, enabling as a partner the implementation of the competition for Croatian companies. As the largest Croatian startup accelerator that strongly believes in the potential of this initiative, Hrvatski Telekom will support all interested startups to show their authentic business skills in the competition.” Ana Pauzar, Head of Product Enablers and New Business Section Winning at Idea Knockout 2017 has enabled Albert Gajšak to More than 6 thousand development companies applied for the take his MAKERbuino console to The Global Stage for Innovaexhibition at Eureka Park, and only the most innovative ones tion (CES) 2018, the world's largest consumer electronics fair could exhibit. Amazon, Google, Samsung, Philips, and many othand one of the ten most visible media events in the world, in er big companies have shown interest in the robot-spider, and January. Exhibiting at this fair is an excellent opportunity to many online and TV media, including CNN reported on STEMI. promote Croatian innovative products. He received two return flights to Las Vegas, hotel accommodation in Las Vegas, Uber The general sponsorship of Idea Knockout is part of the longrides in Las Vegas and a stand at CES where he presented term strategy of HT to get established as the largest start-up his product to the world's largest auditorium: tech journalists, accelerator in Croatia. In addition to organizing Hack It! investors and potential distributors from the US and around the hackathon and HT Innovation Camp, HT also co-organizes The world. So far, more than 2 500 copies of this device have been Business Wall of Fame and supports the academic community sold, and the console has raised USD 100,000 at a recent Kickthrough the STEM:HUB project aimed at scholarships for shortstarter campaign and has exceeded its original goal tenfold. age STEM professions. The Croatian start-up STEMI presented its robot spider at 2017 CES, and two of its founders are Marin Trošelj and Pavao “In 2017, we want to turn to the Pahljina. Teenagers can assemble the hexapod robot spider by themselves following the video instructions. This encourages Western European and American passion for programming, electronics and technology. Only market and our presence at CES once it is assembled can it be managed with a mobile app. The win at the Idea Knockout 2016 enabled them to go to Las was a great opportunity to make Vegas and to present to tech journalists, investors and distributors from around the world. STEMI is one of six hundred contacts and acquaintances that start-ups from around the world exhibiting at Eureka Park, a will help us achieve this.” CES development companies’ arena that gives them a unique opportunity to launch new products, services and ideas. Marin Trošelj, co-founder of STEMI 24 DIGITAL SOCIETY DIGITAL LITERACY Hack It! Hackathon Three girls comprise the Tartle team which, with the project of virtual objects and characters. The main criteria for choosing interactive fairy tale won the second Hack It! hackathon orgathe winners were the innovativeness and the development nized by HT and DT start-up accelerator hub:raum on October of the idea and its market potential. When designing ideas, 29, 2017. The winning team that presented the interactive fairy competitors could use the state-of-the-art technology of today tale for younger age won the main prize of HRK 30,000 and the such as virtual and expanded reality. The award was given by ability to enter the DT's start-up accelerator. The team Tartle's Nataša Rapaić, Member of the Management Board and Chief app, behind which are Maja Subotić Šušak, Andreja Smetko Operating Officer Residential of HT. Hack It! hackathon has and Mirela Ćosić, uses augmented reality to enable commugathered ten teams composed of designers, programmers and nication with the child via a smartphone. The app “listens” young marketing and management experts who had 24 hours and, depending on the keywords in the environment, creates to design innovative communications solutions for the future.¹² Cooperation of HT and Croatian Makers¹³ A flower watering device plays classic music to flowers to grow In addition, all interested parties will be able to see live the faster and informs the owner by e-mail or an SMS message projects done by children, who focused their first contact with about the activities is just one of the works presented through programming on creating unique and highly creative images the project the Internet of Things and Logo in Croatian schousing Logo commands. ols. These results are the best proof that child-play imagination The Internet of Things and Logo in Croatian schools is being and diligent mentors with STEM education perfectly go hand in implemented by the Institute for Youth Development and Innohand and move the boundaries. It is also a concrete incentive vation Croatian Makers, and the funds for the implementation for parents, teachers and students to further develop and of the project are secured through the Together We Are Stroneducate in that direction. ger competition. Thanks to a donation of HRK 350,000, the Besides this “gardener” that takes good care of home-grown project involved 60 schools across Croatia, giving more than plants, what also attracted a great attention was a home 450 students a unique opportunity to learn about advanced bell that is illuminated on touch and is intended for deaf technology and ways to manage things from our environment and deaf-mute people to greatly facilitate their everyday life. over the internet. 25 DIGITAL SOCIETY DIGITAL LITERACY Internet of Things HT and the Institute for Youth Development and Innovation (IRIM) Croatian Makers presented the largest national student Internet of Things based project as part of the Advanced Internet of Things (IoT) technologies in Croatian schools in 2016 project realized within the donation contest Together We Are Stronger. The project was presented by Boris Drilo, Member of the Management Board and Chief Technical and Chief Information Officer and Nenad Bakić, co-founder of IRIM. In addition to the students, more than 60 teachers in elementary schools throughout Croatia were educated about the technologies that become unavoidable in the development of new products and services. First through eighth grade students, under the guidance of their mentors, used digital technologies to At the moment, Internet of solve various problems that they themselves identified in their Things is one of the most imenvironment in an innovative way. As part of the project, more than 70 highly interesting and innovative projects have been portant technologies intensively developed, and more than 70 educational materials have been created that the mentors will use to continue in their work developing. The advantage of with the students. Students and their mentors presented the the technology is that it enables selected works at the presentation of the project. Savski Gaj Elementary School presented a fully automated battery recycling children to create concepts that bin, the device that counts the inserted batteries and thus supports the environmentally important process of disposing are really usable and useful such and recycling batteries. Dvor Elementary School, with negative as various solutions for smart experience of floods in their area, addressed the measuring of the river water level and the rising water levels alarm system. homes and smart cities. With this Dvor Elementary School students have designed and built a fully functional water level monitoring and flood protection project we showed that students unit that sends a message in the event of raised water levels. using technology and advanced Students from Stubičke Toplice Elementary School developed a bell for those with impaired hearing, and also presented the knowledge can really do someLogo based projects with which the students, using the computer algorithms charted for example the Brod Fort, Magical thing concrete and useful for Polygons and flower meadow and Probot. their environment and the entire society. For example, the collaborative project enabled ecological measurements in real time across the entire territory of Croatia and the possibility of reacting in case of variations in temperature. I am confident that such projects can motivate young people to choose the STEM profession. Nenad Bakić, co-founder of IRIM 26 DIGITAL SOCIETY DIGITAL LITERACY In HT, we believe it is socially responsible to support digital transformation so that it strengthens the potential of Croatia's economic and social Very prominent here is the collaboration project involving at progress. The generators of the same time more than 35 primary schools in which the students throughout Croatia joined and found a way to comthis progress are undoubtedly bine knowledge and technology together, positively affecting their environment. The students have installed temperatuthe modern technologies and re measuring devices in their environment and using IoT knowledge of the STEM area, technology they connected all the devices through a central application that collects and updates the data in real time. If and thanks to this project, the temperature changes, the application allows the lights to be switched on or off in their schools. The application was we have introduced both in presented live, with Boris Drilo and Nenad Bakić turning on very practical way into prithe lights in more than 35 primary schools with one-click.¹⁴ mary schools. The creativity and innovation of students in designing and developing projects shows the potential of our society. Boris Drilo, member of the Management Board and Chief Technical and Chief Information Officer of HT 27 DIGITAL SOCIETY DIGITAL LITERACY WARP Future Communication program The program is designed for start-ups that can bring zation of services both from a technical and a business innovations to communication services and related areas point of view. WARP Future Communication provides a such as speech recognition, parental control, artificial in“triangle of power that comes from Nokia's collaboration, telligence (AI), sending and receiving voice messages and offering a technical platform, DT, offering a distribution digital life, and generally enrich the voice communication channel, and the start-up accelerator hub:raum that proand video conferencing experience. The program gives vides the know-how and the tools needed to build, develop development companies all the tools and resources necand commercialize products . In Croatia, the project is essary for the development, expansion and commercialisupported by HT. Sea Hero Quest In 2017, HT also introduced the upgrade of the Sea Hero data from 2015, more than 86,000 people live with dementia Quest mobile game, an important part of the broad initiative in Croatia. against dementia which was launched by DT, and headed by HT in Croatia, into the virtual reality environment (VR) in CroThe Sea Hero Quest VR game uses virtual reality technology atia. This made Sea Hero Quest in the virtual reality environto improve dementia research. The game is based on navigatment the first VR game to help scientists fight dementia. ing through the labyrinths of islands and glaciers and allows professionals to convert each player's movement into scientific Dementia is one of the greatest health challenges facing mandata during two-minute play. Playing only once collects the kind. According to the data of the Alzheimer's Disease Interamount of data equal to the five-hour lab research. Scientists national almost 50 million people suffer today from dementia are convinced that this research, now further supported by worldwide. Loss of spatial orientation, even in known spaces, virtual reality technology, will enable the development of is one of the first symptoms of dementia. Dementia is a precision diagnosis and effective treatment of patients living collective name for symptoms that occur when brain cells stop with dementia. The initiative was initiated and conducted by functioning properly. This is happening within specific areas DT in partnership with the University of London, the University of the brain that can affect the way of thinking, remembering, of Eastern England and the Alzheimer's Research. The game and communicating. There are numerous and different causes was developed with the developer company Glitchers. In of dementia. Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of Croatia, the initiative is implemented by HT. dementia and contributes to it in 60 to 70 percent of cases. As the disease progresses rapidly and every three seconds a new The Sea Hero Quest mobile game has been introduced in patient appears, it is assumed that by 2050, it will affect more 2016 and since then it was downloaded almost three million than 130 million people worldwide. According to the latest times. Thanks to the popularity of the game, scientists who 28 DIGITAL SOCIETY DIGITAL LITERACY research dementia have the largest database ever collected latest virtual reality technology, scientists have provided 15 from the people all over the world, which would normally take times more precise information about player orientation and more than 12 000 years of lab research. Namely, the largest navigation, allowing them to discover ways how dementia previous research involved only 599 volunteers. In addition to develops and diagnostic assessments of orientation issues. It the biggest research on dementia in history, Sea Hero Quest will also provide more precise and intuitive measurements in has also enabled defining the first global reference value situations where people are not sure which direction to take for human spatial navigation. The Sea Hero Quest VR game and, for example stop and look around. Such movements will allow scientists to compare the data collected with the could not be recorded in the “classic” format of video games mobile game and their confirmation. Furthermore, with the or mobile games. WOMEN STEM AWARDS At the initiative of Hrvatski Telekom, Croatia joined a big international project called “Women STEM Awards” aimed at encouraging young women to start their career in the STEM area. It is an international competition that selects the best graduate or master thesis and dissertation from the STEM area of all the applied papers by women students of the final years of the faculty all over the world. The Women STEM Awards project is a DT’s well-established behind the digital economy's growth, up to seven times faster project that is being held for the fifth consecutive year. Each than the classic economy. By joining the Women STEM Awards year strategic topics are carefully selected to reflect the latest project, HT wants to further boost women's participation in technological trends from the STEM area, and in 2017 they well-paid expert positions and enable them to develop managewere: Internet of Things, Artificial Intelligence, Cyber Security ment careers.¹⁵ and Networks of the Future. Starting a career in STEM professions opens up numerous opportunities for career development and advancement to “At the initiative of HT, Croatia joined young female professionals. STEM skills are the driving force the big international project Women STEM Awards. It encourages young women around the world who are graduating from faculties to make a career in one of the STEM areas. The best diploma or master's theses and dissertations from the STEM area receives a cash prize. With this project, HT additionally invests in the generation of young professionals who have the skills to work on technological projects in Croatia because it is essential to encourage greater participation of women in progressive and well-paid jobs.” MARIJA FELKEL, member of the Management Board and Chief Human Resources Officer of HT 29 CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS • CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE MANAGEMENT • VOICE AND DATA QUALITY OF MOBILE NETWORK • FREE EDUCATION OF SENIOR CITIZENS ON USE OF INTERNET • THE FIRST NATIONAL COMPARATIVE RESEARCH ON CHILD SAFETY ON THE INTERNET • SHARE THE POSITIVE, BLOCK THE NEGATIVE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE MANAGEMENT CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE MANAGEMENT Customer satisfaction is one of HT's most important strategic nicians, various HT and outsource sales representatives, and goals HT monitors customer loyalty and satisfaction with the satisfaction with HT's web site. The research is conducted on TRI*M methodology, and customer satisfaction on individual a daily basis, immediately after the end of the last interaction contact points is monitored within the International Customer with HT. By completing the survey, users have the opportunity Contact Analysis (ICCA) project. The TRI * M research metto evaluate the competence and kindness of the agent or sales hodology has been applied at the level of the entire DT Group representative they communicate with, the duration and quality since 2007. This research, apart from the overall customer of the interaction itself. The results of each individual agent loyalty and satisfaction index, also analyzes the results of specior sales representative are monitored up to the level of the fic issues of products, pricing, contact points, and processes Management Board, reported on them, and then, based on the where customer contacts HT. In this way HT has an insight achievements, short-term and long-term measures are taken into the overall picture of customer experience. The results are to improve the quality of work of agents and sales representamonitored at the level of individual employees (depending on tives and the processes themselves. In 2017, users also rated the level of responsibility) to the level of the Management Bocontacts with T-Centers, call center, and field technicians as ard and are used as strategic guidelines that define activities the best, while in 2016, they requested the self-service voice in areas where additional effort is needed to improve customer system be improved. During 2017, HT introduced a regular call satisfaction. Results in 2017 show the achievement of the back to the customers who expressed dissatisfaction in ICCA TRI*M index 61 (on a scale from -66 to +134), thus keeping the research to find the cause of dissatisfaction and resolve the level of customer satisfaction achieved in 2016 (index 62) and problem. HT also implemented a number of initiatives under 2015 (index 60). Results in some areas show that users rated the common name of CX transformations aimed at solving the quality and coverage of the mobile network with above the basic problems, improving process and customer experience. average rating. In marketing communications, advertising, sponsorships and promotion, HT applies Guidelines for DT brand and HURA ICCA explores customer satisfaction with all HT contact points: advertising code. During the reporting period, there were no call center, self-service voice mail (IVR), T-Centers, field techincidents of market communications misconduct. 32 CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS VOICE AND DATA QUALITY OF MOBILE NETWORK VOICE AND DATA QUALITY OF MOBILE NETWORK 2017 saw a continuous increase of 4G capacity by 34 percent During the testing conducted from September 28 to October 7, and the number of 4G locations by 29 percent.¹⁶ Despite these 2017 HT's network scored 918 of the possible 1000 points, far volume increases, average mobile Internet speeds increased by more than the immediate competitor. It is also the best result in 38 percent year-on-year, enabling top-of-the-line data commuthe P3 measurement history in Croatia, whereby HT has shown nication for business and residential users. The Voice over LTE that it has the best mobile service in Croatia and thus the best (VoLTE) service has been developed and implemented, enacustomer experience. bling voice calls over the 4G (LTE) network and superior voice communications of HT users in accordance with the highest industry standards. The introduction of the VoLTE service is one of the prerequisites for switching off old mobile technologies, i.e. the future better use of mobile network frequency spe“Last year, Hrvatski Telekom ctrum resources. Due to Roam like at home, EU roaming rules invested in telecommunicaon EU travel, resulting in 330.3 percent increase in roaming traffic during the tourist season, and the introduction of Stream tion infrastructure, in 4G and on service, the volume of data traffic increased by 79 percent in the mobile network. The increase in 4G capacity in 2017 broadband, but also in the deand the introduction of VoLTE services with the improvement velopment of the entire digital of quality and capacity in all segments of the network enabled a convincing victory over the competition on the P3 test.¹⁷ HT society. We will continue these concluded 2017 with the P3 Best in Test (internationally recognized network quality assurance), confirming that it has the investments this year and in best mobile network in the voice and data segment in Croatia. the years to come. We have also shown that the internet is not only for the younger generation but is also useful and interesting for the citizens over the age of 60.” Boris Drilo, member of the Management Board and Chief Technical and Chief Information Officer of HT 33 CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS FREE EDUCATION OF SENIOR CITIZENS ON USE OF INTERNET FREE EDUCATION OF SENIOR CITIZENS ON USE OF INTERNET According to research by HT, there is an increasing number of fixed service users looking for bundles that will give them even more services and benefits, and as much as 30 percent of all new broadband Internet users are older than 60. 50 percent of them do not have an adequate internet access device and are intimidated by the internet. However, every fifth fixed telephony user will choose a broadband line if the offer would include a computer or tablet. In accordance with this and the strategy for increasing the pers, and communicate with the closest ones. Today they are availability and use of the fast internet, HT has initiated a pilot looking for more than just a regular fixed line, so HT has deveproject, in cooperation with the Citizen Education Association, loped advanced packages with additional benefits. Unlimited i.e. free education for all citizens young in mind. The education calls and internet has proven to be particularly successful, and took two classes during which an IT engineer showed particiincludes unlimited calls to all fixed and mobile networks in the pants how to work on the Windows operating system, connect Republic of Croatia, unlimited internet traffic and a specially to the internet and Wi-Fi, how to use email, social networks, adapted tablet with installed applications to read newspapers and other programs they were most interested in. Education and communicate with the closest ones. Unlimited calls with was held in Zagreb and Split, the participants were provided with TV bundle includes unlimited calls to all fixed and mobile equipment, but they could also bring their tablets or laptops. networks, more than 80 TV channels, and a fixed phone for one kuna, while the Halo I call everybody bundle includes 100 Users over the age of 60 are a growing consumer group that minutes to all fixed and mobile networks, internet access and a see digital connectivity as freedom and a window into the monthly discount up to HRK 31 on HT electricity price. Reliable world. They play games and use applications to seek financial HT technicians are available to users of all three bundles to services and advice, track weather forecast or read newspahelp them completely overcome the fear of installation.¹⁸ 34 CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS THE FIRST NATIONAL COMPARATIVE RESEARCH ON CHILD SAFETY ON THE INTERNET THE FIRST NATIONAL COMPARATIVE RESEARCH ON CHILD SAFETY ON THE INTERNET The EU Kids Online project partners, headed by the Association for Communication and Media Culture (DKMK), the Agency for Electronic Media and HT, launched the first national comparative study of the media habits of children and their parents and the safety of children on the internet. This is a unique partnership on the international EU Kids Online project in the field of media literacy research that will also include Croatia in the world standard of monitoring child internet security. Alongside the Association for Communication and Media Culture, the “Over the last few years, various Agency for Electronic Media, and HT, the partners in the implestakeholders in Croatia talk about mentation of this research were the City of Zagreb (Elementary School Većeslava Holjevca), the Croatian Regulatory Authority how children and young people for Network Industries (HAKOM), the Center for Missing and Abused Children/Center for Safer Internet (CSI), supported are exposed to the media, highliby the Ministry of Science and Education and the Ministry of ghting the opportunities and threDemography, Family, Youth and Social Policy. ats they face in the online world. The Agency for Electronic Media is constantly working to promote media literacy and has, among other things, launched Now, for the first time, we will the internet portal medijskapismenost.hr with its partners. have a detailed insight into the Participating in the EU Kids Online project is a kind of continuation of activities to improve media literacy. This research is media habits of our children and crucial for the adoption of national guidelines for the safe use of the internet, the development of educational materials for young people, but we will also see children and parents and for the development of national and for the first time how big the palocal education policies. The research will also have a significant impact on the activities of many stakeholders involved in rents’ responsibility is and we will protecting children's rights on the internet, stimulating critical thinking, raising awareness of threats and opportunities arising be able to compare this data with from online exposure of children and young people. other EU countries. That is why this is a unique research that will have a great impact on our educational policies as well,” said the national coordinator of EU Kids Online Research doc. dr. sc. Igor Kanižaj, Vice President of DKMK and Assistant Professor at the Faculty of Political Science. 35 CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS SHARE THE POSITIVE, BLOCK THE NEGATIVE SHARE THE POSITIVE, BLOCK THE NEGATIVE The HT’s project Share the positive, block the negative, was announced the initiative of the year in the Social Responsibility category of the big Security Award that was established in 2011, awarded by the Croatian Association of Security Managers. It gives recognition to individuals, business entities and institutions, to the local community to all who make a big contribution to achieving and developing security. It is also a project that united the academic community, the non-governmental sector and the state institutions to increase the level of child safety on the internet. HT's main partners are Hrabri telefon and the Association for Communication and Media Culture (DKMK), whose representatives coordinate EU Kids Online, the largest international project in the area of media habits of children. The initiative encompasses a number of activities on increasing the level of awareness and better protection of children on the internet, and the key outcome will be the first national comparative research of the level of safety of children on the internet, which will for the first time in Croatia be able to make a solid foundation for national regulation of this essential topic. 36 CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS SHARE THE POSITIVE, BLOCK THE NEGATIVE „As the leaders of the digitalization of the economy, but also the entire society, we in Hrvatski Telekom believe that we all have to make an important step towards improving the level of security, especially of children in the digital society. That is why we launched a socially responsible initiative Share the positive, block the negative that united the academic community, the non-governmental sector and the state institutions. Its integral part is this research. We will continue to invest in educating our users, as well as continually introducing new products and services that increase security on the Internet.” Nina Išek Međugorac, director of Corporate Communications 37 IMPACT ON EMPLOYEES • COMMUNICATION WITH EMPLOYEES • HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT • LIFE-LONG LEARNING • RETIREMENT PLAN • BENEFITS • ANTI-CORRUPTION • ETHICS AND EMPLOYEES’ DIGNITY • DIVERSITY MAMFORCE standard IMPACT ON EMPLOYEES COMMUNICATION WITH EMPLOYEES TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT, EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT AND GENDER FOR HT D.D. HT 2017. Total number of employees 3709 Men 2289 Women 1420 Fixed term employees 3532 Men 2178 Women 1354 Fixed term employees 177 Men 111 Women 66 Full time contract 3709 Men 2289 Women 1420 Part time contract 0 Men 0 Women 0 Workers who perform certain ht activities but are not employed (agency workers or other form of engagement students) 2430 Agency workers 1444 Students 986 COMMUNICATION WITH EMPLOYEES Regular communication through which employees receive information on a variety of key topics is carried out through various channels. One of the regular formal means of communication is the regular meetings of members of the Workers' Council, as representatives of workers and representatives of human resources. At these meetings, consultations are conducted on all decisions affecting the equal status of employees as well as information on changes in internal acts. The Collective agreement establishes the manner of work of the representatives of the Workers' Council and cooperation with the representatives of the employer, but the period of the announcement is not specified. 40 IMPACT ON EMPLOYEES HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT For the fourth consecutive year, HT has been awarded the and positioned HR function that covers all the essential human Employer Partner certificate for excellence in human resoresource management sub-functions and the values that are urces management. During the recertification, HT achieved woven into the day-to-day operations of the company and in all 98 percent of the total number of points, ranking among the HR processes. All HT employees are covered by a performance companies with the most advanced human resource manageappraisal system that is linked to strategy, reward and devement practices. The highest possible number of points HT has lopment. Furthermore, organizational culture encourages open achieved in areas of strategy and work, motivation and rewards. and two-way communication and enables employees to provide With regard to the strategy HT stands out with a well-organized suggestions, ideas and comments through different channels. EMPLOYEE TURNOVER 2017¹⁹ TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 3709 Region 2017 Year Under 30 years of age 30 50 Years of age Over the age of 50 Total Gender M W M W M W New employees (HC) 140 54 108 35 1 2 340 HT Inc. Left (HC) 35 27 125 90 52 31 360 Difference new 105 27 -17 -55 -51 -29 -20 employees – left Percentage of change 3% 1% 0% -1 % -1 % -1 % -1 % 41 IMPACT ON EMPLOYEES LIFE-LONG LEARNING LIFE-LONG LEARNING HT intensively supports and raises the awareness of the need develop additional competencies. There is also a number for lifelong learning. The latest achievements in the industry of IT trainers in HT who also go through the “coaching the require regular improvement and improvement of knowledge coach” program to continuously improve their coaching skills. and skills. All HT employees are expected to regularly adopt In addition to formal education in digital form or live educanew knowledge and develop different competencies, thus tion, HT has recognized that learning and development are enhancing personal competitiveness. HT has developed an taking place in other ways as well: by enriching work tasks e-learning system that all employees may or must (depending and providing regular development feedback. This is why on the subject of education) take when and where best suits managers are encouraged to further develop their teams them because the system is available 24/7. In addition, emand are assessed on the basis of how they develop their ployees have access to the Magenta MOOC (Massive Open team. Online Course), Skillsoft, and Learnlight programs for DT Group employees that provide interdisciplinary learning exThe Talent program for 100 talents continued in addition to perience based on video tutoring, academic mentorship and the education of employees who were carried out in 2017 peer learning on digital trends and new business models. The in several thematic areas. The Leadership Academy for the digital learning systems make more than 10,000 educations management, which was attended by 120 managers, continand more than 5 thousand digital books available. ued. Different forms of professional education are a standard practice, and digital education is available to employees with A well-developed system of internal education from various more than 3 thousand different topics and one thousand digiareas was kept in 2017. HT's employees have specific expert tal books. All this enables them to take responsibility for their knowledge, and the internal knowledge transfer is equally personal development and approach the targeted education beneficial to the recipient and lecturer themselves, who thus whenever they need it. TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE 2016. 2017. HT Average Average hours Total hours HC Total hours HC hours per per employee employee Total by type of workplace 64 282 3730 17,24 63 800 3709 18 • Executive 46 597 3107 15 44 950 3091 15 • Managing 17 658 623 28,34 18 850 61 31 Total By Gender 64 282 3730 17,24 63 800 3709 18 • Men 34 125 2254 15,15 32 700 2289 14 • Women 30 157 1476 20,43 31 100 1420 24 42 IMPACT ON EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT PLAN RETIREMENT PLAN HT respects the statutory obligation Furthermore, employees have additional benefits in and regularly pays contributions for all the form of a Closed-ended Voluntary Pension Fund workers in the system of generational T-HT with more favorable conditions and benefits for member employees. In 2017, HT voluntarily paid HRK solidarity at a rate of 20 percent in the 40,400 to the benefit of members of the fund HT em1st pillar and for insured persons who ployees. According to the collective agreement, each worker may decide whether they wish the employer are insured in both mandatory pillars to pay funds in the form of monthly payments to the the contribution rate for the 1st pillar is Fund in the amount of vacation bonus or as a vacation bonus to use for the annual leave 15 percent, while in 2nd pension pillar 5 percent of contributions is paid to personal accounts in mandatory pension funds. 43 IMPACT ON EMPLOYEES BENEFITS BENEFITS On the basis of the Collective Agreement, HT has provided various benefits to its employees, and special attention has been paid to material benefits in the form of material assistance to workers who find themselves in difficult life situations that are always possible and thus shows how important social sensitivity is. Life insurance not provided Health care provided; regular medical check-ups and systematical care about safety at work Disability insurance provided Parental leave provided Retirement insurance provided Share ownership not provided Accident insurance provided ••paid leave up to a maximum of seven (7) days a year for important personal needs (e.g. marriage, birth of a child, death of a close family member, relocation etc.) ••two (2) days off for voluntary blood donation ••paid leave to take exams in the education programs the workers attend ••payment of vacation bonus ••payment of Christmas bonus ••payment of Easter gift voucher Other rights from collective ••payment of a gift for workers’ children under the age of 15 agreement ••payment of support for workers: single parents, parents with four and more children and parents of children with developmental difficulties ••payment of the cost of commute ••severance pay in case the employer terminates the employment contract due to business or personal reasons ••severance pay for retirement ••payment of support in case of death of a close family member, the event of severe disability of the worker, continuous sick leave longer than 180 days and birth or adoption of the child Indicator / 2017 year Men Women entitled to parental leave 32 53 used parental leave 7 39 returned to work in 2017 after parental leave 6 37 employed 12 months after returning from parental leave 5 31 rate of return after maternity leave (first six months after the birth of child) 100 % 44 IMPACT ON EMPLOYEES ANTI-CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION As part of its annual assessment of compliance risk, HT conducted a compliance risk analysis that included Iskon and Combis during 2017. The analysis included an assessment of the active and passive corruption risk. Of the total number of organizational units tested through risk assessment, 50 percent think that there is a possibility of exposure to the risk of corruption. Significant risks associated with corruption have been identified in the segment of seeking or receiving any monetary value or other privileges, as well as in the segment of organizing various events, giving donations and sponsorships. Workshops have been held with MB members and managers on the assessment of the effectiveness of the control environment and the determination of residual risk as well as measures to cover the remaining risks. In addition, regular training on the compliance rules and prevention of corruption at the level of the HT Group has been carried out. During 2017, HT successfully completed the process of certiAll activities undertaken by HT are aligned with the fundamenfication of the Compliance Management System (CMS). The tal principles laid down in the new corporate Code of Conduct certification procedure was carried out by an external audit that is substantively adapted to the economic circumstances firm KPMG in accordance with the German standard 980 and and the economic environment in which the HT Group operother regulations concerning the control environment for the ates. HT's Code of Conduct has so far been adopted twice, prevention of corruption. The certification has confirmed that in 2006 and 2011. All employees, including members of the the HT's compliance management system is effective in pregoverning body, are familiar with HT Group's anti-corruption venting risks. During 2017, two proceedings against HT before policies and procedures. Policies are published in company's the Competition Agency (AZTN) in connection with abuse of newsletters and are also available on the corporate intranet. dominant position due to the distribution of premium football There are four ways in which HT raises awareness of issues content exclusively through MAXtv service, and the abuse of of corruption risk: communication of the Management Board, the dominant position in wholesale markets due to the failure regular trainings and employee-focused activities, regular camto resolve malfunctions, interferences and realize services paigns on the International Corruption Day and the Business within the prescribed deadlines have not been completed. Compliance intranet page. Members of the HT Group's management bodies and employIn order to ensure a transparent and “clear” business and to ees have been provided with extensive eLearning training on inform our business partners with anti-corruption policies and corruption related risks that is permanently available to emprocedures, an anti-corruption clause has been incorporated ployees on internal sites. Education is based on an interactive into all contracts of the HT Group and its affiliated companies. and multimedia approach to employee awareness and educaAt any time, they can access the Code of Conduct on the web tion, and special attention is paid to educating new employees site, and they can also use the portal to report non-compliof the HT Group who are continually invited to participate in ance. HT also organizes training for business partners. There education. In addition to issues related to the recognition and were no confirmed corruption incidents in 2017, indicating the prevention of conflicts of interest and corruption, risks include adequacy of the current control environment for the prevendealing with gifts and benefits, relationship with members of tion of corruption. If they have issues related to prevention the public sector and the control in working with external conand prevention of corruption risk exposure, employees and sultants and representatives. Education also includes a clear members of the management body can ask experts through message from the Group's Management Board on the need to the consultation Ask Me portal. fight corruption at all levels Tone from the Top. 45 IMPACT ON EMPLOYEES ETHICS AND EMPLOYEES’ DIGNITY ETHICS AND EMPLOYEES’ DIGNITY HT Group strictly forbids any form of with it. Furthermore, in 2017, HT joined the Diversity Charter Croatia, signed by the President of the Management Board, discriminatory behavior. According to the which unambiguously expressed his view on the importance Code of Conduct and other internal regof diversity and the diversification of the business world. Everyone can report improper behavior or violation of the ulations, HT Group has zero tolerance Code of Conduct. The Ethical Line has been established as a for any form of discrimination. However, system that provides employees, but also all third parties, with confidentiality and, if they so wish, anonymity. The Ethical line if such a case arises, the Company has, is accessible by post, phone, fax, e-mail or via a special web according to law, appointed persons tool. During the year 2017, HT Group received two reports regarding dignity protection, whereby the persons from HR and in charge of receiving complaints and Compliance, authorized by the employer to protect the dignity protecting the dignity of workers. of employees established that there were no elements of any form of discrimination or harassment of workers, after which there were no further employee actions. Likewise, in 2017, a The Collective Agreement once again emphasizes that HT court procedure was initiated to establish discrimination and does not accept any form of discrimination at the workplace compensation for damages, but this case refers to 2014. This and is permanently committed to promoting equal opportunidispute is still in progress. In that case, the worker did not adties and respecting the diversity of employees. The company dress the employer before filing the lawsuit in order to protect protects the dignity of employees in the workplace by providtheir dignity. ing them with working conditions that will prevent exposure to any form of direct or indirect discrimination, harassment or sexHT did not conduct human rights education, but in case of any ual harassment. In their contacts with business partners and suspicions of human rights violations employees may third parties, employees and management bodies must also file a report with the persons authorized to receive complaints respect the personal dignity of each individual and, in particand protect employees’ dignity. Human Rights Procedures and ular, refrain from any activities that might affect the equality Guidelines are available on the intranet and on of other employees due to race, color, sex, sexual orientation, the Tell me portal. marital status, family responsibilities, age, language, religion, political or social status, membership or non-membership in In HT, no workplace is subject to minimum wage regulations, a political party, trade union or any other social organization, i.e. all wages are above the legal minimum. The wage of a physical or mental difficulties or material worker is determined by an employment contract in the gross circumstances. amount and can be increased if the worker has a salary supplement for work under special working conditions (overtime, HT is a signatory to the Social Charter night work, shift work, Saturday, Sunday, holidays, bonuses, and has committed to respecting the etc.). The gross basic salary of a workplace in the lowest, first principles of the Charter and, inter alia, to pay grade is HRK 4,000 and additional wage increases are respecting diversity and equal rights for added to it. The average monthly gross salary paid in 2017 was all. Every year, the CHRO confirms with HRK 12,168, which is 1 percent higher than the average gross signature the adherence and compliance salary paid in 2016, which was HRK 11,991. WORKPLACE VALUATION Average contracted salary for 2017 Men Women Managers HRK 31,693 HRK 31,256 Other employees HRK 11,008 HRK 10,820 46 IMPACT ON EMPLOYEES DIVERSITY DIVERSITY Out of a total of 3709 employees in HT, 38 percent are women, Developing a healthy organizational culture and introducing proand they are represented by the high 42 percent in managerial grams that provide a balanced life and linking career and family positions. Regular satisfaction surveys and employee engageare important factors of our employees' satisfaction. Christmas ment help recognize and implement measures that help to for Kids, Day with mom and dad at work, Friday in slippers and achieve a better balance between private and business life of a day off for parents for the first day of the school of their first employees. Organizational culture is characterized by open graders are just some of the HT programs. communication, respect for diversity and concern for gender MAMFORCE standard equality. Within its own STEM HUB incubator, HT forms a community of young STEM experts with special emphasis on women. Regarding diversity in the management bodies, with its 43 On December 14, 2017, HT was declared a family and women percent share HT is one of the leading local and European friendly company and became the holder of the MAMFORCE companies in terms of the share of women in managerial standard of basic and advanced degree. positions, which is more than the total share of women in the total number of employees. This is considerably more than the The MAMFORCE standard is awarded by the Busy Mom average 35 percent of women in managerial positions in the Institute for Research and Education to those organizations European Union (the last figure by EUROSTAT) and far more that successfully organize work and working environment while than the share of women managers in the telecommunications respecting the principles of balance of professional and private industry. Furthermore, women holding managerial positions in life and equal opportunities for professional development. HT have equal material conditions as their male counterparts. The assessment method is based on science and has been This positions HT far above the Croatian and EU average, as developed in cooperation with leading academic and internathe latest statistics show that women in managerial positions tional institutions. Supporters of the MAMFORCE standard as a in Croatia have an average of 17 percent lower salaries than tool for positive changes in the labor market in Croatia are the male counterparts, while the average at EU level points to an Gender Equality Ombudsperson, the Ministry of the Economy, even worse situation because women earn an average of 23.4 Entrepreneurship and Crafts, Ministry of Labor and Pension percent less. One of the key factors in attracting and retaining System, Croatian Employers' Association, Croatian Chamber of such a high number of women managers and women in generEconomy and Global Compact Croatia. al, especially in the dynamic telecommunication industry, is the balance between private and business life. “We are proud of the MAMFORCE standard, for the second consecutive time, so we clearly show the direction HT wants to develop its relationships with employees, in the industry where workload is dynamic and intense, and employees are expected to be very engaged, willing to change and are innovative. In addition, following the latest trends in digital society, HT is the first company to initiate the popularization of STEM in Croatia, and with own example we want to encourage as many women as possible to engage in these professions. This year, Croatia, at the initiative of HT, joined the big international Women STEM Awards project that encourages young women around the world to build their careers in a STEM field. The best diploma or master's theses and dissertations from the STEM area get a cash prize. With this project, HT additionally invests in the generation of young professionals who have the skills to work on technological projects in Croatia because it is essential to encourage greater participation of women in progressive and well-paid jobs.” MARIJA FELKEL, member of the Management Board and Chief Human Resources Officer of HT 47 CLIMATE CHANGE, ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH • CLIMATE CHANGE Ripple Effect • ENERGY Comprehensive fastcharging corridor network in southeast Europe HT ecologically managed 138,500 old mobile phones Greyp electrical bike connected with HT eSIM technology • BIODIVERSITY • MATERIALS Paper Water • EMISSIONS • OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Magenta 1 B2B Run • ASSESSMENT OF THE IMPACT OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES ON HEALTH AND SAFETY CLIMATE CHANGE, ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH CLIMATE CHANGE CLIMATE CHANGE HT's Management Board regularly considers the effects of various types of risks on company operations, among which are risks directly or indirectly linked to climate change. To reduce and control its impact on climate change, HT has defined a documented process for treating ozone depleting substances and procedures as part of the certified Integrated Environmental, Health, and Safety at Work Management System in accordance with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards and processes of Energy Management and Ecological Practice when using official vehicles. Furthermore, through its Environmental Health and Safety Management Policy and Energy Policy, HT continuously strives to find solutions for energy-efficient products and services, to save natural resources and preserve health and the environment. HT has a very wide access network that is largely built as ernment, e-banking, and the like) and virtualization of business above ground, especially in rural and less populated areas, in so far very “physical” environment by changing traditional and is therefore highly susceptible to weather damage (strong products with electronic products. winds, storms, snow, ice, thunderstorms, floods, etc.) which are increasingly happening as a result of climate change. In With the introduction of state-of-the-art ICT technology HT also order to ensure business continuity and increase the network's affects the reduction of its own carbon footprint. HT as the resistance to weather disasters, as part of its regular operaleader in the introduction of advanced ICT technologies and tional activities HT invests financial resources in replacing the solutions has the obligation to apply them in its own business above ground network with an underground one in particuby introducing the e-company concept and by changing the larly vulnerable areas where such damages are frequent and methods and channels of communication with customers (onextensive. In addition, HT's telecommunications infrastructure line advertising, online sales, online customer support, e-bills is heavily dependent on safe and uninterrupted power supply, etc.) . By developing, introducing and wider offer of ICT serwhich is why it is exposed to the risk of power outages in vices in the cloud, HT also contributes to the beneficial impact the public network caused by weather conditions. In order of ICT technology and services on climate change, manifested to anticipate and prevent potential financial losses due to the through reduced travel needs, reduced use of paper and other interruption of telecommunications traffic, HT carries out the material resources, less, rational and more efficient use of appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure energy and etc., which further influences the reduction of the stationary and mobile backup power systems for all major emission of harmful gases, especially CO2 into the air. infrastructure facilities. Assessing and protecting the health of users is one of the key risk management elements in HT. The central internal audit of Ripple effect HT Integrated Environment Management, Health and Safety System, as part of the DTAG Integrated Management System, was successfully carried out by DT’s auditor in accordance With its products and services, HT often conwith ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards. The audit reaftributes to reducing electricity consumption firmed the appropriate integration of environmental concerns and its users' resources. For example, cloud in all relevant work processes, respect for all relevant legal solutions enable users to use a high-perforand other requirements and high environmental awareness of mance shared IT infrastructure, reducing employees. power consumption and CO2 emissions without compromising on a high level of security. Most of these products and services enable the development and application of different forms of online business (e-commerce, e-gov50 CLIMATE CHANGE, ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH ENERGY ENERGY The Energy Efficiency project continued Some of the goals and measures are: •• Communicating and raising awareness: in 2017, leading to the trend of increased •• participating in Earth Hour consumption being decreased significant•• educating students about the importance of proper disposal of old mobile devices and accessories for the purpose of ly, so consumption of electricity increased their recycling and protecting the environment. by only 4 percent compared to 2016. •• Accident and risk prevention: On the one hand, the main reasons for •• improving and checking employee training conducting increased electricity consumption are evacuation and rescue drills •• safe use of equipment reconstruction and replacement the expansion of both fixed and mobile of antenna poles and carriers; thermovision recording of networks, the introduction of new technolelectrical installations and distribution cabinets for efficient detection of possible overheating of electrical installation ogies, increased data center capacity and elements. extreme temperatures during the summer, •• Reducing greenhouse gas emissions and climate protecwhich impose additional demands on tion: cooling and air conditioning of sensitive •• the purchase of new vehicles that meet all ecological criteria telecommunications infrastructure. On •• reduce and prevent emissions of harmful gases in the air the other hand, growth is limited by key gradually replace the remaining systems and devices using HCFC (R-22), ozone depleting substance savings initiatives, including moderniza•• reconstruction of three boiler rooms (installation of a more tion of telecommunications equipment, economical boiler, remote control and automatics) •• replacement and modernization of cooling units the introduction of efficient air condition•• promoting, presenting and implementing the Internet of ing and power systems, optimization and Things (IoT) technological framework in order to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions (e.g. restoration of real estate in accordance Smart City CEKOM) with the principles of energy efficiency, •• monitoring the microclimate conditions (CO2 level in the air) in the classrooms of one elementary school in increased use of IT resources and nuDubrovnik. merous other activities that contribute to •• Energy consumption: cost-effective energy consumption. •• reduce heating energy products consumption install new, more economical heat pumps In 2017, HT increased electricity supply from renewable sources •• installation of heat efficient facades on two buildings and by 60 percent compared to the year before, i.e. more than 105 heat efficient windows on three buildings GWh, making almost 80 percent of total HT electricity consump•• installation of thermal insulation on five buildings tion²⁰ Furthermore, electricity procured from non-renewable •• DC system replacement sources decreased by 55 percent. Regarding total direct energy •• reduction of CO2 emissions as HT's contribution to the consumption from non-renewable sources, in 2017 it increased joint goal of the DT Group (20 percent from 2008 to 2020). by 1 percent compared to 2016, and the reason for the increase was the colder winter, i.e. the increase in need for heating com•• Consumption of natural resources: pared to the previous year. •• reduce paper consumption for printing of bills and itemized call statements for customers by promoting the use of As part of the certified Integrated Environmental, Health and e-bills Occupational Safety Management System in line with ISO 14001 •• promotion of immateriality promote the use of electronic and OHSAS 18001 standards, HT regularly establishes environmedia for internal and external communication (intranet, mental goals and programs and measures to achieve them. In internet, e-mail, SMS) and promotion of products and the year 2017, 43 environmental management targets were set services in total, many of them linked to energy efficiency and reduced •• promoting and implementing services that reduce energy energy consumption or carbon footprint. consumption and customers’ resources. •• promoviranje i implementacija usluga koje smanjuju potrošnju energije i resursa na strani korisnika. 51 CLIMATE CHANGE, ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH ENERGY Comprehensive fastwithin this project. Planned locations are shopping malls, gas stations and similar facilities with easy access to the motorcharging corridor ways, and the first project partner is Kaufland Croatia. The Comprehensive fast-charging corridor network in southnetwork in southeast east Europe project is aimed at providing superior customer experience by implementing an advanced ICT system that will Europe²¹ enable geolocating of free charging stations, booking sockets, authorization, billing and providing the best customer support. It will also enable the design of the offer bundle with other digital services such as smart parking, intermodal transport car sharing and/or public transport and other services. The first charging stations were set up on the parking lot of two Kaufland stores in Zagreb, Blato (Jaruščica 6) and Sloboština (Karela Zahradnika 16a). Two cars can be charged simultaneously with a total of three different ports. Charging stations are available HT and Kaufland Croatia in Zagreb have set up two fast EV 24 hours a day seven days a week and charging is completely free charging stations as part of the Comprehensive fast-charging not just for Kaufland customers but also for all EV users. corridor network in southeast Europe project. The two EV charging stations mark the beginning of the project co-fiCoverage with the EV charging station network will enable nanced by the European Union, which is set to open 69 fast the development of green e-mobility corridors in Central and and four ultra-fast EV charging stations at 31 locations on South-Eastern Europe and is part of a wider global project for corridors across Croatia and Romania. The project runs until connecting South East Europe countries. The project contribthe end of 2020 and its total value is EUR 4.3 utes to the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy, in particular in the part defined by the Clean Power for Transport package. It is estimated that the EU-level e-mobility industry in 2020 In addition to the traditional jobs required for the development will be worth EUR 5 billion and will create at least 700 000 and maintenance of the charging station network, the project new jobs by 2025. The installation of 16 fast and one ultra-fast encourages employment in the IT system and digital services charging station at least six locations in Croatia is planned segment development. 52 CLIMATE CHANGE, ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH ENERGY There are more and more EV drivers in Croatia, but also tourists who want a fast and accessible charging service for their vehicle wherever they go. HT manages over 50 percent of EV charging stations in Croatia whose use has increased by 100 percent in the last year alone. With this project, our largest regional network of publicly available Puni.hr charging stations is expanding internationally and our goal is to create a complete digital platform for connecting various ICT services and solutions such as smart parking and connected vehicles. We thank the European Union for co-financing and the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Energy, for recognizing the strategic importance of the project.” Dino Novosel, HT 53 CLIMATE CHANGE, ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH ENERGY HT ecologically •• All T-Centers provide conditions managed 138,500 old for reception and further ecological management of old elecmobile phones²² tronic devices from HT's sales assortment. HT continued to partner with the Sisak •• All users who bring their old elementary school 22. lipnja, and orgamobile device to T-Center can nized the education of the students on take advantage of the HT serthe importance of proper disposal and vice Replace and Save and get recycling of old mobile devices and aca discount on purchasing goods cessories for the preservation of health from HT's offer. and the environment. HT handed over all •• On average, every inhabitant the old mobile devices that the students of Croatia annually disposes of collected to be ecologically handled by 6.67 to 10.11 kilograms of elecauthorized Croatian concessionaires. tronic waste. HT has also traditionally carried out the eco-friendly management of old mobiles, whose number has soared to the respectable 138,500. All T-Centers provide conditions for reception and further Greyp electrical bike ecological management of old electronic devices from HT's sales assortment (cell phones and the like) and the related batteries. All users who bring their old mobile device to T-Center can take connected with HT advantage of the HT service Replace and Save and get a discount on purchasing goods from HT's offer. eSIM technology Cell phones and other electronic devices contain components that can adversely affect the environment if they are disposed without HT and Greyp, Croatian manufacturer of electric bicycles, control. By their proper disposal we help prevent possible negative have established cooperation during which they will develop a consequences for the environment and human health. Estimates new Greyp electric bicycle model that HT will support with the are that between 30 and 45 thousand tons of electronic waste is new innovative eSIM service. This is a big innovation on the disposed of in Croatia annually (old household appliances, TVs, Croatian market, but also within the Deutsche Telekom Group. computers, cell phones, refrigerators and the like). On average, The connected electric bicycle is expected to be on the market every inhabitant of Croatia annually disposes of between 6.67 to next spring. The eSIM service represents a major breakthrough 10.11 kilograms of electronic waste, and this quantity is constantly because it replaces the use of physical SIM cards and enables increasing, averaging by 10 percent per year. various devices to connect independently. Thus, through HT's eSIM profile, the new generation of Greyp bikes will exchange The composition of mobile devices varies depending on the data between the vehicle itself and internet and mobile applimodel and technology development, as new materials and cations without the need for a physical SIM card. The Greyp compounds are being introduced in production with better or bicycle has a number of great features like auto-video recording, improved properties. Analyses of some of the models probody tracking, alarm, remote control and data duced show the following composition: most of the mobile exchange via social networks. Some of the device consists of different types of plastic (e.g. there is around other functionalities are the automatic distress 29 percent of ABS plastic), an average of about 15 percent call based on the data of the G-sensor and of copper and copper components, about 3 percent of iron, the gyroscope; display, logging in and engine and about 1 percent are elements such as nickel and nickel management based on the heart rate of the compounds, zinc and zinc compounds, silver and silver comdriver; collecting and displaying speed, distance pounds, aluminum, tin, lead, gold, manganese, etc. About 1 traveled, consumed watt hours (wh), spent percent are flame arresters that belong to dangerous materials. calories, driving time, and the like. 54 CLIMATE CHANGE, ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH BIODIVERSITY BIODIVERSITY HT’s facilities on sites or land owned, When it comes to setting up base moleased or managed in or near the probile stations on protected nature areas, tected areas and in areas of high biodiHT cooperates closely with the Ministry versity value have a negligible impact of Environmental Protection and Nature, on biodiversity outside the protected the Ministry of Construction and Physiareas. The Integrated Environmental, cal Planning, the Ministry of Culture, the Health, and Safety at Work Management local community, protected area adminSystem applied at HT, under the Planistrations, mobile operators and other ning, Preparation and Construction of relevant stakeholders. In addition, HT the Network process, defines the proceand other mobile operators have been dure that minimizes the impact and the building joint base stations for years, visual impact on the environment. thus reducing the impact of mobile networks on the landscape, especially in protected nature areas. HT's business processes have only indirect and minor impacts on biodiversity. HT has a significantly greater potential in biodiversity protection through ongoing climate protection activities (the use of energy-efficient equipment and devices, service offerings that reduce the environmental impact of users, sponsorship of environmental protection activities, etc.). 55 CLIMATE CHANGE, ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH MATERIALS MATERIALS Paper The Environmental practices in office work procedure within the constantly contribute to the reduction of paper consumption Integrated Environmental, Health, and Safety at Work Management for office use. In 2017, the paper consumption maintained System in accordance with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001, defines the values of the previous year (an increase of only 3 percent the guideline for the establishment of the Green Office, i.e. a set of compared to 2016). The number of e-bill users is increasing, measures and regular behavior in everyday office operations. This which reduces the number of printed invoices. Also, the sales increases the efficiency of resource usage, which simultaneously department continuously digitizes sales documentation and results in positive effects on the environment and business. processes, and in the year 2017 a total of 8 percent of paper Digitalization of internal processes and transition to e-business documentation was kept in T-Centers. USED MATERIALS BY WEIGHT OR VOLUME Used materials by weight or volume 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Paper consumption (in tons) 138 131 108 112 78 68 70 Water HT uses water from water supply services for drinking, for sanitary purposes, in air conditioning systems and in fire extinguishing systems. HT does not use water for technological purposes. No HT business process presents threat of water pollution. Where there is a risk of oil spills into sewerage, appropriate technical means are used the so-called oil separators and grease traps which ensure the separation of oil from the liquid. The Integrated Environment, Health and Safety at Management System recognizes water consumption as an environmental aspect and describes it in detail in the Ecological Working Procedures at the Office. Water consumption control is a result of good employee environmental awareness, optimization of business premises, rapid repair of failures and preventive maintenance and reconstruction of heating/cooling systems and water supply networks. However, water consumption has increased by 10 percent compared to 2016 due to the opening of a number of small buildings for the work of new employees technicians working to eliminate disturbances in the counties along the Adriatic coast. WATER CONSUMPTION Total water extraction by source 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total water extraction (in thousand 79 250 80 890 86 820 72 379 70 622 56 182 61 755 liters) Increase/decrease -20.45 percent 9.92 percent TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND METHOD OF DISPOSAL IN TONS Gri 306-2 total weight of waste by type and method of treatment in tones 2014 2015 2016 2017 TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE 921 595 782 1 078 ••hazardous waste 178 179 102 272 ••non-hazardous waste 744 416 679 806 56 CLIMATE CHANGE, ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH EMISSIONS EMISSIONS The Integrated Environmental, Health, and Safety at Work sumption throughout the year, the trend of NO2 and SO2 is Management System through the Dealing with ozone-degenerally declining. In case of NO2 every other year the trend pleting substances document, specifies the monitoring and changes from rising to falling and vice versa due to different management of activities related to the maintenance of varimodes of calculation of emissions. Namely, emissions based ous equipment containing substances with a potential impact on metering results are lower than emissions calculated from on the atmosphere. HT regularly monitors the air emissions emission factors. Regular boiler room maintenance is the from the boiler room and reports on it according to Croatian basis for reducing emissions in the environment, and their regulations. The air emission weights are determined directly automated regulation monitors the parameters of consumpfrom the measurements or indirectly from the calculation tion and contributes to more efficient resource use and lower based on the fuel consumption. Due to lower energy conemissions into the environment. EMISSIONS 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases by weight (in tones CO₂E²⁵) HT HT HT HT Combis Iskon Total emission of greenhouse gases (sum of direct and 49 508 47 723 26 397 15 681 212 719 indirect emissions) ••total direct emission of co2 (from non-renewable 7965 6529 6820 6889 50 163 sources) ••natural gas 1475 1448 1433 1532 24 no ••fuel for fleet (gas, diesel, lng) 4958 3586 4029 4031 26 163 ••fuel oil 1532 1495 1358 1326 no no ••total indirect emission of CO₂ 41 543 41 194 19 577 8792 162 556 NOX, SOX AND OTHERS HT 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 NOx, SOx and other significant emissions into air, by type and weight in tones (for boilers over 100 kW) Total emmission NO₂ 6.12 1.86 4.73 0.99 4 1.34 3.67 Total emmission SO₂ 7.13 5.69 4.6 3.92 4.22 3.45 3.50 57 CLIMATE CHANGE, ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY The percentage of the total number of employor findings of the competent inspector. Four occupational safety ees covered by formal joint committees for committees (in each region) are active in HT, and one central health and safety issues, consisting of represenoccupational safety committee, a total of five occupational safety tatives of the management and the workers, is committees. above 75 percent. Occupational Safety CommitSo far, no high incidence of injuries and illnesses related to tee meetings are held quarterly in accordance individual workplace and performance has been determined. At with the Occupational Safety Act, but also extraordinarily in case committee meetings, commissioners are informed of occupationof death or serious injury at the workplace, occupational disease al safety measures that cover the health and safety of workers. Number By gender HT Number of Lost man Lost man By gender in of injuries By gender outside work injuries hours days work process percent process Injuries at 28 0.76 5384 673 28 15 13 work During work 15 0.41 3568 446 M 17 M 13 M4 Outside work 13 0.35 1816 227 W 11 W2 W9 Magenta 1 B2B run MAGENTA 1 B2B RUN business race is intended for employees of companies registered in Croatia. In 2017 the race had more than four thousand runners representing more than 300 Croatian companies. Being a partner of the race, HT recognized the wider importance of this project, especially in the field of internal communications. More than 95 percent of participants of the business-sport as 58 percent to get involved in recreational running. Almost event MAGENTA 1 B2B RUN believe that sports activities all respondents, 97 percent of them, believe that it is important improve productivity at work and that participation in the event for their company to support events that promote the balance positively influences the corporate culture of the company they of business and private life and that it is socially responsiwork for. This was shown by the survey among 150 particible, that it takes care of the wider community, and supports pants who have participated in the MAGENTA 1 B2B RUN race employees to engage in business-sports events such as in Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka and Split for the past two years. Their MAGENTA 1 B2B RUN. Respondents are convinced that such main motives for participation are socializing (67 percent), an attitude of the company contributes to a better corporate promoting healthy lifestyle (70.5 percent) and representing culture and the strengthening of interpersonal relationships their own company (60.4 percent). Only every fourth responthat are the foundation of every company's success. dent said they were driven by the result. The survey showed that most of the participants (85 percent) had previously played sports. The MAGENTA 1 B2B RUN race has inspired as much 58 CLIMATE CHANGE, ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY “Hrvatski Telekom continuously invests in the development of its employees. For this reason, we conducted a survey to get a concrete insight into the reasons for participating in a business event of this type. The results only confirmed that MAGENTA 1 B2B RUN is an ideal combination of teamwork and informal gathering which makes many test their limits. It is certainly one of the key motifs that directly affect the professional and personal development of individuals.” Marija Felkel, member of the Management Board and Chief Human Resources Officer of HT 59 CLIMATE CHANGE, ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH ASSESSMENT OF THE IMPACT OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES ON HEALTH AND SAFETY ASSESSMENT OF THE IMPACT OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES ON HEALTH AND SAFETY Reducing energy needs The growing number of mobile telephony users leads to increased energy consumption, HT constantly users says that many people today cannot develops new, innovative solutions for its products and services imagine life without cell phones. Likewise, to save energy and natural resources, both HT and its users. In there are many calls from mobile network to 2017, HT continued to promote e-business through new cloud emergency services. We can say that mobile services as well as research and development of new Internet of phones improve everyday life in different areas of life they Things based services (IoT), which encompasses millions of teallow us to be in touch with our loved ones at any time, they lemetry devices for the transfer of small amounts of data. Cloud increase business efficiency, sometimes they are the only conservices based on the principles of the so-called cloud comnection to the world for the elderly and helpless, for many, they puting are primarily intended for business customers and are bring salvation from a dangerous situation ... Because of all of designed and made available centrally on the HT network. With this, the entire community benefits from mobile communicathem, HT reduces the users’ need for devices and equipment tions whether they are used for business, social or emergency to help protect the environment. Furthermore, the e-bill service purposes. contributes to the environment protection due to reduced use of As the continuous increase in the number of mobile telephony paper, and the number of HT users who activate it is increasing. “When we launched eSIM functionality, one of our immediate priorities were smart vehicles. Greyp fits our eSIM technology expansion strategy to perfection, as it is an innovative Croatian product that does not adversely impact the environment. We are positive that eSIM will soon be a global standard for smart devices, and HT will ensure that it offers its customers more and more devices that support this service.” Richard Brešković, director of Residential Marketing of HT With the development of mobile communications, the growelectrical, magnetic and electromagnetic fields (up to 300 GHz) ing number of service users and the increasing needs of was issued by the International Commission on Non-Ionizing users lead to a growing need for base stations and antennas Radiation Protection (ICNIRP). These security constraints have without which mobile communication would be impossible. been accepted by the World Health Organization for the whole The number of mobile users and base stations forces HT to be world, and HT has also been applying them. committed to optimizing the use of mobile communications and minimizing potential risks. However, the Croatian Ordinance on protection from electromagnetic fields has imposed stricter limits in relation to the When it comes to electromagnetic fields from the base station, 1999/519/EC directive and the Guidelines of the International HT fully adheres to the applicable Croatian regulations. The Commission on Non-ionizing Radiation Protection: international standard for limiting exposure to time-varying 60 CLIMATE CHANGE, ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH ASSESSMENT OF THE IMPACT OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES ON HEALTH AND SAFETY •• a safety margin of 60 percent was applied to the electric Commission for Non-ionizing Radiation Protection because it field (i.e. the permitted level is 40 percent of the Directive believes that the exposure limits for EM fields should be deter1999/519/EC and the ICNIRP Guideline) mined on the basis of scientifically substantiated and recog•• a safety margin of as much as 84 percent was applied nized research and should be under constant control. Over the to power density (i.e. the permitted level of the radiated last few years, recognized professional organizations such as power is only 16 percent of the Directive 1999/519 / EC and the World Health Organization and the International CommisICNIRP Guidelines) sion for Non-ionizing Radiation Protection have repeatedly reviewed the validity thresholds for mobile communications on The base stations of Hrvatski Telekom’s mobile networks are the basis of the latest scientific findings and have confirmed developed, tested and commissioned in accordance with that, if these values are respected, the use of mobile technolointernational standards and requirements. HT obtains from gy is safe. the equipment manufacturers certificates that show that base stations meet ICNIRP's security requirements and correspond HT supports and encourages comprehensive and detailed to a number of standards for product safety and electromagnetscientific research and monitors research by a range of orgaic compatibility and general technical regulations. Similarly, all nizations, independent groups, expert teams and scientists on base stations have a Certificate of Compliance with a series of the impact of electromagnetic emission. All the latest research European and world standards issued by the Croatian Regulaand recent scientific findings have shown that electromagnettory Agency for Network Operations. ic fields in mobile communication systems have no adverse impacts on human health, as confirmed by the World Health For HT, it is extremely important to have a clear, open and conOrganization itself. During 2017, measurements were carried structive communication about the impact of electromagnetic out on almost 900²⁴ base stations in Croatia and the results fields, especially because inaccurate and incomplete inforwere delivered to the Ministry of Health. Measurement results mation is sometimes published in the public. HT recognizes for 2017 generally show the same trend as in previous years opinions of independent, relevant sources such as the Ministry values far below the prescribed thresholds were measured. All of Health, the Croatian Regulatory Authority for Network the EM field sources in HT mobile networks have a decision for Industries, the World Health Organization and the International use issued by the Ministry of Health. 61 CLIMATE CHANGE, ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH ASSESSMENT OF THE IMPACT OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES ON HEALTH AND SAFETY Ten Guidelines on •• HT strives to reduce the visual impact of base stations to the smallest extent possible as well as reduce the impact of Electromagnetic Fields the entire network on the landscape. Promotion of scientific knowledge HT recognizes the true public concern about the impact of •• HT fully supports the advancement of scientific knowledge mobile communications technology: both the devices and the of the effects of EM fields on health and contributes to base stations. Bearing in mind the number of locations of the independent development programs. base stations and millions of users, HT approaches this con•• HT believes that exposure limits to EM fields should be cern in an open, constructive and honest manner by complying determined on the basis of scientifically substantiated and with public demands and environmental requirements. recognized research and should be under constant control. Furthermore, HT itself evaluates and monitors the latest HT has an active role in the public dialog on electromagnetic scientific discoveries. fields and supports independent scientific studies in health research, participates in consulting, communicating and All the mobile devices that HT puts on the market meet SAR informing the public and other key stakeholders at all levels security requirements. SAR (Specific Absorption Rate) is a of society. Although regulatory and social principles across measure of specific absorption, i.e. the value that describes the Europe differ, all members of the DT Group are committed to absorption rate of the electromagnetic energy per unit of tissue transparency, information, counseling and active participation. mass and is expressed in W/kg. According to European Union HT has accepted and adheres to the principles given in the DT Directive 1999/519/EC on the limitation of exposure of humans Group Guidelines on EM Fields: to electromagnetic fields (0 Hz to 300 MHz), the SAR limit is 2 W/kg for every 10 g of tissue for head and body. The Croatian Transparency Ordinance on the protection from electromagnetic fields adopt•• HT has established internal accountabilities and procedures ed these same limit values. The SAR value of all mobile phones to respond to complaints and public inquiries about the put by HT to the market is less than 2 W/kg. impact of technology, health and other related issues. •• HT is aware of the public's interest in mobile communications. For the sake of full transparency, HT supports the idea of creating national base station databases that would contain all other EM field sources as well. •• All the base stations of HT are aligned with national guidelines on exposure to non-ionizing radiation as well as with the guidelines of the International Commission for the Non-ionizing Radiation (ICNIRP). For the purpose of improving transparency, HT has an approval for use for each base station and a certificate of compliance. Informing •• In addressing the public, HT follows a proactive communication strategy and strives to cooperate with all the interested parties. It also encourages authorities at all levels to cooperate with the mobile industry and establish their own public information programs. •• Through its website and all sales outlets, HT provides its customers with information on the SAR (Specific Absorption Rate) values of the devices it carries. Cooperation •• HT cooperates with local authorities regarding citizens' issues about network development and location selection for base stations. To help local authorities, HT provides all relevant information about its networks. •• HT strives to cooperate with the local authorities as it coordinates with them on the placement of base stations whenever possible. 62 COOPERATION WITH LOCAL COMMUNITIES • ECOMOBILE • ARTT.HR FIRST DIGITAL MUSEUM IN CROATIA • INTERDISCIPLINARY LABORATORY VIŠNJAN • SMART PAY PHONES IN ZADAR • AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNIVERSITY OF DUBROVNIK AND HT BRINGS TOGETHER ACADEMIC COMMUNITY AND BUSINESS SECTOR • SMART BUS STOPS IN RIJEKA COOPERATION WITH LOCAL COMMUNITIES ECOMOBILE ECOMOBILE In 2017, HT partnered with EcoMobile and started to implement a pilot project of a smart electronic waste collection system in Velika Gorica that would optimize the business of the VG Goričanka utility center, which was opened in 2016, and unified utility companies owned by Velika Gorica: VG Komunalac, VG Vodoopskrba, VG Čistoća and Gradsko stambeno gospodarstvo. „By investing in culture over the and number of collections depending on the tanks’ availability and the need to empty them. past 10 years we have provided citizens with a direct access to “We have confirmed in this project knowledge and art, which is exthat HT is not only the technolotremely important for the developgy leader, but a bearer of social ment of society as a whole. HT is change. Throughout the project the leader of digitalization, which we realized the vision of a smart, is the foundation of further progconnected city and turned it into ress, so it is logical to us to unify reality. Through the ecosystem of digitalization and culture through smart city solutions, we are able to a project of a digital museum. increase the efficiency of city manThis is the first such project in agement, increase the involvement Croatia that will make Croatian of citizens, the business commucontemporary art more accessible nity and city services. The focal to more people.“ point of all solutions is the citizen Boris Drilo, member of the Management Board and who enjoys the benefits of digitaliChief Technical and Chief Information Officer of HT zation and automation of interconPilot project of the introduction of smart electronic records of nected systems.” municipal waste in Velika Gorica shows how management of Saša Pavlaković, coordinator of Smart City projects one of the burning problems in Croatia, waste management, can be improved. The solution includes electronic waste logging records, Smart Waste Sensors that track the tank's HT has already implemented the smart electronic waste load status, and the information-geolocation system My Waste management system with EcoMobile in Koprivnica, which has that will be available to citizens via mobile applications. Data excellent ressults. The number of collections is optimized, and on waste collection is transferred to the application in real time, the City utility company Komunalac better manages the time of and data can be accessed from any location at any time. The workers in real time, thus reducing operating costs. The quality system is fully automated and does not require any additional of the solution is also evidenced by the fact that Koprivnica is effort from utility workers. The citizens of Velika Gorica will the first city in the region with the ISO certificate 37120: Susthus be able to enjoy all the advantages of digitalization and tainable development city service and quality of life indicators. interconnected systems common to smart cities. Households During certification, HT and the partner SmartIS City provided will receive invoices for the first time according to the volume consultancy services to the City of Koprivnica. 65 COOPERATION WITH LOCAL COMMUNITIES ARTT.HR FIRST DIGITAL MUSEUM IN CROATIA ARTT.HR FIRST DIGITAL MUSEUM IN CROATIA HT and the Museum of Contemporary Art in Zagreb have celebrated 10 years of cooperation with the introduction of artt.hr, the first digital museum in Croatia where all the works of art from the HT award MSU Zagreb exhibition can be found. HT award MSU Zagreb is one of the most successful cooperation of the corporate and cultural sector in Croatia with more than 2300 applied and 335 exhibited works. In the 10th anniversary year of the cooperation, a total of 30 awarded and bought works was collected, which will be the HT MSU Collection. Over the past 10 years HT has invested more than HRK 30 million in the creation and strengthening of the Croatian art and culture scene, HRK 12.5 million into the HT award MSU Zagreb project. 66 COOPERATION WITH LOCAL COMMUNITIES INTERDISCIPLINARY LABORATORY VIŠNJAN INTERDISCIPLINARY LABORATORY VIŠNJAN Astronomical Society Višnjan has presented a new laboratory In addition to equipping the laboratory, the Astronomical Soequipped through a donation made by Hrvatski Telekom ciety Višnjan, due to the donation made through the Together within the Together We Are Stronger competition. It is a unique We Are Stronger competition worth HRK 350,000, tripled the laboratory in Croatia which enables interdisciplinary research number of students of both elementary and secondary schools conducted by students and it can be adapted for highly-speciaattending the workshops and programs within the introductory lized projects in the fields of biology, astrobiology, and chemiprogram to science called HT Campus. The donation ensured stry. The construction and equipping of the laboratory enable the involvement of a larger number of teachers, mentors, the implementation of year-long programs of a higher level of assistants, and volunteers working with young people in quality, in addition to providing students comfort and safety. STEM fields. Due to its equipment, the laboratory meets the requirements for conducting the introductory practice to work in chemistry, microbiology, biology, and astrobiology laboratory for elemen„Without investments in techtary school students, as well as the requirements of specialized projects for secondary school students. nology and science, there is no progress in society, and this lab is a very important step forward as it enables us to include in the science rojects up to three times more children than we have so far. The interest among children for science is very high, and the first results not only confirmed the justification for the investment but also the need for further expansion of such projects. We are delighted to have found a partner in HT with whom we will support our children to at least try to be scientists or technologists. Korado Korlević, head od Science-educational center and president of the Astronomy Center Višnjan 67 COOPERATION WITH LOCAL COMMUNITIES SMART PAY PHONES IN ZADAR SMART PAY PHONES IN ZADAR HT presented the first smart phones in Croatia in Zadar, that serve as a source of all the necessary local information for The installed smart pay citizens and to a growing number of tourists. There are also a number of innovative new generation ICT services available phones provide a range of to citizens for paying with credit and debit cards thanks to the solution of the Hrvatska poštanska banka. By installing the publicly available services that first smart pay phones, Zadar joined the world's metropoles, are needed for the contemposuch as New York and London, which also transform public pay phones to meet the contemporary needs of citizens and rary life of citizens and visitors tourists, on the wave of smart city development trends. of Zadar, and which are in line The total of 10 pay phones were set up at the busiest locations with city of Zadar's developin Zadar, which will allow free Wi-Fi access. Citizens and tourists will be able to buy parking tickets and intercity transport ment strategy in the direction tickets on them. In addition, BitCoin, Simpa and BonBon Start packages, phone cards and mobile top-up vouchers of all of the Smart City concept. This operators are available with the additional possibility to pay a project revitalizes existing sites certain amount directly to the HT mobile number and the offer includes a range of other telecommunication and other prodby building part of the smart ucts. A smart pay phone is an example of combining public and digital services and around the clock sales of everyday city infrastructure and provides products and will continue to be developed in line with the the potential for developing needs of the City of Zadar and its citizens. additional digital services as part of a smart city such as smart sensing that enables informative measurement of the environmental parameters. Also, this pilot project increases the number of locations and availability time for using public and other services. City of Zadar Setting up smart pay phones in Zadar is a six-month pilot project of HT that is run in partnership with its key partner Vendotel. In 2016, this company was selected as one of the top 15 start-ups in the whole of Europe, among the competition of 500 of them. Other partners have also participated in the implementation of the smart pay phone solution. A pioneer and a mobile payment innovator, the Infoart group enabled the purchase of parking tickets via the Igeus integration platform, while the start-up Vollo, the winner of the Startup Factory Zagreb 2016 competition, integrated the system for previewing, booking and buying intercity tickets. 68 COOPERATION WITH LOCAL COMMUNITIES AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNIVERSITY OF DUBROVNIK AND HT BRINGS TOGETHER ACADEMIC COMMUNITY AND BUSINESS SECTOR AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNIVERSITY OF DUBROVNIK AND HT BRINGS TOGETHER ACADEMIC COMMUNITY AND BUSINESS SECTOR The Rector of the University Nikša Burum, Prof. Ph.D., and Marija Felkel, CHRO at HT have signed a Cooperation Agreement in July 2017 for the educational, development, and scientific and research projects It will provide opportunities for students to gain practical experiences, as well as to acquire new knowledge and competencies. The first project has been announced called “Big Data – Tourism Crowding Management”, as part of Dubrovnik Smart City project which will enable Dubrovnik to improve its management during the tourist season in co-operation with the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computing and the Department of Economics and Business Economics. Pro-rectors at the University Ivana Pavlić, Ph.D., Associate Professor, and Nebojša Stojčić, Ph.D., Associate Professor, emphasized the fact that the project “Big Data – Tourism Crowding Management” marks the continuation of activities implemented by the University of Dubrovnik in cooperation with the University of Palermo, Italy, and the Hebrew University of Jerusalem aimed to develop the tools for effective tourism destination management. Technology changes the way we work. This is why the investment is crucial in the quality young professionals who will be the carriers of change. With the help of professional practice, lectures of our experts and cooperation on scientific-research projects, the Agreement with the University of Dubrovnik will contribute to an even stronger link between the academic community and the business sector for the benefit of students. MARIJA FELKEL, member of the Management Board and Chief Human Resources Officer of HT 69 COOPERATION WITH LOCAL COMMUNITIES SMART BUS STOPS IN RIJEKA SMART BUS STOPS IN RIJEKA Two smart bus stops are available from October 2017 to The solution is based on the Internet of Things technology and Rijeka's citizens and numerous tourists that offer a range of collects Autotrolej's data from 12 Rijeka city traffic cameras and functionalities for a more efficient and enjoyable experience of displays it on a mobile application. This application enables city transport. The smart bus stops are a result of the six-month smart public transport and is available for the first time on mopilot project that the City of Rijeka carried out in partnership bile phones in Rijeka, making this solution unique in the world. with HT, Ericsson Nikola Tesla, Smart RI, Autotrolej and Rijeka Since the stop also functions as a hotspot, passengers waiting promet. It is expected that the cooperation will continue with for transport have access to the Internet via HT’s infrastruca wide network of partners, local startups and the University ture. As the solar panels supply the bus stop with energy and of Rijeka in the three-year project of the Competence Center thanks to integrated solutions of other partners, it is possible to (CEKOM) for smart cities. The stops are located on two very wirelessly charge smart phones, laptops and other electronic frequented locations in Rijeka's city traffic, next to Rijeka's devices for personal use. Sensor set up at stops measures the skyscraper in Trpimirova Street and on Žabica. Ericsson's temperature and air humidity, providing valuable information on Connected Traffic Cloud app provides passengers with an environmental parameters, and in the upcoming phases of the overview of the timetable and maps of the bus stations with the project, additional integration of information on cultural events current bus positions. and promotional offers is expected, as well as solutions for the safety of the passengers themselves. „Grad Rijeka već godinama razvija koncept pametnog grada For years, the City of Rijeka has been developing the smart city concept, which involves the design of different solutions in order to facilitate everyday life and improve the quality of life of citizens such as free internet, city cards or smart traffic lights that regulate the flow of traffic in the city. The concept of Rijeka as a smart city is constantly evolving, so City of Rijeka recently founded Smart RI as the leader of the Smart Cities Competence Center, which includes 20 partners, among others Ericsson Nikola Tesla d.d. and Hrvatski Telekom d.d. with the aim of developing new marketable products such as 4D intelligent infrastructure, energy management and energy management solutions, public lighting management systems, and the like. It was precisely this project which resulted in cooperation on setting up smart bus stops in Croatia and launching of the mobile app we presented today, which will certainly facilitate the use of public transport for the citizens of Rijeka, and thus simplify their time. Vojko Obersnel, Meyor of Rijeka 70 SUPPLY CHAIN • DESCRIPTION OF SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLY CHAIN DESCRIPTION OF SUPPLY CHAIN During 2017 there were no major changes in the supply chain that would have caused or contributed to significant economic, environmental and social impacts. 1. Of the total budget, 86 percent was spent on local suppliers in 2017. 2. “Local” suppliers are those suppliers the Company directly establishes business cooperation with and are not geographically defined. There are also so-called “Global” suppliers with whom the collaboration is defined at the DT Group level (mostly but not limited to terminal equipment suppliers such as, for example, Apple, Huawei). 3. “Significant places of activity” are all purchases where the Company’s Procurement creates additional value through its action by promoting excellence within the supply chain and reducing operating costs. DESCRIPTION OF SUPPLY CHAIN HT’s procurement manages the cash outflow, except in the •• blacklisted suppliers case of taxes, wages, mergers and takeover transactions and •• those that did not pass through the check by the compliance mobile subsidies, in one of the following ways: organizational unit. •• by integrating procurements directly under the responsibility of Procurement HT is a company that has made an explicit statement through •• by mandating the appropriate business/functional units to its internal documents about important ethical issues in busiconduct procurement activities ness relations with partners and: •• by defining Procurement exceptions •• does not tolerate corruption •• The Procurement is responsible and competent for achieving the •• avoids and suppresses all situations that imply conflict of best value for the Company when procuring goods or services, interest on any side in business relationships including measures required for the implementation, manage•• strictly regulates the rules on giving and receiving gifts ment and monitoring of appropriate processes such as: between business partners •• does not support reciprocal jobs and is committed to achiev•• determining procurement strategy and supply chain ing complete transparency of all business processes •• prescribing the activities and responsibilities regarding the •• has introduced and maintains internal control systems execution of the annual procurement plan to create the according to the highest standards basis for optimum procurement conditions •• requests all partners to accept the principles outlined in our •• managing needs and costs aimed at increasing total five guiding principles and in our Code of Conduct. savings and avoiding unnecessary costs •• managing relationships with suppliers and procurement In addition, HT has established a certified environmental contracts, including continuous improvement programs management system according to ISO 14001. This international with logistics partners. standard requires that all those who work for and on behalf of HT, including suppliers of goods and services as well as other The processes of managing relationships with the suppliers is contract partners, be familiar with the principles of environmenowned by the organizational unit responsible for the Procuretal protection. ment. The concept of management of relationships with suppliAccordingly, during the course of their business activities for HT, ers ensures cross-functional management of suppliers together and in particular while working at location owned or controlled with the overall life cycle of the supplier. It includes implemenby HT, the partner/supplier is expected to: tation of pre-defined management stages with suppliers, which •• act in accordance with applicable laws and other regulations implies processes such as re-qualification, cross-functional in the field of environmental protection evaluation to gradual decommissioning. •• deal with the waste generated during the execution of works as regulated by the contract In principle, the Company avoids doing business with those •• after the maintenance service has been carried out, dispose suppliers that may endanger the reputation of the Company or of the consumables, parts and packaging pose any other risk to the Company's business. In this respect, •• always act in accordance with best environmental practice the Procurement must ensure these companies are not invited principles, regardless of whether their own certified environto tenders: mental management system has been implemented or not. 73 PROFILE OF HT GROUP • OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE Schematic representation of ownership structure • APPROACH TO GOVERNANCE • MANAGEMENT BOARD • SUPERVISORY BOARD • GENERAL ASSEMBLY • COOPERATION WITH BUSINESS INTEREST ORGANIZATIONS • CERTIFICATES PROFILE OF HT GROUP OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE HT Group is the leading provider of telecommunication In addition to the fixed telephony service (access to and services in Croatia it provides fixed and mobile telephony traffic of fixed telephony services and additional fixed network services as well as wholesale, internet and data services. services), HT Group also provides internet services, IPTV and ICT services, retail electricity services, data transfer services The main activities of Hrvatski Telekom d.d. (HT d.d. or the (lease of cables, Metro-Ethernet, IP/MPLS, ATM) and GSM, Company) and its affiliated companies is providing electronic UMTS and LTE mobile network services. HT divides specific communications services and designing and building elecbusiness operations by region, in 4 regions: North, South, tronic communications networks in the Republic of Croatia. East and West. OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE HT d. d. is a joint stock company headquartered at Roberta Frangeša Mihanovića 9, 10110 Zagreb, Croatia. The major shareholder is Deutsche Telekom Europe B. V. holding 51 percent of the Company's share capital. Investors with the largest shareholding among private and institutional investors are Raiffeisen Mandatory Pension Funds (Category A and Category B) which own 9.1 percent of the Company's shares. The latest status of the ten largest shareholders of the Company can be found on the web pages of the Central Clearing Depository Company. The Company's shares are included in the depository of the Central Clearing Depository Company as of July 12, 2002 and have been listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange since October 5, 2007. HT's ownership structure as of December 31, 2017: of the shares. • The majority owner is Deutsche Telekom Europe B. V. with a • The Center for Restructuring and Sales (CERP), the legal 51 percent stake (Deutsche Telekom Europe B. V. is a wholly successor of the State Property Agency, has 2.9 percent of the owned subsidiary of Deutsche Telekom Europe Holding B. shares of the Company. V. whose 100 percent owner is Deutsche Telekom Europe • The remaining 39.4 percent of the shares are owned by the Holding GmbH, formerly known as T-Mobile Global Holding Nr. citizens of the Republic of Croatia and other domestic and 2 GmbH. Deutsche Telekom Europe Holding GmbH is wholly foreign institutional investors. Private and institutional investors owned by Deutsche Telekom AG). have the Raiffeisen mandatory pension funds as the largest • The Croatian Homeland War Veterans Fund owns 6.7 percent investor with 9.1 percent of HT shares. HT GROUP, APART FROM HT D.D., COMPRISES THE FOLLOWING COMPANIES: Ownership stake Headquarters Basic activities december 31, 2017 1. Combis d. o. o. Republic of Croatia provision of information services 100 percent 2. Iskon Internet d. d. Republic of Croatia provision of internet and data services 100 percent 3. KDS d. o. o. Republic of Croatia provision of cable television services 100 percent 4. E-tours d. o. o. Republic of Croatia provision of travel agency services 100 percent 5. OT-Optima Telekom d. d. Republic of Croatia provision of internet and data services 17.41 percent 6. M-Tele d. o. o. Republic of Croatia representation of foreign companies' stake 100 percent 76 PROFILE OF HT GROUP OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE The company M-Tele d.o.o., which acts as a special purpose of postal services. The subsidiaries listed above are entities entity, owns 76.53 percent of the shares of Crnogorski Telekom included in the consolidated financial statements. During AD. HT also has stakes in two companies headquartered in the reporting period, HT did not receive significant financial the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the company HT assistance from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. d.d. Mostar it owns a 39.1 percent ownership stake. The core Participation of the Government of Croatia in the ownership activity of this company is the provision of telecommunication structure: indirectly through CERP (Center for Restructuring services. In HP d.o.o. Mostar it owns a 30.29 percent ownerand Sales) on 31 December 2017. ― 2,9 percent. ship stake. The main activity of this company is the provision Schematic representation of ownership structure Deutsche Telekom AG Deutsche Telekom Europe Holding GmbH (Germany) Deutsche Telekom Europe Holding B.V. (The Neherlands) Deutsche Telekom Europe B.V. (The Neherlands) 51% Hrvatski Telekom d.d. (Croatia) 17,41% 39,1 % 30,29 % OT-Optima Kabelsko Combis, usluge M-Tele E-Tours Iskon Internet Hrvatske Hrvatska posta Telekom distributivni integracija informatičkih d.o.o. d.o.o. d.d. (Croatia) telekomunikacije d.o.o. (BiH) d.d. sustav d.o.o. tehnologija d.o.o. (Croatia) (Croatia) d.d. Mostar (BiH) (Croatia) (Croatia) (Croatia) Crnogorski Telekom A.D. OT-Optima Optima Optima COMBIS COMBIS Podgorica CA INTERNET REGICA.NET Telekom Telekom za direct d.o.o. IT Usluge (Montenegro) d.o.o. d.o.o. d.o.o. upravljanje d.o.o. Sarajevo d.o.o. (Croatia) (Croatia) (Slovenia) nekretninama (Croatia) (BiH) (Serbia) i savjetovanje d.o.o. (Croatia) 77 PROFILE OF HT GROUP APPROACH TO GOVERNANCE APPROACH TO GOVERNANCE HT's organizational structure is designed to provide flexibility and efficiency to the company and full dedication to customers. The company is organized into several functional units: business units, support and management functions, technical functions, and customer experience functions. DIVERSITY IN MANAGEMENT BODIES Indicator Total Age Age Age Minority Gender (m) Gender (w) members (under 30) (30-50) (over 50) groups Management 7 5 2 0 7 0 unknown board Supervisory 9 5 4 0 4 5 unknown board 78 PROFILE OF HT GROUP MANAGEMENT BOARD MANAGEMENT BOARD Members of the Management Board and its President are company and HT Group for the business year 2017. appointed by the Supervisory Board. Their mandate lasts up to five years, after which they may be re-appointed. Pursuant to According to the Companies Act, the Articles of Association the Articles of Association of the Company, the Management and the Rules of Procedure of the Management Board, the Board consists of five to seven members. Members of the Management manages the affairs on its own responsibility and Management Board and its President are appointed by the is obliged and authorized to take all the actions and make the Supervisory Board. Their mandate lasts up to five years, after decisions it deems necessary for the successful conduct of which they may be re-appointed. The Management Board the company's affairs, whereas certain issues and decisions consists of five to seven members. On December 31, 2017, the require approval of the Supervisory Board (certain large transManagement Board included seven positions: actions, long-term borrowings or important appointments). The Statute stipulates that the Company may be represented by any •• President of the Management Board and Chief Executive two members of the Management Board. The Management Officer Davor Tomašković Board holds sessions when circumstances allow, usually once •• Member of the Management Board and Chief Financial a week. The decisions of the Management Board may excepOfficer (CFO) Daniel Daub tionally be made out of session, or by voting in writing, by •• Member of the Management Board and Chief Operating telephone, telegraph, telefax, videoconferencing or use of other Officer Residential (COO Residential) Nataša Rapaić suitable technical means if no member of the Management Member of the Management Board and Chief Operating Board is opposed to it. The quorum for a Management Board Officer Business (COO Business) Saša Kramar session consists of four members of the Management Board, Member of the Management Board and Chief Technical and and decisions are made by a majority vote of the attending or Chief Information Officer (CTIO) Boris Drilo represented members of the Management Board. In the event •• Member of the Management Board and Chief Human a certain decision has equal number of votes for or against it, Resources Office (CHRO) Marija Felkel the vote of the President of the Management Board is decisive. •• Member of the Management Board and Chief Customer The definition “senior management” refers to the Management Experience Officer (CCO) Boris Batelić. Board and Sector Directors. Given that the Republic of Croatia is not formally divided into regions or locations, all indicators Detailed information on the age, education and career of the relate to the Republic of Croatia as a whole or a region. Only members of the Management Board is provided in the Annual one member of senior management is not employed from the Report of the Management Board on the operations of the local community. 79 PROFILE OF HT GROUP SUPERVISORY BOARD SUPERVISORY BOARD Pursuant to the Articles of Association of the Company, the Supervisory Board consisted of nine members on December 31, 2017, five members represent Deutsche Telekom AG (Jonathan Richard Talbot, Ph.D. Oliver Knipping, Eva Somorjai-Tamassy, Marc Stehle and Eirini Nikolaidi), one member nominated by The Supervisory Board is responsible for appointing and recallRaiffeisen Mandatory Pension Funds ing the members of the Management Board and for supervising the management of the Company's business in accordance (Damir Grbavac), two independent with the Companies Act, the Articles of Association and the members (Ivan Mišetić, Ph.D. and Dolly Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board of the Company. Certain large transactions, long-term borrowing or important Predovic) and one member appointed appointments require approval of the Supervisory Board. by the Workers' Council of HT d.d. as a Sessions of the Supervisory Board are held at least four times a year, and members of the Supervisory Board who cannot representative of the Company's employattend the Supervisory Board session may make their vote in ees (Vesna Mamić). writing. The Supervisory Board may make decisions outside the session by voting in writing, by telephone, telegraph, telefax, videoconferencing or using other appropriate technical means if no member of the Supervisory Board objects to it within the appropriate deadline set by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. The quorum for the Supervisory Board session consists of five members of the Supervisory Board, and the decisions are made by majority vote of the Supervisory Board present or represented. The main issues that were on the agenda of the Supervisory Board's sessions were listed in the Report of the Supervisory Board on Supervision carried out during the business year of 2017, which was published on the Company's web site. 80 PROFILE OF HT GROUP GENERAL ASSEMBLY GENERAL ASSEMBLY The membership rights of shareholders are divided into management and property rights. The basic management rights of shareholders are the right to participate in the General Assembly of the Company, including the right to debate, the right to be informed, the right to vote and the right to challenge decisions of the General Assembly. The right to participate in the General share capital was participating at the General Assembly held on April 25, 2017. Assembly of the Company, including the right to a debate, belongs to any Shareholders exercise the right to be informed through annual financial reports and reports on the Company's status, the Supershareholder and cannot be denied. This visory Board reports and auditor's reports submitted to shareholdright is a prerequisite for exercising other ers at the General Assembly of the Company. Also, at the General Assembly, the Management Board gives each shareholder, upon management rights that are exercised their request, information on the Company's business if it is needexclusively at the General Assembly (e.g. ed to judge the issues that are on the agenda. the right to vote) or, generally, at the Right to vote is a basic member right of the shareholder which General Assembly (e.g. the right to be is manifested at the General Assembly by voting on the motion of the decision that was put to the vote. The right to vote at informed). Pursuant to the Companies the General Assembly is exercised by the shareholder either Act and the Articles of Association of the personally or through a proxy in accordance with the nominal shares they own, meaning that each share has one vote. Company a condition for participation in The management rights of shareholders include some of the the General Assembly of the Company powers of a qualified minority of the Company's shareholders. For example, shareholders who together have a stake in the is that shareholders register their particiamount of the twentieth part of the Company's share capital pation in the General Assembly and that have the right to request the General Assembly be convened and propose that an additional decision be made, and each the Company has received the applicashareholder has the right to submit counter-proposals to the protion for participation no later than six posals of the Management Board and/or the Supervisory Board. days before the General Assembly, where For example, a shareholder's property right is the right to the day of receipt of the application is not a dividend payment. The Company's dividend policy was determined in the prospectus for the initial public offering in calculated in that deadline. The right to October 2007. The future dividend policy should be that any participate in the General Assembly may dividends voted and paid in respect of any year following the year in which the Offer (IPO) was published will amount to also be exercised through a proxy. 50 percent to 100 percent of the distributable profits of the Company acquired in the previous year. Any annual dividend The invitation to the General Assembly containing the agenda will depend on the Company's overall financial position and its and agenda proposals, the instructions for shareholder parworking capital requirements over the relevant period. On April ticipation in the General Assembly and explanation of certain 25, 2017, the General Assembly of the Company approved the proposals for decisions of the General Assembly shall be compayment of the dividend to shareholders for the financial year municated to the shareholders electronically. Pursuant to the 2016 in the amount of HRK 491,313,414 (HRK 6.00 per share), Articles of Association of the Company, the General Assembly which is the dividend payment ratio in relation to the realized is not entitled to make a decision if the shareholders who have profit of 54,1 percent. The dividend was paid in May 2017. shares whose nominal value exceeds half (50 percent) of the Information on the General Assembly of the Company in 2017 Company's registered capital (quorum) are not present either and the decisions adopted at the General Assembly can be personally or through a proxy. 74.52 percent of the Company's found on the Company's web site. 81 PROFILE OF HT GROUP COOPERATION WITH BUSINESS INTEREST ORGANIZATIONS COOPERATION WITH BUSINESS INTEREST ORGANIZATIONS HT's cooperation with business interest well-being and environmental protection. HT is a member of the Community for Environmental Protection in Economy at the HGK. organizations is focused on information exchange and development of good HT also participates in the work of the Association for Energy within the Croatian Employers' Association since its establishbusiness practice and on mutual and ment in 2013. The Association aims to enable a better and public exchange of opinions. Apart from more sustainable economic environment by including energy production in the national strategic plan. independently participating publicly in the media and at round tables and conCooperation includes exchange of views and cooperation with politically elected representatives, public administration and ferences, HT as an operator of electronic agencies, and bodies responsible for monitoring the market HT communications services acts also at operates on, as well as consultations on laws and procedures. HT also directly cooperates, exchanges opinions and collects the national level by participating in the information on good practices related to the elimination of work of the Telecommunications Associunsustainable practices and increasing the competitiveness as well as eliminating and avoiding legal compliance. ation at the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which publicly advocates the common interests of member operators. At the same time, HT is a member of the European Telecommunications Network Operators' Association (ETNO) and GSM Association that advocate promoting the interests of the electronic communications sector operators at the European Union level. Since 2007, HT has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact Initiative, that links the business sector with UN agencies, governments and civil society in supporting core social values in the areas of human rights, workers' rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. HT is a member of the Croatian Business Council for Sustainable Development (HR PSOR), a nonprofit institution established in 1997, which primarily brings together the private sector, encourages sustainable development in the economy and represents the economy in sustainable development. Its members representatives of the Croatian economy, public institutions and non-governmental organizations combine knowledge, innovation and accountability in the search for development paths that balance business success, social 82 PROFILE OF HT GROUP CERTIFICATES CERTIFICATES HT holds the ISO 14001 certification Deutsche Telekom Aktiengesellschaft since 2002, and the OHSAS 18001 certiintegrated management system and has fication since 2013. An Integrated Enviconfirmed HT compliance with all the ronmental, Health, and Safety at Work standards, the company and The Group. Management System (Integrated System) was established in May 2014 and is HT is also certified according to ISO being regularly checked. In December 27001 for information security. ISO 9001 2017, in accordance with the requiremanagement systems are also certified ments of the above-mentioned stanin human resource and corporate stratedards, Deutsche Telekom has audited gy and business development organizathe Integrated HT system as part of the tional units. INFORMATION ON PREPARATION OF THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HT has prepared its Sustainability Report 2017 in line with GRI standards: the core option. In preparing the Reports, HT applied the criteria for the Advanced Level of Reporting on the Principles of UN Global Compact. Published on February xx, 2019. HT prepares sustainability reports every year. Contact for report related topics: Sanja Rossi Corporate Communications Department sanja.rossi@t.ht.hr 83 GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS UN GLOBAL GRI INDICATOR INFORMATION CHAPTER COMPACT PROFILE OF ORGANIZATION 102-1 Name of organization Profile of HT Group • 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Profile of HT Group • 102-3 Organization’s headquarters Ownership structure 102-4 Location of business activities Profile of HT Group 102-5 Ownership relations structure Ownership structure • 102-6 Markets Profile of HT Group • 102-7 Size of organization Table Total number of employees • Impact on employees 102-8 Employees and other workers Table Total number of employees • 102-9 Supply chain Supply chain • Significant changes in organization and 102-10 supply chain Supply chain • 102-11 Applying the precautionary principle Profile of HT Group • Digital society: Customer relationships; 102-12 External initiatives Profile of HT Group • 102-13 Membership in associations Profile of HT Group • STRATEGY Statement of the highest-ranking person in Statement of the President of the 102-14 the organization Management Board of HT: • Material topics of HT 102-15 Key influences, risks and opportunities Key macroeconomic and market trends in • telecommunications market ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Profile of HT Group 102-16 Values, standards, and conduct principles Impact on employees • GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure Profile of HT Group • INVOLVEMENT OF STAKEHOLDERS Materiality topics of HT and contribution 102-40 List of stakeholders towards UN Sustainable Development • Goals 102-41 Collective negotiations Communication with employees • Materiality topics of HT and contribution 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders towards UN Sustainable Development Goals • 84 GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS GRI INDICATOR INFORMATION CHAPTER UN GLOBAL COMPACT Material topics of HT 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Impact on employees • Customer relationships Key macroeconomic and market trends in 102-44 Key topics and concerns telecommunications market; Reflections of • HT’s influence in the public REPORTING PRACTICE Entities included in consolidated financial 102-45 Ownership structure reports Determining report content and topic 102-46 Material topics of HT boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Material topics of HT Changes compared to the previously Information on manner of preparation of the 102-48 published information sustainability report Information on manner of preparation of the 102-49 Changes in reporting sustainability report Information on manner of preparation of the 102-50 Reporting period sustainability report Information on manner of preparation of the 102-51 Date of the last report sustainability report Information on manner of preparation of the 102-52 Reporting cycle sustainability report Information on manner of preparation of the 102-53 Contact person sustainability report Statement on reporting in accordance with Information on manner of preparation of the 102-54 GRI Standard sustainability report Information on manner of preparation of the 102-55 GRI table of contents sustainability report ECONOMIC EFFECT Economic value Directly generated and distributed economic 201-1 Table: Directly generated and distributed value economic value of HT GROUP Financial consequences and other risks and 201-2 Climate change; Ripple effect opportunities related to climate change Obligations of organization related to the 201-3 defined retirement plan Impact on employees • Significant financial support received from 201-4 Ownership structure the Government 85 GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS GRI INDICATOR INFORMATION CHAPTER UN GLOBAL COMPACT MARKET PRESENCE Range of the standard starting salary by 202-1 gender compared to the local minimum wage Ethics and employees’ dignity; Diversity • Share of senior management employed from 202-2 the local community Management Board • INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS Investments into infrastructure and related 203-1 Economic value; Digital society services Economic value; Description of supply 203-2 Significant indirect economic impact chain SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT 204-1 Share of consumption on local suppliers Supply chain ANTI-CORRUPTION Percentage and total number of business 205-1 units subjected to corruption risk analysis Anti-corruption • Communication and training on anti205-2 corruption policies and procedures Anti-corruption • Corruption incidents confirmed and measures 205-3 taken Anti-corruption • BEHAVIOR CONTRARY TO THE PRINCIPLE OF FREE COMPETITION Legal proceedings initiated due to conduct contrary to the principle of freedom of Key macroeconomic and market trends in 206-1 competition, antitrust and monopolistic telecommunications market practices MATERIALS 301-1 Used materials by weight or volume Materials • ENERGY Climate change, environment and health: 302-1 Energy consumption within organization Energy • 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy • Reducing energy requirements in products 302-5 and services Energy • WATER 303-1 Water consumption Water • BIODIVERSITY Location and size of land owned, leased or managed in or near the protected areas and 304-1 in areas of high biodiversity value have a Biodiversity negligible impact on biodiversity outside the protected areas. 86 GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS GRI INDICATOR INFORMATION CHAPTER UN GLOBAL COMPACT Opis značajnih utjecaja djelatnosti, proizvoda Biodiversity; 304-2 i usluga na biološku raznolikost Digital society • EMISSIONS Direct emissions of greenhouse gases 305-1 (Scope 1) Emissions • Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases by 305-2 weight (Scope 2) Emissions • NOx, SOx and other significant air emission 305-7 by type and weight Emissions • WASTE Total weight of waste by type and method of 306-2 disposal Materials • ESTIMATE OF IMPACTS OF SUPPLIERS ON THE ENVIRONMENT New suppliers over which an analytical review 308-1 was carried out using environmental criteria Supply chain • Negative environmental impacts on the 308-2 supply chain and actions taken Supply chain • EMPLOYMENT Impact on employees 401-1 New employments and employee turnover Table Total number of employees • Benefits for full-time employees which are not 401-2 provided to employees employed temporarily Benefits • or on a part-time basis 401-3 Parental leave Occupational health and safety RELATIONSHIPS OF EMPLOYEES AND MANAGEMENT BOARD Minimum period of notice of changes in 402-1 business Communication with employees • OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Percentage of total workforce covered by 403-1 formal joint committees for health and safety Occupational health and safety • issues Types and rates of injuries, occupational 403-2 diseases, lost days and absences and the Occupational health and safety • number of deaths related to accidents at work Workers with high frequency or high risk of 403-3 diseases related to their occupation Occupational health and safety • Health and safety issues covered by formal 403-4 agreements with trade unions Occupational health and safety • 87 GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS GRI INDICATOR INFORMATION CHAPTER UN GLOBAL COMPACT TRAINING AND EDUCATION The average annual number of training hours 404-1 per employee by employee category Life-long learning • Skill and lifelong learning programs that support the permanent employment 404-2 opportunities of employees and help them in Life-long learning • successfully ending their working life Percentage of employees who receive regular 404-3 performance and individual development Impact on employees • appraisal DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Profile of HT Group 405-1 Diversity in management bodies Table Diversity in management bodies • Ratio of basic wages and salaries of men and Impact on employees 405-2 women by employee category Table Workplace valuation • NON-DISCRIMINATION Total number of cases of discrimination and 406-1 undertaken corrective measures Ethics and employees’ dignity • SAFETY PRACTICES Percentage of security staff covered by 410-1 training on organization’s human rights Supply chain • aspects policies or procedures HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT Activities subjected to human rights reviews 412-1 Ethics and employees’ dignity or impact assessments Employee training on human rights policies 412-2 Ethics and employees’ dignity and procedures LOKALNE ZAJEDNICE Business units at individual locations with Digital society 413-1 community inclusion programs, impact Cooperation with local communities • assessment, and development programs SOCIAL ASSESSMENT OF SUPPLIERS New suppliers over which an analytical review 414-1 was carried out using social criteria Description of supply chain • Negative social impacts in the supply chain 414-2 and actions taken Cooperation with local communities • PUBLIC POLICIES 415-1 Political contributions Profile of HT Group • 88 GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS GRI INDICATOR INFORMATION CHAPTER UN GLOBAL COMPACT CUSTOMERS’ HEALTH AND SAFETY Assessment of the impact of products and Assessment of the impact of products and 416-1 services on health and safety services on health and safety • MARKETING AND LABELING Labeling products and services and requests 417-1 Customer relationships for product and service information Incidents of non-compliance with products 417-2 and services labeling and information on Customer relationships products and services Incidents of non-compliance with marketing 417-3 Customer relationships communications CUSTOMERS’ PRIVACY Established complaints regarding user 418-1 Customer relationships privacy breaches and customer data loss 89 REFERENCE ¹ The partnership includes fourteen organizations: ITU, UNCTAD, OECD, ¹⁴ Indicator Partnership on measuring ICT for development: Individuals with EUROSTAT, ILO, UIS, UN ECA, UN ECLAC, UN ESCAP, UN ESCWA, ICT skills. Contribution to the achievement of a specific goal of sustainUNDESA, UNEP/SBS, UNU-IAS and World Bank able development 4: By 2030, significantly increase the number of young people and adults with relevant skills, including technical and professional ² Source: Croatian Chamber of Economy skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship. ³ Source: European Commission: The report for Croatia in 2018 with a ¹⁵ Indicator Partnership on measuring ICT for development: Individuals detailed review of the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalwith ICT skills, by sex. Contribution to the achievement of a specific goal of ances sustainable development 4: By 2030, significantly increase the number of young people and adults with relevant skills, including technical and pro⁴ Indicator Partnership on measuring ICT for development: Added value fessional skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship and by in ICT sector. Contribution to the achievement of a specific goal of sus2030 ensure equal access for all women and men to affordable and high tainable development 8: Promoting inclusive and sustainable economic quality technical, vocational and higher education, including university. growth, employment and decent work for all. ¹⁶ Indicator Partnership on measuring ICT for development: The percentage ⁵ Indicator Partnership on measuring ICT for development: The share of of population covered by the mobile network, by technologies. Contribuhouseholds with access to broadband internet. Contribution to the achievetion to the achievement of a specific goal of sustainable development 9: ment of a specific goal of sustainable development 9: Build quality, reliable, The share of the population covered by the mobile network, by technology sustainable and resilient infrastructure, including regional and cross-border infrastructure, to support economic development and prosperity with an ¹⁷ 102-12 emphasis on an accessible and just approach. ¹⁸ Indicator Partnership on measuring ICT for development: Individuals ⁶ 203-2 with ICT skills. Contribution to the achievement of the specific goal of sustainable development 8: Achieve a higher level of economic productivity ⁷ Indicator Partnership on measuring ICT for development: Fixed broadthrough diversification, technological advancement and innovation. band subscribers, by network speed. Contribution to the achievement of the specific goal of sustainable development 8: Achieve a higher level of ¹⁹ Used formula: economic productivity through diversification, technological advancement Total number of employees / average number of employees (HC) in 2017 and innovation. Total number of those who left / average number of employees (HC) in 2017 The number of those who left includes all departures, and HCR (redundan⁸ Indicator Partnership on measuring ICT for development: Fixed broadcy and by consent). band subscribers, by network speed. Contribution to the achievement of the specific goal of sustainable development 9: Significantly increase ²⁰ Indicator Partnership on measuring ICT for development: Percentage access to information and communication technology and strive to ensure of energy consumption from renewable sources in relation to total energy comprehensive and affordable Internet access to least developed countries consumption. Contribution to the achievement of a specific goal of sustainby 2020. able development 7: Provide access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for everyone. . ⁹ Indicator Partnership on measuring ICT for development: Percentage of rural population covered with mobile network, by technologies. Contribu²¹ Contribution to the achievement of a specific goal of sustainable develtion to the achievement of the specific goal of sustainable development 9: opment 7: Provide access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern : Build quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure, including energy for everyone. regional and cross-border infrastructure, to support economic development and prosperity with an emphasis on an accessible and just approach. ²² Indicator Partnership on measuring ICT for development: Rate of collected e-waste. Contribution to the achievement of a specific goal of sustain¹⁰ Indicator Partnership on measuring ICT for development: Individuals with able development 9: Build sustainable infrastructure, promote sustainable ICT skills. Contribution to the achievement of the specific goal of sustainindustrialization, and foster innovation. able development 4: By 2030, significantly increase the number of young people and adults with relevant skills, including technical and professional ²³ Note: 8792,2 tCO2e for HT – reduction compared to 2016 because in skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship. 2017 around 80 percent of the total consumption of electricity was procured from ZelEn in HEP (CO2-neutral). ¹¹ Indicator Partnership on measuring ICT for development: Individuals with Sources for calculation: 1 World Resources Institute (2015). GHG Protocol ICT skills, by sex. Contribution to the achievement of a specific goal of tool for mobile combustion. Version 2.6.; 2. GHG Emissions from Pursustainable development 4: By 2030, significantly increase the number of chased Electricity version 4.8, May 18, 2015, Added IEA emission factors young people and adults with relevant skills, including technical and profor year 2012 and latest GWP values from IPCC Fifth Assessment Report fessional skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship, and by 2030 ensure equal access for all women and men to affordable and high ²⁴ Fewer measurements compared to 2016 due to changes in regulations quality technical, vocational and higher education, including university. that led to a three-year period for periodic measurements compared to the previously prescribed two-year period. ¹² Indicator Partnership on measuring ICT for development: Entry into elementary and secondary education containing personal computers for pedagogical purposes, by sex. Contribution to the achievement of a specific goal of sustainable development 4: Ensure inclusive and quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities. ¹³ Indicator Partnership on measuring ICT for development: Individuals with ICT skills. Contribution to the achievement of a specific goal of sustainable development 4: By 2030, significantly increase the number of young people and adults with relevant skills, including technical and professional skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship. 90
