Integrated Annual Report 2018 Excluding the notes and the declaration of corporate management a t a g l a n c e EnBW Adjusted EBITDA in 2018 5.5 million customers 12.5% €270.6 million B2C and B2B 2018 Full-service provider of Sales decentralised energy solutions €2.2 billion Adjusted EBITDA in 2018 Strategic repositioning of the company Adjusted EBITDA 2012 / 2020 0.2 0.8 0.2 1.2 2012 2.4 billion Adjusted EBITDA in 2018 0.4 1.0 0.7 0.3 2020 2.4 billion 54.5% €1,176.9 million Renewable Generation Sales Grids Energies and Trading Grids 4x around the world Length of our electricity grid: 151,000 km 0.5x around the world Length of our gas grid: 24,000 km €967.4 millionInvestment in 2018 Adjusted EBITDA in 2018 2020 target: 40% share of generation capacity 13.8% €297.7 million accounted for by renewable energies Renewable Energies €476.0 million Investment in 2018 What sets us apart Generation mix Installed output in MW 2018 › Active along the entire value added chain › Stable shareholder structure 27.9% EnBW at a glance › All financial ratings in the A-grade range Renewable energies › Leading position on important sustain­ ability ratings for the energy sector › Integrated reporting since 2014 › Cultural change › Evolving from an energy supplier to an infrastructure partner Renewable energies Thermal power plants Pumped storage (natural flow of water) 1,507 Brown and hard coal 4,366 Wind 1,054 Nuclear power plants 2,933 21,775 Generation and Trading Run-of-river 1,006 Gas 1,468 Other 171 Pumped storage 545 Employees 2018 Other 349 Almost Adjusted EBITDA in 2018 40% fewer OFF CO2-intensive power plants since 2012 19.9% €428.6 million Phasing out of nuclear energy: 2022 Performance indicators of the EnBW Group Financial and strategic performance indicators in € million 2018 2017 Change in % External revenue 20,617.5 21,974.0 -6.2 Adjusted EBITDA 2,157.5 2,113.0 2.1 Share of adjusted EBITDA accounted for by Sales in € million/in % 270.6 / 12.5 330.0 / 15.6 -18.0 / – Share of adjusted EBITDA accounted for by Grids in € million/in % 1,176.9 / 54.5 1,045.9 / 49.5 12.5 / – Share of adjusted EBITDA accounted for by Renewable Energies in € million/in % 297.7 / 13.8 331.7 / 15.7 -10.3 / – Share of adjusted EBITDA accounted for by Generation and Trading in € million/in % 428.6 / 19.9 377.1 / 17.8 13.7 / – Share of adjusted EBITDA accounted for by Other/Consolidation in € million/in % -16.3 / -0.7 28.3 / 1.4 –/– EBITDA 2,089.6 3,752.4 -44.3 Adjusted EBIT 957.5 998.8 -4.1 EBIT 875.8 2,504.0 -65.0 Adjusted Group net profit 1 438.3 793.3 -44.7 Group net profit 1 334.2 2,054.1 -83.7 Earnings per share from Group net profit in € 1 1.23 7.58 -83.7 Retained cash flow 999.1 3,050.3 -67.2 Internal financing capability in % 93.2 111.9 -16.7 Total investments 1,769.9 1,770.3 0.0 Net financial debt 3,738.4 2,917.8 28.1 Coverage ratio ALM in % 2 51.8 53.3 – Return on capital employed (ROCE) in % 2 6.5 7.3 – Weighted average cost of capital before tax in % 6.3 6.3 – Average capital employed 2 16,053.3 15,119.9 6.2 Value added 2 32.1 151.2 -78.8 Non-financial performance indicators 2018 2017 Change in % Customers and society goal dimension Reputation Index 51.3 52.1 -1.5 EnBW/Yello Customer Satisfaction Index 120 / 152 143 / 161 -16.1 / -5.6 SAIDI (electricity) in min./year 17 19 -10.5 Employees goal dimension Employee Commitment Index (ECI) 3 62 60 3.3 LTIF 4 2.3 3.0 -23.3 Environment goal dimension Installed output of renewable energies (RE) in GW and the share of the generation capacity accounted for by RE in % 2 3.7 / 27.9 3.4 / 25.8 8.8 / 8.1 CO2 intensity in g/kWh 553 556 -0.5 Employees of the EnBW Group 5 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Change in % Employees 21,775 21,352 2.0 Full-time equivalents 6 20,379 19,939 2.2 1 In relation to the profit/loss attributable to the shareholders of EnBW AG. 2 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 3 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (consideration of companies controlled by the Group [without ITOs]). 4 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (consideration of all employees at those companies controlled by the Group, except external agency workers and contractors). 5 Number of employees excluding apprentices/trainees and inactive employees. 6 Converted into full-time equivalents. M a d a m , Dear Sir or e r s, E m p l o y ee s , h a r e h o l d Dear S o f E n B W , n d F r ie n d s Partners a The title of our Integrated Annual Report says it all: “E-motion” stands for electromobility, emotion and movement – and thus also for the transformation taking place at our company. EnBW has been undergoing a profound process of change with a clear goal: we are evolving step by step from a conventional energy supplier into a partner for energy and infrastructure – a partner who relies on sustainability and innovative strength and one who works in an efficient, digital and customer-oriented manner. We have made progress on this path together in the past year. We have further increased the share of our energy generation accounted for by renewable energies and also invested in new business fields that have a promising future. Fantastic opportunities are emerging as the process of digitalisation brings sectors such as transport and energy closer and closer together. Some examples of this are electromobility, the expansion of broadband infrastructure, and smart city and district development. This means that we are now rigorously transferring our core expertise – such as the safe and reliable operation of critical energy infrastructure – to neighbouring fields. As a representative example of these still relatively new themes for EnBW, we are highlighting the opportunities and challenges in the area of electromobility in this report from a variety of different perspectives: Where does Germany stand with respect to this kind of technology compared with other countries? How do we at EnBW want to help e-mobility achieve the breakthrough? What expect­ ations do customers have? And why are partnerships with other companies especially important in this area? You will find our answers to these and other questions on the following pages. At the same time, this year's main theme will also convey part of our corporate culture. As you will see, we do what we do with passion and emotion. We want to help create something meaningful – after all every masterpiece starts with a single brush stroke. And we want to also leave our mark on the energy world of the future. Yours sincerely, Dr. Frank Mastiaux Chairman of the Board of Management 2 An international comparison Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW f u t u r e o f The e l e c t r i c mo b i l i t y is Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW An international comparison 3 3 There is no question that a dynamic global expansion in electromobility will make an important contribution to limiting global warming – especially if the electricity required is sourced from renewable energies. The progress made in this area varies in each individual country – depending on the polit­ ical and economic framework conditions. Yet the way forward is clear: More and more people will drive electric vehicles in future. 4 An international comparison Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW The European Union has decided, for example, that CO2 emissions from new car fleets must be reduced by 35 percent by 2030. This can only be achieved if manufacturers invest more heavily in the production of electrically powered vehicles. The task is clear but the challenge lies in the execution – which will by no means be a linear process.“ Things are developing very differently in each region and we cannot speak of a uniform global e-car market, says Nicolai Müller, Senior Partner at McKinsey, who together with his team regularly measures the progress made in e-mobility in the 15 most “ We cannot speak important countries for this sector. of a uniform global The fact is that electromobility is growing, but starting off from a low level. The global stock of electric cars had grown to 5.6 million at the end of e-car market. ” 2018. In comparison to the previous year, this represents an increase of around 74 percent. In absolute terms, China sets the gold standard. A total Nicolai Müller of 1.2 million electric cars were sold in the country in 2018 – twice as many as in the previous year – which means that more than every second e-car in the world was registered in the Middle Kingdom. The demand for e-vehicles also increased significantly in the USA in 2018; there were 356,000 newly registered vehicles, which represented an increase of 84 percent. More than every second new e-car in the USA was registered in California. The west coast state has once again confirmed its status as a pioneer for e-mobility. The number of e-cars has also grown in Europe – although at varying rates. An upward trend for e-cars Growth in the number of electric cars (Increase in percent) Starting from a low level, electromo­ bility has grown rapidly in the past few years. Around 5.6 million e-cars were on the roads at the end of 2018. China accounts for almost half of this number (2.6 million). At the end of 2018, Germany had almost 142,000 e-cars. Source: Centre for Solar Energy and Hydrogen Research Baden Württemberg (ZSW) 2018 Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW An international comparison 5 Where are they being driven? Share of newly registered vehicles accounted for by e-cars More than half of all newly regi­ stered vehicles in Norway were electric cars in 2018. In comparison, electric vehicles only accounted for a modest 2 percent of the newly registered cars in Germany during the same period. Source: Center of Automotive Management (CAM) E-mobility has so far been a niche market in Germany. Yet the trend is clear: The number of e-cars is also increasing here at home. 0.5% Although Germany has certainly made progress in the area of electromobility, it has been at a relatively moderate pace. Around 68,000 new e-cars were sold here in 2018. This represents growth of 26 percent compared to the previous year and makes Germany the second largest market in Europe after Norway. More than 86,000 e-cars were newly registered in the Scandinavian country in 2018 – which has a population of just 5 million people. The share of the global vehicle A quick glance at the share of the total market accounted for by e-vehicles shows how much stock accounted for by e-cars is road traffic is still dominated by cars with combustion engines. Or in other words, this highstill extremely small. This is set lights the huge potential offered by electromobility. The share of the global vehicle stock accounted to change! (As of the end of 2018) for by electric vehicles still stood at just 0.5 percent at the end of 2018. The undisputed leader in terms of market share is Norway, where electric cars account for around 10 percent of the total number of vehicles. The figures and the underlying framework conditions differ in each region. “Many factors vary from country to country, in some cases even from city to city: the size of the purchase subsidy, the charging infrastructure and the legal regulations all differ,” explains Nicolai Müller, the expert from McKinsey. 6 An international comparison Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Electricity is becoming “greener” Share of gross electricity generation accounted for by renewable energies The electrical energy generated worldwide is being produced increasingly from environmentally friendly sources. In Germany, the share accounted for by renewable energies lies above the global average. China is also making progress in this area, even though the majority of their energy is still generated using coal. Source: Global Energy Statistical Yearbook (yearbook.enerdata.net), REN21 / Renewable Energy Policy Network for the 21st Century (ren21.net) New technologies must have the right framework conditions: Targeted government funding is decisive for promoting e-mobility. China is a good example: “China is setting the pace for e-mobility globally and is embracing this role with increasing intensity,” says Prof. Dr. Stefan Bratzel, Director of the Center of Automotive Management (CAM). “Decisive factors in this strategy are industrial policies such as independence from oil imports and the targeted development of globally active car manufacturers with electrical expertise.” There is no other country in the world where e-mobility is promoted as strongly as in China, where around 40 percent of the purchase price for an e-car is subsidised. These vehicles can be registered easily, while a draw is held for permission to register standard cars with combustion engines. No wonder that the number of e-vehicles on China’s streets E-mobility only makes is set to continue to rise dramatically – from the current figure of 2.6 million (end of 2018) to more than 5 million in 2020. In addition, there are plans to sense if the required manufacture 5 million e-cars per year up to 2025. This would be equivalent to the current production capacities of all the German car factories combined. electricity comes from At the same time, considerable investment is being made into the associated infrastructure in China. There are plans to install a total of 4.8 million new renewable sources. charging points for e-cars in the country by 2020. China means business with electromobility and already realises that the new drive technology only makes ecological sense if the required electricity comes from renewable sources. The country is still very dependent on coal-fired generation but invested almost 133 billion US dollars in the expansion of renewable energies in 2017 – more than every other country worldwide. These dynamic developments cannot (yet) be seen in the USA, despite the special role played by California. Range is a decisive factor in the Great Plains and other flat land areas, while fossil fuels are so cheap that cars with combustion engines are clear favourites amongst purchasers. However, the proportion of e-cars is also set to grow in the USA due to the predicated fall in production costs. In addition, the US market will benefit from high investment by US automakers in new drive technologies – and from the stricter emissions standards in some federal states. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW An international comparison 7 Electromobility means California in the USA. This federal state on the West Coast is also a pioneer in the expansion of renewable energies. -40% It comes as no surprise that California also plays a special role in this area. The west coast state aims to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 40 percent by 2030 and that’s why it plans to rigorously expand electromobility. Subsidies are available for electrically powered vehicles across the USA as a whole. For a plug-in hybrid or a car with a battery capacity of at least 5 kilowatt hours, purchasers receive a tax credit of 2,500 US dollars. The tax credit can increase up to a California wants to significantly maximum of 7,500 US dollars for larger battery capacities. reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. The charging infrastructure is very unevenly distributed regionally in the USA. The highest concen­ tration can be found on the West Coast. The “West Coast Electric Highway” – an initiative to +15% promote electromobility – has charging stations every 40 to 80 kilometres. Around 16,000 public and 3,000 private charging stations exist across the country. Yet this is nothing in comparison to standard filling stations: owners of vehicles with combustion engines can use around 112,000 filling stations each offering up to 30 fuel pumps. It is the car industry in particular that wants to invest billions of US dollars in the next few years to close this gap in infrastructure. The share of total electricity The expansion of electromobility in the USA will also go hand in hand with an increase in elecgeneration accounted for tricity generation from renewable energies. The share of total energy generation accounted for by renewable energies is also by renewable energies increased by 15 percent in 2017, with electricity generation from solar growing in the USA. energy even increasing by 25 percent – thanks to California. Tax breaks and other discounts work: Norway is an example of how the state can help electromobility achieve a breakthrough. The market for electrically powered vehicles is booming in Scandinavia, especially in Norway. The main reason for this is the high state subsidies that are offered to purchasers. They neither have to pay emission taxes, which can amount to as much as 10,000 euros for a combustion engine vehicle, nor VAT. The vehicle tax for e-cars is also significantly lower than for cars with a combustion engine. In addition, users of e-cars in Norway also benefit from a series of other discounts. For example, they can take their cars on the state-run ferries free of charge and do not have to pay to use toll roads. Furthermore, the state is also taking care of the expansion of the infrastructure. The aim is to almost double the number of charging connections in Norway from around 13,000 now to 25,000 by 2020 – and thus provide complete coverage across the country. Hydropower dominates electricity generation in Norway. In the first Global Energy Transition Index, published by the World Economic Forum (WEF) in March 2018, four of the first five places were held by countries from northern Europe. Norway was ranked 2nd behind Sweden. In comparison, Germany was ranked in 16th place. 8 An international comparison Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW E-cars are conquering the world Number of e-cars newly registered worldwide each year The forecast for electromobility is bright. Experts predict that across the world there will be 23 million newly registered e-cars in 2025. That would be twelve times more than in 2018. Source: Center of Automotive Management (CAM), January 2019 Ambitious targets: Germany aims to have 1 million e-vehicles on its roads by 2022 – which is ten times more than in autumn 2018. Germany has also made progress over the last few years with the expansion of renewable en­ ergies and generation of green energy increased by around 6 percent in 2018 in comparison to the previous year. Overall, the share of total gross electricity generation accounted for by renewable 30% energies here at home stood at around 35 percent. Coal accounted for a similarly high share. The increasing debate about emission limits and bans on certain vehicles have, in particular, resulted in a noticeable upturn in the market for electromobility. And yet the country is still lagging behind its own targets. As a result, the German government had to move the deadline for achieving its target of having around 1 million e-cars on the streets of Germany from 2020 Almost a third of all cars newly to 2022 (see also the adjacent interview). Around 142,000 battery powered cars were on our registered in Germany in 2025 roads by the end of 2018. should be e-cars. The German car industry has now announced that it will invest a huge amount in the expansion of electromobility and will launch numerous new e-car models on the market. In the meantime, the government has also started focusing more strongly on state subsidies so that purchasers of e-cars will now receive an environmental subsidy of at least 4,000 euros. It will require considerable effort to install the necessary infrastructure for the 1 million e-cars now planned for the new deadline of 2022. Experts at the German National Platform for Electric Mobility (NPE) estimate that around 77,000 public charging points need to be installed by then – there were only around 16,000 by the end of 2018. EnBW recognised this a long time ago – it is not only a pioneer amongst energy suppliers for the expansion of renewable energies, but also leads the way in the construction and operation of public charging points. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW An international comparison 9 i s a l e a d i n g “G e r m a n y n a l s u p p lie r in t e r n a t i o .” o b i l i t y of electrom Interview with Prof. Dr. Henning Kagermann Professor Kagermann, what contribution can electromobility make to limiting global warming? Kagermann: Electromobility offers clear advantages for the climate, environment and life in urban areas – especially lower CO2 emissions, zero local emissions of nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, and less noise pollution. Electric vehicles are cleaner and quieter. Prof. Dr. Henning Kagermann Chairman of the German National Where does Germany stand with respect to electromobility compared with Platform for Electric Mobility other countries? (NPE) and President of the GerKagermann: Much has been achieved in the last few years. Germany is a leading man National Academy of Science and Engineering (Acatech). international supplier for electromobility. Our car manufacturers have achieved Prof. Dr. Henning Kagermann was a comparable market share for their electric cars as for their conventional cars the spokesperson for the Managein all markets, with the exception of China which is a special case. Every third ment Board of SAP AG from patent for electromobility worldwide is held by Germany. 2003 to 2009. Yet it was nevertheless necessary to push back the deadline for achieving 1 million e-cars on the streets of Germany. What has to happen so that Germany can achieve its e-mobility targets? Kagermann: An appropriate charging infrastructure to meet the demand, suitable framework conditions, incentives and attractive vehicles must all go hand in hand to enable e-mobility to quickly break though on a large scale. The funding packages for the expansion of the charging infrastructure are already beginning to bear fruit. Just within the scope of the funding programmes offered by the German government, it was possible to triple the number of normal charging points and achieve almost a tenfold increase in quick-charging points by the end of 2018. What challenges still need to be overcome? Kagermann: We need to ensure that we don’t let up in our efforts so that we can maintain the highly dynamic growth of the market. Local authorities should ensure all users of e-cars are able to take advantage of the benefits offered by the Electric Mobility Act. In addition, the environmental bonus should be retained until the target of 1 million electric cars on German streets is achieved. This should be accompanied by further funding measures to expand the charging infrastructure and by reforms to tenancy law and property rights, so that the number of public and private charging points can grow in line with the number of e-cars. What do you expect from the energy supply companies in the further expansion of e-mobility? Kagermann: As the number of electric cars increases, they will become an important control variable for the energy sector. The demand for charging infrastructure that is fit for the future will then grow steadily. This will place new demands on the power distribution grids which can be countered by the local expansion of the energy grid and the use of smart load management. It is already necessary today to build a comprehensive, intelligently networked and controllable charging infrastructure across the country to ensure that integration into the grid remains sustainable and cost-efficient. 10 The company perspective Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW c t r o m o b i l i t y E le c t i o n b y c o n vi EnBW positioned itself at a very early stage so that it could actively shape the Energiewende and shift its focus, in particular, onto the opportunities that it offers. The company views itself more and more as an infrastructure supplier and is pushing forward themes relevant to the whole of society such as smart city and district development and, naturally, electromobility. The company has had to clearly position itself in order to be ready to face the important themes of the future. “Our engagement in electromobility comes from the deepest conviction,” says Dr. Frank Mastiaux, Chief Executive Officer of EnBW. “This sector is just as “ Our engagement in important to us as the expansion of renewable energies.” electromobility comes from EnBW and its subsidiary Netze BW cover the most important parts of the value added chain for e-mobility: Netze BW provides the electricity grids the deepest conviction. ” and storage solutions, while EnBW generates electricity from renewable energy sources and is further expanding the charging infrastructure – Dr. Frank Mastiaux while offering corresponding products and services to the commercial sector, local authorities and private consumers. “For example, we offer our business customers full e-mobility packages for the operation of their vehicle fleets or we can connect the photovoltaic power plant on the roof of a private customer’s house with an electricity storage system and their electric car,” explains Timo Sillober, Head of Sales at EnBW. This means that the customer uses their own electricity generated from solar energy to operate their car. EnBW combines its services in the area of electromobility in the EnBW mobility+ product family. “We have brought together everything you need to be electrically mobile,” explains Sillober, describing the concept behind the product family. This includes so-called wallboxes (compact charging stations for installation at home, for example in the garage), charging infrastructure while out and about and digital services such as the EnBW mobility+ app that enables users to charge at stations not operated by EnBW (see extra box on p.13). Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW The company perspective 11 The decisive factor for achieving more widespread use of electro­ mobility is the development and expansion of corresponding infrastructure. The task for Netze BW is to bring the charging electricity to where it is needed: on the motorway, in the city, in the countryside and at home. EnBW is in turn tasked with operating the required charging stations at these locations. This results in a clear mandate for the company that Head of Sales, Timo Sillober, expresses as follows: “We want to make our contribution to ensuring that people can set off in their electric cars without having to worry about the distance they can travel or the charging opportunities available to them. In addition, we will combine individual solutions to create new applications so that our customers will be able, for example, “ We offer everything to use their own solar electricity generated at home to charge their e-car when they are on the road.” that you need to EnBW already assumed a pioneering role in the area of charging be electrically mobile. ” infrastructure many years ago. The company began installing charging stations for electric vehicles in Stuttgart in 2012 and Timo Sillober has since supplied electricity to the largest fleet of electric vehicles in a major city. No wonder then that Stuttgart is considered the city with the best conditions for electromobility across Germany according to a study carried out by the consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers. The Services Division at the subsidiary Netzte BW is responsible for installing the individual charging stations for EnBW. Netze BW has a high level of expertise in the planning, installation and operation of critical infrastructure and has become an expert in charging infrastructure. “We have aligned our services to the new requirements of modern mobility and drivers of electric cars can rely on the fact that they will be able to charge their vehicles from Munich to Hamburg,” explains Axel Hausen, Head of Product Management at Netze BW, Services Division. Product development, sales and managing the development of the charging infrastructure – as well as its operation and maintenance – is, on the other hand, the responsibility of EnBW. “Our main focus is currently the expansion and operation of quick-charging stations,” says Marc Burgstahler, Head of Electromobility at EnBW, describing the current activities of the company in this area. In comparison to conventional AC charging stations (alternating current), DC charging stations (direct current) allow a significantly quicker charging process. This means that customers can, for example, charge their vehicle with enough electricity to cover a distance of around 100 kilometres in just 3 minutes at DC charging stations with a charging capacity of 300 kilowatts (so-called “high power chargers”). EnBW is one of the market leaders for the operation of quick-charging stations in Germany with currently more than 130 quick-charging stations, primarily at motorway service stations and in urban areas. And it has ambitious targets: “We aim to operate 1,000 quick-charging stations across Germany by the end of 2020,” explains Burgstahler. EnBW is cooperating “ Our main focus is with partners such as OMV, Tank & Rast and hagebau. currently the expansion and operation of quickcharging stations. ” Marc Burgstahler 12 The company perspective Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Seamless coverage Distance between charging stations in Baden-Württemberg A core charging network: The next charging station is never far away in Baden-Württemberg, no matter whether a charging capacity of at least 22 kilowatts or at least 50 kilowatts is required. SAFE – the electrical charging network for BadenWürttemberg – provides comprehensive infrastructure. The next charge is never more than 10 kilometres away. The State of Baden-Württemberg – often dubbed the automobile state – believes that it has a special obligation to help electromobility make the breakthrough and thus pave the way for environmentally friendly mobility. As part of the funding programme to establish a core charging network for electric vehicles covering the whole of Baden-Württemberg (SAFE), a consortium consisting of 74 municipal utilities and regional suppliers as well as three local authorities under the leadership of EnBW has developed a closely meshed network of charging stations in the past few months. Drivers of e-vehicles in Baden-Württemberg will already have access this year to a charging station with a charging capacity of at least 22 kilowatts in a grid with a mesh size of 10 by 10 kilometres from any location. In a grid with a mesh size of 20 by 20 kilometres, Netze BW is investing around there will also be at least one quick-charging station with 50 kilowatts of charging capacity. 500 million euros in the expansion Stable electricity grids are a basic requirement for the reliable charging of its electricity distribution grid of e-cars. It is not the volume of electricity that is the issue but the peak loads that occur when lots of vehicles are being charged at the same time. This is up to 2025 so that it can cope because the grid can only remain stable when the same volume of electricity is being fed into it as is being extracted. Therefore, it is vital for electricity with the increased demand. grid operators such as Netze BW to take suitable measures to adapt the supply to the requirements of electromobility early enough, so that they are ready to anticipate peaks in demand. Against this background, Netze BW is investing around 500 million euros in the expansion of its electricity distribution grid up to 2025 so that it can cope with the increased demand. Ultimately, a stable electricity grid is worth every cent. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW The company perspective 13 The networker EnBW has not only taken on a leadership role as part of the SAFE funding programme, the company and its subsidiary Netze BW are also actively involved in a series of other initiatives for the further development of e-mobility. As early as the summer of 2017, Netze BW was the first energy company to join the German Association of the Automotive Industry (VDA). Since the turn of the year 2018 / 2019, Netze BW has also been a member of the Research Association of Automotive Technology (FAT) in the VDA and contributes to the discussion from its perspective as a grid operator. In addition, EnBW is also involved in the Strategy Dialogue for the Automotive Sector in Baden-Württemberg, which was founded by the state government in 2017 and has representatives from the worlds of politics, business, science and civil society. The Managing Director of Netze BW GmbH, Dr. Martin Konermann, is Co-Chairman of the “Energy” steering group, while Timo Sillober is a member of the Advisory Board of e-mobil BW. The State Agency for New Mobility Solutions and Automotive Baden-Württemberg is responsible for the various themes covered by the strategy dialogue. Simple. Everywhere. Reliable. Whether electromobility is fit for everyday life is best demonstrated by how easily and intuitively it can be accessed by users. “Our EnBW mobility+ app has established itself as a kind of smart guide in this respect,” says Christoph Ulusoy, Head of Product Development and Digital Solutions at EnBW. “The free app offers drivers of electric vehicles everything they need: an almost seamless overview of the available charging stations, full transparency with respect to tariffs and convenient payment functions. All of this makes the award-winning application the most downloaded app in the area of electromobility in Germany.” The app ... » ... is linked to around 25,000 charging stations from various operators in Germany, Austria and Switzerland – currently the largest charging network (as of January 2019) – and provides an overview in map form. » ... indicates whether a charging station is free or occupied and guides the driver directly to the nearest place they can charge. » ... enables EnBW customers to charge their vehicles at more than 90 percent of all publicly accessible charging stations – the highest network coverage in Germany, Austria and Switzerland – and pay directly. » ... is also suitable for drivers of electric cars that are not customers of EnBW for locating free charging stations, showing them the way and checking the payment options. » ... offers simple, understandable tariffs. Instead of the standard time-based pricing models, EnBW wants to offer precise consumption-based billing that is independent of the model of electric car. Since 1 March 2019, the company has been billing solely on the basis of the electricity that has actually been used during charging – to the precise kilowatt hour. This means that it bills at one uniform tariff across all stations in the roaming network. » ... has an integrated driving simulator that can also be used by drivers of cars with a combustion engine to find out what e-car would best suit their own driving habits. The EnBW mobility+ app is further confirmation of the pioneering role that the company is playing in the expansion of electromobility. 14 The customer perspective Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW o b i l i t y A v e n u e Th e E M Is electromobility ready to be part of everyday life? In a pilot project being conducted by the EnBW subsidiary Netze BW, ten households in a residential street near Stuttgart are participating in a trial. They demonstrate that charging and driving are no problem, while the electricity grid also remains stable. We visited the residents. Ostfildern is 20 minutes from the major city of Stuttgart. At first glance, Belchenstraße in the Ruit district looks just like many other residential streets in Germany. The single-family homes and plots are neither particularly large nor particularly small, there isn't anything flashy about the architecture and the cars are neatly parked. Yet a closer look reveals something surprising: five of the eight cars parked along the 100 metre long road are electric vehicles and two charging stations have been installed in the cul-de-sac. In fact, the inconspicuous looking Belchenstraße has been transformed into “E-Mobility Avenue” in the last few months. Since June 2018, Netze BW has been testing the impact of electromobility on the electricity grid in a pilot project being conducted in cooperation with the City of Ostfildern. They are investigating what would happen if lots of residents on the same street, who are supplied with energy via the same electricity circuit, decide to switch over to electric cars at the same time, and how the use of battery storage systems may increase the stability of the grid. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW The customer perspective 15 To gain some insight into how charging patterns can be managed in a way that is customer-friendly but also has no negative impact on the grid, Netze BW has equipped ten households in Belchenstraße with e-cars and the corresponding infrastructure for charging them at home for a period of 12 months. The cost of the field test has proved worthwhile. Ultimately, the goal is to make the electricity grids fit for the age of electromobility. The location for the trial project has been well chosen. The households participating in the trial are representative of a typical residential area with owner-occupied homes, as is often found on the outskirts of cities. An area where in all probability most electric cars will be found in future. The mix of residents is also ideal: Belchenstraße is home to families with children, young couples and retired people – people with different lifestyles and different user patterns. One of the residents and participants in the project is Norbert Frank, who is self-employed and a family man. “I was curious to see what it would be like to test an electric car on a daily basis over a long period of time,” explains Frank, describing his reason for participating in the project. “Although we already have two cars, we thought it would be a useful addition, especially for journeys of up to 40 or 50 kilometres. These are the distances covered every day by my wife in particular. She is the one that uses the E-Golf provided by Netze BW the most.” What has the “ I was curious to see what experience been like so far? “Extremely positive,” says Frank. “Everything works fine – both driving and charging – and we it would be like to test an haven’t noticed any bottlenecks in the electricity grid.” electric car on a daily basis However, the e-mobility tester has noticed that the cars consume significantly more electricity in the cold winter months. “We over a long period of time. ” are only able to cover about half the distance in winter as in the summer with the same amount of charge. “When we unplug Norbert Frank the car from the socket in the morning, it displays a range of​ 246 kilometres. If my wife drives to Reutlingen and back, which is around 75 kilometres, the display then only shows 92 kilometres remaining. It still showed 150 or 160 kilometres in the summer. That means we have to charge the vehicle every day in winter.” The main cause of the higher energy consumption is the heating in the car, which uses a lot of energy at lower temperatures. Yet even charging the car daily isn't a complicated process for the Frank family. A compact rect­ angular charging station that takes up very little room has been fitted to the wall in the garage, a so-called wallbox. This is where the e-car is recharged with electricity, generally in the evening ​ or overnight, as Frank explains. “We usually charge the car in the evening between 7 o’clock and 10 o’clock or at night between 10 o’clock in the evening and 6 o’clock in the morning.” It takes around 3 to 5 hours until the batteries in the E-Golf are fully charged again. “Sometimes it takes a little longer, depending on the load placed on the electricity grid,” says Christian Bott, who is responsible at Netze BW for the pilot project in Belchenstraße. “The challenge is to minimise peak loads while fully exploiting the capabilities of the electricity grid.” Something that is necessary when several residents in Belchenstraße charge their e-cars at the same time. The charging capacity can then be reduced temporarily from 22 kilowatts to 11 kilowatts and the charging time increases accordingly. This “smart charging management system” takes into account the charging status and predicted departure time for each e-car. “The process is automatically managed overnight so that users do not notice whether their car was charging from the grid for 3, 5 or 8 hours.” The convenience of charging at home is an important reason as to why Norbert Frank is likely to continue using an e-car after the end of the trial project. “I can certainly highly recommend using an e-vehicle, especially for short journeys,” confirms Frank. But the situation is a little different for longer journeys. “I often have to drive to Frankfurt or Cologne for business and that would still be a little problematic with an e-car. The infrastructure and charging capacities would still need to improve.” Norbert Simianer, a neighbour from across the road, has a similar opinion on the matter. “Electromobility is perfect for short trips but everything has to be very well planned in advance for longer journeys,” explains the pensioner, who was the resident in Belchenstraße who submitted the application to participate in the pilot project for Netze BW. 16 The customer perspective Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW “I have been driving a hybrid car for some time and really wanted to know what it would be like to drive a purely electric car.” The test vehicle being used by Simianer is a Renault Zoe. His verdict: “The Zoe is very suitable for everyday life. I use it just like I use my own car.” And that’s why the former school principal has also used his electric car for longer journeys. “We have already taken trips to Lake Constance and Switzerland. It was necessary to search for suitable charging stations there in advance because every provider has their own system, but even this issue can be overcome.” He certainly didn't find himself stranded without power. To provide Norbert Simianer with a home charging solution he can rely on at all times, Netze BW have also fitted a battery storage system next to the wallbox in his garage. “There were some special factors that needed to be considered in this case,” explains Netze BW expert Bott. “From an electricity grid perspective, Mr Simianer lives right at the end of the electricity line on Belchenstraße. He also drives an e-car with a high charging capacity of 22 kilowatts. To take these circumstances into account, we charge the Zoe from a separate battery storage system to reduce the load on the grid.” And this storage system is in turn charged at times of the day when other electric cars are not connected to the electricity grid. This delicate balancing act is carried out silently in the background, unnoticed by the customer. No wonder then that the e-pioneers Frank and Simianer don’t focus too much on the electricity supplier and grid operator when they describe the challenges that need to be overcome in order for electromobility to finally make a breakthrough. “The car industry also needs to play its part,” says businessman Frank. “The choice of e-cars that have a good range is still very limited.” As a frequent driver, he would also like to see more “ Electromobility is perfect for charging stations and above all shorter charging times when on longer journeys. “When it takes more than 1 hour to charge short trips but everything has my car with electricity at a service station, I end up drinking a lot of coffee.” “In particular, we need uniform standards for the to be very well planned in entire charging infrastructure”, adds Simianer. “Nobody takes 20 different adapters with them when they go on a trip.” And the advance for longer journeys. ” e-pioneer wants to say something else before he jumps in his Zoe to make his next (short) trip: “The electricity used to charge Norbert Simianer the electric car should preferably be green electricity. But then EnBW does already offer the right mix.” Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW The customer perspective 17 s ia s m f o r “ Enthu r o wi n g .” m o b i l i t y is g electro Interview with Monika Bader Mrs Bader, you are the Senior Planning Officer for the City of Ostfildern. What significance does electromobility have for your community? Monika Bader: Electromobility is an important element of the new mobility concept that we are currently developing. The challenge is to intelligently network all types of mobility – in terms of both private and public transport. What insights have you gained from the “E-Mobility Avenue” pilot project Monika Bader, in Belchenstraße? Senior Planning Officer for Ostfildern Bader: Firstly, the project is helping to improve acceptance and enthusiasm for electromobility amongst the general public. People can see that the technology really works. They can also gain a better understanding of all the things you need, such as charging stations and additional electricity storage systems – and the fact that you might need to plan your journeys a little better than before. As acceptance for electromobility increases, so will the demand for the corresponding public infrastructure ... Bader: Yes, and this is a real challenge because of the limited space. There is actually no space left available in public areas. The options are extremely limited, especially in existing urban districts. However, new urban districts are a different matter altogether. How do you plan a typical district of the future? Bader: Specific mobility concepts are already taken into account when develo­ ping the first concepts for an urban development project, even as early as the competitive tendering process. We are already thinking about future requirements – such as central intermodal hubs and parking guidance systems – and take into account the space needed for charging stations, as well as for external electricity storage systems and substations. The project in Belchenstraße has already clearly demonstrated that electromobility requires a highly efficient electricity grid. And it is not only electromobility that requires lots of energy but also the ongoing process of digitalisation in general ... Bader: That's correct. Digitalisation means that we will have to supply many more computers with electricity. When planning urban developments that are fit for the future, we also have to consider that people’s homes and places of work will move much closer together. We will need to provide the right infrastructure and this means that when we talk about the expansion of broadband, we are also talking about the expansion of the electricity grid. What makes an ideal energy supply company and an ideal grid operator in your opinion? Bader: The ideal companies should provide a highly efficient electricity grid that is supplied with a very high proportion of renewable energies. A grid that will be able to cope reliably with the high demands of electromobility and digitalisation at all times. EnBW and Netze BW are making really good progress in this respect, boosted by the research projects they are running in our community. 18 The partner perspective Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW e c o m p l e m e n t “W p e r f e c t l y . ” ea c h o t h e r Major projects require joint effort. That is why EnBW is relying on close collaborations – such as with Tank & Rast – for the establishment and expansion of charging infrastructure for electromobility. Jörg Hofmeister, Head of Electromobility at Germany's largest mobility and service provider on the motorways, and Amadeus Regerbis, Head of Charging Infrastructure for Electromobility at EnBW, tell us about the aims of the partnership – and about the secret to success for good cooperation. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW The partner perspective 19 Mr Hofmeister, Mr Regerbis, what significance does electromobility have for your companies? Amadeus Regerbis: Electromobility is an important component of the Energiewende for EnBW and it can be found as a recurring theme throughout our company. Purely electrically powered vehicles have no local emissions and are certainly the most efficient alternative drive technology for private transport. Jörg Hofmeister: It is extremely important to us that we make our service stations fit for the future and in doing so adapt to the latest developments in mobility. Electromobility – which is growing in significance all the time – is an important theme for us. In close cooperation with the Federal Ministry for Transport and strong partners such as EnBW, we already began to establish the ne­cessary infrastructure some time ago. Our common aim is to make a significant contribution to the breakthrough of electromobility. How long have EnBW and Tank & Rast been working together and how did this cooperation come about? Regerbis: It developed from the “SLAM” (fast-charging network for axes and metropolises) project run by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy. All the well-known German car manufacturers plus EnBW – as the sole major energy supply company – were involved in the project. However, we didn’t just want to be a project partner but also an invest­ “ We are united by the common or, and so we got in contact with Tank & Rast to develop the infrastructure where it made sense the most for long journeys, namely the motorways. We goal of making long-distance then quickly agreed the first 34 sites in Baden-Württemberg with Tank & Rast. Hofmeister: This fitted in nicely with our plans because we had already e-mobility a reality. And decided to develop a network of charging stations offering the best possible coverage at the end of 2014. EnBW was, and remains, the ideal partner for both companies are following this task because the company has extensive experience and expertise in the development, operation and maintenance of charging infrastructure. this goal with great enthusiasm. ” Regerbis: ... and Tank & Rast has now become our partner of choice for achieving nationwide coverage. Electromobility requires a functioning Jörg Hofmeister network of charging stations that can be seen and experienced as part of everyday life. It is only in this way that acceptance for this new technology will grow amongst the general public. And the best place to achieve this for long journeys is on the motorways. Hofmeister: We are united by the common goal of making long-distance e-mobility a reality. And both companies are following this goal with great enthusiasm. What form does the cooperation take in practice? Who does what? Hofmeister: There is a clear division of responsibilities. We jointly plan the network of charging stations and select the sites. Tank & Rast then makes the necessary space available at the selected sites and EnBW handles the actual installation and operation of the charging stations. Regerbis: Our colleagues at Tank & Rast know their sites like the back of their hands and understand precisely which locations are best suited for the installation of charging stations. In addition, the company has lots of experience across the entire process – from submitting applications and dealing with the responsible authorities through to ensuring that the requirements with respect to traffic routes, underground construction and logistics are taken into account. This broad range of expertise impressed us from the very beginning and we benefit from it enormously. So the cooperation up to now has been a positive experience? Regerbis: Absolutely. We have achieved a lot together and further expanded our partnership. The first 34 charging locations in Baden-Württemberg have now grown into 125 across the whole of Germany. The cooperation between us simply works, we can rely on each other and complement each other perfectly. There are a lot of legal requirements to be observed in this area. How long does it take to install a new charging station? Hofmeister: The process now runs like clockwork. As a rule of thumb, we require about 6 months from the planning stage until installation. Considering the level of complexity involved in construction projects in Germany, it must be said that the authorities are very open to the expansion of electromobility. 20 The partner perspective Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Is there an ideal location for charging stations at a motorway service station? Hofmeister: The best location is close to the standard refuelling stations. And the ultimate aim for the recharging process is of course to mimic the refuelling process as closely as possible. That means shortening the charging times even further so that drivers can simply pull up to recharge their cars rather than park up. What is the current status with respect to the construction of the infrastructure and what are the next steps that you want to take as part of this partnership? Hofmeister: We have now been able to install more than 300 charging stations at our motorway service stations, a large proportion of which are provided by EnBW. This means that we have established a good, basic infrastructure for long journeys so that drivers can comfortably cover long distances on the motorways in their e-cars. In addition, the infrastructure is also already equipped to handle the increasing number of e-cars in the future. The next step is, in particular, to upgrade the existing charging stations. This will enable us to condense our network even further. What does that mean specifically? Regerbis: The aim is to increase the capacity of the charging stations. Our goal is to ensure that at least one quick-charging point with a capacity of 150 kilowatts is available at every EnBW charging station that we have installed at the Tank & Rast motorway service stations by the end of 2019. The south is one step ahead Number of public charging stations for e-cars by federal state (As of the end of 2018) There were around 16,000 public charging points for e-cars in Germany at the end of 2018 – although distributed very unevenly across different regions. Yet the network is set to become denser, the aim is after all for around 1 million e-cars to be on the streets of Germany by 2022. To supply this number of vehicles across the whole country, the German National Platform for Electric Mobility estimates that around 77,000 public charging points will be required. Source: German Association of Energy and Water Industries (BDEW, as of 14/12/2018) Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW The partner perspective 21 Jörg Hofmeister Amadeus Regerbis How long does the charging process take at this type of station? And what is the range? Hofmeister: This is highly dependent on the size of the battery and the charging capacity of the model of electric car ... Regerbis: ... as a rule of thumb, 30 minutes of charging at a 150 kilowatt charging station is sufficient for 300 to 400 kilometres. What is the current level of demand placed on the existing charging stations? Hofmeister: It is important to say first of all that the roll-out of electromobility infrastructure for long-distance journeys was carried out very quickly. Germany was not any slower than other countries in this respect. However, the infrastructure is far from being used to full capacity because the number of e-cars is still too low. The car industry now needs to do its homework and launch long-range e-cars on the market at reasonable prices. Regerbis: However, the situation could change very quickly, especially as the “ The car industry now needs to car industry is currently under pressure and has announced huge investment. To ensure that we can respond flexibly when it comes to charging infrastrucdo its homework and launch ture, we have designed our charging stations so that they can be quickly scaled up. This applies to both the number of charging points and also the long-range e-cars on the market charging capacity. at reasonable prices. ” Assuming that there is an increase in demand – what are the biggest hurdles to the further expansion of the infrastructure in Germany? Jörg Hofmeister Regerbis: If I could ask for anything, it would be the quicker realisation of the grid connections. Yet there is also a bottleneck in terms of construction. The service providers in the area of underground construction are fully booked months in advance. Hofmeister: Another important issue is the availability of the required hardware, by which I mean quick-charging points with a capacity of 150 kilowatts and more. If we look into the future, can you imagine other areas of cooperation between EnBW and Tank & Rast beyond that of charging stations – especially with respect to the increasing level of digitalisation? Hofmeister: Definitely. I only have to think about things like automated driving or shared and connected mobility and I can see many common themes where closer cooperation would be beneficial. Regerbis: Our cooperation is geared towards the long term and characterised by reliability, commitment and trust. The ideal requirements, in our opinion, for being able to offer our customers real added value both now and in the future. 22 Table of contents Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Con t e n t s Combined management report of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG Front cover pages: Fundamentals of the Group Performance indicators of the EnBW Group Business model ................................................................. 38 EnBW at a glance Strategy, goals and performance management system .... 48 Editorial Corporate governance ....................................................... 56 In dialogue with our stakeholders ..................................... 59 The future of Research, development and innovation ............................. 64 Procurement ...................................................................... 69 mobility is electric Business report General conditions ............................................................. 72 An international comparison ............................................. 2 The EnBW Group ................................................................ 80 The company perspective .................................................. 10 EnBW AG ............................................................................ 105 The customer perspective ................................................. 14 Overall assessment of the economic situation of the Group ........................................ 109 The partner perspective .................................................... 18 Forecast ............................................................................. 110 Interview with the Board of Management ......................... 24 Report on opportunities and risks ..................................... 114 Report of the Supervisory Board (condensed) .................. 30 Remuneration report ......................................................... 124 About this report ................................................................ 33 Disclosures pursuant to sections 289a (1) and 315a (1) German Commercial Code (HGB) and explanatory report of the Board of Management .................................. 133 Index for the non-financial declaration of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG ..................................... 135 Index for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) ............................................ 136 Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Table of contents 23 Condensed financial statements of the EnBW Group Service Income statement .............................................................. 138 Financial terms .................................................................. 151 Statement of comprehensive income ................................ 139 Glossary ............................................................................. 152 Balance sheet .................................................................... 140 Multi-year overview ........................................................... 156 Cash flow statement .......................................................... 141 Highlights 2018 .................................................................. 158 Statement of changes in equity ......................................... 142 Important notes ................................................................. 160 Information on the result of the audit of the consolidated financial statements and the Rear cover pages: combined management report of the company and the Group for the 2018 financial year ......................... 143 Financial calendar 2019 Intelligently networked – infrastructure of the future Corporate bodies The Supervisory Board ...................................................... 145 Offices held by members of the Board of Management ............................................. 147 Other offices held by members of the Supervisory Board ................................................... 148 Navigation Note The integrated management of EnBW comprises financial and non-financial We have also published an online version of the Integrated Annual Report 2018 goals in the dimensions: at www.enbw.com/report2018. The full set of financial statements of the EnBW Group 2018 including the notes to the consolidated financial statements and the declaration of corporate management 2018 of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG including the corporate Customers governance report 2018 are not included in this Integrated Annual Report 2018. Finance Strategy and society Employees Environment Together with the unqualified auditor’s report, they form part of the Integrated Annual Report 2018 – Extended Version, which is available exclusively in PDF format on our website at www.enbw.com/report2018-downloads. All financial Our key performance indicators are labelled with this symbol. publications for the 2018 financial year can be found there. The cross-references take you to further information within this report or to The cross-references do not form part of the audited management report. the definition of terms in the glossary in the service section at the end of the report. You will also find the financial terms here. 24 Interview with the Board of Management Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW i e w w i t h t h e Inter v t M a n a g e m e n Boa r d o f Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer Thomas Kusterer Dr. Frank Mastiaux born 1958 in Merzig born 1968 in Pforzheim born 1964 in Essen » Member of the Board of » Member of the Board of » Chairman of the Board of Management Management Management » Chief Technical Officer » Chief Financial Officer » Chief Executive Officer since 1 January 2012 since 1 April 2011 since 1 October 2012 » appointed until » appointed until » appointed until 31 May 2021 31 March 2024 30 September 2022 » lives in Steinfeld (Pfalz) » lives in Ettlingen » lives in Stuttgart Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Interview with the Board of Management 25 2 Colette Rückert-Hennen Dr. Bernhard Beck LL.M. The interview with the born 1961 in born 1954 in Tuttlingen members of the Board Leverkusen-Opladen » Member of the Board of of Management was held » Member of the Board of Management and Director of by Uwe Wolfinger. Management Personnel since 1 March 2019 » Chief Personnel Officer » Chief Personnel Officer since 1 October 2002 » appointed until » appointed until 28 February 2022 30 June 2019 » lives in Bonn » lives in Stuttgart As of 7 March 2019 26 Interview with the Board of Management Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW EnBW is evolving yet also remaining true to itself. In an interview with the whole Board of Management, the members explain how the company will utilise its core expertise and a clear strategy to successfully shape the energy world of the future and areas beyond it. Dr. Mastiaux, how did EnBW perform in the 2018 financial year? Dr. Frank Mastiaux: The result achieved by our company last year was in line with our forecast. This shows that we are still on track with the implementation of our strategy and the realignment of our company. We are now increasingly positioning ourselves as a competent “ We are now increasingly infrastructure partner beyond the energy sector. positioning ourselves as a com­ Can you explain the repositioning process in a little more detail? Dr. Frank Mastiaux: Well, it is in the DNA of our company to supply and petent infrastructure partner operate things reliably and safely, such as power plants, regional and supra­ regional electricity grids or even large wind farms. We are now increasingly beyond the energy sector. ” transferring this core expertise from the energy sector to new, high-growth business fields with a promising future, such as the expansion of broadband, Dr. Frank Mastiaux electromobility or the sustainable development of urban districts. This means we are combining our traditional strengths with important themes for the future. We also believe that it is just as important to pay attention to social aspects that are closely connected to some of these new activities as it is to simply provide good technology. In district development, for example, this means that we want to play our part in developing areas in which people really want to live. These smart districts not only require childcare facilities and meeting places for citizens, but also a butcher and a baker. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Interview with the Board of Management 27 4 But this type of strategic evolution can only succeed if it is supported by the whole organisation ... Dr. Frank Mastiaux: That’s correct, which is why our overarching initiative “next level EnBW” is so important. The aim of the initiative is to make our entire company fit for the future. We want to improve in everything that we do, whether it means getting things done more quickly or promoting innovative strength. We don't just want to take small steps but aim to achieve significant leaps in quality across the entire organisation, with a clear focus on customer orientation, internationalisation, new business and internal cooperation. We don’t think of it as a programme, but rather as a movement that involves everyone in the Group and gives people greater courage and skills to face new challenges. Mr Kusterer, what does “next level EnBW” mean for the finance department? Thomas Kusterer: Nothing less than taking the entire finance organisation of our company to a completely new level. Digitalisation will also play an important role. We will utilise the new technical possibilities offered by analytics, robotics and artificial intelligence “ We are taking the entire to speed up our processes and procedures even further. We want to provide information in real time as far as possible and provide our business units finance organisation with even more targeted and appropriate support – so that they can operate on the market as successfully as possible. of our company to a Did you make specific progress in this area in the past year? completely new level. ” Thomas Kusterer: Yes, an increasing level of automation has certainly made us more efficient but we can still do better. We have, for example, installed Thomas Kusterer a robot to help with incoming invoices and we are currently working to achieve further leaps in quality in financial accounting with the aid of artificial intelligence. However, the most important thing is maintaining close, personal contact with our business areas. We can only make a valuable contribution when we know what data and information each individual business unit requires and in what form. Close contacts and good communication with one another are absolutely essential. Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer: I can only underline what has just been said. That's why for me “next level” also means networking the various skills that we have at our company even more closely – and very importantly – across departments so that we can find solutions by working together. 28 Interview with the Board of Management Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Dr. Zimmer, an important element of the EnBW strategy is further expanding the share of electricity generation accounted for by renewable energies ... Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer: ... and this is why we are planning, for example, to also construct Germany’s largest solar park in Brandenburg. We want to grow further in the area of renewable energies, particularly as wind power and hydropower did not perform very well – mainly because of the weather – in 2018. Photovoltaics were not a main focus at EnBW up to now. What has changed? Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer: The prices for solar panels have fallen by 90 percent in the last 10 years. This has made solar parks with an output of 50 to 60 megawatts or more an interesting prospect from an economic standpoint, even without government funding. This is just “ As part of our international­ one of the reasons as to why we are now investing in solar energy and establishing a third pillar of business in the area of renewable energies alongside isation activities, we could also wind power and hydropower. As part of our internationalisation activities, we could also imagine constructing solar parks outside of Germany. imagine constructing solar parks Against the background of the Energiewende, how important is it that EnBW outside of Germany. ” is not just an energy generator and supplier but also a grid operator? Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer: Extremely important because ultimately the grid Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer forms the backbone of the Energiewende. Energy that is generated in the north of Germany also needs to be transported to the south of the republic. This requires highly efficient transmission grids. It is also important not to forget the distribution grid, which we will also strengthen. After all, this is where the energy that is produced in lots of small, private units is collected. The fact that we are also grid operators – not just for electricity, but also for gas by the way – gives us a competitive advantage. It allows us to offer our customers solutions across the entire value added chain. A good example is electromobility, because for this we need renewable energies, we have to integrate the charging infrastructure into the grid and we also need to offer attractive products to customers. Evolution, repositioning and “next level EnBW” – all of these themes are reliant on committed employees. Where do you see the biggest challenges in this area? Dr. Bernhard Beck: We want to achieve significant leaps forward in every respect. Therefore, it is necessary for us to have competent employees on board in all areas both now and in the future. In this context, we are relying on targeted employee development activities and also on securing Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Interview with the Board of Management 29 additional skills from outside the company. The market for skilled workers is currently very competitive. We are working closely together with the business units to identify suitable candidates for each position and secure them for our company. Continuous cultural change is one of the things that we will need to take us to the “next level”. Where do you currently stand with respect to this “cultural change” in early 2019? Dr. Bernhard Beck: We are making good progress and it will enable us to cooperate on an interdepartmental basis to an even greater extent in the future. How can I help you and how can you help me? How can we achieve things even more quickly? These are the questions that we need to ask ourselves across the company so that together we can successfully position ourselves to tackle new business fields such as electromobility or district development. And “ Cultural change begins whether we are able to identify the opportunities offered by digitalisation is ultimately a question of attitude. After all, cultural change begins in the mind. in the mind, it is a Mrs Rückert-Hennen, where are you going to provide impetus as the new question of attitude. ” member of the Board of Management team? Colette Rückert-Hennen: I am delighted to be able to continue the successful Dr. Bernhard Beck work carried out by Dr. Beck over many years and believe that there are primarily three main tasks: developing expertise that is fit for the future in all of our employees, an unconditional focus on our customers and diversity – and I don’t just mean gender diversity. It will mean that EnBW continues to be the EnBW we all know but also becomes more open at the same time. You mean viewing diversity as a strength in other words? Colette Rückert-Hennen: Yes! Heterogeneous teams comprising young talent, experienced employees and international colleagues have the potential for great strength – for one, united company. Dr. Mastiaux, EnBW is preserving its own identity but, at the same time, shaping the energy and infrastructure world of tomorrow – would this be a good description of how things will be in 2025? Dr. Frank Mastiaux: Yes, this is the direction in which we are heading. We will still be an energy company in 2025 but we will also be an infrastructure supplier beyond the traditional energy sector. We will be a partner that not only offers purely technical expertise, but that also has a good understanding of the importance of social interaction and people’s needs. In this sense, we will to some extent be returning back to the roots of our company because EnBW was always seen as a “caring company” in the past. In some ways, “back to the future” is an appropriate motto. 30 Report of the Supervisory Board (condensed) Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Lutz Feldmann Chairman of the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board dutifully and comprehensively perand the plans and targets reported at an earlier date. In addition, formed all of the tasks incumbent on it in the 2018 financial year the Board of Management informed the Supervisory Board about as required by law and the Articles of Association. It regularly the economic position of the company and the Group including, advised the Board of Management on its management of the amongst other things, the profitability of the company (especially company and continuously accompanied and monitored all the equity), the development of business (especially the revenue important management measures for the Group. In the process, and earnings, the net assets, financial position and results of the Supervisory Board was involved in all decisions of fundaoperations, as well as HR development at the company) and those mental importance to the company and the Group. business transactions that could be of significant importance for the profitability or liquidity of the company. Furthermore, the The Board of Management regularly, comprehensively and Board of Management informed the Supervisory Board about the promptly informed the Supervisory Board about all relevant risk situation of the Group and of individual areas of the Group, aspects of intended business policies and other fundamental corporate strategy and planning, risk management, the internal issues relating to business planning and also provided reasons for control system and compliance. any discrepancies between the actual development of business Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Report of the Supervisory Board (condensed) 31 Key topics of the discussions › Defining the targets for the short and long-term variable at the plenary meetings of the remuneration for the Board of Management for 2019 › Consultation on the legal and economic effects in relation to Supervisory Board the suspected irregularities in the business relationships with companies in the Bykov Group In the 2018 financial year, the Supervisory Board dealt ex› Reappointment of the Chief Financial Officer Thomas tensively with verbal and written reports and proposals for Kusterer for a further period of five years resolutions issued by the Board of Management at its six › Appointment of Colette Rückert-Hennen to take over ordinary meetings on 16 February, 20 March, 7 May, 12 July, responsibility for the personnel remit on the Board of 27 September and 5 December. In addition, it requested reports Management starting in 2019 and information from the Board of Management on individual › Consultation on the current advertising and image campaign topics, which were promptly and comprehensively provided in of EnBW AG each case. The key topics of the discussions and resolutions in › Consultation on the annual compliance and data protection the plenary meetings beyond the themes mentioned above report and the agenda for the following period were: › Reporting on the progress and results of the collective remuneration negotiations › In-depth consultations and discussions with the Board of › Reporting on the status of information security Management about long-term strategic planning (with a › Regular reporting on the development of market prices for focus on conventional generation, offshore and onshore electricity, fuels and CO2 wind power, the Turkish business, critical system infra› Regular reporting on the key indicators for occupational structure and selective internationalisation within the safety and health protection and exceptional events in the Renewable Energies business segment) EnBW Group › Approval for the submission of a bid in order to participate in › Consultation on investment management of the fully an offshore wind auction as part of an internationalisation consolidated Group companies and how minority shareproject holdings held by local authorities are managed › Approval for the submission of a bid as part of the EU tender › Approval of the proposal made at the Annual General process “Special technical equipment for grids” Meeting on the appointment of the auditor for the 2018 › Regular reporting on the operation, safety and, where financial year relevant, dismantling of the nuclear power plants › Completion of a selection process in accordance with EU › Consultation on the results and the technical and commerRegulation 537/2014 and passing a resolution on the future cial impact of the inspection of Block 2 at the Neckarauditor for the 2019 financial year onwards westheim power plant › Regular consultation on the development of the financial › Approval for the decommissioning of the steam section of ratings of EnBW AG Block E at the Lausward site › Approval for the issuing of a so-called “green bond” with a › Consultation on the grid construction project “SuedLink” of volume of €500 million TransnetBW GmbH › Consultation on the digital transformation of EnBW AG and › Regular reporting on major investment projects, as well as the EnBW Group other projects that form part of the generation strategy › Appointment of replacement members to and rearrange(renewable and conventional generation) ment of the committees of the Supervisory Board due to › Approval of the sale of VNG Norge AS and its subsidiary VNG members stepping down from the Supervisory Board as part Danmark ApS by VNG AG of revising and updating the rules of procedure for the › Approval for the conclusion of a gas procurement contract Supervisory Board, setting up a new digitalisation committee with OOO Gazprom Export by VNG Handel & Vertrieb GmbH (from 2019) › Approval of measures to finance the joint venture Borusan EnBW Enerji yatirimlari ve Üretim A.S. and of the proporAside from the meetings, the Supervisory Board was informed tionate financing of the expansion of the Kiyiköy wind farm in writing by the Board of Management about all business by the joint venture as well as consultations on the effects of transactions of particular importance for the company or the the political events and developments in Turkey on the Group. In addition, there was ongoing communication between Turkish business of EnBW AG the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Board of › Approval of the budget for the 2019 financial year and Management, particularly with the Chairman of the Board of acknowledgement of the medium-term planning for the Management, in order to discuss issues relating to the strategic period 2020 to 2021 consisting of the Group earnings, positioning, planning, business development, risk situation, risk finance, investment and personnel plans, as well as the result management, compliance, important individual transactions (HGB) and liquidity plans of EnBW AG and currently pending decisions. › Defining the level of the short-term variable remuneration for the Board of Management for 2017 and the long-term There was a consistently very high attendance rate at the variable remuneration for the Board of Management for 2015 individual meetings of the Supervisory Board. The majority of (performance period 2015 to 2017) the members of the Supervisory Board attended all meetings of › Examining the appropriateness and adjustments to the the Supervisory Board. No member of the Supervisory Board remuneration for the Board of Management participated in less than half of the meetings. 32 Report of the Supervisory Board (condensed) Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Work of the committees on behalf of the Supervisory Board. It approved the audit results of the independent auditor and endorsed the annual financial In order for the Supervisory Board to perform its functions statements prepared by the Board of Management as of efficiently, the committees it set up once again met regularly in 31 December 2018 – which have thus been ratified – and the the past financial year. The respective members of the comconsolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2018, as mittees are listed on p. 146 of the Integrated Annual Report 2018. well as the combined management report including the nonThe Chairpersons of the committees regularly reported financial declaration for the 2018 financial year. comprehensively on the work of the committees at each subsequent plenary meeting of the Supervisory Board. Reference to the complete version of Corporate governance the report of the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board also paid close attention to the various Further details on the topics “Work of the committees”, “Corissues relating to corporate governance in the 2018 financial porate governance”, “Audit of the annual and consolidated year. These issues are described in detail in the corporate financial statements” and “Personnel changes at the level of the governance report. The corporate governance report is part of Board of Management and Supervisory Board” can be found the (Group) declaration of corporate management, which the in the full version of the Report of the Supervisory Board company has published on its website (www.enbw.com/corporatemade available to the public on the company’s website at governance) in accordance with section 289f (1) sentence 2 and www.enbw.com/corporate-governance. section 315d sentence 2 of the German Commercial Code (HGB). Audit of the annual and consolidated Karlsruhe, 27 March 2019 financial statements The Supervisory Board Following a thorough examination by the audit committee, the Supervisory Board undertook a detailed review of the annual financial statements and consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2018 that were audited and issued with an unqualified audit opinion by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, and of the combined management report including the non-financial declaration for the 2018 financial year. The Lutz Feldmann final results of its own reviews did not lead to any reservations Chairman Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW About this report 33 About this report Integrated reporting able Finance (TEG) (Glossary, p. 155) since July 2018. Using the EnBW 2020 strategy as a basis, EnBW applies the concepts In this Integrated Annual Report – as in previous years – EnBW behind integrated reporting to strive for the comprehensive also takes ecological and social aspects of the company’s integrated management of the company. By presenting activities into account as well as economic aspects. We have financial and non-financial corporate goals – the achievement of published an Integrated Annual Report based on the which is measured using key performance indicators – we are recommendations of the International Integrated Reporting seeking to promote integrated thinking within the company Council (IIRC) since the 2014 financial year, with the aim of and underline the importance of being comprehensively achieving a holistic representation of the performance of the oriented towards performance and our stakeholders. The company. EnBW has been an active supporter of integrated corporate performance of EnBW is thus not only measured by reporting and the IIRC from the very beginning. We participate financial results, as the short to long-term success of the in the ongoing development of integrated reporting in various company is also dependent on the decisions EnBW takes in bodies such as the IIRC Business Network and IIRC Framework response to the constantly changing economic, ecological and Panel. Thomas Kusterer, member of the Board of Management social conditions. More about integrated reporting at EnBW can of EnBW, represents EnBW as a member of the IIRC and has also be found at www.enbw.com/integrated-reporting. been a member of the EU Technical Expert Group on SustainFinancial publications 2018 Integrated Integrated Financial statements Declaration of corporate Annual report 2018 Annual report 2018 of the EnBW AG 2018 management 2018 Excluding the notes and the declaration of corporate management Extended Version Without management report of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG including the corporate governance report 2018 Including the notes and the declaration of corporate management Integrated Annual Report 2018 Integrated Annual Financial statements of Declaration of corporThis report is published in print and in Report 2018 the EnBW AG 2018 ate management 2018 PDF format. It contains the combined Extended Version This document is published of the EnBW Group and management report of the EnBW Group in PDF format and contains EnBW AG including the corThe extended version of the and EnBW AG, as well as the condensed the consolidated financial porate governance report Integrated Annual Report version of the consolidated financial statements. 2018. This document is 2018 contains the complete statements without the notes to the contained in the Integrated annual financial statements financial statements. Selected content Annual Report 2018 – of the EnBW Group, includfrom this report and additional informaextended version, but is ing the notes as well as the tion on aspects of sustainability can be also available as a PDF file declaration of corporate found in the online report at in German and English. management. This document www.enbw.com/report2018. is only available as PDF in German and English. All documents relating to the financial statements for the 2018 financial year can be found at www.enbw.com/report2018-downloads. We publish the quarterly statements and the six-monthly financial report at www.enbw.com/financial-publications. 34 About this report Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Together with existing legal requirements for strengthening strengthening non-financial reporting by companies in their non-financial reporting by companies in their management management reports and Group management reports (CSR reports and Group management reports (CSR Directive ImpleDirective Implementation Act) and the associated preparation mentation Act), the IIRC reporting principles and elements of a non-financial declaration, another main focus this year was create the foundations for integrated reporting. Some of the stabilising the internal processes with respect to reporting and recommendations found in the IIRC reporting principles cannot to continuity in external reporting. be fully implemented because the different regulations are not compatible with each other. The Integrated Annual Report 2018 Through the participation of the EnBW Chief Financial Officer of EnBW contains the combined management report of the on the international Task Force on Climate-related Financial EnBW Group and EnBW AG in accordance with the regulations Disclosures (TCFD) (Glossary, p. 155), EnBW actively supports the found in commercial law. The full consolidated financial strengthening of climate-related risk reporting by companies statements including the notes to the consolidated financial (www.enbw.com/responsibility). In this Integrated Annual Report, statements and the (Group) declaration of corporate managewe have taken into account the recommendations published by ment 2018 including the corporate governance report 2018 are the TCFD in June 2017. The aim is to present how EnBW handles not included in this report. However, they are available to climate-related risks in a clearer and more understandable way. download at www.enbw.com/report2018-downloads. Alongside an overview of the EnBW scenario analysis to present the robustness of our business model in relation to climate The contents of this Integrated Annual Report exclusively serve protection (p. 39), a further development in the 2018 financial to provide information and do not constitute an offer or an year was the adjustment of the investment guidelines for the investment recommendation. Please take this into considerEnBW Group. The influence that significant investment projects ation and also refer to the other important notes on p. 160. will have on the environment and thus on the climate protection targets and figures will, in future also be presented. This will act as the basis for approval by the investment Continued development of committee of the Board of Management. An overview of the integrated reporting contents for this complex range of topics can be found in the index of TCFD recommendations on p. 136. We have made our reporting more concise and transparent over We will also strive in future years to continuously improve our the last few years to meet the increased needs of stakeholders integrated reporting. Our plans for 2019 thus include the for more information. In the Integrated Annual Report 2018, we continuous further development of the content in this report in have continued this development further and stabilised the accordance with the requirements for a non-financial decprocess. Following substantial changes in the previous year laration and the disclosures recommended by the TCFD. due to the implementation of the legal requirements for Main elements of the further development of the Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Topic Further development Page reference Materiality analysis » The materiality analysis process was updated in the 2018 financial year page 59 f. » Closely linked to the process for developing the company’s strategy TCFD recommendations » Stricter governance (anchoring climate protection targets in the investment process) page 88, page 136 (Index) Interdependencies » Continuation and stabilisation of already implemented presentation page 53 ff. Non-financial declaration » Establishment and stabilisation of internal processes page 135 (Index) » Further development of content in accordance with the requirements of the CSR Directive Implementation Act Report on opportunities » Continuation of the already implemented presentation of the non-financial opportunities and page 114 ff. and risks risks with respect to the non-financial declaration and the TCFD recommendations Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW About this report 35 Basis for the presentation The reporting period comprises the 2018 financial year. We took of the report into account all relevant information up to 7 March 2019. Along with EnBW AG, with its headquarters in Karlsruhe, Germany, the group of consolidated companies of EnBW for financial reporting The information about the net assets, financial position and also includes all of its key subsidiaries. The reporting limits for results of operations of the EnBW Group is based on the requirethe non-financial performance indicators correspond to the ments of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), scope of consolidation for financial reporting, unless otherwise and, where applicable, German commercial law and German stated. In addition, we have also taken other issues into account accounting standards (GAS). In this context, sections 289b and in various chapters of this Integrated Annual Report, especially 315b HGB “Obligation to provide a non-financial (Group) deagainst the background of the legal requirement for a nonclaration” must be applied from the 2017 financial year. As in the financial declaration, in order to provide a holistic representation previous year, we have fully integrated the non-financial of the performance of the company. The index for the nondeclaration into the combined management report based on financial declaration of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG is our integrated reporting. Internal control mechanisms ensure presented on p. 135. the reliability of the information presented in this report. Furthermore, this Integrated Annual Report is based on the recommendations for reporting principles and reporting elemIndependent auditing and evaluation ents contained within the IIRC framework. The condensed financial statements for the 2018 financial year The selection of topics and the level of detail given to them in this that form part of the Integrated Annual Report do not include Integrated Annual Report is based, as in previous years, on their the notes to the consolidated financial statements and the materiality. The process pays particular attention to the key (Group) declaration of corporate management 2018, including themes discussed internally in the management bodies and adthe corporate governance report 2018. The full set of consolidressed in the external communication (p. 59 f.) and was continudated financial statements – including the notes to the conously incorporated into the strategy in the 2018 financial year. solidated financial statements – and the management report for the company and the Group are included in the extended The reporting of sustainability issues has been based since the version of the Integrated Annual Report 2018. They were audited 2017 financial year on the GRI standards, including the Electric for the 2018 financial year by KPMG AG WirtschaftsprüfungsUtilities Sector Supplement. Further information on the GRI gesellschaft as the auditor and Group auditor elected by the Content Index can be found at www.enbw.com/gri-index. Further Annual General Meeting of EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG information on the fulfilment of other sustainability standards on 8 May 2018. Following an extension of the auditing mandate is available on our website at www.enbw.com/performanceby the Supervisory Board, KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsinidicators. Our sustainability reporting also complies with the gesellschaft also audited the non-financial declaration with Communication on Progress requirements for the UN Global reasonable assurance. The high level of integration in the whole Compact and is based to an increasing extent on the UN Sustainreporting process is underlined by this audit of the complete ability Goals (www.enbw.com/green-bond). These two framework Integrated Annual Report with reasonable assurance. KPMG AG standards, as well as the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft arrived at the overall conclusion Development, have been used as the basis for the non-financial that the entire audit did not lead to any reservations and issued declaration. an unqualified audit opinion. This includes the non-financial declaration. The full set of consolidated financial statements and All data and calculation methods used for this Integrated Annual the combined management report for the company and the Report are based on German and international standards for Group for the 2018 financial year, as well as the unqualified financial and sustainability reporting. The responsible specialist audit opinion issued by the auditor, are accessible to the public units applied representative methods in each case for the on the website of EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG at collection of all data and information for the reporting period. www.enbw.com/report2018-downloads. 36 Management report » Table of contents Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Combined management report of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG Fundamentals of the Group Business model Research, development and innovation Business principles ........................................................... 38 Research and development: Goals, guidelines and processes ....................................... 64 Assessment of the robustness of our business model in terms of climate protection ................ 39 Research and development: Key points and selected results ......................................... 64 Value added ........................................................................ 40 Innovation management: Group structure and business radius ................................ 42 Goals, guidelines and processes ....................................... 66 Our operating segments .................................................... 45 Innovation: Key points and selected results ......................................... 67 Strategy, goals and performance Expenditure and personnel ............................................... 68 management system Strategy .............................................................................. 48 Procurement Goals and performance management system .................. 51 Efficient and sustainable procurement processes ............ 69 Responsible raw materials procurement Corporate governance in the coal sector ............................................................... 70 Corporate management .................................................... 56 Management and supervision ........................................... 56 Compliance ........................................................................ 57 In dialogue with our stakeholders Our stakeholders ............................................................... 59 Materiality analysis ............................................................ 59 Development of sustainability ratings ............................... 60 Social engagement ............................................................ 61 Dialogue with citizens ........................................................ 62 In dialogue with our stakeholders ..................................... 63 Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Table of contents 25 37 Business report General conditions Forecast External influences ............................................................ 72 Expected trends in the finance and strategy goal dimensions ............................................ 110 Macroeconomic trends ...................................................... 72 Expected trends in the customers Development of the sector and competitive situation ....... 72 and society goal dimension ............................................... 112 Cross-segment framework conditions .............................. 73 Expected trends in the employees goal dimension ........... 113 Sales segment ................................................................... 74 Expected trends in the environment goal dimension ....... 113 Grids segment .................................................................... 75 Overall assessment of anticipated Renewable Energies segment ........................................... 77 developments by the management ................................... 113 Generation and Trading segment ...................................... 78 Report on opportunities and risks The EnBW Group Principles of the integrated opportunity and risk management system ........................................... 114 Finance and strategy goal dimensions .............................. 80 Structure and processes of the integrated Customers and society goal dimension ............................ 94 opportunity and risk management system ....................... 115 Employees goal dimension ................................................ 96 Structure and processes of the Environment goal dimension ............................................. 101 accounting-related internal control system ...................... 117 Opportunity and risk position ............................................ 119 EnBW AG Overall assessment by the Group management ............... 123 Results of operations of EnBW AG .................................... 105 Net assets of EnBW AG ...................................................... 106 Remuneration report Financial position of EnBW AG .......................................... 107 Board of Management remuneration ................................ 124 Overall assessment of the economic situation Supervisory Board remuneration ...................................... 131 of EnBW AG and the development of EnBW AG ................ 108 Opportunities and risks ..................................................... 108 Disclosures pursuant to sections 289a (1) and 315a (1) German Commercial Code (HGB) and Comments on reporting ..................................................... 108 explanatory report of the Board of Management.... 133 EnBW share and dividend policy ........................................ 108 Index for the non-financial declaration Overall assessment of the of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG ............................ 135 economic situation of the Group ............................... 109 Index for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) ..................................... 136 38 Management report » Business model Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Fundamentals of the Group Business model Business principles Business model Our driving incentive Energiewende. Safe. Hands on. Our plan EnBW 2020 strategy – “Customer proximity” and “Engine room of the Energiewende” Our values We work with strength, The sustainable security We help our customers We are active in supportWe offer our customers competence and passion of supply for people is to beneﬁt from the new ing our customers and quality and ingenuity for the success of the particularly important to opportunities offered by partners and invite them from Baden-WürttemEnergiewende. us in this context. the future of energy. to become involved. berg. Our activities Integrated energy group with the segments Sales Grids Renewable Energies Generation and Trading that is active in the following value-added stages Electricity Our Our resources Trading / Transmission / value added Generation Sales procurement distribution » Finance » Finance » Relationships » Relationships » Employees » Employees » Environment Import Trading / Trans» Environment » Infrastructure Gas contracts / Storage portfolio mission / Sales » Infrastructure infrastructure management distribution » Expertise » Expertise As an integrated energy company, EnBW operates along the We have closely analysed future revenue sources in the energy entire energy industry value chain in four segments: Sales, industry to further develop our business portfolio. According to Grids, Renewable Energies, and Generation and Trading. We our estimations, revenue flows in the energy industry will shift draw on a variety of resources – from finances through to considerably. Renewable energies, grids and the decentralised expertise – for our corporate activities. As a result of the efficient solution business are growing in importance (p. 48). On this application of these resources, we create value for ourselves basis, we have developed the EnBW 2020 strategy guided by the and our stakeholders. EnBW has a diversified business portfolio principle “Energiewende. Safe. Hands on.”, which charts the with a once again increasingly favourable risk-return profile. course for the future development of our business model and Following our realignment as part of the Energiewende, the strengthens the future viability of the company. The two overall share of adjusted EBITDA accounted for by the regulated complementary operating models of “Customer proximity” and grid business and the share accounted for by renewable energies the “Engine room of the Energiewende” lie at the core of the are both increasing. EnBW 2020 strategy (p. 49). Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Business model 39 In the development of the EnBW strategy post 2020, we want to Assessment of the robustness increasingly place our focus on the aspect of infrastructure within existing business fields and also exploit new growth of our business model in terms opportunities above and beyond the energy sector (p. 50). of climate protection With strength, competence and passion, EnBW is committed to EnBW has analysed the robustness of its business model based the success of the Energiewende and guarantees a sustainable on the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related and reliable supply of energy. We invite our customers and Financial Disclosures (TCFD) (Glossary, p. 155). The EnBW strategy partners to join us in shaping the future energy landscape and takes into account the demands of the Energiewende and benefit from new opportunities. We convince our customers climate protection. Accordingly, an evaluation of the way the through quality and creativity, and are acutely aware of our Energiewende could possibly develop over the coming years, responsibility towards our employees. We are active along the including the opportunities and risks for the business of EnBW, entire electricity and gas value chain. Thanks to our comconstitutes a decisive component of our market analyses (p. 119). prehensive and profound system competence, we remain excellently positioned despite the fundamentally changed The future development of the German and European electricity framework conditions resulting from the Energiewende. Due to markets is particularly important in this context. As part of the the increasing decentralisation of the energy system, we have analysis, we initially create scenarios for the main input firmly anchored customer orientation and joint business developparameters – such as the development of demand, changes to ment with partners into our company. Our current activities are the power plant portfolio or assumptions about price-relevant governed more than ever by the fostering of dialogue, a solutionfuels. Using these as a basis, possible paths for the long-term based approach and the sense of partnership. development of electricity prices – one of the most important market factors for the business of EnBW – can be derived. The Digitalisation is having a greater and greater influence on the scenarios are geared towards achieving the international way we think and act in our company. EnBW has been climate protection targets (such as limiting greenhouse gas rigorously pushing forward its own digitalisation transforconcentrations to 450 ppm [parts per million]) and the resulting mation since 2015 and we are now working on more than 180 targets and measures derived by the German government individual projects – the so-called digitalisation initiatives. We (a reduction of at least 80% in CO2 emissions by 2050 in are focussing here on three main areas: products and processes, comparison to 1990). The results obtained from applying this technologies and people and organisations. Products and model not only provide information on electricity prices but processes deals, on the one hand, with optimising processes in also on other relevant market trends in areas such as renewable the company with the aid of digital technologies or completely energies or electromobility. Overall, these results enable us to rethinking them. This includes, for example, not only the digital assess the robustness of our strategic planning with consideration interaction with customers but also the digitalisation of our to developments caused by climate change. core business processes such as our accounting and billing. On the other hand, the development of digital business models and In order to evaluate the robustness of our business model digital products, as well as making better use of existing data, against the backdrop of social efforts to limit climate change and are important goals (p. 94 f.). Technologies act as the foundation achieve the two-degree target, the following scenarios are used: for digitalisation. The use of sensors for gathering data even from older power plants is just as important for EnBW as › The Energiewende continues to progress on its current path artificial intelligence and the Internet of Things (p. 64 ff.). We are with a focus on the expansion of renewable energies in the also looking in-depth at the fast-developing blockchain electricity sector technology that promises great potential for change. In order to › Rigorous alignment towards climate protection in the verify that this is the case, we are investing in the development of context of the efforts being made worldwide to achieve the specific applications in this area. The third area of people and ambitious climate protection targets organisations deals with the question of what skills our › Slower reorganisation of the energy system against the employees require to work in a digital environment and how they background of weaker economic growth below the long-term can best cooperate with each other. EnBW is introducing new potential working methods such as agile project management methods and › The Energiewende is confined in an international environtraining some of its employees and managers so that they can ment that is oriented toward strong economic growth, also in identify and exploit the opportunities offered by digitalisation in conventional industrial sectors their own working environments (p. 96 ff.). The graphic on p. 55 shows the interdependencies between key performance indicators using digitalisation initiatives as an example. 40 Management report » Business model Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Value added Value added for EnBW and its stakeholders Finance Relationships Employees (customers / society) Resources A constantly solid ﬁnancial structure (equity, debt, positive cash ﬂow levels) Our customers are the central focus of our philosophy and actions. We The expertise, experience and diversity of our employees contribute to the for ﬁnancing our business activities actively promote dialogue with our success of the company, supported by stakeholders and thus build trust an effective and efﬁcient HR policy. of EnBW and social acceptance. Signiﬁcant » Issuing of a green bond with » Expansion of charging station infra» Recruitment of new skills required a volume of € 500 million structure for e-mobility for strategic growth fields » Repayment made to » Payment function EnBW mobility+ app » “Digital Leadership” and “Next Level CHF 100 million bond » Decentralised energy generation Leadership” management develop» Repayment made to senior bond for tenants via “EnBW Hausstrom” ment programmes to develop new skills in an increasingly dynamic activities in 2018 with a volume of € 750 million (EnBW Home Electricity) environment » All A-grade ratings » Digitalisation of customer processes » “Digital pioneers” initiative to train with EnPower experts in the digital world » Development of new services and » Representative random sample products in the area of safety for local authorities and companies surveys for Employee Commitment Index (ECI) » Financial participation by citizens » “New Mobility” – offers for employees in EnBW wind farms » “Communal Emergency and Crisis » Promotion of diversity and inclusion Management for Crisis Prevention” » Projects and campaigns on occupaconcept to support local authorities tional safety and health protection Value added for EnBW for EnBW for EnBW » Securing profitability » Increasing share of result from » Increasing employee commit» High level of financial discipline “Customer proximity” / Sales ment (ECI) » Increasing Group value » Increasing customer satisfaction: » Improving occupational safety “Customer proximity” (LTIF) » Improving reputation » Always having the right employees » Customer loyalty: strengthen trust in with the right skills in the right place EnBW as a partner and supplier for stakeholders for stakeholders for stakeholders » Paying interest punctually to our » Increasing customer satisfaction: » Measuring employee identificathird-party lenders “Customer proximity” tion with the company based on the » Wages, salaries and pensions for » Engaging in social issues with activEmployee Commitment Index (ECI) active and former employees ities for our end customers, business » Engagement in the area of diversity » Tax payments to the state partners and local authorities and (“Diversity Charter”) their citizens » Offering trainee and degree places » Appropriate dividends for our shareholders » Multi-stage career integration programme for refugees Financial position, page 84 ff. Customers and society goal dimension, page 94 ff. Employees goal dimension, page 96 ff. Key performance indicators, page 51 ff. Key performance indicators, page 51 ff. Key performance indicators, page 51 ff. Value added statement, page 42 In dialogue with our stakeholders, page 59 ff. In dialogue with our stakeholders, page 59 ff. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Business model 41 Environment Infrastructure Expertise Using the natural resources wind, water and sun to generate energy We are one of the most important energy companies in Germany and We develop models for new future business ﬁelds through our research Resources Europe thanks to our power plants, and innovation activities. electricity and gas grids and gas of EnBW storage systems. Signiﬁcant » Expansion of generation from renew» Completion of the gas-fired CHP » Internal spin-off company SMIGHT able energies: offshore and onshore power plant in Stuttgart-Gaisburg as first micro business unit wind and photovoltaics » Progress of the construction work » Joint EnBW and Bosch battery » Participating in the Task Force on at the EnBW Hohe See and EnBW storage project in operation Climate-related Financial Disclosures Albatros offshore wind farms » Joint project between EnBW and (TCFD) activities in 2018 » Progress of the ULTRANET the University of Stuttgart to develop » Construction of the waste material and SuedLink HVDC projects by efficient photovoltaic modules processing centres at the sites in TransnetBW » Development of ADAZ (Application Neckarwestheim and Philippsburg » Investment in the EUGAL European for Diagnosis, Analysis and Status » Funding programme “Stimuli for pipeline project by ONTRAS Monitoring) for early identification of Diversity” for the protection of » Expansion of charging infrastructure technical damage to wind power amphibian and reptile species for e-mobility plants » Foundation 2° – German Businesses » Expansion of broadband business for Climate Protection » Netze BW publishes new expansion » Recertification of the environmental plan for high-voltage grid management system at EnBW AG and various subsidiaries Value added for EnBW for EnBW for EnBW » Expanding renewable » Expanding renewable » Securing profitability and energies (RE) energies (RE) increasing share of result from » Reducing CO2 intensity » Increasing Group value “Customer proximity” / Sales by identifying new sources of revenue » Improving the carbon footprint » Reducing CO2 intensity » Early identification of medium to » Safe dismantling of nuclear » Driving the Energiewende long-term market opportunities and power plants » Opening up new business fields trends for stakeholders for stakeholders for stakeholders » Expanding and integrating RE » SAIDI: Supply reliability for our » New smart products for the benefit of for customers and society customers (maintained by investour customers » Reducing CO₂ intensity ments in upgrading grids and expand» EnBW as a provider of venture capital ing transmission grids through our for the development of the portfolio » Energy-efficient products for our grid subsidiaries) customers » Reducing CO₂ intensity » Responsible handling of resources » Investing in the expansion of RE for customers and society » Contracting third-party companies and suppliers Environment goal dimension, page 101 ff. Overview of the segments, page 46 f. Research, development and innovation, page 64 ff. Key performance indicators, page 51 ff. Key performance indicators, page 51 ff. Key performance indicators, page 51 ff. Overview of the segments, page 46 f. The EnBW Group, page 80 ff. Overview of the segments, page 46 f. 42 Management report » Business model Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Value added for EnBW and its stakeholders Baden-Württemberg, using its financial resources. Further information on the dialogue with our stakeholders is summarised in The aim of the corporate activities of EnBW is to add value in the the chapter “In dialogue with our stakeholders” (p. 59 ff.). short, medium and long term. This reflects corporate success, as well as competitiveness and future viability, and does not only We define value added as the cash-relevant business perdepend on the company itself but also on the business environformance of EnBW in the past financial year minus cashment, relationships with stakeholders (p. 59 ff.) and the applirelevant expenses. The value added is derived from the cash cation of a variety of different resources. As a result of the flow statement and corrected based on the use of funds. Value efficient use of these resources within the scope of our activities, added created in the EnBW Group amounted to 19.5% in the we create value for ourselves and our stakeholders. We associate reporting year (previous year: 23.8%). As well as being used in the concept of sustainable economic development with our the form of wages, salaries and pension payments for active and aspiration to conduct all of our business activities in a responformer employees, a further share is dedicated to payments to sible way. This is closely associated with our reputation, that is the state in the form of income taxes and electricity and energy the public opinion our stakeholder groups hold about EnBW taxes. After consideration of all stakeholder groups, the retained (p. 94). Information on the interdependencies between the key cash flow of the EnBW Group is available to the company for performance indicators can be found on p. 53 ff. future investments without the need to raise additional debt (p. 88). Due to the reimbursement of the nuclear fuel rod tax (Glossary, p. 154), retained cash flow was significantly higher in Value added statement the previous year. The reimbursement will be used by EnBW for The value added statement indicates the degree to which EnBW the debt repayment in 2018 and also for investment in the contributes to the prosperity of society (stakeholders) and to period from 2018 to 2020. further economic development, particularly in Germany and Value added of the EnBW Group in € million Creation of value Cash-relevant business performance 17,875 4,320 22,195 Suppliers and service providers: Value added material and other operational (2017: 5,953) expenditure ¹ (2017: 19,079) Use of value 44% 23% 20% 7% 6% 4,320 Active and former EnBW Group: State: taxes Shareholders: Outside investors: employees: retained cash flow (2017: 10%) dividends interest wages and salaries (2017: 51%) (2017: 1%) (2017: 7%) (2017: 31%) 1 Includes interest and dividends received, as well as the dedicated financial assets contribution. | As of 31/12/2018 Group structure and business radius joint operations. Further information on the organisational structure can be found in the chapter “Corporate governance” EnBW is organised according to the model of an integrated under “Management and supervision” on p. 56 f. company. EnBW AG is managed through business units and functional units: Core operating activities along the entire Baden-Württemberg energy industry value chain are concentrated in the business units. The functional units carry out Group-wide support and EnBW has its roots in Baden-Württemberg. We are active here governance tasks. The EnBW Group consists of EnBW AG as the along the entire energy industry value chain and are positioned parent company and 171 fully consolidated companies, 23 as a market leader. In the process, we are supported by a series of companies accounted for using the equity method and three key subsidiaries. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Business model 43 Germany and Europe Customers and sales brands We also operate throughout Germany and in Europe. Our entry EnBW supplies around 5.5 million customers with energy and onto the Swedish market via our Swedish subsidiary EnBW provides them with energy solutions and energy industry Sverige and initial activities in France, Taiwan and the USA services. EnBW is one of the leading providers of energy and demonstrate our focus on selective internationalisation in the environmental services in Germany. Another focus is placed on area of renewable energies. We have already been represented in the development of our cooperation with municipal utilities Denmark and Sweden by our subsidiary Connected Wind and local authorities. The supply of district heating and drinking Services since 2016. In Turkey, we are active in the renewable water is also part of the range of services offered by EnBW. energies sector with our Turkish partner Borusan. EnBW and its subsidiaries differentiate between two customer The most important participating interests of EnBW in relation groups: The B2C customer group includes retail customers, small to the value added chain and their contribution to the result of commercial enterprises, the housing industry and agriculture. the EnBW Group include the following groups of companies: The B2B customer group encompasses major commercial enterprises and industrial customers, as well as redistributors, Energiedienst Holding (ED), based in Laufenberg, Switzerland, municipal utilities, local authorities and public entities. has around 900 employees and is an ecologically oriented German-Swiss listed company with various subsidiaries that is With its strong sales brands, EnBW is close to its customers and active in South Baden and Switzerland. ED exclusively generates is consistently oriented to their needs. As an active partner for green electricity primarily using hydropower. Alongside the the energy system of the future, EnBW sells electricity, gas, supply of electricity, this group of companies offers its cusdistrict heating, energy industry services, energy solutions and tomers smart, networked products and services, including drinking water in the B2C sector under the EnBW brand photovoltaic plants, heat pumps, electricity storage systems, (www.enbw.com). These products and services focus on Badenelectromobility and e-car sharing. Württemberg. EnBW primarily sells electricity and gas, as well as solutions and digital services related to energy, to retail Pražská energetika (PRE), based in Prague, Czech Republic, has and commercial customers throughout Germany through the just over 1,500 employees and its core business activities Yello brand (www.yello.de). The needs of ecologically oriented include the sale of electricity and gas, the distribution of customers are addressed across Germany through the electricity in Prague, the generation of electricity from NaturEnergiePlus brand (www.naturenergieplus.de). renewable energies and the provision of energy services. PRE is the third largest electricity supplier in the Czech Republic and In addition, EnBW subsidiaries are active in the B2B sector under the operator of a high-quality and reliable distribution grid. As the GVS brand and in the B2C and B2B sectors under the Erdgas part of its activities, PRE promotes the use of modern Südwest, ODR and ZEAG brands. technological solutions and advises on the implementation of innovative technologies and achieving energy savings. Under the NaturEnergie brand (www.naturenergie.de), ED sells green electricity and gas to retail customers in South Baden. It Stadtwerke Düsseldorf (SWD) is one of the largest municipal caters for business customers across Germany and in energy supply companies in Germany. It has over 3,140 Switzerland. PRE sells electricity, gas, energy services and mobile employees and supplies SWD customers in Düsseldorf and the communication services to retail and commercial customers in surrounding region with electricity, natural gas, district heating Prague and the surrounding region under the PRE brand and drinking water, as well as providing waste disposal and street (www.pre.cz). PRE also supplies electricity, gas and energy cleaning services in its city. In addition, the company’s focus is services to industrial customers across the Czech Republic placed on the needs-based development of networked urban under the PRE brand. Electricity and gas are sold in the Czech infrastructures in the areas of energy, mobility and property. Republic under the Yello brand (www.yello.cz), primarily via online channels to households and commercial customers. SWD VNG is based in Leipzig and has around 1,120 employees. It is a supplies retail and commercial customers in the B2C sector, as horizontally and vertically integrated corporate group in the well as customers in the agricultural sector, with electricity, gas, European gas industry with more than 20 companies in six heating and drinking water under the Stadtwerke Düsseldorf countries. It concentrates on its business areas of Gas Trading & brand (www.swd-ag.de). In the B2B sector, the range of services is Service, Gas Transport and Gas Storage. Using this core expertise directed at business and industrial customers and marketed as a basis, VNG is increasingly placing its focus on new business across Germany, with a focus on North Rhine-Westphalia. VNG fields. These include, amongst others, biogas, digital infrastructure supplies gas to municipal utilities, regional supply companies and district solutions. Through its independent transmission and industrial and commercial companies in Germany and system operator ONTRAS Gastransport GmbH, the company Europe – from full-service provision through to highly flexible operates the second largest German gas transmission grid. products – under the VNG brand (www.vng.de). The company goldgas GmbH, a subsidiary of VNG, sells gas and electricity – especially to private households, commercial customers and property management companies in Germany – under the goldgas brand (www.goldgas.de). 44 Management report » Business model Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Selected companies Selected EnBW companies in Baden-Württemberg, Germany and Europe EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG, EnBW Sverige AB, Falkenberg ONTRAS Gastransport GmbH, Leipzig Karlsruhe Stadtwerke Düsseldorf AG, Düsseldorf EnBW Ostwürttemberg DonauRies AG, Ellwangen Connected Wind Services A / S, Balle VNG AG, Leipzig Erdgas Südwest GmbH, Karlsruhe GasVersorgung Süddeutschland GmbH, Yello Strom GmbH, Cologne Stuttgart NaturEnergie+ Deutschland GmbH, Mühlacker Sweden Denmark Netze BW GmbH, Stuttgart Sales & Solutions GmbH, Stuttgart Germany terranets bw GmbH, Stuttgart Pražská energetika a.s. ¹, Prague Czech BadenRepublic WürttemTransnetBW GmbH, Stuttgart berg Switzerland ZEAG Energie AG, Heilbronn Turkey Energiedienst Holding AG, Laufenburg Borusan EnBW Enerji yatırımları ve Üretim A.S, Istanbul ² 1 Directly and indirectly held shares. The full list of shareholdings can be found in the notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Not fully consolidated, accounted for using under (36) “Additional disclosures”. The full set of consolidated financial statements is published at the equity method. www.enbw.com/report2018-downloads. Further information: www.enbw.com/shareholdings. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Business model 45 Our operating segments Renewable Energies segment Sales segment The company’s activities in the area of power generation from renewable energy sources – where we utilise the natural The Sales segment encompasses sales of electricity and gas, as resources of water, wind and sun – are combined under the well as the provision of energy industry services such as billing Renewable Energies segment. We are expanding renewable services, energy supply and energy saving contracting (Glossary, energies, above all in the areas of onshore and offshore wind p. 153) and new energy solutions. In this area, we exploit our energy and photovoltaics, and broadening our activities along broad energy industry and process-based expertise, as well as the value chain (p. 102). The principle of partnership plays a our existing relationships with our customers. Against the backcentral role in this context and we offer potential investors such ground of advancing digitalisation, we are optimising, amongst as local authorities and private citizens, whom we attract with other things, our customer processes and expanding our digital the aid of targeted models, the chance to participate in range of products (p. 94 ff.). renewable energy projects. The value we add in this segment encompasses project development, construction and efficient Grids segment operation, as well as the repowering (Glossary, p. 154) of the plants in the future. The Grids segment encompasses the transmission and distribution of electricity and gas, the provision of grid-related Generation and Trading segment services, e.g. the operation of grids for third parties, and the supply of water. Value added in the Grids segment is based on The Generation and Trading segment encompasses electricity the existing infrastructure and the process know-how necessary generation, the storage of gas, the trading of gas and electricity, to operate and expand this infrastructure efficiently. Furtherthe gas midstream business, the provision of system services more, value added is anchored in the numerous close relation(Glossary, p. 154) for the operators of transmission grids, the ships with local authorities and citizens. The grid business will operation of reserve power plants, district heating, envibe expanded further at all voltage levels in the course of the ronmental services and the dismantling of power plants. This Energiewende and will thus contribute to supply reliability. For business is primarily based on the generation of electricity and example, our subsidiary TransnetBW, together with partners, is heat from our coal, gas, pumped storage and nuclear power currently involved in planning two high-performance northplants and our operational and optimisation expertise. While south connections using high-voltage DC transmission techwholesale market prices have recovered, spreads (Glossary, nology (HVDC) (Glossary, p. 153). Partnerships will also play a p. 154) have remained at a low level (p. 78 f.). Our fossil fuel power more important role in the distribution grid in future as we plants will thus also remain under pressure in the future. The efficiently manage our customers’ grid installations and infrapower plants operating on the market, as well as those power structures and prepare them to meet the new requirements. plants transferred to the grid reserve, make a significant contribution to the security of supply in Germany. As equal partners, we support our customers in the integration of their power plants into the market using our services and expertise – such as in the area of direct distribution. 46 Management report » Business model Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Overview of the segments Sales Grids Tasks Tasks Sale of electricity, gas, energy industry services and energy solutions; Transmission and distribution of electricity and gas as well as expanenergy supply and energy-saving contracting; cooperation with local sion of HVDC connections; provision of grid-related services; water authorities; collaboration with municipal utilities supply; guaranteeing the security of supply and system stability Significant events in 2018 Significant events in 2018 » Expansion of electromobility: Further expansion of the charging infra» ULTRANET HVDC project: further preparations for the construction structure, also together with national and international cooperation of the converter at the site in Philippsburg by TransnetBW in cooperpartners, expansion of the product portfolio, EnBW mobility+ app with ation with EnBW Kernkraft 22,000 charging stations across different countries, simplification of » SuedLink HVDC-project: plans adapted to meet the political guidethe pricing system when charging with the “Full with E” campaign lines (priority to underground cables) and other preparations for the » Contracting: Modernisation and expansion of the combined heat and construction of the converter at the site in Leingarten by TransnetBW power plant at the Walsrode energy park, winning the Contracting » Investment by ONTRAS in the EUGAL European pipeline project as Award, numerous concepts for the development of public properties part of ongoing construction » Further acquisition of large customers in area of energy industry » Publication of the new expansion plan for the 110 kV high-voltage billing services grid by Netze BW » Further digitalisation of customer processes and digital interaction » Netze BW was the first metering point operator to install a certified with customers (e.g. via EnPower) smart metering system for a customer » Further intensification of the cooperative partnership models with » #NETZlive: First transmission of forecasting data via the automated municipal utilities and local authorities, such as in the SAFE project data exchange process between Netze BW and TransnetBW (core charging network for electric vehicles for electric cars in » Grid integration for the expansion of charging infrastructure for Baden-Württemberg) electromobility; “E-Mobility Avenue” pilot project by Netze BW » Expansion of services for local authorities in the area of urban to examine charging behaviour and the effects on the electricity grid planning and digital infrastructures » Upgrading the grids and connecting renewable energy power plants Sales in 2018 Grid lengths in 2018 151,000 km 56.3 billion kWh 36.4 billion kWh Electricity transmission and distribution grid gas (B2C / B2B) electricity (B2C / B2B) 24,000 km Gas transmission and distribution grid Number of B2C and B2B customers Transmission volumes in 2018 Around 5.5 million 64.3 billion kWh 33.3 billion kWh electricity gas Key figures in 2018 Key figures in 2018 3,657 employees € 270.6 million 8,920 employees € 1,176.9 million (as of 31/12/2018) adjusted EBITDA in 2018 (as of 31/12/2018) adjusted EBITDA in 2018 €132.4 million 12.5 % € 967.4 million 54.5 % investment in 2018 share of adjusted EBITDA in 2018 investment in 2018 share of adjusted EBITDA in 2018 Development of adjusted EBITDA (in € billion) Development of adjusted EBITDA (in € billion) +100% +25% 0.2 0.4 0.8 1.0 2012 2020 2012 2020 Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Business model 47 Renewable Energies Generation and Trading Tasks Tasks Project development and management; construction and operation Advisory services, construction, operation and dismantling of thermal of renewable energy power plants power plants; storage of gas; trading of electricity and gas, provision of system services; operation of reserve power plants; gas midstream business, district heating; waste management / environmental services; direct distribution of renewable energy power plants Significant events in 2018 Significant events in 2018 » Continued construction of the offshore wind farms EnBW Hohe See » Completion of the gas-fired CHP power plant in Stuttgart-Gaisburg and EnBW Albatros with total capacity of 609 MW with a heating capacity of up to 210 MW » Selective internationalisation with entry onto the Swedish market » Extension of the inspection of Block 2 of the Neckarwestheim and initial activities in France, Taiwan and the USA nuclear power plant to complete an extensive inspection programme » Further expansion of the onshore portfolio: Through the acquisition » Dismantling of nuclear power plants: Final dismantling approval for and construction of 14 wind farms with total output of 178 MW in Obrigheim received, transfer of residual volumes of electricity from Germany and Sweden, EnBW has expanded the total output from Block 1 to Block 2 of the Philippsburg nuclear power plant onshore wind power to 718 MW » Construction of waste material processing centres at the sites in » Decision to invest and start of construction of first onshore wind Neckarwestheim and Philippsburg farm in Sweden » Sale of VNG Norge AS and its subsidiary VNG Danmark ApS » Opportunity for citizens to participate in seven newly built EnBW wind farms » After the construction of 15 photovoltaic plants with an output of 22 MW, EnBW has a total photovoltaics portfolio of 99 MW Generation portfolio in 2018 ¹ Generation portfolio in 2018 ¹ 7,203 GWh 1,955 MW 46,079 GWh 11,383 MW generation installed output generation installed output Key figures in 2018 Key figures in 2018 1,144 employees € 297.7 million 5,419 employees € 428.6 million (as of 31/12/2018) adjusted EBITDA in 2018 (as of 31/12/2018) adjusted EBITDA in 2018 € 476.0 million 13.8 % € 166.5 million 19.9 % investment in 2018 share of adjusted EBITDA in 2018 investment in 2018 share of adjusted EBITDA in 2018 Development of adjusted EBITDA (in € billion) Development of adjusted EBITDA (in € billion) +250% -80% 0.2 0.7 1.2 0.3 2012 2020 2012 2020 1 The sums stated for the generation and installed output in the Renewable Energies and Generation and Trading segments are not identical to the totals for the EnBW Group. Some of the generation plants are assigned to other segments. The total generation of the EnBW Group is 53,492 GWh, of which 8,414 GWh or 15.7% is generated from renewable energy sources. The total installed output of the EnBW Group is 13,399 MW, of which 3,738 MW or 27.9% is from renewable energy power plants. The totals for generation and installed output for the Group are illustrated in detail on p. 102. 48 Management report » Strategy, goals and performance management system Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Strategy, goals and performance management system Strategy entiate ourselves from our competitors. Sustainability is an integral component of our Group strategy so that we can Market conditions and structures guarantee the creation of economic, ecological and social value for our stakeholders. We associate the concept of sustainable The energy sector in Germany has been experiencing proeconomic development with our aspiration to conduct our found change since 2012 due to the Energiewende. The share of business activities in a responsible way. electricity generation accounted for by renewable energies is increasing, driven by regulatory funding mechanisms, the trend The sustainability concept is aligned with the strategic guiding towards decentralisation and technological advances. Nuclear principles of EnBW and defines areas of action, targets and measelectricity generation will cease by 2022. The use of fossil fuels, ures. Areas of action include, amongst others, the expansion of above all brown coal and hard coal, continues to be the subject renewable energies, increasing employee commitment and of intense political debate. Another driver of change in the guaranteeing a reliable supply (p. 52 f.). The concept takes into energy sector are new patterns of demand amongst customers account external demands for sustainable corporate activities, (local authorities, households, trade and industry) due to an derived from leading sustainability standards and ratings, as increasing desire for autonomy and sustainability, as well as well as the integration of ecological and social aspects into the falling energy consumption due to improved energy efficiency operating business (p. 60). (p. 72 ff.). The business models followed by energy supply companies are changing as a result. We shape the composition and strategic development of our business portfolio through our portfolio strategy. Our strategic Strategy process goals are then defined and operationalised in a final step through the design of our business, investment and functional The development of strategy at EnBW is governed by a uniform strategies. and structured process. This begins with our vision which is guided by the principle “Energiewende. Safe. Hands on.” The Group strategy describes our positioning and how we differProcess for strategic goal achievement Long-term objective of EnBW Guiding principle Strategic positioning and differentiation of company to competition Corporate strategy Level of detail Composition and strategic development of the business portfolio Portfolio strategy Clarifying and operationalisation of strategic goals (per business unit) Business strategies (per business unit) Support / enabling of strategic goal achievement (per functional unit) Functional strategies (per functional unit) Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Strategy, goals and performance management system 49 Guiding principle and Group strategy Extensive investments and divestitures EnBW intends to invest €14.1 billion in total by 2020 (based on the The EnBW Group strategy developed in accordance with our reference year of 2012). In this context, the focus will be placed on guiding principle encompasses two operating models that expanding renewable energies on an industrial scale. Moreover, complement each other: we will also concentrate on the expansion and upgrading of our transmission and distribution grids right through to so-called Customer proximity: The EnBW 2020 strategy places the focus on smart grids (Glossary, p. 154). In order to obtain the financial customers to an even greater degree. Targeted innovation headroom required for such extensive investments, we have management and short development times for new products significantly extended our divestiture programme – involving and services will become key components. Cooperation with divestitures, cash inflow from participation models, the disposal municipal utilities and local authorities will be expanded, of assets and subsidies – with our EnBW 2020 strategy to around primarily on the basis of partnership cooperation models. EnBW €5.1 billion (based on the reference year of 2012). Investment of aims to gain an advantage over its competitors through the €11.5 billion (around 80% of the target) had already been made development of system and complete solutions for specific and divestitures of €4.4 billion (around 85% of the target) were customer segments and a strong brand portfolio. An Innovation already completed by the end of 2018. On the basis of our current Campus supports the rapid development of forward-looking plans, we expect to exceed the targets for both strategic products. It is characterised by its focus on market proximity, investment and divestitures by 2020. You can find further bringing together the necessary expertise from the areas of information on this subject in the “Forecast” on p. 110. research and development right through to sales and also by its entrepreneurial thinking. In the area of energy-related services, in Investments and divestitures as part of the particular, selective company acquisitions will complement transformation of the portfolio existing expertise and round off the range of products and in € billion services offered (p. 64 ff.). Total investment 11.5 2.6 Engine room of the Energiewende: Safety, simplicity and 14.1 flexibility are crucial when it comes to operating system-relevant 0.7 infrastructure. EnBW relies on operational excellence and a strict Divestitures 4.4 focus on efficiency and cost-orientation to achieve defined 5.1 standards and levels of quality. Partnerships formed in the area of Net investment 7.1 1.9 technological development serve to minimise costs and risks. In 9.0 addition, EnBW offers comprehensive active cooperation opportunities at all value added stages. In the “Engine room of the Already realised Remaining (2019–2020) Energiewende”, EnBW uses its expertise to guarantee a reliable supply of energy – which also needs to be ensured during the transformation of the energy landscape. EnBW 2020 strategy is on the home straight Portfolio strategy As an integrated energy supply company, EnBW is rigorously and confidently implementing its 2020 strategy. It is clear as the Repositioning the business portfolio end of the strategy period approaches that the improvements in EnBW aims to more than double the share of its generation efficiency and the growth initiatives designed to place the capacity accounted for by renewable energies from 19% (based company on new foundations ready for the future have largely on the reference year of 2012) to more than 40% in 2020. The been implemented or are on the home straight. As a result of the capacities of our onshore wind farms will be increased signififull consolidation of VNG in 2017, EnBW has become the number 2 cantly in Germany and selected foreign markets. Offshore wind in the gas transport sector and the third largest German gas power represents a further opportunity for growth. By investing supplier. Another good example of the success of the repositioning extensively in grid expansion, we will be making a substantial of the portfolio is the area of wind energy. In the offshore wind contribution to the infrastructure required by the energy sector, two further major projects EnBW Hohe See and EnBW system and thus to the security of supply. Albatros in the North Sea are following on from EnBW Baltic 1 and EnBW Baltic 2. Another offshore wind farm – EnBW He Dreiht – is Innovative products and services will form another important at the planning stage. EnBW He Dreiht is the first offshore wind pillar of the company’s business. By 2020, a significant share of farm project that does not require EEG subsidies. In the onshore our earnings – the target value for adjusted EBITDA is between sector, EnBW has now become one of the top project developers €2.3 and €2.5 billion – is to be generated through strategic and operators of wind farms in Germany. EnBW gave another initiatives. At the same time, the overall share of adjusted indication of its aim to tap into selected international growth EBITDA accounted for by the regulated grid business and markets in the area of renewable energies in 2018 with its entry renewable energies will increase from around 40% (based on the onto the Swedish market and initial activities in France, Taiwan reference year of 2012) to at least 70% in 2020. This will improve and the USA. If there is no new and unexpected massive the risk-return profile of EnBW. deterioration in the general conditions, EnBW will achieve its earnings targets for 2020 at both a Group and also segment level and thus reach one of the most important milestones in the history of the company. 50 Management report » Strategy, goals and performance management system Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Strategic development post 2020 intended phasing out of coal-based conventional generation (decarbonisation). Next phase of the Energiewende › System critical infrastructure comprises the expansion and The first phase of the Energiewende in Germany was mainly operation of the transmission grids and the upgrading of driven by energy policy and regulation. A second phase of the distribution grids, as well as grid-related services provided by Energiewende is now rapidly starting to take shape, the full our grid subsidiaries. impact of which will be seen in the period after 2020 as the › Smart infrastructure for customers involves us developing market, customers and technology lead the way. There are six new, digital business models and launching them onto the key trends that are most relevant to the further development of market where we will then scale them up. the EnBW strategy: EnBW is focussing on growth and innovation for the markets of › The goal of decarbonising the economy, which is shared by the future. An integral part and driver of this corporate ecoalmost all countries in the world, is setting the political and nomic development is the digital transformation of EnBW. regulatory agenda. Digitalisation permeates into all business areas, opening up new › New competitors and technological advances are fundagrowth opportunities and earnings potential. mentally changing the value added chain – every business is increasingly dependent on its own success factors. From repositioning to growth › Renewable energies and smart grids continue to be the focus of future decentralised energy systems. Development of adjusted EBITDA › The cross-sector networking of electricity generation and in € billion digitalisation are shaping industrial development. As a result, energy and infrastructure themes are converging across 2012 2.4 sector boundaries. › The demand for smart and reliable infrastructure is in2016 1.9 creasing due to factors such as demographic trends and urbanisation. The infrastructure market in Germany will 2017 2.1 grow from a volume of €100 billion in 2015 to an anticipated 2018 2.2 €150 billion in 2025 (source: PwC/Oxford Economics, own 2019 2.35–2.5 ¹ calculations). 2020 ≥ 2.4 › Individualisation, digitalisation and networking are massively changing customer behaviour and making it more difficult to predict. 2025 ≥ 3.0 Sustainable and innovative infrastructure partner Current value Target value The further development of the EnBW strategy post 2020 will focus on the key trends defining the second phase of the 1 Based on the 2019 forecast. Energiewende. We want to increasingly place the strategic focus of our company on the aspect of infrastructure within our existing business fields and also use the core expertise of EnBW EnBW will generate – if our forecasts are fulfilled – an adjusted to exploit new growth opportunities above and beyond the EBITDA of around €2.4 billion in 2020 and once again achieve energy sector. The core expertise of EnBW – what we do well and the same level of earnings as in 2012, although based on a do better than many others – lies in the safe and reliable drastically changed business portfolio. From 2020, EnBW will operation and management of critical infrastructures in the switch from a phase of “repositioning” to a phase of “growth” energy sector. This distinctive expertise can be transferred to with the aims of asserting its competitive position, offering our other infrastructure sectors – the first themes have already been employees an attractive place to work with good prospects and identified and work is in progress – for example in the achieving dividends for our shareholders that are in line with broadband business (Glossary, p. 152), district development in the market. The further development of the EnBW strategy post cities (Glossary, p. 153) or the expansion of charging infrastruc2020 will provide the necessary foundations. ture (Glossary, p. 153) as the basis for electromobility. The aim is to develop a balanced business portfolio that has diverse An important driver of growth is the expansion of generation potential for growth, a high proportion of stable regulated from renewable energies. As well as doubling installed output business and an attractive risk-return profile. from onshore and offshore wind power to over 3.5 GW, a third pillar will be formed by the development of a portfolio of large EnBW is transforming itself into a sustainable and innovative photovoltaic projects. Photovoltaics is the fastest growing generinfrastructure partner with an emphasis on three central ation technology worldwide due to its cost benefits. EnBW is themes: aiming to become the pioneer in Germany for open-field photovoltaic power plants without state funding. In order to › Sustainable generation infrastructure will be achieved further safeguard its growth ambitions, EnBW is following a through the further expansion of low-carbon electricity strategy of selective internationalisation in the area of renewgeneration, the phasing out of nuclear energy and the able energies. The aim is a dual diversification of risk – in terms Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Strategy, goals and performance management system 51 of generation types and regional markets – and to exploit Definition and target values for the key scaling effects. At the same time, EnBW is focussing on a sharp performance indicators expansion of transmission grids, profitable growth of the distribution grids and the further development of sales into a The key performance indicators enable us to measure the customer infrastructure business, for example in the area of degree to which goals are achieved and to manage our electromobility. company. The key performance indicators are the same as in the previous year. The expansion of the sustainable generation and utilisation of energy will be supported by innovative financing instruments. In The financial and strategic key performance indicators within October 2018, EnBW successfully issued its first green bond the PMS are the adjusted EBITDA, the shares of the adjusted (Glossary, p. 153) with a volume of €500 million. The proceeds will EBITDA accounted for by the segments, the internal financing be exclusively used to fund climate-friendly projects (p. 85 f.). capability and ROCE. EnBW has set itself the target of increasing the adjusted EBITDA The adjusted EBITDA is the earnings before the investment and for the Group to at least €3 billion by 2025. Even in the growth financial results, income taxes and amortisation and adjusted phase post 2020, EnBW will maintain its financial discipline and for non-operating effects. Adjusted EBITDA is a key performance intends to control its credit standing using the debt repayment indicator for the finance goal dimension, and the key potential (ratio of the retained cash flow to net debt). A target performance indicators for the strategy goal dimension, which value of at least 16% should safeguard the good credit standing describe the shares of adjusted EBITDA accounted for by the of EnBW and enable the implementation of the investment segments, are derived directly from it (p. 82 and 111). The key programme to achieve the goals in 2025 at the same time. performance indicator internal financing capability describes the adjusted retained cash flow in relation to the cash-relevant net investment and is the most significant performance Goals and performance indicator for the Group’s ability to finance its activities management system internally (p. 89 and 112). After covering ongoing costs and dividend payments, the adjusted retained cash flow is available to the company for net investment without the need to raise We will safeguard the implementation of our 2020 strategy by additional debt. Since the 2017 financial year, we have adjusted means of a holistic goal and performance management system. the retained cash flow to take account of the extraordinary This system reflects the overall performance of the company effect of the reimbursement of the nuclear fuel rod tax (Glossary, and strengthens integrated thinking within EnBW. At the same p. 154) (adjusted retained cash flow). The retained cash flow was time, it underpins the comprehensive and transparent focus on reduced by the amount reimbursed to EnBW of €1,520.8 million performance and stakeholders within our company. in 2017. In the 2018 financial year, the reimbursement was used for a debt repayment of around €835.8 million and also for Performance management system strategic investments of €200.0 million. We plan to distribute the remaining amount on a straight line basis in the period 2019 Since 2013, corporate management has been continually exto 2020, also for the purpose of strategic investment. Accordpanded through the addition of non-financial and strategic goals, ingly, this will lead to an increase in the adjusted retained cash so that it encompasses the dimensions of strategy, customers and flow over the period 2018 to 2020. ROCE (return on capital society, employees and environment. The centrepiece of this employed) is the ratio of adjusted EBIT including the adjusted integrated corporate management is the performance manageinvestment result to the average capital employed and forms ment system (PMS). As of 2015, the PMS incorporates all tools the basis for determining the value added, reflecting the used in strategic and operational management. The financial and development of the company’s value from a financial point of non-financial Group goals have been broken down into target view (p. 92 f. and 112). agreements at all management levels since 2015, insofar as they are considered a sensible performance indicator for the relevant In addition to the financial key performance indicators, the PMS area. The quarterly performance reviews conducted at a Board of also includes non-financial key performance indicators. Management level introduced in 2013 were revised in 2015 and have since included operating performance indicators that will The customers and society goal dimension comprises the promote the achievement of targets for the financial and nonReputation Index, the Customer Satisfaction Index and the financial key performance indicators. In 2016, this concept was SAIDI (System Average Interruption Duration Index)). In order fully implemented. In terms of external communication, the PMS to calculate the Reputation Index, a total of around 5,000 people feeds into the integrated reporting of the financial and non– from the stakeholder groups relevant for the EnBW brand of financial performance of EnBW based on the reporting framework customers, the wider public, industrial companies, opinion of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). This leaders and investors – are asked about their impressions of the Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW incorporates the financial EnBW brand by an external market research institute. and non-financial aspects of our business activities. 52 Management report » Strategy, goals and performance management system Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Financial and non-financial key performance indicators and targets Goal dimension Goal Key performance indicator 2018 Target in 2020 Secure Adjusted EBITDA in € billion 2.2 2.3–2.5 The operating result is to return to the averproﬁtability age level achieved before the Energiewende. The total regulated business (Grids and Renewable Energies segments) together contributes around 70% to this result. High level Internal ﬁnancing capability 93.2 ≥ 100 The level of net ﬁnancial debt is controlled of ﬁnancial in % by limiting net investment to the level of addiscipline justed retained cash ﬂow. The Group can Finance thus ﬁnance its own repositioning internally. Increasing ROCE in % 6.5 8.5–11 Return on capital employed (ROCE) is higher Group value than the cost of capital. EnBW is creating value for its stakeholders. Finance and strategy goal dimension, page 80 ff. | Expected trends, page 110 ff. | Report on opportunities and risks, page 114 ff. Share of result Share of overall adjusted 0.3 / 12.5 0.4 / 15.0 The operating result for the Sales segment accounted for by EBITDA in € billion / in % doubles from € 0.2 billion (reference year: “Customer 2012) to € 0.4 billion in 2020 and represents proximity” / Sales around 15% of the Group operating result. Innovations make this possible. Share of result Share of overall adjusted 1.2 / 54.5 1.0 / 40.0 The operating result for the Grids segment accounted for by EBITDA in € billion / in % increases by 25% from €0.8 billion (reference Grids year: 2012) to € 1.0 billion in 2020 and represents around 40% of the Group operating result. The share accounted for by stable regulated business is expanding. Share of result Share of overall adjusted 0.3 / 13.8 0.7 / 30.0 The operating result for the Renewable accounted for EBITDA in € billion / in % Energies segment increases by 250% from Strategy ¹ by Renewable € 0.2 billion (reference year: 2012) to € 0.7 Energies billion in 2020 and represents around 30% of the Group operating result. EnBW becomes more sustainable. Share of result Share of overall adjusted 0.4 / 19.9 0.3 / 15.0 The operating result for the Generation and accounted for EBITDA in € billion / in % Trading segment falls by 80% from € 1.2 billion by Generation (reference year: 2012) to € 0.3 billion in 2020 and Trading due to changed framework conditions and only represents around 15% of the Group operating result. Finance and strategy goal dimension, page 82 f. | Expected trends, page 111 | Report on opportunities and risks, page 114 ff. Results were collected for each stakeholder group about the supply that last more than three minutes for the end consumer. distinctiveness of the brand and the assessment of the The definition and calculation of this performance indicator is competence of and emotional attitude towards the EnBW brand. based on the guidelines issued by the Network TechnoThese are merged together to form a Reputation Index. The logy/Network Operation Forum (FNN) of the VDE (German individual reputation indices for each stakeholder group are Association for Electrical, Electronic & Information Techweighted equally to form a consolidated and reported nologies) (p. 96 and 112). Reputation Index (p. 94 and 112). The key performance indicator Customer Satisfaction Index comprises an integrated analysis of The Employee Commitment Index (ECI) and LTIF (Lost Time the average satisfaction of private end consumers of electricity Injury Frequency) are utilised as performance indicators in the over the year, which is directly linked to customer loyalty. It is employees goal dimension. The ECI expresses the degree to compiled from customer surveys carried out by an external which employees identify with EnBW. It is compiled using provider (p. 94 f. and 112). This key indicator is compiled for the employee surveys and is based on standardised questions that two brands of EnBW and Yello. SAIDI serves as the key address the degree to which employees identify with their performance indicator of supply reliability. It expresses the company, including satisfaction with their employer-employee average length of supply interruption in the electricity relationship, attractiveness of the employer, identification with distribution grid experienced annually by each connected the company, motivational climate, competitiveness and future customer. SAIDI includes all unscheduled interruptions to viability. The ECI is compiled every two to three years for those Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Strategy, goals and performance management system 53 Goal dimension Goal Key performance indicator 2018 Target in 2020 Reputation Reputation Index 51.3 55.4 In parallel with repositioning its business model, EnBW aims to continuously improve its reputation. Customer EnBW / Yello Customer 120 / 152 > 136 / EnBW and Yello customers are satisﬁed customproximity Satisfaction Index > 159 ers with a high level of customer loyalty. EnBW and Yello are organisations strongly oriented towards customers and meet the needs and wishes of their customers through tailored solutions and products. Customers Supply reliability SAIDI (electricity) 17 < 25 Maintaining the quality of supply to its customers and society in min. / year is of central importance to EnBW in the further development of the grids of its grid subsidiaries. The high degree of supply reliability in the grid area operated by EnBW is based on comprehensive investment in grids and plants and our abundant system expertise. Customers and society goal dimension, page 94 ff. | Expected trends, page 112 | Report on opportunities and risks, page 114 ff. Employee Employee Commitment 62 65 The commitment of our employees to EnBW is commitment Index (ECI) ² very strong and there is faith in the future viability of the company. Occupational LTIF ³ 2.3 ≤ previous The number of accidents at work and the resulting Employees safety year days of absence remains stable or is falling. Employees goal dimension, page 96 ff. | Expected trends, page 113 | Report on opportunities and risks, page 114 ff. Expand renewable Installed output of RE in GW 3.7 / 27.9 5.0 / > 40 The share of the generation capacity accounted energies (RE) and the share of the generation for by renewable energies has doubled comcapacity accounted for by RE in % pared with 2012. Onshore and offshore wind power and hydropower are at the forefront of this development. Climate CO₂ intensity in g/kWh 553 -15% to EnBW actively contributes to climate protection by protection -20% successively reducing the CO₂ intensity of its own Environment generation of electricity (excluding nuclear power) by 15% to 20% by 2020 compared to 606 g/kWh in the reference year 2015. Environment goal dimension, page 101 ff. | Expected trends, page 113 | Report on opportunities and risks, page 114 ff. 1 Other / Consolidation accounts for € -0.02 billion / -0.7% of the overall adjusted EBITDA. 2 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (consideration of companies controlled by the Group [without ITOs]). 3 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (consideration of all employees at those companies controlled by the Group, except external agency workers and contractors. companies controlled by the Group (except ITOs) (Glossary, emissions of CO2 from own generation of electricity for the p. 154) as part of a full employee survey. Representative random Group, as well as the volume of electricity generated by the sample surveys are completed in the periods between the full Group without the contribution made by the nuclear power surveys – as was also the case in 2018 (p. 96 and 113). LTIF is plants, form the basis for the calculation of the key performance calculated on the basis of LTI (Lost Time Injuries) which denotes indicator CO2 intensity. This performance indicator is calculated the number of accidents during working hours which have as the ratio between the emissions and the generated volume of occurred exclusively because of a work assignment from the electricity and thus specifically describes the amount of CO2 company and result in at least one day of absence. LTIF indicates released per kilowatt hour. By discounting the electricity how many LTI occurred per one million working hours pergenerated by nuclear power plants, the performance indicator formed. This key indicator takes all employees at those companies will not be influenced by the phasing out of nuclear energy in controlled by the Group into account, except external agency the coming years (p. 103 and 113). workers and contractors (p. 100 f. and 113). Interdependencies between the The key performance indicators in the environment goal key performance indicators dimension are the installed output of renewable energies (RE) and the share of the generation capacity accounted for by RE We are convinced that in order to give a comprehensive and CO2 intensity (Glossary, p. 152). The first are measures of the portrayal of the company, it is not only necessary to describe expansion of renewable energies and refer to the installed the economic, ecological and social context but also to illustrate output of the power plants and not to their weather-dependent and provide an analysis of interdependencies in this report. contribution to electricity generation (p. 102 and 113). The Linking together the various goal dimensions is an important 54 Management report » Strategy, goals and performance management system Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW element of integrated reporting. At the same time, this type of the SuedLink and ULTRANET projects will accompany us over reporting encourages a holistic corporate management the next few years. New, powerful transmission grids will form approach within EnBW. In order to illustrate these interthe backbone of the Energiewende, especially for transporting dependencies, the key performance indicators for the goal and energy that has been sustainably generated in northern performance management system are used. The basic Germany to the main consumption areas in southern Germany assumption for illustrating interdependencies is that a change (p. 62). We anticipate that there will be a direct or potential influin one key performance indicator can also lead, in many cases, ence on many key performance indicators. Digitalisation initiato changes in one or more other key performance indicators. tives are another example. EnBW is focussing on three main Reciprocal relationships thus exist between the key perareas in its digital transformation: products and processes, techformance indicators – in the most extreme case, all of the key nologies, and people and organisations (p. 39). Due to the diverse performance indicators can even influence each other. In this range of impending changes, we anticipate that there will be a context, the investment guidelines have been adapted in the direct or potential influence on many key performance indicators. 2018 financial year: Non-financial aspects such as environmental and climate protection goals will be taken into account The key performance indicators that are directly influenced are to a greater extent for investment projects (p. 88). positioned in the centre of the diagram and should essentially be directly measurable. The interdependencies between the We have illustrated these interdependencies since 2015 using financial and strategy key performance indicators are also concrete examples that were important for the company in the essentially directly measurable and are represented in the past financial year or will be in the future and can thus also be example diagrams by orange arrows. The interdependencies found in other sections of the report. As part of an internal with the other non-financial key performance indicators are coordination process, various examples were examined by difficult to measure and generally tend to be potential or long several specialist areas and selected based on the respective term in nature. They are represented by grey arrows. In the 2018 feedback. financial year, these interdependencies were not measured individually. They are presented based on internal discussions In order to illustrate the interdependencies in 2018, we have with the relevant specialist areas and those responsible for the selected two areas in which EnBW was already engaged in the performance indicators. The upward pointing arrows show a past financial year but which will become even more important positive influence on the key performance indicator, while the in the future. The expansion of the HVDC connections as part of downward pointing arrows show a negative influence. Interdependencies between key performance indicators using the construction of HVDC connections as an example Customers / society Finance due to activities to from start of investment Reputation generate transparency measures (earnings from Adjusted Index and trust Construction of the use of the grids due to EBITDA due to a lack of legitimSuedLink and ULTRANET returning cash ﬂows isation for project and HVDC connections by from investing activities) public relations measures TransnetBW from start of investment measures ROCE once commissioned Strategy in investment phases Internal ﬁnancing capability from start of investment measures (earnings from use of the grids due to returning cash ﬂows from investing activities) Employees Share of adjusted EBITDA Environment accounted for by Grids through securing comdue to better electricity ECI petitiveness and future supplies from RE above CO₂ viability all in southern Germany intensity Direct inﬂuence Positive inﬂuence on key performance indicator Potential / long-term inﬂuence Negative inﬂuence on key performance indicator Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Strategy, goals and performance management system 55 Interdependencies between key performance indicators using digitalisation initiatives as an example Customers / society Finance due to optimisation of due to innovation Reputation processes and optimisation of Adjusted Index processes EBITDA Digitalisation due to optimisation of initiatives once innovations are Customer processes successfully implemented Internal Satisfaction and due to optimisation ﬁnancing Index of processes capability in implementation phases due to increased grid SAIDI automation, smart use once innovations are of data for renewal successfully implemented ROCE strategies and fault and due to optimisation ﬁxing processes of processes Strategy in implementation phases due to innovation and optimisation of processes Shares of adjusted Environment EBITDA accounted for by the individual segments Employees due to increasing the operating hours of the CO₂ RE power plants through intensity through securing combetter monitoring of the ECI ¹ petitiveness and future plants and optimised viability maintenance processes Direct inﬂuence Positive inﬂuence on key performance indicator Potential / long-term inﬂuence Negative inﬂuence on key performance indicator 1 We also anticipate a potential negative influence on the Employee Commitment Index due to the digital transformation in the Group. However, this type of risk will be compensated for by integrating employees into the change process. 56 Management report » Corporate governance Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Corporate governance Corporate management annual declaration of compliance pursuant to section 161 German Stock Corporations Act (AktG) on 5 December 2018. The current Good corporate governance is an essential part of the corporate declaration of compliance and the declarations from previous culture at EnBW. We are convinced that responsible and transyears are published at www.enbw.com/declaration-of-compliance. parent corporate governance strengthens the trust and confidence that customers, capital providers, employees and the general The remuneration report is contained in the management report public place in the company, thereby contributing to its long-term on p. 124 ff. of this report. success. The Board of Management and Supervisory Board have the responsibility of managing and supervising the company above and beyond merely fulfilling statutory requirements, but to Management and supervision do it in accordance with recognised benchmarks for good corporate governance and in harmony with the principles of a social Board of Management market economy, guaranteeing the continued existence of the company and ensuring a sustainable increase in its added value. The Board of Management is jointly responsible for managing Therefore, EnBW also meets all the recommendations of the Group business. In addition to the role of CEO, the tasks performed German Corporate Governance Code (www.enbw.com/corporateby the Board of Management are split into the remits of “finance”, governance). “personnel, law and compliance, auditing” and “technology”. As of 31 December 2018, the Board of Management of EnBW AG As in previous years, Dr. Bernhard Beck, the member of the Board consisted of four members. Colette Rückert-Hennen joined the of Management responsible for corporate governance, monitored Board of Management as the replacement for Dr. Bernhard Beck on conformity with the Code at EnBW and reported extensively to the 1 March 2019 and took over responsibility for the areas of Board of Management and Supervisory Board on all current personnel, executive management and health management. themes pertaining to corporate governance. Both boards acknowDr. Bernhard Beck will remain in office until 30 June 2019 and will ledged his report and addressed the recommendations and sugstill be responsible for the other areas under his remit in the gestions in the Code. They subsequently approved the company’s allocation of responsibilities up until this date. Allocation of responsibilities at Board of Management level (as of 31/12/2018) Dr. Frank Mastiaux Thomas Kusterer Dr. Bernhard Beck Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer CEO Finance Personnel, law and Technology compliance, auditing » Corporate development / » Accounting » Personnel and executive » Generation (renewable, sustainability » Tax management conventional, nuclear) » Strategy / energy industry » Controlling » Law » Waste management / » Communication / policy » Auditing environmental services » Finance » Transformation / » Compliance management / » Electricity and gas » Investor Relations IT / procurement / data protection transmission grids » Mergers and acquisitions » Distribution grids infrastructure » Regulatory management » Innovation management » Risk management / ICS (electricity and gas) » Boards / shareholder » Trade » Grid technology » Sales, marketing and relationships operations » Equity investment » Research and development » Gas value chain management » Occupational safety / » Escalation: risk manage» Health management environmental protection / ment and trading crisis management www.enbw.com/board-of-management Supervisory Board accordance with the German Co-determination Act (MitbestG), an equal number of members represent shareholders and The Supervisory Board of EnBW AG consists of 20 members in employees. Three employee representatives are nominated by accordance with section 8 (1) of the Articles of Association. In the ver.di trade union. The Supervisory Board appoints the Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Corporate governance 57 members of the Board of Management and advises them on Compliance their management of the company. It discusses business performance, planning and strategy of the company together Compliance management systems with the Board of Management at regular intervals and ratifies the annual financial statements. The Supervisory Board is Natural compliance with the relevant legal regulations and always involved in decisions of fundamental importance to the internal company rules forms the basis for the business company. Legal transactions and measures subject to the activities of EnBW and is part of our corporate culture. The approval of the Supervisory Board are defined in its rules of compliance management systems (CMS) and functions of EnBW procedure. In order for the Supervisory Board to optimally are individually designed: They are based on company and perform its functions, it has formed the following standing sector-specific priorities and risks, the size of the company and committees: a personnel committee, a finance and investment other factors. They are designed to support each company – and committee, an audit committee, a nomination committee and a thus the whole Group – in avoiding risks, liability claims and mediation committee in accordance with section 27 (3) damage to reputation. MitbestG, a digitalisation committee and an ad-hoc committee. Depending on the type of corporate control over a company, the Further information on the Board of Management and compliance-relevant companies with employees are either Supervisory Board can be found in this report under the section directly or indirectly integrated into the compliance manageon “Corporate bodies” (p. 145 ff.) as well as in the Declaration of ment system of EnBW. Corporate Management 2018 of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG including the Corporate Governance Report 2018 and the Report The CMS at EnBW is continuously examined and updated of the Supervisory Board (www.enbw.com/corporate-governance). internally as part of the audit or by the compliance organisation itself. It covers the directly controlled companies. The CMS Annual General Meeting focuses on the prevention, detection and sanctioning of corruption, the prevention of violations against competition Shareholders exercise their rights with regard to company and antitrust laws, the prevention of money laundering and matters at the Annual General Meeting. The Annual General data protection – which falls within the scope of compliance at Meeting passes resolutions on the discharge of Board of EnBW. In the reporting year, there were 27 companies directly Management and Supervisory Board members, the approintegrated into the CMS at EnBW. New companies are integrated priation of earnings and selection of the auditor. Resolutions of into the CMS using a risk-based approach. the Annual General Meeting only require a simple majority of votes in most cases. Each bearer share is equivalent to one vote. Companies indirectly integrated into the CMS of EnBW have Further information on the Annual General Meeting is available their own CMS. Relevant participating interests held by these at http://hv.enbw.com. companies are also integrated into their CMS. Three companies in the ED Group were integrated into the CMS for Energiedienst Shares of EnBW AG are listed on the General Standard segment of Holding (ED), while two subsidiaries have independent control the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. A stake of 46.75% of the share over compliance. Seven companies with employees were capital in EnBW AG is owned by each of both the Federal State of integrated into the CMS at Pražská energetika (PRE), three at Baden-Württemberg – via its wholly owned subsidiary NECKARStadtwerke Düsseldorf (SWD) and 18 at the VNG Group. PRI GmbH and, in turn, via its wholly owned subsidiary NECKARPRI-Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH – and by ZweckverIn order to safeguard the commercial success of the company band Oberschwäbische Elektrizitätswerke (Zweckverband OEW) against compliance risks – especially to fight corruption and via its wholly owned subsidiary OEW Energie-Beteiligungs GmbH. bribery – preventative risk assessment methods, advisory services and training concepts have been set up at EnBW, the Overall, the shareholder structure is unchanged as of 31 Decompliance-relevant companies and the ITOs (Independent cember 2018 when compared to the previous year. Transmission Operator) (Glossary, p. 154) . Shareholders of EnBW Activities this year Shares in % 1 At the compliance training courses in 2018, there was a special OEW Energie-Beteiligungs GmbH 46.75 focus in the face-to-face training sessions on purchasing and NECKARPRI-Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH 46.75 construction coordination with respect to the CMS at EnBW. In Badische Energieaktionärs-Vereinigung 2.45 addition, a number of antitrust training events were held for Gemeindeelektrizitätsverband Schwarzwald-Donau 0.97 sensitive areas of the company. The completion of an e-learning Neckar-Elektrizitätsverband 0.63 course or participation in face-to-face introductory training courses is obligatory for new EnBW employees. EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG 2.08 Other shareholders 0.39 1 The figures do not add up to 100% due to rounding differences. 58 Management report » Corporate governance Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW The advisory services offered by the EnBW compliance Number of participants in compliance training events ¹ department, which form another key element of prevention, 38 were also utilised in 2018 to the same high degree as in previous 1,274 162 years. The compliance hotline, which is reachable by e-mail or 2014 1,474 telephone and deals with matters on a personal level, received 46 around 1,000 enquiries relating to the key issues of gifts, 546 186 2015 778 donations and sponsoring, as well as to further topics such as conflicts of interest and the auditing of business partners. The 47 523 184 advisory services dealing with compliance themes have also 2016 754 grown at the indirectly integrated companies. 363 158 441 Compliance breaches 2017 962 13 -2.2% EnBW and the directly integrated companies have established 746 182 reporting channels via which internal, and in isolated cases also 2018 941 external, whistle-blowers can report suspected cases. Whistleblowers always have a right to the confidential and prompt Sensitive areas New management personnel / employees handling of any suspected cases they report and can always Management personnel contact the relevant compliance department or external bodies under the guarantee of complete anonymity with respect to the company (at EnBW, ED, PRE, SWD and TransnetBW). In the 1 At EnBW AG and directly integrated companies. reporting year, there were ten compliance breaches, one of which was material. There was no evidence for cases of corruption. EnBW holds a compliance day every year. The event was held on 22 October 2018 in Karlsruhe and provided the around 115 There was one compliance breach at terranets bw in the participants with a varied programme that covered themes such reporting year, while two suspected cases at VNG proved to be as data compliance and the risks posed by cyber attacks and wellfounded. There were also four compliance breaches at PRE. how to avoid them. The EnBW Group faced neither antitrust law penalty procedures Extensive Group regulations can pose a challenge to young, nor third-party antitrust lawsuits in the 2018 financial year. Law innovative companies that are active in highly competitive and enforcement agency investigations of individual employees and volatile markets. Therefore, the compliance and data protection former members of corporate bodies relating to the so-called department and the EnBW Innovation Campus developed a set Russian business deals and the so-called sales tax carousel in of Basic Rules together in 2018. These rules describe the CO2 allowance (Glossary, p. 152) trading were also ongoing in minimum requirements for innovation projects, micro business 2018. It is not possible to say at the present time when these units and start-ups. This streamlined set of rules is designed to proceedings will end. help those responsible in the Innovation Campus guarantee compliance. The core principles followed when defining the Data protection Basic Rules were, amongst other things: guaranteeing competitiveness by using a risk management approach, passing on An important theme in 2018 was the EU General Data Protection greater responsibility to managers, protecting the interests of Regulation (GDPR) that came into force on 25 May. Any EnBW and a focus on short and concise rules (p. 67). adjustments that were necessary as a consequence were identified and subsequently implemented as part of a project All of the indirectly integrated companies held training courses led by the compliance and data protection department that also to increase awareness amongst employees. The companies were included representatives from all different functions and deable to choose whether to use either face-to-face or online partments. In the project, working groups networked throughout training courses. the Group were established, for example, to examine themes related to the GDPR and define and establish conceptual The annual compliance risk assessments at EnBW investigate standards. the corruption, antitrust, fraud and data protection risks and form the basis for the compliance and data protection proA newly introduced and obligatory e-learning course and gramme, as well as for decentralised preventative activities. In numerous face-to-face events in particularly affected areas 2018, they were carried out at those companies directly ensure that there is sufficient awareness for the subject of data integrated into the CMS. The in-depth approach for assessing protection within the Group. Furthermore, the advancing and raising awareness for risks using face-to-face training events digitalisation of both internal processes and sales projects for sensitive areas was followed again in 2018 and will be means that the requirements stipulated by data protection law continued in 2019. The summary of the material compliance must be dealt with intensively. The compliance and data risks is contained in the “Report on opportunities and risks” protection department provides the specialist departments with (p. 118 and 121). Risks are also systematically identified in the advice and support in this context. Especially after the rights of indirectly integrated companies and the ITOs. the data subject were strengthened in the GDPR, there were a large number of requests for information in 2018. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » In dialogue with our stakeholders 59 In dialogue with our stakeholders Our stakeholders strategic orientation as a sustainable and innovative infrastructure partner are of particular importance in this context. Continuous and systematic dialogue with our internal and On the other hand, aspects reflecting any important economic, external stakeholders is an important element for determining environmental and social impacts the organisation may have key issues as part of our business activities. The most important and that significantly influence the perception of stakeholders stakeholder groups include shareholders and the capital market, are also taken into account. employees, customers, local authorities and municipal utilities, society and environment, suppliers, business partners, the Material themes are continuously implemented in the political community and the media. A fundamental aspect of our functional and business units, as well as in the individual dialogue with stakeholders is the identification and prioritisation companies of EnBW. In addition, the findings from the of stakeholder groups relevant to strategically significant and materiality analysis flow into, for example, the strategy process current issues, particularly with regards to the Energiewende. and stakeholder management. This dialogue is conducted using a variety of communication The materiality analysis process was updated in the 2018 financial channels ranging from conferences to social media platforms. In year. It comprises three steps: the creation of an overview of the direct dialogue with our stakeholders, we listen to their interests themes relevant to strategy and communication, the and their expectations of EnBW and take these into account in development of a list of themes relevant from the perspective of the strategic positioning of our company and in our business sustainability and the derivation of material themes from the decisions. At the same time, we inform all important stakereputation analysis. During each step of the process, the themes holders about the company’s needs and the prerequisites for identified were continuously compared to the key themes that providing an efficient, reliable and sustainable supply of energy. were dealt with by the Supervisory Board in 2018. Every step leads As part of this dialogue, it is also important for us to listen to to a distinct prioritisation of themes and ultimately to a final list critical opinions such as those expressed at events held by our of the top themes that can be allocated to the categories of Energy & Climate Protection Foundation. In this context, the transformation of the portfolio, growth and sustainability. phasing out of coal power and brown coal extraction in Germany were, for example, the focus of heated debate in blog The transformation of the portfolio in the various segments is posts and at events in 2018. Mutual understanding, social shaped by the following themes: acceptance and trust are increased further through this purposeful exchange of insights and perspectives. In addition, it › Sales segment also helps us to identify central developments and key topics at › Smart products: The storage of privately generated solar an early stage. energy is becoming increasingly important. Our customers can benefit from our smart energy generation and storage solutions (p. 94 f.). Materiality analysis › Digitalisation: The reorganisation of customer processes and the expansion of the digital product range continue to Based on the systematic materiality analysis that was carried be a main focus for EnBW (p. 39 and p. 94 ff.). out for the first time in 2013, EnBW has continuously expanded › Electromobility: EnBW is further expanding its product its processes over the last few years for identifying material portfolio with individual solutions for private households topics and linking them simultaneously with the development and local authorities (p. 94 f.). of the company’s strategy. Material aspects are determined via the framework provided by the International Integrated › Grids segment Reporting Council (IIRC), as well as in accordance with the GRI › Expansion of the distribution grid: The development of a standards for sustainability reporting issued by the Global smart distribution grid for the integration of renewable Reporting Initiative (GRI). Other current developments flow into energies using innovative equipment is a key aspect for the the determination of future key issues, such as the work of the success of the Energiewende for EnBW and its grid Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) subsidiaries (p. 49 f.). (Glossary, p. 155) on climate-related risk reporting. › Expansion of the transmission grid: TransnetBW is constructing HVDC lines (Glossary, p. 153) for transporting elecOn the one hand, topics are considered material if they have a tricity over long distances so that excess electricity that is significant influence on long-term value added and thus the already generated to some extent today in the north of performance and future viability of EnBW. Contributions to the Germany can be transported to the south (p. 55). 60 Management report » In dialogue with our stakeholders Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW › Renewable Energies segment › Commitment to our stakeholders and willingness to engage › Offshore wind: The rigorous expansion of offshore wind is in dialogue: We are actively integrating our stakeholders into being pushed forward through the construction of the the energy world of the future – by providing comprehensive EnBW Hohe See and EnBW Albatros wind farms. Wind information and opportunities for dialogue, such as the generation at sea is an important component of the EnBW Energy & Climate Protection Foundation (p. 63). portfolio which comprises an increasing proportion of › Customer proximity: In order to fulfil the needs of our renewable energies (p. 49 f.). customers to an even better extent, we develop innovative products such as in the area of electricity storage (p. 94 f.) or › Generation and Trading segment for the supply of biogas (p. 65). › Dismantling of nuclear power plants: Significant progress › Commitment to our employees: We provide our employees has been made with the environmentally friendly diswith attractive offers, for example, in the areas of healthcare, mantling of the nuclear power plants and construction of pension provision and climate-friendly mobility (p. 96 ff.). waste material processing centres in Philippsburg and › Regional roots: Our roots lie in Baden-Württemberg and we Neckarwestheim (p. 45). recognise our special responsibility to this region – by investing in existing infrastructure (p. 87 f.) and also through The following themes are material for the growth category: our voluntary and charitable work (p. 61 f.). › Expansion of renewable energies: Alongside offshore and onshore wind power, photovoltaics will be expanded to Development of sustainability ratings become another main pillar of the EnBW renewable energy business in Germany (p. 50). EnBW maintains close contacts with leading sustainability › Further internationalisation: EnBW entered the Swedish rating agencies and takes their analyses and evaluations of the market in 2018 and also carried out its initial activities in corporate strategy, the company situation and its business France, Taiwan and the USA. We want to expand renewable prospects into account in its decision-making process. In the energies in these markets in the future (p. 43). selection of agencies, the main focus is placed on, amongst › Supply reliability: The supply quality will be guaranteed by other things, transparent and plausible evaluations and efficient the expansion of the transmission and distribution grids for working processes between the rating agencies, companies, electricity and gas by our grid subsidiaries as part of the investors and sustainability analysts. EnBW strives to Energiewende (p. 96). continuously improve its ratings from recognised agencies in › Infrastructure provider: EnBW is one of the largest infrathe area of sustainability. It thus aims to strengthen its position structure providers in the area of electromobility in Badenas a responsible and sustainable company and also wants to be Württemberg (p. 95). We aim to become a sustainable and seen as an attractive investment opportunity for financial innovative infrastructure partner and also exploit new investors whose investment decisions are based wholly or opportunities for growth outside of the energy sector (p. 50). partially on sustainability criteria. In 2018, EnBW was able to solidify its leading position in terms of important sustainability At the same time, EnBW has revised its sustainability concept ratings for the energy sector: and integrated it into the corporate strategy. This will ensure that it is interlinked with the core business to an even greater › In the ISS-oekom rating, EnBW has maintained its good extent. This process is oriented towards the strategic principles rating of B(on a twelve point rating scale from Dto A+). It with respect to sustainability: thus achieved “Prime Status” and belongs to the leading group of supply companies evaluated by ISS-oekom (ranked › Sustainable economic development: We endeavour to 3rd out of 39 companies, as of October 2018). The agency conduct all of our activities in a sustainable way, from the evaluates the performance of the company based on social, responsible procurement of raw materials (p. 70 f.) through governance and environmental aspects using more than 100 to the provision of smart energy solutions for our customers sector-specific criteria. (p. 94 f.). In addition, we are actively involved in the area of › In the Sustainalytics rating – which evaluates environmental, sustainable finance, which is exemplified by, amongst other social and governance aspects – EnBW received a rating of 73 things, the membership of the EnBW Chief Financial Officer, on a scale from 0 to 100. EnBW was thus classified as an Thomas Kusterer, on the Technical Expert Group on “Outperformer” and holds a leading position in comparison Sustainable Finance (TEG) (Glossary, p. 155) that was newly to other companies in the supply sector. founded in June 2018 and on the Task Force on Climate› In the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) climate-protection related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) (Glossary, p. 155) (p. 73 rating, EnBW received the rating B/Management for its and p. 86). As part of his work in the climate protection climate reporting in 2018, after the CDP had once again made initiatives named above, he regularly reported to internal the requirements more stringent. This rating means that bodies on the climate-related opportunities and risks. EnBW continues to hold a leading position in the energy › Climate and environmental protection: EnBW advocates the sector within the German-speaking DACH region. In 2018, introduction of a minimum price for CO2. We make a more than 7,000 companies worldwide participated in the contribution to climate protection by investing in climatequestionnaire issued by the CDP. friendly projects and business models (p. 73 and 85 f.). Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » In dialogue with our stakeholders 61 Further information on the sustainability ratings is available at Associations and charitable organisations could apply for www.enbw.com/sustainability. Further details on non-financial assistance with their projects. The winners were each provided performance indicators are presented on p. 94 ff., while inforwith support from the EnBW team of up to ten employees in mation on the financial ratings from the rating agencies the form of manpower, motivation and materials worth up to Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch can be found on p. 86 f. €5,000. A total of 17 projects have been successfully realised up to now. Further information on this subject can be found at www.enbw.com/macherbus. Social engagement EnBW regularly offers young artists space in its buildings for EnBW is acutely aware of its responsibility towards society. Its their exhibitions: “MaterialGestalten” (MaterialForms) was the commitment to addressing the concerns and interests of third exhibition in the series called “Design now!” that could be society focuses on the target groups of end customers, business seen in June and July 2018 in EnBW City. The “Insights into partners and local authorities within its primary business sphere artist’s workshops” (Ateliereinblicke) exhibition featuring work of influence in Baden-Württemberg. Support for superordinate from Marie Lienhard was promoted by EnBW from November social issues is concentrated on the core areas of popular sport, 2018 to the end of February 2019. education, social issues, the environment, art and culture. EnBW provides manpower and financial support to the Energy & The Group guidelines on corporate sponsoring, memberships, Climate Protection Foundation. The foundation holds donations and involvement with universities govern the goals, numerous events dealing with questions about the energy responsibilities, standards, principles and processes for all industry, as well as on the themes of climate change and companies in which EnBW AG either holds a majority of the innovation. At the Urban Climate Talks on 14 June 2018, the shares or voting rights. The donations made by EnBW are focus was placed, for example, on the contribution that can be documented on a yearly basis in the donation report that is made by each individual person to climate protection. Other presented to the Board of Management. In 2018, the donations topics covered were storage technologies, the phasing out of made by the EnBW Group came to €2.2 million, following coal power and financing the Energiewende (www.energie€1.0 million in the previous year. Donations worth €604,000 klimaschutz.de). (2017: €383,000) were attributable to EnBW AG. This increase at both a Group and AG level came primarily from the increase in At the beginning of 2018, occupational medicine and health support provided to the Group’s own foundations. The EnBW management at EnBW held a second donor recruitment Board of Management decided a number of years ago not to campaign for the German Bone Marrow Donor Registry (DKMS). send Christmas gifts to business partners but instead to make Some 600 employees registered for the campaign, after 1,000 charitable donations in Baden-Württemberg. As part of the employees had already registered for the first DKMS donor Christmas donations in 2018, a total of €32,000 was given to recruitment campaign in 2011. The DKMS works to identify eight charitable campaigns or campaigns initiated by readers of possible stem cell donors so that people suffering from regional newspapers in Baden-Württemberg. The subsidiary leukaemia can be given the chance of recovery. Netze BW also made donations in 2018 to social causes run by charitable organisations in Baden-Württemberg. The influx of refugees into Germany remains a major social, political and economic challenge. EnBW is engaged here on In 2018, Pražská energetika (PRE) supported the Charta 77 multiple levels: EnBW already developed a training concept for Foundation – Barriers Account – and the Jedlička Institute, which refugees in 2015 with the goal of providing sustainable support provides apprenticeships and social services for physically with an eye to the future for the people affected and their handicapped young people. Stadtwerke Düsseldorf (SWD) has countries of origin. A multi-stage career integration programme helped schools with the task of guiding young people towards a has been run by EnBW in Karlsruhe and its subsidiary Netze BW career for many years. In addition, it participates in interschool in Stuttgart since 2016. Since the beginning of 2018, 150 competitions such as the “Düsseldorf School Prize” for outparticipants have been introduced to technical careers in standing school projects focussing on social, health or cultural introductory days and work placements during the first stage. A topics. SWD makes a Christmas donation to four charitable total of 37 participants then took part in the second stage to associations in Düsseldorf that are selected each year. VNG has obtain an introductory qualification from September 2018. In supported the “Network of Warmth” since 2001, which promotes the third stage, 17 participants from last year’s programme have and funds charitable work in Germany. In addition, its subsidiary been learning an IHK-certified technical profession in dual ONTRAS supports individual charitable projects from associavocational training at EnBW or Netze BW since September 2018. tions and initiatives via its “ONTRAS.Stadtbekannt” funding EnBW is also supporting employees who are providing asprogramme and participated in the “Foundation for volunsistance to refugees on a voluntary basis. Numerous small aid teering and civic involvement in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern”. projects are promoted that mainly focus on language training, sport and meaningful leisure activities. Around 45% of the As part of the “We’re making it happen” project (www.enbw.com/ donation pot established by EnBW for this purpose in December wir-machen-das-schon), EnBW also supported social or chari2015 had been utilised by the end of 2018. table projects with the Making it happen bus in 2018. 62 Management report » In dialogue with our stakeholders Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW EnBW has participated in the employers’ initiative “Right to stay planning tool provides an opportunity to submit ideas at any through work” since January 2018. The aim of the initiative is to time for optimising the area covered by the grid connection. make a contribution to the success of integration through work. There are also extensive opportunities for citizens to participate In addition, EnBW has been a member of the “We stand together – in the planning and implementation of ULTRANET, both in German industry integration initiatives” network since Sepadvance of and during the public law proceedings. tember 2018. The joint platform www.wir-zusammen.de gives examples of already successfully established projects, promotes The EnBW subsidiary Netze BW informed citizens about the grid transparency and offers guidance. expansion plans for the 110 kV high-voltage grid in numerous dialogue events in 2018. Citizens were also informed by EnBW in We also refer you to the details provided in the “Report on April about the expansion plans for the pump storage power opportunities and risks” (p. 118). plant in Forbach. A public information event was held in Marbach am Neckar in November about the special technical equipment for grids that EnBW plans to construct at its existing Dialogue with citizens power plant site and which will form part of its bid for the invitation to tender issued by TransnetBW. The expansion of renewable energies is an important goal that EnBW is pursuing with great commitment. We plan, construct Alongside economic and technical aspects, the Energiewende and operate wind farms and photovoltaic power plants in direct and the associated phasing out of nuclear energy also enpartnership with or with the participation of local authorities compass elements of social responsibility. EnBW unequivocally and citizens. At various sites, we offer free tours for visitors and assumes responsibility for the safe dismantling of the nuclear visitor groups throughout the year. power plants it operates. Dialogue with the local population includes, for example, the annual information days on the The expansion of the grids for the purpose of connecting up dismantling work – an established platform that EnBW used for renewable energies is gaining more and more attention in the the sixth time in 2018. Any interested citizens were invited to media and amongst the general public. At the very forefront of attend the events held at the sites in Philippsburg, Neckarthis work are the central infrastructure projects forming part of westheim and Obrigheim. In addition, those responsible for the the Energiewende to expand the transmission grids with the dismantling work were available to answer questions at public two north-south connections SuedLink and ULTRANET by our meetings of the municipal councils, public hearings and inforsubsidiary TransnetBW. In the SuedLink project, each stage is mation events. There was also dialogue with many citizens and accompanied by public events in all six federal states and 36 functionaries who took part in the visitor tours at the nuclear districts affected by the plans. In addition, the WebGIS online power plants in 2018. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » In dialogue with our stakeholders 63 In dialogue with our stakeholders Selected activities in dialogue with our stakeholders Stakeholder Opportunity for dialogue Main themes Further information Financial reports Financial and non-ﬁnancial performance of www.enbw.com/ﬁnancial-publications the company Annual General Meeting Dialogue with shareholders http://hv.enbw.com Telephone conferences / discusCorporate economic development, positioning on www.enbw.com/conferencecall sions with analysts and investors capital market www.enbw.com/investor-update Shareholders / capital market Bankers’ Day and Capital Latest developments at EnBW and in the energy www.enbw.com/bankersday Market Day sector www.enbw.com/capital-markets-day Green bond roadshow Presentation of the EnBW Green Financing www.enbw.com/green-bond Framework and the projects selected for it page 85 f. EnBW aktuell Two events providing current insights into the themes of digitalisation and the grids business Strategy dialogue 2018 A total of 1,300 participants discuss the implemenpage 96 tation of the 2025 strategy in workshops Leadership Forum 2018 Group-wide meeting for the management team page 97 Employees and other employees in leadership positions with 700 colleagues Diversity campaigns Participation of EnBW in Christopher Street Day in www.csd-stuttgart.de Stuttgart; careers information day “Girl power for page 97 f. the electricity grid” by Netze BW Trade fairs and congresses For example: “Aktionstag Elektromobilität”, “Strategiedialog Automobilwirtschaft”, Hannover Messe and “Handelsblatt Jahrestagung Gas” Platforms for dialogue and For example: customer parliament, Energy Strategy discussion with customers Days or EnBW Property Developer Energy Day Customers Customer magazine, customer Information on latest news, products, services www.twitter.com/enbw blog, social media channels, and events www.facebook.com/enbw newsletter and local presence www.enbw.com/blog Energy Day for local authorities Presentation of products and innovations to around www.enbw.com/kommunaler-energietag 1,000 representatives from cities and local authorities Local authorities / Energy Team Baden-Württemberg Joint dialogue platform for municipal utilities, public utilities regional suppliers and EnBW “Making it happen” bus EnBW employees support social and charitable www.enbw.com/macherbus campaign projects page 61 “Energy on Tour” New educational project on the energy supply of the www.enbw.com/energie-auf-tour future for high schools Tours and open days More than 30,000 visitors to EnBW info centres and www.enbw.com/besichtigungen events at power plants Society / environment Biodiversity: funding proEight protective measures for amphibians and www.enbw.com/biodiversitaet gramme: “Stimuli for Diversity” reptiles will be supported in the 2018 funding year page 104 Sustainability Week 2018 6th Sustainability Week by NaturEnergie+ on the www.naturenergieplus.de theme of upcycling Dialogue on handling coal EnBW delegation visits governmental and nonwww.enbw.com/kohlebeschaffung procurement responsibly governmental organisations in Colombia, page 71 discussions with NGOs in Russia Suppliers / Urban Innovation – solutions for Presentation of innovations from EnBW and its www.urbaninnovation-event.de business partners the city of tomorrow participating interests to external partners from page 68 business, politics and the start-up scene Project to promote young talent For example: “Energy Campus”, “Green Innovation www.energie-klimaschutz.de and Investment Forum” or “Energy Reporter” Discussion events on energy Urban Climate Talks 2018, ﬁve debate evenings, www.energie-klimaschutz.de industry and climate protection cooperation events: “Mobility in my city”, “WELT” topics energy summit, etc. EnBW Energy and Business Club Events on the themes of sector coupling – the (EWC) transport transition meets the distribution grid, Politics / media electromobility and climate protection Foundation 2° EnBW becomes one of the sponsors of Foundation www.stiftung2grad.de 2° – German Businesses for Climate Protection page 73 Active and transparent comMajor articles in daily newspapers and magazines www.enbw.com munication via the media such as “Süddeutsche Zeitung”, “Manager Magazin”, www.twitter.com/enbw WAZ; Events with “Tagesspiegel” or “Die Welt” www.facebook.com/enbw 64 Management report » Research, development and innovation Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Research, development and innovation Research and development: centrally coordinated for all EnBW units. This ensures that Goals, guidelines and processes successful research projects deliver innovations for EnBW. The research and development activities are integrated into an external and internal network of partners. The goal of research and development at EnBW is to identify important trends and technological developments at an early Research, development and innovation also leads in many cases stage and to develop new skills for future business activities in to inventions and patents. The portfolio of patents grew by 25 pilot and demonstration projects. For this purpose, research patents (previous year: nine) in 2018; the EnBW Group held 208 projects are carried out in collaboration with the operational patents (previous year: 183) at the end of the year. The patents units at EnBW or with customers – directly at the site of their held by EnBW focus mainly on the areas of generation and grids. subsequent application. They form a project portfolio that is The research process at EnBW New technologies Science Research and development Business units Market Strategy Trends Research and development: generating electricity in offshore wind farms. In expectation of Key points and selected results these developments, bids were already submitted in the latest auctions that forgo funding via guaranteed feed-in remuneration. The competitiveness of offshore wind energy on the Research and development at EnBW focuses on renewable electricity market has thus increased further. The project began energies, green gases and storage systems for the smart digital in 2018 with the design of the prototype and will run until 2021. energy world. Artificial intelligence (AI) is a key technology of the future and is Renewable Energies concerned with the automation of intelligent behaviour. It uses self-learning algorithms that adapt their behaviour based on Wind energy: Offshore wind power plants with fixed founexperience gained during earlier computations and so learn to dations are limited to shallow waters. Floating platforms could independently solve problems. EnBW is developing AI expertise be used to exploit the wind power potential in deeper waters. In along the whole value added chain with the aim of exploiting cooperation with partners, EnBW is investigating various the significant competitive advantages on offer. For example, different concepts for floating offshore wind farm projects that EnBW has developed ADAZ (Application for Diagnosis, Analysis would be suitable for opening up new international offshore and Status Monitoring) for the early identification of technical wind energy regions. In the reporting year, negotiations about damage to wind power plants and to help avoid any subsequent an investment in a Danish floating platform concept did not damage. The system evaluates data at sampling rates of up to result in an agreement. Alternatives will now be investigated. 50,000 pieces of data per second. It is thus possible to identify damage early and reduce repair costs. Wind power plants with a In addition, EnBW is a member of a consortium headed by the total output of 720 MW were already monitored by ADAZ in manufacturer Senvion that aims to design a prototype for an 2018. Savings of several millions of euros were achieved as a offshore power plant with an output of more than 10 MW and result. The services provided by ADAZ have already been construct it as a pilot plant with funding from the EU. Larger marketed externally. In addition, a pilot project is being comwind turbines are a prerequisite for further reducing the cost of pleted for a large, potential customer. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Research, development and innovation 65 Photovoltaics: The University of Stuttgart has developed a laser electricity and heating without CO2 emissions from fossil fuels. process that enables the inexpensive production of non-toxic The key concept behind Biohybrid is to store biomethane in silicon solar cells with a high level of efficiency. These cells liquid form and feed it back into the gas grid as required. As a achieve higher efficiency because the electrical connections are liquid fuel, Bio-LNG (LNG = liquefied natural gas) is also suitable all made at the rear of the cell and there are no contacts on the for use in the transport sector. A market exists for Bio-LNG due front which could shade some of the incident light. EnBW has to the current situation regarding CO2 emissions. The company been cooperating in this government-funded research project is currently looking for suitable sites in Baden-Württemberg for since August 2017. An efficiency of more than 22% was achieved the first Biohybrid plant. The EnBW subsidiary bmp greengas is using 16 inch cells for the first time in 2018. The EnBW already handling the marketing of biogas products. A pilot subsidiary EnPV – founded in December 2017 – has started work project to examine the opportunities offered by carbon-neutral on marketing the patented process. liquid energy sources will be carried out by ED and is currently at the detailed planning stage. In cooperation with its partners, Geothermal energy: The partners Électricité de Strasbourg and the aim is to produce synthetic diesel and paraffin using CO2 EnBW jointly operate the Soultz-sous-Forêts geothermal power and hydrogen in Laufenburg. The approval for construction was plant in the Alsace region that uses a well-researched given in 2018. geothermal reservoir at a depth of 5,000 metres. The gross electrical output of the power plant is 1.7 MW. In 2018, the power Storage systems for the smart digital energy world plant generated 7.7 GWh of electricity as in the previous year with an availability of 96% (8,400 operating hours, previous Load management for electromobility: Our subsidiary Netze BW year: 90%, corresponds to 7,900 operating hours). In cooperastarted the NETZlabor “E-Mobility Avenue” in Ostfildern near tion with the company Stadtwerke Bruchsal GmbH, EnBW has Stuttgart in 2018. Customers in the same street with eleven been operating the Bruchsal geothermal power station since electric cars, a home storage system and a grid battery are 2009. The demonstration plant generates electricity with a helping us simulate a future centred on electromobility and nominal output of 0.5 MW using 120 degree hot thermal water enabling us to analyse user behaviour and the state of the grid. pumped from a depth of 2,500 metres. The power plant not only We can use this information to develop concepts for the generates electricity but also district heating from geothermal efficient operation of the grid and to better exploit the mobile energy for a public facility. The heating circuit was constructed and fixed storage systems for smart electricity grids. in 2018 and will be placed into operation at the beginning of 2019. EnBW is thus expanding its geothermal expertise to New technologies for the charging infrastructure: The EnBW include the supply of heating to customers. Group is also investigating alternatives for electrifying transport: A test track for electrical HGV goods traffic with overhead Green gases power lines will be developed in the district of Rastatt between Gernsbach-Obertsrot and Kuppenheim by the end of 2019. Our We also want to provide our customers with carbon-neutral grid subsidiary Netze BW is a strategic partner in the “eWayBW” gaseous energy sources in the long term. EnBW started a Group project which will be run by the Transport Ministry of Badenproject in 2018 to identify the necessary steps towards a gas Württemberg until 2022. At the same time, EnBW is also supply that will reduce CO2 emissions from fossil fuels by 2030 working on induction systems. A feasibility study conducted and assess the technological possibilities for the period together with the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT) afterwards. The experience gained from various pilot and concluded in 2018 that alternative operating strategies could demonstration projects will help us achieve this. With the aid of make contactless charging via the road as the vehicle drives government and state funding, EnBW carried out research into along it an attractive proposition. The research into these new the fuelling infrastructure required for quick fuelling at a possibilities is being continued. pressure of up to 700 bar and that incorporates flexible hydrogen electrolysis, most recently for buses in Stuttgart, at Storage systems for commercial customers: EnBW cooperated hydrogen filling stations in Karlsruhe and Stuttgart from 2011 to in a demonstration project with the storage system supplier 2018. Since the beginning of 2019, the EnBW subsidiary ZEAG ads-tec, the solar experts from Pohlen Solar and the retail has been generating green hydrogen with the aid of state company Aldi Süd until 2018 to find out how the discount store funding. It is using a 1 MW PEM electrolyser (PEM = proton could use even more self-generated solar electricity in their exchange membrane) that converts green electricity from the branches. The project has now been successfully concluded and “Harthäuser Wald” wind farm into green hydrogen. The green has demonstrated that the shops can increase their own solar hydrogen is used in mobility initiatives in Baden-Württemberg, consumption even further using battery storage systems. The for generating heat at combined heat and power plants and at challenge is to guarantee the economic efficiency of the system the rocket test rig at the German Aerospace Center (DLR) in against today’s prices for storage systems and energy. In this nearby Lampoldshausen. Energiedienst Holding (ED) already practical test, EnBW was able to demonstrate the great potential opened an alkaline hydrogen electrolysis plant with an electrical offered by solar power plants in combination with storage output of 1 MW in Wyhlen in November 2018 – operated with systems depending on the control algorithms used. green hydropower. The target market is the transport sector. Storage systems for household customers: In autumn 2016, In the Biohybrid project, the EnBW subsidiary Erdgas Südwest three household customers were fitted with storage systems in has developed a concept to make biogas with the quality of order to develop a smart control system that can adapt to the natural gas available anywhere where customers may require availability of electricity on the grid and postpone the times 66 Management report » Research, development and innovation Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW electricity is drawn from the grid without any loss in comfort. The Beyond the main focal areas of renewable energies, green gases project ended in June 2018 after running for two years. It has and storage systems, EnBW is also pursuing interesting demonstrated that by using good battery management many individual projects such as phosphate recycling: In cooperation households could significantly shift the times at which they draw with its subsidiary MSE Mobile Schlammentwässerungs GmbH, electricity. The results from these storage projects with customers EnBW has developed a process to recover phosphorous in will also flow into the development of commercial products from mobile units at sewage treatment plants before the dewatered our subsidiary SENEC, which EnBW acquired in 2018. sludge is incinerated in power plants. Phosphorous is essential for plant growth but is in scarce supply in Germany. Following Power plant storage systems: Cross-sector considerations on successful tests at seven sewage treatment plants, MSE conhow storage systems can provide added value led to a cocluded contracts for the recovery of phosphorous with two local operation with Bosch to develop battery solutions for the authorities in Baden-Württemberg and North Rhine-Westphalia energy market. The large 5 MW battery installed at the Heilin 2018. Customers are thus offered resource-conserving bronn coal power plant was inaugurated in April 2018. It enables recycling of sludge in accordance with the revised German the power plant to respond even better to fluctuating decenSewage Sludge Ordinance. The magnesium ammonium tralised feed-ins. EnBW is responsible for the marketing of the phosphate recovered in the process is a valuable plant fertiliser stored energy in this joint venture. (www.mse-mobile.de). Innovation management: Goals, guidelines and processes The innovation process at EnBW Internal projects Innovation External start-ups » Innovation Campus EnBW as a provider of » Innovation box venture capital » Impulses for innovation Innovation portfolio » Connected home » Networked mobility » Virtual power plant Incubation » Urban infrastructure Minority shareholdings » Business model development » Professional investor » Methods » Venture capital method Company Builder Majority shareholdings » Growth » Strategic investor » Scaling EnBW develops new business models outside of its core business new ones, support is also given in the areas of process autothrough central innovation management in order to quickly mation and cost optimisation. identify new sources of revenue for the Group and bring them to the market. The innovation strategy focuses on two main EnBW New Ventures invests in start-ups that are driving the approaches: the internal generation and scaling up of new converging markets for energy, mobility and urban living. It business models in internal projects and investments in external focuses on companies who realise value added through scalable start-ups by EnBW New Ventures GmbH. Following the sucbusiness models and new technologies. The aim is to use the cessful development of new business models, the EnBW start-up total available investment volume of €100 million to secure teams then face new challenges in the growth and scaling up minority shareholdings of between 10% and 30% in up to 20 phase. In order to efficiently support teams during this phase, start-ups. EnBW New Ventures plays the role of an active innovation management has established the Company Builder: investor, supports the start-ups as a business coach or kind of It provides start-ups with additional skills in the form of “sparring partner” and is represented on their boards. Via EnBW controlling, sales and marketing experts so that the start-ups can New Ventures, the start-ups receive access to professional optimise their products and position them on the market. For investor expertise and to a customer and supplier network on the refinement of existing sales channels or the development of the energy market. In addition, commercial cooperation with Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Research, development and innovation 67 the operating units at EnBW is also possible. In order to target the compliance and data protection department (p. 58). Mature substantial growth, EnBW will in future, beyond the activities of projects with marketable business models that are in line with EnBW New Ventures, also invest in start-ups which already have the EnBW strategy and have already generated their first sales a tested business model and a successfully launched range of can now be spun-off into so-called “micro business units”. products/services. SMIGHT – the first micro business unit – was launched in May 2018 and it has now evolved from a campus project to an independent business unit. A new system of corporate Innovation: Key points and governance in the form of the so-called “Basic Rules” has been selected results created for the micro business units. The special feature of the Basic Rules is that as a micro business unit, SMIGHT can take advantage of Group services offered by EnBW such as legal Virtual power plant (Glossary, p. 155): The energy system is being advice or purchasing and IT services. On the one hand, the rules transformed into an ecosystem of numerous small and create the necessary scope for the further development of the decentralised power plants that generate, save or consume business model, while on the other hand, they are subject to electricity: photovoltaic power plants, wind turbines, batteries, certain fixed targets and guidelines set by innovation electric vehicles and heat pumps. This produces complex energy management. The SMIGHT team have been able to almost triple networks that demand new skills. EnBW is utilising its expertise their revenue between 2017 and 2018 as a result. gained from the operation of highly complex systems and is transferring this knowledge to the development of new business EnBW incubation programme: EnBW innovation management models and a digital platform. The activities carried out by supports start-up projects during the incubation phase from the EnBW also include direct distribution of even the smallest initial idea through to market launch and accompanies mature regenerative power plants, electricity communities (P2P), digital projects during the growth and scaling up phase with the trading access, dynamic tariffs and flexibility management. Company Builder. A total of more than 30 start-up projects have been set up, put to the test, refined and in some cases rejected in Both the business models and the platform are designed so the past four years. The aim is now to make the innovation that new themes can be quickly added, existing skills from process even more efficient and stringent with a new the stock of business models can be quickly recombined and programme. Eight EnBW projects are currently participating in a modern digital process landscape is maintained right from the so-called “16 to the power 4 incubation programme”, which the beginning. Direct distribution enables customers to sell was launched at the Innovation Campus in Karlsruhe on their own electricity – which will become the norm after EEG 1 October 2018. External teams have also been able to apply to funding ceases. Alongside the established small-scale activities, join the programme since January 2019 (www.sparkthefuture.de). the project has now developed a portfolio of more than 250 MW and has hundreds of customers. The flexibility management Five other projects have already completed the first incubation system controls the loads so that added value is generated for phase and are now at the market launch phase. They include both customers and the energy system. Digital trading access two external company teams: binando who develop solutions ensures that even small companies will be able to benefit from for the digital management of waste based on the Internet-ofthe fluctuating and in some case negative prices on the market. Things (IoT) and vialytics who develop artificial intelligence This is where the superchargers from EnBW – currently solutions for street management. consisting of more than 110 high-performance charging stations – are connected up, networked and supplied with electricity. Access Four mature projects are currently in the growth phase: for around 600 units is contractually guaranteed. Electricity › LIV-T – an independent spin-off joint venture from EnBW communities bring together electricity generators and conand mantro GmbH that develops data-based Internet of sumers from within the same region or bring them together things (IoT) products that allow the energy infrastructure in virtually so that the community is able to collectively use and buildings to be intelligently networked share electricity from a specific source. EnBW has already › SMIGHT – a project that equips existing infrastructure such established numerous regional clusters of this kind in as street lighting, transformer stations or charging stations cooperation with the start-up Lumeneza, part of the EnBW New with sensors to optimise traffic flows, monitor the electricity Ventures portfolio. grid or provide information on free parking spaces › energybase – a smart energy management system used to First micro business unit: In order to offer campus projects from optimise energy consumption EnBW better opportunities for growth, innovation management › WTT CampusONE – the award-winning digital learning platform has created the concept of internal spin-offs in cooperation with 68 Management report » Research, development and innovation Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Innovation management: projects at incubation and market maturity stages Incubation Company Builder Concept testing Pilot phase Market validation Growth Scaling From the idea through to market launch Mature projects (business model development) (growth and scaling) 16-week incubation programme since October 2018 4 mature projects in the growth phase » 8 projects from the EnBW Group at the Innovation Campus in Karlsruhe Focus: Scaling up sales, production, organisation Focus: Business model development » LIV-T: independent spin-off IoT joint venture » 5 projects in market launch phase between EnBW and mantro GmbH Focus: Market validation (www.liv-t.com) » SMIGHT: smart urban infrastructure: traffic monitoring, charging stations, environmental sensors, Including two external entrepreneurial teams in which EnBW has a innovative street lights (www.smight.com) participating interest: » energybase: smart energy management » binando: Digital waste management based on the Internet of Things (IoT) system to optimise own consumption (www.binando.com) (www.energybase.com) » vialytics: Artificial intelligence in street management (www.vialytics.de) » WTT CampusONE: web-based learning platform, 2017 spin-off (www.wtt-campusone.com) The holistic approach followed by EnBW innovation management Expenditure and personnel was awarded the rating “very good” by the magazine “Capital” in 2018 for its stringency and depth. The EnBW Group spent €40.6 million (previous year: €39.8 million) on research, development and innovation in the Urban infrastructure: At the first EnBW Innovation Conference 2018 financial year. In contrast, the income generated by that was held in September 2018 at the Innovation Campus in innovation management stood at €6.4 million. The Group Karlsruhe, the EnBW Group and selected start-ups presented received government research grants of €2.3 million (previous innovative solutions for the city of tomorrow. EnBW used the year: €2.9 million). There were 63 employees (previous year: 61) event to demonstrate the innovative strength at the company and in the areas of research, development and innovation in 2018. to show what the Group has in common with the world of start169 employees (previous year: 193 employees) were involved in ups. Especially against the background of the future transforresearch and development projects as part of their operational mation of EnBW into an urban infrastructure supplier, EnBW work. A further 110 employees (previous year: 105) were insubsidiaries and cooperation partners were also included in the volved in innovation projects. search for urban innovations. A concept that proved a big hit: More than 30 exhibitors presented their solutions for the city of tomorrow at the end of the event to around 500 guests from business, politics and the start-up scene. The exhibition was accompanied by a series of talks featuring renowned guest speakers. Expenditure on research, development and innovation in € million 0.5 0.3 21.6 3.6 5.1 5.3 2.3 1.2 2017 39.8 0.4 0.9 +2.1% 23.0 5.8 4.3 ¹ 4.0 2.2 2018 40.6 Innovation management Grids Generation from renewables Smart energy world and storage ² Dismantling Customer-related research projects Other Gas 1 Also includes green gases. 2 Includes e.g. electromobility and hydrogen mobility. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Procurement 69 Procurement Efficient and sustainable Different thresholds are set depending on the product group procurement processes and internal risk classification. Suppliers are required to provide a self-assessment via the EnBW supplier portal on whether they practise sustainable measures in the areas of data protection, Purchasing at EnBW views itself as a partner for generating quality management, environmental management, the respect added value within the Group. It ensures the supply of materials for human rights, the fight against corruption and occupational and services at the best possible quality/cost ratio and thus health and safety. This self-assessment was completed by 90% of strengthens the competitiveness of the company. EnBW places our suppliers by the end of 2018 (measured by procurement great emphasis on the efficient design of its procurement volume). Centralised documenting of certificates enables us to processes for achieving cost-effective purchasing results, as well ensure that all the necessary prerequisites for awarding a contract as on sustainable procurement taking into account the requireare fulfilled. In general, the information is checked every three ments of national laws, EU law and the Group’s internal guideyears on the basis of a renewed self-assessment. In the General lines. In order to manage the procurement processes, a system Terms of Purchase of the EnBW Group, the supplier undertakes to using various different performance indicators is used. It conobserve the regulations on work safety, to pay a minimum wage tinually delivers a realistic picture of the current situation in and to observe the compliance and environmental principles of purchasing and enables a comparison of the target and actual EnBW. In addition, the supplier undertakes to observe the regulasituation, as well as the prompt implementation of control tions in the German Occupational Safety Act, the legal regulations measures. for technical equipment, accident prevention regulations, the regulations on hazardous materials and any regulations on The procurement volume of the EnBW Group in 2018 (without technical safety and occupational medicine in the “Additional ITOs) (Glossary, p.154) amounted to around €2.5 billion (previous Work Safety Terms of Purchase”. year: around €4.1 billion). As a result of the increasing decentralisation of energy generation Procurement volumes of the EnBW Group by segment caused by the focus on renewable energies, the complexity of in % the supply chain is growing and integrated supply chain management is becoming more important. This requires a 7.8 Renewable Energies comprehensive examination of the value added chain and the (2017: 43.0) early identification of opportunities and risks. Especially with regard to the selective internationalisation of the business, central purchasing has developed an integrated supply chain 46.1 Grids management system in close cooperation with the business and (2017: 27.8) functional units. EnBW gave another indication of its aim to tap 46.1 Sales / Generation and into selected international growth markets in the area of Trading / Other renewable energies with its entry onto the Swedish market and (2017: 29.2) its first activities in France, Taiwan and the USA in 2018. As part of the recertification audit according to ISO 14001:2015, it was confirmed that issues that must be handled by the A large number of suppliers and service providers contribute to environmental management system are firmly integrated into the services rendered by EnBW. They play an important role in the processes in central purchasing and that the traceability of the company’s efforts to achieve a leading position on the relevant goods is ensured over their entire life cycles. Purenergy market. Supplier management promotes successful chasing has firmly anchored sustainability and the protection of cooperation between suppliers and EnBW because it makes the the environment into the General Terms of Purchase. In the performance of the suppliers transparent and also makes section on environmental management, suppliers undertake to continuous optimisation in partnership possible. The careful support the environmental principles of EnBW – especially selection of our business partners is a part of our risk managethose relating to environmental and energy management, ment system and supports the observance of legal regulations climate protection and energy efficiency, emissions protection, and internally defined quality standards. biodiversity, water and soil protection and the use of resources. Sustainable procurement begins with the careful selection of Subsidiaries of EnBW that are not overseen by central purchabusiness partners. Central purchasing at EnBW AG uses a sing address a number of non-financial aspects in purchasing standardised pre-qualification process for this purpose. with their own mechanisms. 70 Management report » Procurement Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Energiedienst Holding (ED) works together closely with central electricity. Some 3.82 million t of coal were delivered to EnBW purchasing at EnBW AG to procure important product groups power stations in 2018 (previous year: 4.55 million t of coal). This using joint invitations to tender and framework contracts, as corresponds to a procurement volume of almost €300 million. well as in the associated pre-qualification processes. In addition, orders are placed largely with regional suppliers from Germany, Russia was able to significantly expand its leading position on Switzerland or neighbouring EU countries. ED believes that the generally declining market in Western Europe due to its cooperation with these suppliers has proven its worth due to geographical proximity to the shipping ports. In contrast, good supplier relationships and short response times. The Colombian coal now only plays a subordinate role in Western purchasing terms at the ED Group were revised in 2018 with Europe because Colombian mining companies have been able respect to environmental management requirements. to secure higher prices for their coal in America, Asia and the Mediterranean region. It was thus for commercial reasons that Purchasing at Pražská energetika (PRE) ensures that suppliers EnBW purchased significantly less coal from Colombia than in observe practices such as the payment of social security conthe previous year, irrespective of sustainability aspects. tributions, the settlement of tax liabilities and the prevention of money laundering. Potential suppliers must verify their The origin of coal sourced from Russia can only be localised to compliance with these aspects by either submitting a sworn the mining region of the Kuznetsk Basin (Kusbass) due to the declaration or by presenting corresponding certificates when large number of coal mines and coal producers in the country. A bidding for invitations to tender. The fulfilment of these similar situation exists in South Africa, where the coal is sourced obligations is also stipulated in supplier contracts. from the Mpumalanga Province. In contrast, it is possible to precisely trace the source of coal from Colombia because the At Stadtwerke Düsseldorf (SWD), sustainability aspects are three major Colombian coal producers have their own shipping anchored in the compliance guidelines, environmental manageports. EnBW AG purchased Colombian coal from the producers ment system manuals and process descriptions. In the area of Drummond and Glencore for its power plants in 2018. The coal procurement, SWD pays particular attention to the use of from the USA originated almost exclusively from underground environmentally friendly and sustainable products. It also uses mining in the Illinois Basin and the Northern Appalachians. clauses in its supplier contracts to reinforce the fight against corruption and bribery and ensure observance of labour and EnBW places importance on maintaining a balanced procuresocial laws. ment portfolio to avoid becoming dependent on individual producing countries, producers or traders, and the associated The fundamental principles for procurement at VNG are price and supply risks. EnBW now covers the largest part of its regulated by a code of conduct, the management handbook and coal requirements through contracts held directly with selected Group guidelines. Aspects such as the prevention of corruption producers. In addition, contracts with trade intermediaries are – which is embedded in the compliance management system concluded which define a quality standard but not the source of and environmental management system – are a fixed comthe coal. More information on coal procurement at EnBW can be ponent of procurement processes. found at www.enbw.com/coal-procurement. The opportunities and risks in relation to procurement and raw Responsible raw materials materials procurement can be found in the “Report on opporprocurement in the coal sector tunities and risks” (p. 118). Origin of coal supplies Hard coal will continue to play an important role for EnBW as a source of energy to ensure a reliable and economic supply of Origin of coal supplies to EnBW power plants in million t 0.07 0.09 2.71 0.76 0.92 2017 4.55 0.10 0.10 -16.0% 0.11 2.72 0.78 2018 3.82 Russia USA South Africa Colombia Germany Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Procurement 71 Positioning, overarching concepts and due diligence Although imports from Colombia fell sharply in 2018 – for the protection of human rights irrespective of sustainability issues as described above – EnBW continued its dialogue with Colombian producers for the In accordance with the Guiding Principles on Business and ongoing improvement of their CSR performance. In February Human Rights of the United Nations, EnBW strives to procure 2018, representatives from EnBW visited two coal producers in coal responsibly and thus to fulfil its human rights responthe Cesar mining region. In addition, numerous individual sibilities. Due to the special challenges faced in the area of coal discussions were held with different governmental and nonprocurement, the ongoing CSR performance (Glossary, p. 152) governmental players. The exchange of information and of current and potential coal suppliers is regularly discussed on opinions focussed on, amongst other things, the working and the basis of the EnBW rules of conduct governing the living conditions in the region, the importance of coal exports responsible procurement of hard coal and other raw materials for the development of Colombia and the contribution being (www.enbw.com/verhaltenskodex) and used to determine any made by the coal producers to the implementation of the peace future action. The coal suppliers are evaluated on the basis process in the country. of relevant international standards, such as the UN Global Compact, the OECD Guidelines and the IFC (International The trip to Colombia was also used to collect information for a Finance Corporation) Performance Standards. The latest studies progress and development report. The purpose of the report is by competitors and international initiatives also flow into the to analyse the improvements achieved in the working and living evaluation of producers, such as information and contributions conditions in Colombian coal mining in the period from 2013 to from civil society organisations. 2018 – especially with a focus on the engagement of coal importers. The results of the study will be used to derive Our code of conduct in combination with internal guidelines possible courses of action for EnBW that could form the basis for acts as the foundation for the targeted achievement of further dialogue with coal producers. The aim is to agree a clear responsible coal procurement. The annual assessment of coal roadmap in cooperation with the coal producers about how coal producers is carried out using the EnBW sustainability index, producers can fulfil human rights responsibilities. The report is which covers all areas of the code of conduct. In addition to due to be completed in 2019. regular auditing of the sustainability performance of business partners, a multi-stage auditing process will come into force in EnBW also intensified its efforts to collect information on coal the event of suspected breaches of the code, which can lead to mining in Russia in 2018, especially with respect to the working the termination of the business relationship or exclusion from and living conditions in the most important mining region of our procurement process. The results of the analyses in the Kusbass. This also included requesting CSR information from sustainability index are discussed as part of a control process by coal producers. Other insights were gained through discussions the committee for the responsible procurement of raw materials with representatives of Russian and German civil society (comprising members from all relevant specialist departments) organisations who deal with the social and ecological impact of at least once a year. Findings from discussions with external coal mining in Russia. These discussions mainly focussed on the stakeholder groups, such as representatives from civil society, insufficient level of information on CSR aspects in the region legal experts for the individual countries and human rights and problems encountered when visiting the coal mines. It also experts, also flow into these analyses. If any deviations from the became clear during the talks that NGOs in Russia take a minimum standards are identified, corrective measures are different approach to discussions about potential problems. implemented in cooperation with the producers for existing Direct confrontation with companies in the region is unusual supply contracts. The committee for the responsible procureand there is generally no open dialogue between the companies ment of raw materials met on two occasions in 2018, to discuss and NGOs on an equal footing. It is thus all the more important the sustainability performance of all significant supplier comfor EnBW to find opportunities in this area to influence the CSR panies on the basis of existing findings from the sustainability efforts made by the Russian coal producers. In order to identify index, as well as current issues related to the import of raw measures that can be taken, discussions are also being held with materials. other companies that source coal from Russia. Current developments In preparation for future (liquid) gas contracts with business partners from various countries, preliminary human rights EnBW continued to follow its approach for the responsible assessments were carried out that then flowed into the procurement of coal in the reporting year and implemented the subsequent procurement process. measures approved by the Board of Management in 2017. 72 Management report » General conditions Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Business Report General conditions External influences Development of gross domestic product (GDP) The business performance of EnBW is greatly influenced by a in % 2019 2018 2017 1 wide range of external factors. These include, above all, the World 3.5 3.7 3.8 development of the wholesale market prices for electricity, the Eurozone 1.6 1.8 2.4 political/regulatory framework conditions and also the weather conditions. The price of electricity is not only dependent on Germany 1.3 1.4 2.5 demand but also on the development of the global markets for Switzerland 1.8 3.0 1.7 fuel and CO2 allowances (Glossary, p. 152). In an environment Czech Republic 3.0 3.1 4.3 characterised by a constantly growing share of generation Turkey 0.4 3.5 7.4 accounted for by renewable energies, earnings are naturally influenced by the weather conditions. Important factors are, for 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. example, the wind strength at sea and on land, the duration and intensity of sunlight and the amount of precipitation that impacts the water levels in rivers. In addition to these factors, Development of interest rates the energy sector is still experiencing a period of fundamental change due to the transition to increasingly carbon-neutral While the US Federal Reserve raised interest rates multiple times methods of energy generation. The sales markets for our during 2018, the European Central Bank (ECB) continued its products and services are characterised by very intense comexpansive monetary policy. In the second half of the year, the petition with an increasing number of new players on the rates of return fell significantly due to political events (Italian market. Furthermore, patterns of demand amongst customers, election), increasing protectionism (trade tariffs) and the global the market structure and technological requirements are turbulent economic environment. changing. The discount rates applied to company pension provisions and nuclear provisions remained at a low level in 2018 so that the Macroeconomic trends present value of the pension obligations of EnBW was not subject to any change and the present value of the nuclear obligations Economies was only subject to minor interest rate-driven changes. The economies relevant for EnBW developed differently in 2018. The consensus forecasts for the ECB main financing rate Economic growth in Germany slowed compared to the previous remained unchanged at 0.00%. year but remained at a high level, whereby private consumption continued to play an important role. The rate of economic growth in the eurozone as a whole also slowed a little. In conDevelopment of the sector and trast, the pace of economic growth accelerated in Switzerland. Turkey experienced a severe economic slump – the inflow of competitive situation foreign investment and the tourism business both declined due to increasing political uncertainty. In general, the political and The energy sector is still in the middle of a period of economic risks grew in Turkey in 2018. fundamental change. This pertains to the transformation of the generation landscape and also to the transport transition, Economic growth in Europe and Germany is set to slow down heating transition and increases in efficiency in energy slightly in 2019. We anticipate that the general conditions for consumption. In particular, renewable energies will increase the business activities of EnBW will stabilise in 2019. their share of the mobility and heating sectors in the long term. In parallel, the business models followed by energy supply companies are changing and new players from outside the sector are also entering the energy market. This is especially true for the commodity and solutions business. At the same time, companies are repositioning themselves along the traditional value added chain in the sector and specialising in certain business fields. A prominent example in the past year was the transaction between RWE and E.ON. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » General conditions 73 Another aspect is the desire amongst cities and communities to individual business areas, exploit the potential offered by a remunicipalise their electricity and gas supplies in the regulated changed market environment and align their strategies for the grid sector. Against this background, the traditional energy future (p. 38 f. and 48 ff.). supply companies need to re-examine their competitiveness in Selection of international, national, regional and new competitors Established competitors New competitors National and Regional Commodity Renewable Other Financial international Badenova, suppliers / soluenergies industries investors ALPIQ, EDF, Entega, EWE, tion suppliers / BayWa r.e., Daimler, Google, Capital Stage, Enel, Engie, E.ON, Mainova, start-ups ENERTRAG, Shell, Tesla, KGAL, Talanx EVN, Fortum, MV V, N-Ergie, PNE Wind, V W / Elli SWM, Thüga 1&1, bliss.energy, Iberdrola, innogy, theolia, wpd Fastned, KesselØrsted, RWE, held, Lichtblick, Vattenfall, Verbund NEXT Kraftwerke, Sonnen, stromio » Main focus on the areas of renewable » Entry of new market participants increases competition and leads to a deconstruction energies, grids, sales / solutions of the value chain » Some specialisation amongst international » New competitors with strong focus / specialisation on one business field competitors Cross-segment framework conditions In Germany, the national climate targets for 2020 will not be achieved. In order to minimise the deviation from the targets Climate protection for 2020 and ensure the targets for 2030 will be achieved, additional measures are required. Amongst other things, the Climate protection remains a global challenge. The prolonged German government has thus announced new legal regulations. dry spell and high temperatures in the exceptionally hot The aim is to increase the share of gross energy consumption summer of 2018 already gave some insight into the possible accounted for by renewable energies to 65% by 2030. The consequences of climate change for Germany. Omnibus Energy Act, which was passed by the Bundestag in November 2018, includes special auctions in the period from The 24th UN Climate Change Conference was held in Katowice 2019 to 2021 with a total capacity of 4 GW each for onshore wind in December 2018. The international community agreed to joint and photovoltaic power plants. Climate protection is also measures for limiting global warming to significantly below two becoming a more significant issue for the business community. degrees Celsius in accordance with the Paris Agreement from For example, Foundation 2° – an initiative started by German 2015. The general rulebook adopted at the conference included, businesses – is committed to climate protection and limiting amongst other things, binding minimum standards for reportglobal warming to significantly below two degrees Celsius. ing on greenhouse gas emissions (Glossary, p. 153) and other EnBW and its CEO, Dr. Frank Mastiaux, have been members climate protection measures. According to an estimate pubsince May 2018. The aim of the initiative is to support politicians lished by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in the creation of the market economy-based framework (IPCC) in October 2018, which was acknowledged by the conditions for climate protection. international community, CO2 emissions must be reduced by about 45% from the level in 2010 by 2030, and reach zero by EnBW is also advocating the introduction of a minimum price 2050 in order to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. for CO2 in order to help steer investment towards climatefriendly technologies. A minimum price could be introduced in The European Council agreed on measures to strengthen Germany but this measure should cover as many European climate protection in 2018. These measures included a new countries as possible, such as France. Energy Efficiency Directive that defines a minimum energy efficiency target of at least 32.5% for 2030 compared to 2007, The EnBW Chief Financial Officer, Thomas Kusterer, is a member and a new version of the Renewable Energy Directive with the of the Technical Expert Group on Sustainable Finance (TEG) target of covering at least 32% of electricity consumption with (Glossary, p. 155), which is supporting the European Commission renewable energies by 2030. In addition, the EU Parliament up to the end of 2019 in the development of a legal framework agreed to reform the European emissions trading system, for sustainable financing opportunities. Thomas Kusterer is also whereby the annual reduction factor will be raised from 1.7% to a member of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 2.2% from 2021. A temporary increase in the prices of up to €25/t Disclosures (TCFD) (Glossary, p. 155) for the development of CO2 for emissions trading was the result. climate-related risk reporting. In October 2018, EnBW published its first Green Financing Framework and issued its first green bond (Glossary, p. 153) with a volume of €500 million (p. 85 f.). 74 Management report » General conditions Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW The strategy being followed by EnBW of concentrating investActivities in Turkey ment on renewable energies, expanding the grids and developing new and increasingly digitalised business models works towards EnBW has been actively involved in the expansion of electricity the achievement of the targets set at the Climate Change generation in Turkey, above all through investment in wind Conference, while the strategy itself is being validated by the power plants, as part of its joint venture with its Turkish partner international efforts for climate protection. Borusan since 2009. We currently operate the fourth largest wind power portfolio in Turkey with an installed output of 436 MW Coal Commission together with Borusan. Other potential wind power projects with a total output of around 600 MW are currently in development. The German government agreed to the creation of a commission We still believe that the Turkish market is an attractive proposition on “Growth, Structural Change and Employment” in its coalition for the future, although the current political and economic unrest agreement. The commission was tasked with defining an end have unsettled many investors. We are carefully monitoring the date for coal-fired power generation and also with developing developments in Turkey together with our partner. measures to help Germany close the gap on achieving the climate protection target for 2020 and achieve the target for 2030. In addition, it was asked to make recommendations for Sales segment structural change in regions that will be affected by the end of coal production. The commission started work in June 2018 and Electricity and gas prices for retail and presented its final report on 26 January 2019. It recommends the industrial customers termination of coal-fired power generation in Germany by 2038. However, this deadline could be moved forward to 2035 if a According to an analysis of electricity prices by the German review to be carried out in 2032 indicates that an earlier Association of Energy and Water Industries (BDEW) published in termination date would be possible. German brown and hard January 2019, the average monthly electricity bill for a housecoal capacities in the energy industry should also be reduced to hold with an annual consumption of 3,500 kWh in 2018 came to 15 GW each by 2022 (total brown coal and hard coal capacities €85.94 compared to €85.42 in the previous year. Taxes and are currently around 42 GW). A further reduction in the total levies account for more than half of this amount. EnBW capacities to 17 GW will then required by 2030. The commission increased the price for the basic supply of electricity by around has outlined compensation rules for the period up to 2030 for €32 per year on 1 April 2018. The reason for this development the operators of the power plants to be decommissioned. These was the higher grid-user charges. In the case of industrial rules recommend that brown coal and hard coal power plants customers receiving a medium-voltage supply, the average are decommissioned on the basis of voluntary agreements up to electricity price including electricity taxes increased according 2022. This rule will remain valid for brown coal power plants up to calculations made by BDEW by 5.1%, from 17.09 ct/kWh in the to 2030. In the period between 2023 and 2030, a degressive previous year to 17.96 ct/kWh in 2018. decommissioning premium for the hard coal power stations will be offered for tender. Further details about the design of the According to calculations by the German Federal Statistical compensation rules are not currently known. Office in 2018, natural gas prices for private households had fallen by 1.4% compared to the previous year; the price of natural gas for industrial customers increased by 14.9%. Average electricity price for a 3-person household (annual consumption of 3,500 kWh) in ct / kWh 0.80 7.51 6.88 5.71 4.67 2.05 1.66 2017 29.28 0.77 +0.65% 7.29 6.79 6.20 4.71 2.05 1.66 2018 29.47 Grid fees ¹ EEG cost allocations ² Procurement, sales VAT Electricity tax Concession fees Other allocations 1 Including metering and metering station operation. 2 German Compensation Mechanism Ordinance (AusglMechV) has been applied since 2010. Source: BDEW | As of January 2019 Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » General conditions 75 Structural changes tunities for growth in the dynamic heating market and offers its customers a broad range of products for energy-efficient and Greenhouse gas emissions (Glossary, p. 153) in the transport low-carbon heating solutions for new and existing buildings – sector need to be reduced by 42% by 2030 compared to the also in the form of contracting solutions. figure in 1990, for climate protection reasons. The gradual decarbonisation of the transport sector will be necessary in The rate of expansion in energy generation from renewable order to achieve this target. Carbon-neutral fuels such as sources needs to increase in the coming years in order to hydrogen or synthetic fuels (e-fuels) can make a contribution, achieve the 65% target for the share of gross energy conwhile above all the transition to battery-powered electric sumption accounted for by renewable energies by 2030. vehicles will make the achievement of this target possible. The Alongside the increase in expansion of wind energy, it will also number of newly registered electric vehicles increased by 24% in be necessary to double the current EEG target values for the 2018 and accounted for 1.9% of all new registrations. In 2018, the annual expansion in photovoltaics. Following a failure to EU agreed to set stricter emission targets for the fleets of achieve the expansion target in the past few years, the target passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. The CO2 emission value of 2.5 GW was achieved again for the first time in 2018. limit for fleets, which is valid from 1 January 2021, is 95 gCO2/km, More than two thirds of the expansion in photovoltaics in 2018 which will decrease by 37.5% in two stages up to 2030 to 59 g came from rooftop systems, with up to 750 kWp in the CO2/km (in 2030). In order to comply with these limits, it will be commercial sector, the housing industry and private buildings. necessary to increase the proportion of electric vehicles In order to increase the consumption of own electricity in significantly in the coming years. Government subsidies, such private buildings, 50% of newly installed photovoltaic power as the tax exemptions for electric company cars that are valid plants are equipped with a battery storage system. EnBW is from January 2019, create an incentive to purchase these committed to increasing own consumption of solar energy and vehicles. In parallel, the charging infrastructure (Glossary, p. 153) offers customers innovative photovoltaic storage solutions. is being expanded further. Alongside charging at home, the ability to charge at work and in car parks will become inThe market for home storage systems is growing dynamically – creasingly important. Large department stores and hardware around 100,000 decentralised storage systems were installed in stores are equipping their car parks with quick-charging stations. households in 2018. We also expect high growth rates in the A network of quick-charging stations with ever increasing future and anticipate that a higher proportion of the photocharging outputs is being installed along the motorways. 150 kW voltaic power plants installed in the household sector will be charging stations reached market viability in 2018. In future, combined with a home storage system. EnBW is represented on they will be supplemented with other 350 kW charging stations. the market for home storage systems by its subsidiary SENEC. There were 13,500 public and semi-public charging points at 6,700 charging stations across Germany in the middle of 2018, Decarbonisation, digitalisation and an increase in energy which represented a 25% increase compared to the previous efficiency are all necessary for the success of the Energiewende. year. EnBW is engaged in the expansion of the charging The new energy world will crossover and connect more and infrastructure for household customers and also for commercial more sectors in the future. Climate protection will become a key and local authority partners. As a result of sale campaigns, it was task for cities and communities – including the sustainable possible to supply over 500 electric cars to employees and planning of urban districts. The electricity, heating, cooling, customers in 2018. mobility and communication needs of customers must be considered in a holistic manner and the necessary infraThe German government aims to achieve a climate-neutral structures coordinated and harmonised with one another. building stock by 2050. Achieving high levels of energy EnBW supports its customers in these complex tasks through efficiency in buildings is a key factor in this area. The Building cross-sector planning services and the implementation of Energy Act (GEG), which is due to be passed in the summer of customer-oriented urban district solutions. 2019, will combine the various legal requirements for the energy-related properties of buildings in one law. However, these stricter energy-related requirements have already been Grids segment anticipated in the construction of new buildings in many cases. Due to the lower heating demands in these buildings, heat The regulatory framework conditions that were defined for the pumps can be used as an energy-efficient form of heating. The electricity and gas grids in the third regulatory period had a proportion of new buildings using heat pumps has been significant influence in 2018. In particular, cost assessments are increasing for a number of years and stood at 27% in 2017. It is very relevant for our grid operators because the results have a also possible to improve the energy efficiency of existing significant effect on their earnings situation. buildings by replacing the heating system. Around 3% of heating systems are currently replaced per year. Due to the age The rates for return on equity for electricity and gas grids structure of heating systems, this rate is set to increase in the defined by the Federal Network Agency for the third regulatory coming years. On average, 17% of all the heating systems period were repealed by the Higher Regional Court in installed in residential buildings are 30 years old or older. Two Düsseldorf on 22 March 2018, because the interest rates should thirds of the heating systems are considered to be inefficient. be increased. The Federal Network Agency filed an appeal The replacement of a heating system is often also accompanied against the judgement with the German Federal Court of Justice by a switch in energy source to natural gas, district heating or on 25 April 2018. The court has not yet handed down its renewable energy sources. EnBW has identified huge opporjudgement. 76 Management report » General conditions Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW According to the Incentive Regulation Ordinance, the general metering point operator to install a BSI certified smart metering sectoral productivity factor (Xgen) (Glossary, p. 154) has to be system (Glossary, p. 154) for a private household in December recalculated before the start of each regulatory period by the 2018. This marked another important milestone for the Federal Network Agency from the third regulatory period Energiewende. onwards. For the duration of the third regulatory period for gas (2018 to 2023), the Federal Network Agency has defined an Xgen There is also an ongoing need to expand the electricity grids, of 0.49% for the gas grid operators. Hundreds of gas grid especially the high and extra-high-voltage lines, to ensure that operators appealed against this decision to the Higher Regional generation and consumption is balanced across regions and Court in Düsseldorf. The general productivity factor for nationally. However, there is also a need for significant investoperators of electricity grids for the next regulatory period for ment at lower voltage levels in the electricity distribution grid electricity (2019 to 2024) was set at 0.9% by Ruling Chamber 4 of in future, due primarily to advancing sector coupling (Glossary, the Federal Network Agency on 28 November 2018. It is notable p. 154) as a result of electromobility and electrical heating applithat the Xgen for electricity grids will be almost twice as much cations. In the regulated grid business, an increasing level of as that for the gas grids. Grid operators, including Netze BW, will tension is expected overall due to, for example, the reduction in also appeal against this decision. the equity yield rate. Investment in the expansion of the grids may reduce the earnings pressure on the grid operators but The Bundesrat agreed an ordinance for the gradual introduction appropriate returns are necessary in order to continue pushing of uniform transmission grid fees across Germany on 8 June forward the expansion of the grids and to guarantee the security 2018. The harmonisation of the transmission grid fees for the of supply in Germany. Overall, we anticipate that the grid four German electricity transmission system operators (TSO) business of the EnBW grid subsidiaries will be faced with more began on 1 January 2019. According to the new regulations in the economically challenging framework conditions in the future. transmission grid fee ordinance, the fees will be harmonised in the period up to 2023 in five stages, each covering 20%. The Predicted investment in the expansion transmission grid fees for our subsidiary TransnetBW will rise as of the German electricity grid up to 2030 a result. in € billion 33 20 17 On 12 December 2018, the German Federal Cabinet agreed the As of 2017 70 draft act to accelerate the power grid expansion for the 52 24 24 electricity transmission grid. The act revises the so-called Grid As of 2018 100 Expansion Acceleration Act (NABEG). An important objective is to simplify and speed up the approval process for the new Transmission grid Distribution grid construction, improvement and optimisation of high and extraConnection of offshore wind farms to grid high-voltage lines. The act is an important component for the quick expansion of the grids that is required for the success of the Energiewende. It is due to come into force in the first half of Source: Draft NDP Electricity 2030, version 2019, NDP Electricity 2030, version 2017, BMWi 2014 Distribution Grids Study, own estimates 2019. EnBW hopes that these measures will create improved framework conditions that will allow the transmission system operators to implement the required grid expansion measures Aside from the impending expansion of the grids, other on time. measures were also taken by the transmission system operators in 2018 to guarantee the stability of the grid in the long term. The TSO submitted their first draft of the next national Network Alongside maintaining 6,600 MW of decommissioned capacity Development Plan Electricity (NDP Electricity) (Glossary, p. 154) at power plants still classified as system-relevant, the German for 2030 for consultation on 4 February 2019. It is based on the transmission system operators, including TransnetBW, issued framework scenario defined by the Federal Network Agency on an invitation to tender for the construction of 1,200 MW of new 15 June 2018. In particular, it takes into account the German power plant capacity. EnBW participated in the tender process government’s aim to increase the proportion of gross electricity with a new facility at the site in Marbach. consumption covered by renewable energies to 65% by 2030. According to assessments made by the TSO, around 1,600 km of On 29 March 2018, the gas transmission system operators subadditional newly constructed grids will be required by 2030 due mitted a revised draft of the Network Development Plan Gas to the raised target. Following the consultation phase, the TSO (NDP Gas) (Glossary, p. 154) for the period from 2018 to 2028. For must submit a revised NDP (second draft) to the Federal the proposed measures, investment of around €7 billion will Network Agency for approval. be required by 2028 in order to safeguard the transmission requirements for Germany and Central Europe. The Federal Alongside the integration of renewable energies in the Network Agency approved the NDP Gas on 20 December 2018 expansion and restructuring of the power grids, greater focus is with requests for changes and ancillary provisions. Due to also being placed on sector coupling (Glossary, p. 154). For damage to one of the two TENP (Trans Europa Naturgas example, the electricity grid also needs to be equipped for the Pipeline) natural gas lines, the transmission system operators expected escalation in the number of electric vehicles. Our also proposed three additional grid expansion measures (54 km subsidiary Netze BW has started the pilot project “E-Mobility of new gas lines, €171 million investment volume) in the middle Avenue” in Ostfildern to test the charging behaviour of users of 2018 to supplement the NDP. In particular, these measures and the effects on the electricity grid. Netzte BW was the first are required to safeguard the supply to Baden-Württemberg Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » General conditions 77 because the transport capacity of the TENP line up to 2020 is Renewable Energies segment only expected to be available to a limited extent. In order to satisfy the increasing demand for capacity in BadenThe costs for using renewable energies reduced significantly Württemberg, our transmission system operator terranets bw is around the world in 2018 and the very dynamic growth of this expanding its own infrastructure accordingly. This will include market continued. Numerous countries are currently the construction of the so-called “Neckar-Enz Valley line” and developing funding mechanisms and targets, which should help the expansion of the Scharenstetten compressor station as to sustain this expansion. In Europe, the first major projects for envisaged in the NDP. the generation of electricity from renewable energies without the need for state funding were realised in 2018. The reform of the Gas Grid Access Directive (GasNZV) from 7 July 2017 stipulates that the two German market areas Electricity generation from renewable energies rose again NetConnect Germany (NCG) (Glossary, p. 154) and GASPOOL significantly in Germany in 2018. According to the Fraunhofer (Glossary, p. 153) must be merged by 1 April 2022 at the latest. The ISE (www.energy-charts.de), the proportion of total German transmission system operators and the Federal Network Agency electricity generation accounted for by sustainable energy have already agreed on the date of 1 October 2021 for the launch generation increased to just over 40% (2017: around 38%). The of the joint German gas market area. This date is also the start of installed capacity of renewable energies increased by around the gas business year and was considered the most suitable 7.3 GW in Germany in 2018 (of which photovoltaics around choice for all market participants. EnBW believes that the +3.6 GW, onshore wind +2.7 GW and offshore wind around +1 GW). merging of the two German market areas is a necessary step in The special auctions for renewable energies (4 GW each for the further development of the German gas market. photovoltaics and onshore wind energy) announced in the coalition agreement of the German government – which are welcomed by EnBW – are expected to be held between 2019 and 2021. However, the adjustment to the expansion target for offshore wind energy for 2030 that was also announced in the coalition agreement has not yet been implemented. Installed net output for electricity generation from renewable energies in Germany in GW / year 0.99 37.62 37.9 6.93 5.58 2014 89.02 3.43 41.24 39.33 7.03 5.59 2015 96.62 4.13 44.80 40.41 7.06 5.59 2016 101.99 50.29 42.82 7.38 5.27 5.60 2017 111.36 +6.5% 53.01 45.93 7.73 6.41 5.50 2018 118.58 Onshore wind Solar Biomass Offshore wind Hydropower Source: AGEE, BMWi, Federal Network Agency | As of 31/01/2019 There was a clear drop in the number of projects eligible to environment for onshore wind energy in Germany. Therefore, participate in the German auctions for onshore wind energy in we advocate regional control over the expansion of onshore 2018. The reason for this is that the privileges enjoyed by wind energy to exploit opportunities for the expansion of community energy cooperatives (Glossary, p. 152) and the inrenewable energies close to where the energy is consumed, creasing number of obstacles that need to be overcome to especially in the south of Germany. secure regional approval have led to significant delays in many projects. The resulting shortage of bids was also reflected in the In the cross-technology auctions held in 2018, only bids from average prices for those bids accepted in the auctions, which photovoltaic projects were accepted. This outcome reflects the rose significantly compared to the previous year (from around global trend, whereby photovoltaics have become the cheapest 4.6 ct/kWh in 2017 to more than 5.7 ct/kWh in 2018). Plans to technology in the area of renewable energies. This trend can enshrine regional control over the expansion of onshore wind also be seen in the regular auctions for open-field solar projects energy in law have not yet been realised. EnBW was also in Germany. The average price of the bids accepted for large impacted in 2018 by the uncertainty in the investment solar projects thus fell from around 5.7 ct/kWh in 2017 to 78 Management report » General conditions Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW around 4.5 ct/kWh in 2018. EnBW is aiming to become the price of gas was influenced above all by the temperatures during pioneer in Germany for open-field photovoltaic power plants the winter half-year. Although the average temperatures in without state funding (p. 50). winter 2017/2018 were close to the long-term average, the cold spell in north-west Europe and Germany from the end of February to the beginning of March led to a short-term increase Generation and Trading segment in prices. Due to the cold spell, gas storage levels were very low in the summer months which led to increased demand. In Electricity wholesale market addition, deliveries of LNG to north-west Europe remained below market expectations due to strong demand from the Prices on the wholesale market for electricity rose significantly Asian region. In combination with high oil prices in comparison during the course of 2018. The average spot market price to the previous year, these factors have resulted in increased (Glossary, p. 154) of €44.47/MWh was around €10/MWh above prices on the spot and forward markets. The border price index the level in the previous year. This development was due, on the for natural gas published monthly by the German Federal Office one hand, to rising prices for coal, gas and CO2 allowances of Economics and Export Control (BAFA) stood at €20.80/MWh (Glossary, p. 152), while on the other hand, low water levels, in November 2018, which was 14.7% above the December 2017 especially in the Rhine river in the second half of the year, figure (€18.13/MWh) and 18.2% above the figure for the same caused transport restrictions and a sharp increase in logistics month in the previous year (€17.60/MWh). Due to the good costs and the lower availability of power plants. At the same supply situation on the gas markets and the fact that the gas time, feed-ins from wind power plants were significantly below storage facilities in Germany are relatively well stocked, we do the level in a normal year. not anticipate that prices will rise further in the short term. The front year base load price (Glossary, p. 152) on the forward market (Glossary, p. 153) of around €44/MWh was also conDevelopment of prices for natural gas on the TTF (Dutch wholesale market) siderably higher than the level in the previous year. There was a continuous increase in the price between March and the middle in €/MWh Average 2018 Average 2017 ¹ of September 2018, which was followed by lateral movement Spot 22.98 17.33 with a high level of volatility. In the future, the forward market Rolling front year price 20.70 17.00 prices in Germany up to 2022 show a downward trend. This development reflects – alongside falling prices for imported coal – 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. the expectation of market participants that the further expansion of renewable energies will result in structural changes to Oil market conventional generation in the future. Overall, prices for electricity will remain highly dependent on the development of The caps in production introduced by OPEC and some nonprices for fuel and CO2 allowances. In the medium term, the OPEC countries including Russia, the continued fall in oil price level will be increasingly influenced by changes in energy production in Venezuela and the dynamic increase in demand and environmental policies at home and abroad. for oil and oil products worldwide initially resulted in a decrease in global stock levels in 2018. The stock levels held by the OECD countries fell below the five-year average again from March for Development of prices for electricity (EPEX), base load product the first time. Another shortage in supply was caused by the reintroduction of US sanctions against Iran and its oil sector as in €/MWh Average 2018 Average 2017 part of the USA’s withdrawal from the international nuclear deal Spot 44.47 34.19 with this country. These factors led to a sharp increase in crude oil prices (Brent) to more than US$85/bbl at the beginning of Rolling front year price 43.84 32.38 October. A huge turnaround in this trend from October resulted in oil prices falling since then to below US$60/bbl. The main causes for this fall in prices were the renewed increase in OECD Gas market stock levels due to unexpectedly high global oil production and Long-term gas import contracts form a primary basis of concerns about the development of the world economy against Germany’s gas supply. The wholesale markets, such as the Dutch the background of the trade dispute between the USA and China TTF and the trading point of the NetConnect Germany (NCG) and the associated growth in demand for oil. Further price (Glossary, p. 154) market area, are other important sources of developments will be mainly influenced by the extent to which natural gas. Prices track the oil price trends with a time lag. As a the agreed production cuts are actually implemented by OPEC, result of the increased supply of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) the supply situation outside of OPEC and the continuation of from the USA and Australia, the dependency of the gas price on the trade dispute between the USA and China. the price of oil has, however, fallen in Europe. In addition, the Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » General conditions 79 CO2 allowances Development of prices on the oil markets in US$/bbl Average 2018 Average 2017 Under the European emissions trading system, proof must be Crude oil (Brent) front month provided of the correct number of CO2 allowances (Glossary, p. 152) (daily quotes) 71.69 54.75 for the corresponding CO2 emissions from power plants. In 2018, Crude oil (Brent), rolling front supply and demand stood at around the same level. Neveryear price (daily quotes) 68.94 54.87 theless, the price of EUA certificates (Glossary, p. 153) increased sharply in 2018 from around €8/t CO2 to around €25/t CO2. This was primarily attributable to speculative demand due to the Coal market expectation of further price increases because the reform of the market stability reserve (MSR) – a measure drawn up by the EU Following a drop in coal prices in the first quarter of 2018 due to Commission to reform the European Union emissions trading a sharp fall in prices on the Chinese coal market, prices system over the long term – will result in a significant reduction recovered by the end of the second quarter and exceeded the in supply over the next four years. Therefore, further price level at the beginning of the year. This was primarily due to a increases are expected in 2019 and in subsequent years. very strong increase in demand from China and the simultaneous rise in oil prices. Following a brief period of Development of prices for emission allowances/daily quotes consolidation in the summer, the same factors led to a further increase in coal prices and caused the API 2 front year price to in €/t CO2 Average 2018 Average 2017 rise to over US$100/t for the first time since 2012. Coal prices fell EUA – rolling front year price 15.62 5.77 significantly again from the middle of October due to falling oil CER – rolling front year price 0.24 0.23 prices, weaker demand in China and the restrictions announced on coal imports into China. Overflowing coal stocks in the Amsterdam–Rotterdam–Antwerp coal trading hub due to low Nuclear power water levels in the Rhine river also resulted in additional pressure to sell. The coalition agreement of the German government sets out the framework for current nuclear power policy: The main The future development of prices for coal will be largely targets are the retention of specialist personnel and expertise, determined by China which is by far the largest consumer. The quick progress in the search for a final storage site for highly unpredictable nature and timing of the sometimes major radioactive waste (by 2031) and the rapid commissioning of the interventions by the Chinese authorities to regulate the final storage site for low and medium-level radioactive waste domestic coal market have increased the volatility of coal prices. (2027 according to the current plans). This should prevent the A slowdown in the global economy due to the intensification of intermediate storage at the power plant sites becoming, to all international trade disputes and the continued strength of the intents and purposes, the final storage sites. The 16th US dollar could result in a fall in coal prices. In addition, freight amendment to the German Atomic Power Act came into force prices and the price of oil will also have a significant effect on in July 2018. On the basis of the ruling by the German Federal future prices on the coal market. Constitutional Court from 6 December 2016, operators of nuclear power plants should receive compensation payments for investment in the period between the decision to extend the Development of prices on the coal markets lives of the nuclear power plants (28 October 2010) and the in US$/t Average 2018 Average 2017 reversal of this decision (from 16 March 2011), as well as for Coal – API #2 rolling front year price 87.03 73.70 residual volumes of electricity remaining at power plants that could no longer be distributed. A transparency ordinance from Coal – API #2 spot market price 91.91 84.52 the German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy specifies the disclosure obligations of the operators with respect to their provisions for the decommissioning and dismantling of their nuclear power plants and the packaging of radioactive waste. On the basis of the public law contract according to the Act for the Reorganisation of Responsibility in Nuclear Waste Management, EnBW has submitted an application for the approval of the return transport of radioactive waste from the reprocessing centre in France to the intermediate storage site at the Philippsburg nuclear power plant. A precise date for the transport has still not been agreed. 80 Management report » The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW The EnBW Group Finance and strategy goal dimensions Results of operations Electricity sales increase, gas sales up due to full consolidation of VNG Electricity sales of the EnBW Group (without Grids) in billions of kWh Sales Renewable Energies Generation and Trading Total (without Grids) Change in % 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Retail and commercial customers (B2C) 14.9 15.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 14.9 15.0 -0.7 Business and industrial customers (B2B) 21.5 23.7 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.0 21.9 23.7 -7.6 Trade 0.9 1.0 2.4 2.2 96.7 80.1 100.0 83.3 20.0 Total 37.3 39.7 2.4 2.2 97.1 80.1 136.8 122.0 12.1 In the 2018 financial year, electricity sales of the EnBW Group in trading activity. However, the effect of the trading activities were higher than in the previous year. It was possible to more on the earnings potential of the company is limited. In a than compensate for the falling sales in the business and persistently challenging competitive environment, electricity industrial customer sector (B2B) due to the withdrawal from the sales in business with retail and commercial customers (B2C) B2B commodity business under the EnBW and Watt brands stood at the same level as in the previous year. Adjusted for the through the effects in trade of the full consolidation of VNGeffects of the changes in the consolidated companies, electricity Verbundnetz Gas in the second quarter of 2017 and an increase sales of the EnBW Group increased by 10.7%. Gas sales of the EnBW Group (without Grids) in billions of kWh Sales Renewable Energies Generation and Trading Total (without Grids) Change in % 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Retail and commercial customers (B2C) 17.1 14.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 17.1 14.4 18.8 Business and industrial customers (B2B) 39.2 42.6 0.0 0.0 105.3 51.1 144.5 93.7 54.2 Trade 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.0 166.4 141.7 166.7 142.0 17.4 Total 56.5 57.3 0.1 0.0 271.7 192.8 328.3 250.1 31.3 The gas sales of the EnBW Group increased significantly in 2018 from the B2B commodity business under the EnBW and Watt compared to the same period of the previous year. Gas sales in brands. The level of trading activity was higher than in the the retail customer business (B2C) rose in comparison to the previous year, which was mainly due to the full consolidation of same period of the previous year, which was primarily due to VNG. However, the effect of the trading activities on the the full consolidation of VNG in the second quarter of 2017 and a earnings potential of the company is limited. Adjusted for the slight increase in the number of customers. Sales to business effects of the changes in the consolidated companies, gas sales and industrial customers (B2B) also benefited from the full of the EnBW Group stood at almost the same level as in the consolidation of VNG although this was offset by the withdrawal previous year (+0.6%). Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » The EnBW Group 81 External revenue lower than previous year mainly due to first-time application of IFRS 15 External revenue of the EnBW Group by segment in € million 1 2018 2017 Change in % Sales 7,061.4 7,354.3 -4.0 Grids 3,215.4 7,471.8 -57.0 Renewable Energies 477.5 507.5 -5.9 Generation and Trading 9,856.2 6,631.1 48.6 Other/Consolidation 7.0 9.3 -24.7 Total 20,617.5 21,974.0 -6.2 1 After deduction of electricity and energy taxes. Adjusted for the effects of the changes in the consolidated Material developments in the income statement companies, external revenue fell by 12.9% or €3,048.3 million Revenue and the cost of materials were 6.2% (revenue) and 8.4% and was thus significantly lower than in the previous year. This (cost of materials) lower than the levels in the previous year, fall is mainly attributable to the first-time application of IFRS 15 which was mainly attributable to the application of IFRS 15 and and the resulting net disclosure of EEG revenues. Further the resulting net disclosure of revenues and the cost of information can be found in the reporting on IFRS 15 in the materials. The net disclosures had no effect on the EBITDA. The notes to the consolidated financial statements (www.enbw.com/ balance from other operating income and other operating report2018-downloads). expenses fell from €1,587.2 million in the previous year to €-77.8 million in the reporting year. This decrease was Sales: In the 2018 financial year, external revenue in the Sales influenced primarily by the reimbursement of the nuclear fuel segment was below the figure in the previous year. Adjusted for rod tax (Glossary, p. 154) that was declared to be unconstitutional the effects of the changes in the consolidated companies, this in June 2017, as well as the sale of 49.89% of the shares in each of would have been a fall of 6.1% or €462.2 million. This was mainly EnBW Hohe See GmbH & Co. KG and EnBW Albatros GmbH & due to lower sales volumes as a result of the withdrawal from Co. KG and the revaluation of the remaining shares in the the B2B commodity business under the EnBW and Watt brands. same period of the previous year. In contrast, the sale of VNG Norge AS and its subsidiary VNG Danmark ApS had a positive Grids: External revenue in the Grids segment fell in 2018 effect on earnings in the reporting year. The financial result fell compared to the previous year due to the application of IFRS 15 significantly in 2018 in comparison to the previous year by and the resulting net disclosure of EEG revenues. Adjusted for €575.0 million to €-380.4 million (previous year: €194.6 million). the effects of the changes in the consolidated companies, this This was primarily due to the reimbursement of interest would have been a fall of 57.5% or €4,344.9 million. relating to the legal proceedings for the nuclear fuel rod tax, as well as to a higher result from the sale of securities in the Renewable Energies: In the Renewable Energies segment, previous year. These securities were sold in the previous year in external revenue in the 2018 financial year was lower than in the preparation for the payment to the “fund for the financing of previous year. The reason for this development was the fall in the disposal of nuclear waste” (disposal fund). In addition, revenue caused mainly by lower generation at the offshore wind higher expenses from the market valuation of securities and farms and run-of-river power plants due to the weather the drop in the discount rate for nuclear provisions contributed conditions. Adjusted for the effects of the changes in the to the fall in earnings. Overall, earnings before tax (EBT) stood at consolidated companies, this would have been a fall of 8.4% or €596.3 million in the 2018 financial year, after €2,857.9 million in €43.8 million. the previous year. The complete consolidated financial statements can be found at www.enbw.com/report2018-downloads. Generation and Trading: External revenue in the Generation and Trading segment increased significantly, which was Earnings primarily due to the full consolidation of VNG in the second The Group net profit/loss attributable to the shareholders of quarter of 2017. In addition, the growth in trading activities EnBW AG fell from €2,054.1 million in 2017 by €1,719.9 million to contributed to the increase in revenue. Adjusted for the effects €334.2 million in the reporting period. Earnings per share of the changes in the consolidated companies, this was an amounted to €1.23 in the 2018 financial year, compared to €7.58 increase in sales of 22.4% or €1,805.0 million. in the previous year. 82 Management report » The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Adjusted earnings and non-operating result The business activities relevant to the ongoing management of The sum of the adjusted earnings figures and non-operating the company are of particular importance for internal managefigures gives the figures on the income sheet. The non-operating ment and for the external communication of the current and result includes effects that either cannot be predicted or cannot future earnings potential of EnBW. We use the adjusted EBITDA – be directly influenced by EnBW and as such are not relevant to earnings before the investment and financial results, income the ongoing management of the company. The effects are pretaxes and amortisation, adjusted for non-operating effects – as sented and explained in the section “Non-operating EBITDA”. the key reporting indicator for disclosing this information. Adjusted EBITDA and the share of adjusted EBITDA accounted for by the segments Adjusted EBITDA of the EnBW Group by segment in € million 2018 2017 Change in % Forecast 2018 Sales 270.6 330.0 -18.0 -5% to -15% Grids 1,176.9 1,045.9 12.5 +5% to +15% Renewable Energies 1 297.7 331.7 -10.3 -10% to +5% Generation and Trading 428.6 377.1 13.7 0% to -10% Other/Consolidation -16.3 28.3 – – Total 2,157.5 2,113.0 2.1 0% to +5% 1 The forecast for the Renewable Energies segment was adjusted during the year. Grids: The adjusted EBITDA for the Grids segment grew in the Share of adjusted EBITDA for the EnBW Group accounted for by the segments 2018 financial year within the range of our forecast (+5% to +15%) by 12.5% compared to the previous year. Adjusted for the effects in % 2018 2017 Forecast 2018 of the changes in the consolidated companies, the increase was Sales 12.5 15.6 10% to 15% 7.7%. The earnings performance in this segment was thus substantially impacted by the full consolidation of VNG in the Grids 54.5 49.5 45% to 60% second quarter of 2017. This development was also due to higher Renewable Energies 1 13.8 15.7 10% to 15% earnings from the use of the electricity grids. The share of the Generation and adjusted EBITDA for the Group accounted for by this segment Trading 19.9 17.8 15% to 20% increased in line with our forecast (45% to 60%) compared to the Other/Consolidation -0.7 1.4 – previous year. Total 100.0 100.0 1 The forecast for the Renewable Energies segment was adjusted during the year. Renewable Energies: The adjusted EBITDA in the Renewable Energies segment for the 2018 financial year was 10.3% below the value achieved in the same period of the previous year. The The adjusted EBITDA for the EnBW Group increased slightly in result was thus below our original forecast (+10% to +20%) but at the 2018 financial year by 2.1% compared to the previous year. the lower end of our adjusted forecast (-10% to +5%). Adjusted The growth in earnings was thus within the forecasted range for for the effects of the changes in the consolidated companies, the the 2018 financial year of between 0% and +5%. Adjusted for the decrease was 11.3%. Poor wind conditions and low water levels effects of the changes in the consolidated companies, the had a heavy impact in 2018. The wind yields at our offshore wind adjusted EBITDA of the EnBW Group stood at the same level as farms were thus below the levels in the previous year. The in the previous year (-0.4%). earnings contribution from the run-of-river power plants was also below the level in the previous year. This development Sales: The adjusted EBITDA in the Sales segment decreased in could not be offset by the increase in earnings from the onshore the 2018 financial year by 18.0% in comparison to the previous wind farms that have been in operation since the middle of 2017. year. The result was thus below our forecast of -5% to -15%. The share of the adjusted EBITDA for the Group accounted for Adjusted for the effects of the changes in the consolidated by this segment was in line with our adjusted forecast (10% to companies, the decrease was 21.6%. The elimination of positive 15%) but below our original forecast (15% to 20%). out-of-period effects such as the reversal of provisions, which benefited the result in the previous year, had a more significant Generation and Trading: In the Generation and Trading effect on the adjusted EBITDA than expected. The share of the segment, the adjusted EBITDA rose in the 2018 financial year by adjusted EBITDA for the Group accounted for by this segment 13.7% compared to the previous year and was thus above our was in line with our forecast (10% to 15%). forecast of 0% to -10%. Adjusted for the effects of the changes in Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » The EnBW Group 83 the consolidated companies, the increase was 16.4%. The earnings that the weather conditions had on electricity generation. elimination of the negative impacts in 2017 of the temporary A positive development in comparison to the forecast was the shutdown of Block 2 of the Philippsburg nuclear power plant unexpectedly high out-of-period earnings, which were due to (KKP 2) due to damaged ventilation system brackets had a the clarification of open issues relating to electricity procurepositive effect on earnings and compensated for the extension ment agreements. The share of the adjusted EBITDA for the to the inspection of Block 2 of the Neckarwestheim nuclear Group accounted for by this segment increased slightly in line power plant (GKN II) in 2018 and the negative impact on with our forecast (15% to 20%) compared to the previous year. Development of non-operating EBITDA influenced by reimbursement of the nuclear fuel rod tax in previous year Non-operating EBITDA of the EnBW Group in € million 2018 2017 Change in % Income/expenses relating to nuclear power -132.1 1,278.2 – Income from the reversals of other provisions 11.8 25.7 -54.1 Result from disposals 89.0 317.8 -72.0 Reversals of/additions to the provisions for onerous contracts relating to electricity procurement agreements 39.2 59.2 -33.8 Income from reversals of impairment losses 22.1 93.1 -76.3 Restructuring -49.1 -70.0 29.9 Other non-operating result -48.8 -64.6 -24.5 Non-operating EBITDA -67.9 1,639.4 – The non-operating EBITDA and the non-operating EBIT deand the revaluation of the remaining shares in the same period creased significantly in 2018 compared to the previous year. This of the previous year. In addition, there were reversals of was influenced primarily by the reimbursement of the nuclear impairment losses on power plants in the previous year. In fuel rod tax, the sale of 49.89% of the shares in each of EnBW contrast, the sale of VNG Norge AS and its subsidiary VNG DanHohe See GmbH & Co. KG and EnBW Albatros GmbH & Co. KG mark ApS had a positive effect on earnings in the reporting year. Fall in Group net profit also influenced by reimbursement of the nuclear fuel rod tax in previous year Group net profit of the EnBW Group in € million 2018 2017 Total Non-operating Adjusted Total Non-operating Adjusted EBITDA 2,089.6 -67.9 2,157.5 3,752.4 1,639.4 2,113.0 Amortisation and depreciation -1,213.8 -13.8 -1,200.0 -1,248.4 -134.2 -1,114.2 EBIT 875.8 -81.7 957.5 2,504.0 1,505.2 998.8 Investment result 100.9 -50.6 151.5 159.3 4.1 155.2 Financial result -380.4 -18.6 -361.8 194.6 244.6 -50.0 EBT 596.3 -150.9 747.2 2,857.9 1,753.9 1,104.0 Income tax -128.7 51.9 -180.6 -681.6 -509.5 -172.1 Group net profit/loss 467.6 -99.0 566.6 2,176.3 1,244.4 931.9 of which profit/loss shares attributable to non-controlling interests (133.4) (5.1) (128.3) (122.2) (-16.4) (138.6) of which profit/loss shares attributable to the shareholders of EnBW AG (334.2) (-104.1) (438.3) (2,054.1) (1,260.8) (793.3) The fall in the investment result was mainly attributable to an previous year in preparation for the payment to the “fund for impairment of our Turkish investment in the reporting period. the financing of the disposal of nuclear waste” (disposal fund). The significant decrease in the financial result in comparison to The EBT stood at €596.3 million and was thus below our the previous year was primarily due to the reimbursement of expectations of between €800 million and €900 million. The interest relating to the legal proceedings for the nuclear fuel rod main reasons for this deviation from the forecast were valuation tax (Glossary, p. 154), as well as to a higher result from the sale of effects from derivatives and the development of the discount securities in the previous year. These securities were sold in the rate for nuclear provisions. 84 Management report » The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Financial position Generally, currency positions resulting from operations are closed by appropriate forward exchange contracts. Overall, Financial management of EnBW currency fluctuations from operating activities do not have any Basis and objectives major effect on the operating result of EnBW. Foreign exchange Financial management is responsible for securing the existing risks are monitored on a case-by-case basis within the frame– financial assets of the EnBW Group and their development, for work of the currency management system. Details on the risk the optimisation of financing, as well as for guaranteeing a management system are presented in note 24 of the notes to sufficient level of liquidity reserves. This ensures that the Group the consolidated financial statements at www.enbw.com/ is able to meet its payment obligations at all times without report2018-downloads. restriction. The treasury guidelines (Glossary, p. 155) of the EnBW Group define the financial transactions permitted by the Board Asset management of Management of EnBW and the specified scope within which Our aim is to cover the Group’s pension and nuclear provisions they may be carried out. The guidelines are applicable to all within an economically feasible period of time by means of companies that are either consolidated in full or with which appropriate financial assets. EnBW uses an asset liability EnBW AG has a profit and loss transfer agreement. The guidemanagement model (ALM model) (Glossary, p. 152) based on lines also act as basic principles for all other companies. The cash flows to determine the effects on the balance sheet, income centralised financial management system serves to minimise statement and cash flow statement over the next 30 years. risks, provide transparency and optimise costs. Alongside the anticipated return on financial assets, the actuarial valuations of pension provisions and sector-specific In the operating business, derivatives (Glossary, p. 153) are appraisals by external experts on costs for nuclear decomgenerally deployed for hedging purposes only: for example, for missioning and disposal are taken into account. The aim of this forward contracts for electricity and primary energy source model is to limit the impact the utilisation of the pension and trading. This also applies for foreign exchange and interest rate nuclear obligations may have on the operating business. derivatives. Propriety trading is only permitted within narrow, Accordingly, funds are also taken from the financial assets for clearly defined limits. this purpose. This model also allows simulations of various alternative scenarios. As of 31 December 2018, the dedicated Another important aspect of financial management is to financial assets (Glossary, p. 152) for pension and nuclear manage financial assets (asset management) in order to cover provisions totalled €6,279.8 million (previous year adjusted: the corresponding pension and nuclear obligations. €6,273.9 million). Alongside the dedicated financial assets, there are plan assets to cover certain pension obligations with a Treasury market value of €987.8 million as of 31 December 2018 (previous In general, the treasury (Glossary, p. 155) controls all processes in year adjusted: €1,047.3 million). all companies that are consolidated in full, or with which EnBW AG has a profit and loss transfer agreement. Liquidity We strive to reach the defined investment targets with management is based on a system-aided rolling liquidity minimum risk. We also further optimised the risk/return profile planning for the scope of validity defined above. The treasury is of the financial assets in 2018. The main part of the dedicated also responsible for the central management of credit lines and financial assets is distributed as investments across nine asset bank guarantees, the issuing of guarantees and letters of classes. The financial assets are bundled in two master funds comfort, as well as interest rate risk and currency management. with the following investment targets: Interest rate risk and currency management › Risk-optimised investments, with a performance in line with Interest rate risk and currency management involves the mamarket trends nagement and monitoring of interest-bearing and interest› Consideration of the effects on the balance sheet and income sensitive assets and liabilities. The consolidated companies statement regularly report on the existing risk position via the system› Broad diversification of the asset classes aided rolling liquidity planning. An interest rate risk strategy is › Reduction of costs and simplification of administrative devised based on an analysis conducted every quarter on an processes aggregated basis. The purpose is to limit the impact of fluctuations in interest rates and interest rate risks on the results of Financing facilities operations and net assets. In addition to the Group’s internal financing capabilities from the adjusted retained cash flow of €1,199.1 million in 2018 The interest rates on the financial liabilities of the EnBW Group (previous year: €1,529.5 million) and its own funds, the EnBW are predominantly fixed. We use interest rate derivatives to keep Group had the following instruments at its disposal to cover its the relationship between fixed and variable interest rates within overall financing needs (as of 31 December 2018): predefined limits in order to optimise the interest earnings of EnBW. The potential risk is determined on the basis of current interest rates and possible changes in these interest rates. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » The EnBW Group 85 › Debt Issuance Programme (DIP, Glossary, p. 152), via which Documentation of short-term and long-term borrowings on the bonds are issued: €2.6 billion of €7.0 billion has been drawn capital market under the established DIP and CP programmes of › Hybrid bonds: €2.0 billion EnBW, as well as all other credit documentation with banks (e.g. › Commercial paper (CP) programme (Glossary, p. 152): €0.3 billion syndicated lines of credit) includes internationally standardised of €2.0 billion has been drawn clauses. The issuing of a negative pledge, as well as a pari passu › Syndicated credit line: €1.5 billion undrawn with a term clause (Glossary, p. 154), to all creditors forms a key element of the until 2021 financing policy of EnBW. The use of undrawn credit lines is not › Bilateral free credit lines: €1.1 billion subject to restrictions. › Project financing and low-interest loans from the European Investment Bank (EIB) Details on financial liabilities are presented in note 21 and explanations on other financial commitments are presented in Established issuer on the debt capital market note 25 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements at EnBW has sufficient and flexible access to the capital market at www.enbw.com/report2018-downloads. all times. The EnBW bonds continue to have a well-balanced maturity profile. As part of its financing strategy, EnBW Green bond issued by EnBW * constantly assesses capital market trends with regard to the EnBW published its Green Financing Framework on 17 October current interest rate environment and to any potentially 2018 and issued its first green bond (Glossary, p. 153) with a favourable refinancing costs. volume of €500 million on 31 October 2018. The bond has a coupon of 1.875% and a term of 15 years. In contrast to The CHF 100 million bond that was due for repayment was conventional corporate bonds, the proceeds from a green bond repaid on 12 July 2018. A senior bond with a volume of must be used exclusively to finance climate-friendly projects. €750 million that was due for repayment on 20 November was 93% of the proceeds from the first green bond issued by EnBW also repaid. No refinancing was required in either case. will be allocated to wind power projects, while 5% will be used for photovoltaic projects and 2% for electromobility projects. Maturity profile of EnBW bonds This form of financing is thus in line with the corporate strategy in € million of repositioning the business portfolio with a focus on renewable energies and smart infrastructure solutions. 2021 1,000 ¹ 2022 993 ², ³ Use of the funds from the green bond for 2023 89 ⁴ renewable energies Use of funds Emissions 2025 500 in € million avoided t CO2eq 1 2026 500 Offshore wind 227.45 -2 Onshore wind 234.42 170,818 Photovoltaics 26.50 14,032 2033 500 Total for renewable energies 488.37 184,850 2034 100 1 Source: German Environment Agency: Emission Balance of Renewable Energy Sources in 2017 (as of October 2018) 2038 170 ⁵ 2 Projects still under construction. 2039 700 Use of the funds from the green bond for 2044 50 electromobility Use of funds Number of Number of in € million locations charging processes Expansion of quickcharging 2076 1,000 infrastructure 8.05 123 1 38,327 2077 993 ⁶ Total 496.42 1 89 locations on Germany’s motorways. First call dates for hybrid bonds Green bond Senior bonds Hybrid bonds 1 First call date: hybrid maturing in 2076. 2 First call date: hybrid maturing in 2077. 3 Includes US$300 million, coupon before swap 5.125%. 4 CHF 100 million, converted in € as of 31/12/2018. 5 JPY 20 billion (swap in €), coupon before swap 3.880%. 6 Includes US$300 million, converted in € at rate of 05/10/2016. * The information on the green bond issued by EnBW is not part of the audited management report. 86 Management report » The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Rating and rating trends Allocation of the green bond EnBW aims to maintain a solid investment-grade rating Use of funds Net proceeds Allocation of (Glossary, p. 154). By limiting the cash-relevant net investment to in € million in € million funds in % the adjusted retained cash flow, measured by the internal Green bond financing capability, EnBW manages the level of net financial (XS1901055472) 496.42 496.42 100.0 debt. The company thus maintains its high level of financial discipline, irrespective of the interest rate-related volatility of Through sustainable finance, companies support the stability the pension and nuclear provisions (p. 72). EnBW ensures the and future viability of financial markets and make an important timely coverage of the pension and nuclear obligations (p. 84) contribution to financing global transformation processes. The using an asset liability management model (Glossary, p. 152). The activities of EnBW in the area of sustainable finance underline impact that the utilisation of the pension and nuclear obligathe fact that the company takes into account the social and tions may have on the operating business is limited to ecological impacts of its business activities in the development €300 million (plus an inflation supplement) a year using an of business models and specifically examines the medium and ongoing contribution from the financial assets. If the provisions long-term opportunities and risks involved. As well as financial are fully covered by the financial assets, no further funds will be performance indicators, the company thus also uses sustaintaken from operating cash flow as part of the model. ability indicators as a basis for taking capital expenditure and investment decisions. With a solid investment-grade rating (Glossary, p. 154), we want to: Further information on the green bond, including its con› ensure unrestricted access to capital markets tribution to the non-financial key performance indicators of › offer reliable opportunities for financing partners EnBW and to the selected sustainability goals of the United › be regarded as a dependable business partner in our trading Nations (United Nations Sustainable Development Goals activities (SDGs) – SDG 7 (affordable and clean energy), SDG 9 (industry, › achieve the lowest possible capital costs innovation and infrastructure), SDG 11 (sustainable cities and › implement an appropriate number of investment projects communities), SDG 13 (climate action), can be found at and thereby maintain the future viability of the company www.enbw.com/green-bond. Overview of the ratings for EnBW – rating/outlook 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Moody’s A3/stable Baa1/stable A3/negative A3/negative A3/negative Standard & Poor’s A-/stable A-/stable A-/negative A-/stable A-/stable Fitch A-/stable A-/stable A-/stable A-/stable A-/stable The rating agency Moody’s re-evaluated EnBW in June 2018 and risk activities in the regulated grid business and the expertise upgraded its rating from Baa1 to A3. EnBW has thus now acquired by EnBW in the area of renewable energies over the received A-grade ratings from all three rating agencies. The past few years were also positively evaluated. Moody’s reason given by Moody’s for the upgrade was above all the high anticipates that EnBW will continue to rigorously implement its financial discipline of EnBW, especially with regards to the 2020 strategy. In its regular update on 24 July 2018, Standard & reduction in net debt that was achieved more quickly than Poor’s (S&P) confirmed its EnBW rating of Awith a stable expected and the financing of growth investment using its outlook. Fitch also confirmed its EnBW rating of A-/ stable on internal financing capability. The increasing proportion of low28 September 2018. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » The EnBW Group 87 Assessment by the rating agencies Moody’s (12/06/2018) Standard & Poor’s (24/07/2018) Fitch (28/09/2018) Leadership position as a vertically integrated utility Solid regional competitive position and increasing Continued evolution towards a more regulated and within Baden-Württemberg foothold in national gas distribution contracted business profile Around 50% of EBITDA from low risk regulated Increased share of operating income from the High earnings visibility in grids and renewables partly distribution and transmission activities and segments Grids and Renewable Energies, but still offset by residual nuclear decommissioning risk; growing share of renewables under contracts, as significant exposure to volatile and commoditypayment of €4.8 billion for transferring responsibility EnBW continues to invest in line with its 2020 driven wholesale power prices for nuclear waste storage has substantially reduced strategy these risk Difficult operating environment in Germany for Considerable progress made in business Average forecast credit metrics are generally stronger conventional generation and increasingly repositioning strategy than peers, with some exceptions with respect to funds challenging environment in retail markets from operations (FFO) fixed charge cover Certain execution risks relating to a large Well managed funding of nuclear waste-related If the share of regulated EBITDA exceeds 50% on a investment programme liabilities, without major disruptions to its strategy sustained basis, Fitch may apply a one-notch uplift to or changes to the capital structure the senior unsecured rating Balanced financial policies and track record in Prudent financial policy underpinned by utilization implementing measures to shore up its financial of nuclear tax refund for capex and deleveraging profile Strong support due to stable shareholder structure Investment analysis Net cash investment of the EnBW Group in € million 1 2018 2017 Change in % Investments in growth projects 2, 3 1,323.9 1,324.2 0.0 Investments in existing projects 446.0 446.1 0.0 Total investments 1,769.9 1,770.3 0.0 Divestitures 4 -371.3 -298.5 24.4 Participation models 51.9 61.9 -16.2 Other disposals and subsidies -163.4 -166.6 -1.9 Total divestitures -482.8 -403.2 19.7 Net (cash) investment 1,287.1 1,367.1 -5.9 1 Excluding investments held as financial assets. 2 Does not include cash and cash equivalents acquired with the acquisition of fully consolidated companies. These amounted to €0.4 million in the reporting period (previous year: €0.0 million). 3 In the same period of the previous year, this included cash and cash equivalents of €51.0 million relinquished with the sale of the shares in EnBW Hohe See GmbH & Co. KG and cash and cash equivalents of €6.8 million relinquished with the sale of the shares in EnBW Albatros GmbH & Co. KG, because they will be used for future investments for the realisation of both offshore wind farms. 4 Does not include cash and cash equivalents relinquished with the sale of fully consolidated companies. These amounted to €61.5 million in the reporting period (previous year: €57.8 million). Investment by the EnBW Group in 2018 was at the same level as Investment by segment in % in the previous year. In particular, capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment in the Grids segment increased, 7.5 1.5 while it decreased in the Renewable Energies segment. Around Sales (2017: 6.2) Other (2017: 1.5) 74.8% of overall gross investment was attributable to growth 9.4 projects; the proportion of investments in existing facilities Generation and stood at 25.2%. Trading (2017: 7.9) 54.7 In the reporting year, €132.4 million was invested in strength26.9 Grids ening the Sales segment. Investment in this segment was thus (2017: 44.5) Renewable Energies slightly above the level in the previous year (€110.6 million). (2017: 39.9) Investment in the Grids segment stood at €967.4 million, compared to €787.5 million in the previous year. It was primarily used for the expansion of the electricity grids. The increase in comparison to the previous year was primarily due to the construction of the EUGAL gas pipeline and investment in the areas of electromobility and smart grids. 88 Management report » The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Investment in the Renewable Energies segment of €476.0 million The divestitures from participation models mainly contain was lower than the figure in the previous year (previous year: payments due to capital reductions in non-controlling interests €706.4 million). The reason for this development was the strong of €51.8 million (previous year: €55.0 million). expansion of onshore wind power plants in 2017. In 2018, onshore wind farms were acquired, in particular, in Sweden. Other disposals and subsidies were at the same level as in the previous year. Investment in the Generation and Trading segment stood at €166.5 million in 2018. In the same period of the previous year, Capital commitments for the acquisition of intangible assets and investment in this segment stood at €140.2 million. The main property, plant and equipment amounted to €1,142.7 million as reasons for this increase were investment in the exploration of 31 December 2018 (previous year: €829.1 million). Commitand production business of VNG and the modernisation of the ments for the acquisition of companies totalled €476.1 million combined heat and power plant in Stuttgart-Gaisburg – (previous year: €454.1 million). The capital commitments will be including switching the fuel over to gas – to guarantee the financed from the adjusted retained cash flow in subsequent supply of district heating for the greater Stuttgart area. years. Other investments of €27.6 million were slightly above the level Investment decisions will take climate goals into account to a in the previous year (€25.6 million). greater extent in the future. In this context, the investment guidelines have been adapted in the 2018 financial year: For Divestitures were higher than the level in the previous year. significant investment projects, their influence on the environmental and climate protection targets and figures – in Divestitures increased in 2018 compared to the same period of the sense of the TCFD recommendations (Glossary, p. 155) – will the previous year. This was primarily due to the sale of VNG be illustrated in the future. This additional information will act Norge AS and its subsidiary VNG Danmark ApS. In the previous as the basis for approval by the investment committee of the year, they mainly included the sale of 49.89% of the shares in Board of Management. each of EnBW Hohe See GmbH & Co. KG and EnBW Albatros GmbH & Co. KG. Liquidity analysis Retained cash flow of the EnBW Group in € million 2018 2017 Change in % EBITDA 2,089.6 3,752.4 -44.3 Changes in provisions -394.6 -472.3 -16.5 Non-cash-relevant expenses/income -116.0 -385.9 -69.9 Income tax paid/received -270.7 81.1 – Interest and dividends received 284.6 591.7 -51.9 Interest paid for financing activities -247.0 -425.6 -42.0 Dedicated financial assets contribution -34.0 -6.4 – Funds from operations (FFO) 1,311.9 3,135.0 -58.2 Dividends paid -312.8 -84.7 – Retained cash flow 999.1 3,050.3 -67.2 Funds from operations (FFO) fell by more than half in comThe lower FFO and higher dividends paid in 2018 thus led to a parison to the previous year. This fall was primarily attributable decrease in the retained cash flow. to the reimbursement of the nuclear fuel rod tax in 2017 (Glossary, p. 154). In addition, there were income tax payments in The retained cash flow reflects the internal financing capability the reporting year compared to income tax refunds in the of EnBW after all stakeholder needs have been settled. It is previous year. Furthermore, interest and dividends received fell. available to the company for investment without the need to raise additional debt. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » The EnBW Group 89 Internal financing capability of the EnBW Group 2018 2017 Change in % Adjusted retained cash flow in € million 1 1,199.1 1,529.5 -21.6 Net (cash) investment in € million 1,287.1 1,367.1 -5.9 Internal financing capability in % 93.2 111.9 -16.7 1 Adjusted for the effects from the reimbursement of the nuclear fuel rod tax by €200.0 million (previous year: €-1,520.8 million). We have translated the retained cash flow into the adjusted Due to the decrease in adjusted retained cash flow in the retained cash flow, which eliminates the reimbursement of the reporting year compared to 2017 and only a slight decrease in nuclear fuel rod tax. In the 2017 financial year, this led to a net investment compared to the previous year, the internal reduction in adjusted retained cash flow compared to retained financing capability fell. As a result of one-time tax payments, cash flow and will lead to an increase of €685.0 million in the the adjusted retained cash flow was below the forecasted level, period from 2018 to 2020 (nuclear fuel rod tax adjusted for the which meant that the value for internal financing capability was debt repayment). The reimbursement of the nuclear fuel rod tax slightly below the target value of ≥ 100% in the reporting year. of €1,520.8 million in the 2017 financial year was used by EnBW for the debt repayment in 2018 of €835.8 million and for The internal financing capability is the key performance indicator investments in the amount of €200.0 million. We anticipate for the Group’s ability to finance its activities internally. that the remaining amount will be distributed on a straight line basis in the period 2019 to 2020. Free cash flow of the EnBW Group in € million 2018 2017 Change in % Funds from operations (FFO) 1,311.9 3,135.0 -58.2 Change in assets and liabilities from operating activities -480.7 -4,671.4 -89.7 Capital expenditure on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment -1,369.5 -1,419.2 -3.5 Disposals of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 77.3 52.8 46.4 Cash received from subsidies for construction costs and investments, and tax refunds from recognised exploration expenditure 86.1 113.8 -24.3 Free cash flow -374.9 -2,789.0 -86.6 Free cash flow increased significantly compared to the same reduction in the net balance of assets and liabilities from period of the previous year by €2,414.1 million. The considerable operating activities. In the comparative period, this item decrease in FFO was more than compensated for by the clear included the payment to the disposal fund. Condensed cash flow statement of the EnBW Group in € million 2018 2017 Change in % Cash flow from operating activities 827.6 -1,696.1 – Cash flow from investing activities -895.8 2,160.7 – Cash flow from financing activities -907.3 -1,541.3 41.1 Net change in cash and cash equivalents -975.5 -1,076.7 9.4 Change in cash and cash equivalents due to changes in the consolidated companies 6.6 300.3 -97.8 Net foreign exchange difference 5.5 -1.9 – Risk provisions 0.2 0.0 – Change in cash and cash equivalents -963.2 -778.3 23.8 The substantial increase in cash flow from operating activities in nuclear fuel rod tax and the payment to the disposal fund. In comparison to the previous year was mainly due to the two addition, there were income tax payments in the reporting year effects from the previous year of the reimbursement of the compared to income tax refunds in the previous year. 90 Management report » The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW In 2018, cash flow from investing activities returned an outflow contrast there were planned repayments on two bonds and of cash, while there was a significantly higher inflow of cash in dividends were once again distributed to the shareholders of the previous year. This inflow of cash in the previous year was EnBW AG. due primarily to higher sales of securities to finance the payment made to the disposal fund in July 2017. The solvency of the EnBW Group was ensured at all times throughout the 2018 financial year thanks to the company’s The cash outflow from financing activities decreased significantly available liquidity and its internal financing capability, as well as in comparison to the previous year: A hybrid bond was repaid in external sources available for financing. The company’s future 2017; in 2018 the green bond was issued and the commercial solvency is secured by its solid financial position (p. 84 ff.). paper (CP) programme (Glossary, p. 152) was utilised, while in Net assets Condensed balance sheet of the EnBW Group in € million 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Change in % Assets Non-current assets 26,746.0 26,766.6 -0.1 of which intangible assets (1,748.7) (1,905.9) -8.2 of which property, plant and equipment (15,867.5) (15,597.4) 1.7 of which entities accounted for using the equity method (1,600.2) (1,388.6) 15.2 of which other financial assets (5,426.5) (5,985.7) -9.3 of which deferred taxes (1,059.3) (956.4) 10.8 Current assets 12,520.7 12,015.3 4.2 Assets held for sale 342.3 3.0 – 39,609.0 38,784.9 2.1 Equity and liabilities Equity 6,273.3 5,862.9 7.0 Non-current liabilities 22,036.9 21,919.7 0.5 of which provisions (13,246.0) (13,124.5) 0.9 of which deferred taxes (774.8) (799.4) -3.1 of which financial liabilities (6,341.4) (5,952.0) 6.5 Current liabilities 11,277.6 11,002.3 2.5 of which provisions (1,549.9) (1,598.7) -3.1 of which financial liabilities (654.8) (1,306.8) -49.9 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 21.2 0.0 – 39,609.0 38,784.9 2.1 As of 31 December 2018, the total assets held by the EnBW Group mainly attributable to cash payments for investments. The were 2.1% higher than the level at the end of the previous year. increase in assets held for sale by €339.3 million was primarily Non-current assets were only slightly below the level in the attributable to the 6% of the shares in EWE, which were previous year. The increase in property, plant and equipment is reclassified due to EnBW's right from 1 July 2019 to sell the due to capital expenditure, which was offset to some extent by shares to EWE Verband with an associated obligation for EWE ongoing impairments. The increase in entities accounted for Verband to purchase them. using the equity method was mainly the result of a capital increase. The fall in other financial assets was due to the The equity held by the EnBW Group increased by securities. This was primarily attributable to the reclassification €410.4 million as of the reporting date of 31 December 2018. of the 6% shareholding in EWE as assets held for sale and a This was due mainly to the increase in revenue reserves as a reclassification due to a change in maturity. Current assets result of the first-time application of the new IFRS standards. increased by €505.4 million, which was mainly due to an This was compensated for to some extent by the lower earnings increase in derivatives. In addition, the rise in current assets was compared to the previous year. The first-time application of IFRS 9 also contributed to by the increase in securities because of also led to a fall in other comprehensive income. The equity reclassifications due to changes in maturity and an increase in ratio increased from 15.1% at the end of 2017 to 15.8% on the gas stocks. In contrast, cash and cash equivalents fell, which was reporting date as a result. Non-current liabilities increased by Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » The EnBW Group 91 €117.2 million. The increase in financial liabilities was primarily than the income from the retained cash flow. The increase in net due to the issuing of the green bond. Other liabilities and debt relating to pension and nuclear obligations was primarily subsidies fell due to the first-time application of IFRS 15 in the due to a rise in the rate of increase in prices from 1.7% to 2.4% 2018 financial year. In contrast, the derivatives increased. and the fall in the discount rate for the nuclear provisions from Current liabilities increased by €275.3 million, driven by the 0.72% to 0.59%. Updating the Heubeck tables with respect to derivatives. The decrease in financial liabilities is due to reassumptions about average life expectancies also had a negative payments on two bonds. This was offset to some extent by effect on the pension provisions. short-term financing on the capital market under the commercial paper (CP) programme (Glossary, p. 152) in the amount of The coverage ratio (Glossary, p. 152) describes the dedicated €250 million as of 31 December 2018. financial assets (Glossary, p. 152) in relation to the net pension and nuclear obligations. As of 31 December 2018, this ratio stood Net debt at 51.8%, which was around the same level as in the previous As of 31 December 2018, net debt increased significantly by year (adjusted: 53.3%). Within the scope of its ALM model €1,168.3 million compared to the figure posted at the end of (Glossary, p. 152), EnBW is still in a position to cover its future 2017. Net financial debt increased by €820.6 million, which was cash outflows for pension and nuclear provisions without due to the payments for initial margins, filling the gas stores at burdening the cash flow from operating activities to an abovethe end of the year and the investment expenditure which, average extent. excluding the effect from the nuclear fuel rod tax, totalled more Net debt of the EnBW Group in € million 1 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Change in % Cash and cash equivalents available to the operating business -1,954.0 -2,954.7 -33.9 Current financial assets available to the operating business -200.6 -277.0 -27.6 Long-term securities available to the operating business 0.0 -4.3 -100.0 Bonds 4,869.4 4,934.3 -1.3 Liabilities to banks 1,482.8 1,705.6 -13.1 Other financial liabilities 644.0 618.9 4.1 Valuation effects from interest-induced hedging transactions -88.8 -96.4 -7.9 Restatement of 50% of the nominal amount of the hybrid bonds 2 -996.3 -996.3 0.0 Other -18.1 -12.3 47.2 Net financial debt 3,738.4 2,917.8 28.1 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 3 6,550.9 6,341.2 3.3 Provisions relating to nuclear power 5,848.2 5,802.7 0.8 Liabilities relating to nuclear power 63.3 0.0 – Receivables relating to nuclear obligations -334.4 -369.5 -9.5 Net pension and nuclear obligations 12,128.0 11,774.4 3.0 Long-term securities and loans to cover the pension and nuclear obligations 4 -4,864.4 -5,487.6 -11.4 Cash and cash equivalents to cover the pension and nuclear obligations -295.4 -258.6 14.2 Current financial assets to cover the pension and nuclear obligations -569.1 -307.2 85.3 Surplus cover from benefit entitlements -208.8 -179.3 16.5 Long-term securities to cover the pension and nuclear obligations directly associated with assets classified as held for sale -298.9 0.0 – Other -43.2 -41.2 4.9 Dedicated financial assets -6,279.8 -6,273.9 0.1 Net debt relating to pension and nuclear obligations 5,848.2 5,500.5 6.3 Net debt 9,586.6 8,418.3 13.9 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 2 The structural characteristics of our hybrid bonds meet the criteria for half of the bond to be classified as equity, and half as debt, by the rating agencies Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s. 3 Less the market value of the plan assets of €987.8 million (31/12/2017: €1,047.3 million). 4 Includes equity investments held as financial assets. 92 Management report » The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW ROCE and value added There are various factors that influence value added. The level of The cost of capital before tax represents the minimum return ROCE and value added depend not only on the development of on average capital employed (calculated on the basis of the the operating result but above all on the invested capital. Largerespective quarterly figures for the reporting year and the yearscale investments tend to significantly increase the capital end figure for the previous year). Positive value is added when employed in the early years, while the effect on income that the return on capital employed (ROCE) exceeds the cost of boosts value, however, only filters through over a lengthier capital. The cost of capital is determined based on the weighted period of time, often long after the investments were initially average cost of equity and debt together. The value of equity is made. This is especially true of capital expenditure on property, based here on a market valuation and thus deviates from the plant and equipment relating to the construction of new power value recognised in the balance sheet. The cost of equity is based plants, which do not have any positive effect on the operating on the return of a risk-free investment and a company-specific result of the Group until after they are commissioned. Capital risk premium. The latter is calculated as the difference between expenditure on power plants, on the other hand, is already a risk-free investment and the return for the overall market, taken into account in the capital employed during the weighted with a company-specific business field risk. The terms construction phase. In a comparison of individual years, the according to which the EnBW Group can raise long-term debt development of ROCE and value added is, to a certain extent, are used to determine the cost of debt. cyclical in nature, depending on the investment volume. This effect is therefore inherent in the system and results in lower ROCE in phases of strong growth or phases of investment. Value added to the EnBW Group for 2018 by segment Sales Grids Renewable Generation and Other/ Total Energies Trading Consolidation Adjusted EBIT including the adjusted investment result 1 in € million 220.3 768.4 123.7 -24.2 -46.6 1,041.6 Average capital employed in € million 1,037.0 7,019.8 3,667.4 2,139.1 2,190.0 16,053.3 ROCE in % 21.2 10.9 3.4 -1.1 – 6.5 Weighted average cost of capital before tax in % 7.7 5.3 6.1 8.0 – 6.3 Value added in € million 140.0 393.1 -99.0 -194.7 – 32.1 1 Investment result of €59.4 million, adjusted for taxes (investment result/0.706 investment result; with 0.706 = 1 tax rate 29.4%). Does not include impairment losses and reversals to impairment losses on investments, the result from the sale of equity investments, the share of the result from entities accounted for using the equity method not relevant to the ongoing management of the company and the result from equity investments held as financial assets. Value added to the EnBW Group for 2017 by segment 1 Sales Grids Renewable Generation and Other/ Total Energies Trading Consolidation Adjusted EBIT including the adjusted investment result 2 in € million 262.8 686.8 164.9 -27.0 21.2 1,108.7 Average capital employed in € million 836.8 5,919.2 3,276.9 2,242.4 2,844.6 15,119.9 ROCE in % 31.4 11.6 5.0 -1.2 – 7.3 Weighted average cost of capital before tax in % 7.7 5.4 6.1 8.0 – 6.3 Value added in € million 198.3 367.0 -36.0 -206.3 – 151.2 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 2 Investment result of €77.6 million, adjusted for taxes (investment result/0.706 investment result; with 0.706 = 1 tax rate 29.4%). Does not include impairment losses and reversals to impairment losses on investments, the result from the sale of equity investments, the share of the result from entities accounted for using the equity method not relevant to the ongoing management of the company and the result from equity investments held as financial assets. The value added generated by the EnBW Group fell in the 2018 Sales: Value added in the Sales segment decreased in 2018 by financial year compared to the previous year to €32.1 million. €58.3 million. This was mainly because of the increase in average The adjusted EBIT including the adjusted investment result fell capital employed due to, amongst other things, the full year slightly, while the average capital employed rose. The riskconsolidation of VNG and investment in the solutions and adjusted weighted average cost of capital remained unchanged contracting business. In addition, the lower adjusted EBIT compared to the previous year at 6.3%. The ROCE of 6.5% was including the adjusted investment result contributed to the fall within the range of our forecast for the 2018 financial year in value added. (forecast 2018: 6.3% to 7.0%). Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » The EnBW Group 93 Grids: Value added in the Grids segment increased slightly to Funds from operations (FFO) relevant to remuneration €393.1 million in comparison to 2017. Both the adjusted EBIT including the adjusted investment result and also the capital in € million 2018 2017 employed were above the figures in the previous year. The Funds from operations (FFO) 1,311.9 3,135.0 substantial increase in capital employed was primarily Less income tax paid/received 270.7 -81.1 attributable to the full year consolidation of VNG and invest– ment in the transmission and distribution grids. Funds from operations (FFO) relevant to remuneration 1,582.6 3,053.9 Renewable energies: Value added in the Renewable Energies segment fell in comparison to the previous year to €-99.0 million. The adjusted EBIT including the adjusted investment result Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (net) relevant to remuneration decreased to €123.7 million. In contrast, investments in the expansion of onshore and offshore wind power led to an in € million 2018 2017 increase in the capital base in the reporting year, as was also the Intangible assets 1,748.7 1,905.9 case in 2017. Property, plant and equipment 15,867.5 15,597.4 Generation and Trading: Value added in the Generation and Investment properties 31.6 50.3 Trading segment was slightly above the level in 2017 at Investment cost subsidies -7.7 -8.5 €-194.7 million. This was due, on the one hand, to the slight Construction cost subsidies -876.8 -1,383.6 increase in adjusted EBIT including the adjusted investment Intangible assets and property, plant result, and on the other hand, to the average capital employed and equipment (net) 16,763.3 16,161.5 in the reporting year remaining at approximately the same level Average intangible assets and property, as in the previous year. plant and equipment (net) 1 16,371.6 15,113.9 1 Average calculation based on the respective quarterly values for the reporting Performance indicators relevant to remuneration year and the previous year. The performance indicators relevant to remuneration are derived as follows: ROA (return on assets) relevant to remuneration EBT relevant to remuneration in € million 2018 2017 in € million 2018 2017 EBIT 875.8 2,504.0 EBT 596.3 2,857.9 Less outstanding items for derivatives allocated under trading within EBITDA -4.1 -12.9 Less outstanding items for derivatives allocated under trading within EBITDA -4.1 -12.9 EBIT relevant to remuneration 871.7 2,491.1 Less the measurement of financial Average intangible assets and property, assets and outstanding items for plant and equipment (net) 16,371.6 15,113.9 derivatives allocated under trading ROA (return on assets) relevant to within the financial result 38.8 -34.2 remuneration in % 5.3 16.5 EBT relevant to remuneration 631.0 2,810.8 Less changes to the inflation rate and discount rate for nuclear provisions 133.3 – The remuneration of the members of the Board of Management EBT relevant to remuneration according is described in full in the remuneration report (p. 124 ff.). to the new regulations 764.3 – 94 Management report » The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Customers and society goal dimension EnPower was first launched for the NaturEnergie+ brand in the middle of 2017, then for Yello in the summer of 2018 and the Reputation EnBW brand is now also working intensively on this project. On the one hand, EnPower facilitates better interaction between A strong reputation is an important factor for the sustainable customers and the EnBW, Yello and NaturEnergiePlus brands, success of a company. The good social reputation of a company while on the other hand, it provides the foundations for reflects the trust placed by the general public and relevant operating excellence with respect to the digitalisation, autostakeholders in the competent and responsible actions of a mation and streamlining of settlement processes for the supply company. of electricity. The non-commodity business is currently also being switched over to a new scalable IT platform. It will replace Especially for companies in the energy industry, which is underexisting stand-alone solutions, cover the entire customer going a period of fundamental change, this social acceptance is relationship and enable a 360 degree customer view thanks to vitally important. A good reputation signals the willingness of its interface to EnPower. The first products such as the society and its different stakeholder groups to cooperate with e-mobility charging infrastructure (Glossary, p. 153) were already and invest in the company. transferred to the new platform in 2018. EnBW aims to continuously improve its reputation. The focal Customer Satisfaction Index point of this concept is the stakeholder team, consisting of The energy sector is driving major social changes. The new representatives from all important areas of the company, that energy world is full of great opportunities that we want to was established in 2017. The stakeholder team directly or exploit. Our customers stand at the focal point of our work and indirectly communicates and maintains dialogue with relevant we strive to maintain long-term customer relationships by stakeholder groups. offering networked products and new product combinations, continuous open communication and the best possible quality Reputation Index of service. Customer loyalty is based on high customer satisReputation is measured using the key performance indicator faction, which is measured in accordance with the requirements Reputation Index. of the EnBW Group standard for market research and surveys. It is binding for EnBW and its subsidiaries. The Customer Satisfaction Index for the two brands of EnBW and Yello are Key performance indicator compiled from customer surveys carried out by an external 2018 2017 Change Forecast provider. in % 2018 Reputation Index 51.3 52.1 -1.5 52.7 Key performance indicator 2018 2017 Change Forecast The Reputation Index of EnBW fell to 51.3 index points in the in % 2018 reporting year. This was a significant deviation from the target Customer Satisfaction 128-138 / value for 2018. The values for comparable large companies fell Index for EnBW/Yello 120 / 152 143 / 161 -16.1 / -5.6 148-159 more than the reputation of EnBW, while the values for municipal utilities and regional suppliers remained at the levels achieved in the previous year. As a result, the advantage held by The satisfaction of the customers of EnBW reached a good level EnBW over national energy suppliers with respect to reputation in 2018 at 120 points. A good level is achieved when half of those once again widened a little in 2018. However, the deficit between surveyed indicate that overall they are particularly satisfied with EnBW and smaller competitors also grew at the same time. In EnBW. This is the case from 114 points and upwards. A very good comparison to the previous year, this can be attributed to, level of satisfaction is achieved from 136 points upwards. The amongst other things, the reduced media presence of EnBW Customer Satisfaction Index for EnBW of 120 points was below themes in 2018. the forecasted range. This can be explained to some extent by the fact that both regional suppliers and municipal utilities and More details on reputational risks can be found in the “Report also most of the major competitors across Germany had lower on opportunities and risks” on p. 118. levels of overall customer satisfaction compared to 2017. This trend in the sector was also experienced at EnBW. In addition, Customer proximity price increases in early 2018 had a negative effect on customer satisfaction. EnBW wants to take steps towards becoming an infrastructure provider. A sustainable contribution could be made, for example, The satisfaction of Yello customers was once again stable at a in the form of cooperative partnership models with local very good level in 2018 at 152 points. However, the satisfaction of authorities, municipal utilities and suppliers. EnBW also has great Yello customers nevertheless fell in comparison to the opportunities for generating additional revenue and for acquiring outstanding result in the previous year. Yello carried out a new customers using tailored digital services and solutions. system migration in the summer of 2018. During the migration, Yello reduced its marketing activities and some services were An important step in this direction was taken with the only available to Yello customers to a limited extent for a short introduction of the sales and operation platform EnPower. period of time. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » The EnBW Group 95 EnBW, Yello and NaturEnergie+ received several awards for their With the solar solution EnBW solar+, customers themselves can products and customer service in 2018. EnBW was awarded the become energy producers. A solar power plant including a title of “Best electricity supplier in Germany” by Focus Money storage system enables customers to produce their own solar magazine and Statista as part of the Energy Atlas Germany 2018. electricity and then store it for use later on. We are working The magazine Wirtschaftswoche (10/2018) ranked the best gas together closely with our subsidiary SENEC in this area. The suppliers in the 100 largest cities using data from the comacquisition of SENEC GmbH in the reporting year represented a parison portal Verivox. The result: EnBW is one of the fairest gas major step towards EnBW becoming a full-service provider for suppliers in Germany. Both Yello and NaturEnergie+ were home energy solutions. SENEC has sold more than 20,000 awarded the title of “Fairest electricity supplier” for the eighth electricity storage systems with energy management functions time by Focus Money (edition 38/2018). In addition, EnBW won and is one of the most important suppliers on the home storage the Contracting Award for the second time in 2018, following its market in Germany. first award in 2010. The award is presented by the Energy Efficiency Association for Heating, Cooling and Combined Heat We use bundle offers (Glossary, p. 152) to offer customers and Power (AGFW) and the magazine Energie & Management. attractive deals, promote market penetration and strengthen customer loyalty. Our customers are currently able to choose The EnBW campaign “We’re making it happen” was continued from three different devices with the new EnBW tariffs. At the with new refined motifs in 2018. The key themes were electrosame time, a cross-selling and customer referral campaign was mobility, wind power and customer solutions, using the example started in combination with online advertising to increase of EnBW solar+. It was important to EnBW to place a strong focus traffic on our websites. The Yello Plus tariff – an energy contract on customers in the implementation of the campaign. In this offered in combination with a chosen device – was also in high respect, the campaign is a logical continuation of the 2016 and demand in 2018. The range of hardware options available was 2017 campaigns – but shifting the focus from employees (the continuously expanded to improve the attractiveness of the people making the Energiewende happen) to customers. The product even further. ongoing aim is to show a new EnBW that presents itself with a fresher and more unconventional image than before, especially The contracting business field has been made more comon the advertising market. The campaign has been accompanied petitive, transparent and sustainable by optimising the process by two videos: An image video demonstrated the power that for issuing quotes, customer proximity and shortening energy can give to people. A second video was a continuation of response times. A project realised by EnBW that involves an the animation film featuring “the birds on the high-voltage energy network solution in Waldbronn, near Karlsruhe, is one power line” that provided a humorous look at the theme of example here. Two industrial companies and two local authority electromobility in 2018. facilities are supplied with heating, cooling, cooling water and electricity. The use of combined heat and power technology and In 2018, EnBW expanded its portfolio of energy industry services the utilisation of waste heat not only result in cheaper and energy solutions and carried out numerous sales activities generation costs but also avoid 680 t CO2 emissions per year. and communication measures. A special emphasis was placed here on electromobility. In this sector, EnBW has become a fullEnBW supports local authorities and municipal associations in service provider and together with its subsidiaries covers the the area of broadband (Glossary, p. 152) – from the planning and complete spectrum of services for the development and installation of infrastructure through to operation and the endexpansion of electromobility from the supply of electricity and customer business. Cost efficiency, fast implementation and the operation of a comprehensive charging infrastructure customer satisfaction hold the highest priorities in this area. For (Glossary, p. 153) through to digital services for the consumer. example, Rechtenstein is one of three communities across EnBW entered into various collaborations with renowned Germany that has received funding to become a “fibre-optic partners in 2018 that promote, above all, the expansion of the community” by installing fibre-optic cables throughout the quick-charging infrastructure in urban areas across Germany. At entire area. Our subsidiary Netze BW began the construction the same time, EnBW almost tripled the number of charging work in October 2018. All of the companies and most of the stations available via the EnBW mobility+ app. The number of households will have direct access to the fibre-optic network by publicly accessible charging stations in Germany, Austria and the end of 2019. The network will be operated by NetCom BW. Switzerland covered by the app increased from 8,000 to more The company RBS wave, a subsidiary of Netze BW, secured the than 22,000 in 2018. In addition, drivers can use the app directly contract in a Europe-wide tender process in July 2018 to develop to pay for the electricity used to charge their e-cars at these a broadband network for the Rastatt administrative district as stations. The EnBW mobility+ Wallbox enables safe and easy the general planner. In the project, RBS wave is responsible for charging at home with a charging capacity of up to 11 kW. planning the fibre-optic backbone network for the connections to local areas of expansion/industrial estates, public facilities In the SAFE project (core charging network for electric cars in and all schools in the administrative district. The company is Baden-Württemberg), which is being promoted by the State of involved in all stages of the project through to completion and Baden-Württemberg, 77 municipal utilities, suppliers and local will thus have an active presence in all local authority areas. authorities are working together to develop a core charging Another example for the development and expansion of critical network in Baden-Württemberg. EnBW is coordinating the system infrastructure in neighbouring business fields is security project as the head of the consortium and acts as the contact for technology: Gernsbach in Murgtal will be the first community the state authorities. in Baden-Württemberg, for example, to be fitted by EnBW with 96 Management report » The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW the new product EnBW SafePlaces – a smart video sensor system Employee Commitment that is connected to the EnBW security control centre. Employee Commitment Index (ECI) Supply reliability The key performance indicator ECI is an important indicator for EnBW as it reflects the degree to which employees identify with Guaranteeing a reliable supply of electricity to our customers is the company. The annual measurement of this indicator a key goal of EnBW and its grid subsidiaries. For this purpose, the enables us to respond specifically to any negative trends at an electricity grids must perform their distribution function with early stage. sufficiently high continuity. SAIDI is used as an indicator for supply reliability; it states the average duration of supply Key performance indicator interruptions per connected end customer in minutes per year. 2018 2017 Change Forecast SAIDI in % 2018 SAIDI is one of the key performance indicators in the area of Employee Commitelectricity grids and is optimised by the distribution grid ment Index (ECI) 1 62 60 3.3 62 operators of EnBW using various processes that are partially 1 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (consideration of companies integrated with one another: the desired grid topology (Glossary, controlled by the Group [without ITOs]) p. 153) in the long term is thus already oriented towards optimising SAIDI at the planning stage. As part of an IT-supported asset simulation, various technical variants and their associated The fourth short survey for monitoring the ECI – MAB-Blitzlicht investment budgets are then analysed. Once the chosen variant (Employee Flashlight) – was carried out between 17 September has been implemented, the available investment budget for and 5 October 2018. As in the previous year, the MAB-Blitzlicht optimising SAIDI is distributed to the various different projects survey comprised just twelve questions and was carried out by on an annual basis. The specific measures are selected based on taking a random representative sample. As in the full surveys, it performance indicators for plant reliability. collected information on the level of commitment of the employees to the Group and to their respective company. The ECI from MAB-Blitzlicht 2018 revealed a clear improvement Key performance indicator from 60 (2017) to 62 points. The target set for 2018 was thus 2018 2017 Change Forecast achieved. Considering the period of transformation at EnBW, in % 2018 the ECI value achieved by the Group placed it in a good position SAIDI (electricity) in at the high end of mid-table when ranked against other commin./year 17 19 -10.5 15-20 panies in the sector. The positive development of the ECI can once again be A similarly good level for SAIDI was achieved in the EnBW attributed to a better perception of the current competitiveness Group in 2018 as in the previous year and it was thus within the of the Group and employees having greater trust in the future forecasted range. viability of the Group. Following the latest survey, the Board of Management again set itself the goal of reducing the uncertainty and scepticism of the workforce with respect to Employees goal dimension these two factors. This was achieved through the resolute implementation of the 2020 strategy, in which we have made The key tasks of HR are providing the company with employees, successful progress, and the discussion of the post 2020 strategy including the promotion of young talent, encouraging loyalty to in dialogue with managers and employees across all departthe company amongst employees and maintaining and fostering ments and companies (strategy dialogue). In particular, the their motivation, satisfaction and employability. Leadership, corsignificant improvement in the perception of the competitiveporate culture, HR development and health management are key ness and future viability of the company by top and upper aspects in this area. Other important elements of a successful HR management demonstrated that the strategy presented and policy are ensuring the best possible employment conditions, followed by the Board of Management of the Group has been such as in the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements, as met with acceptance and support. It was also possible to transfer well as adapting the organisational structure to the business this increasingly positive image to the remaining management environment. team and employees and integrate them even more strongly into the process. Therefore, we believe that the value drivers for our HR policy can be found in the following areas of focus: › Leadership › Safeguarding and promoting expertise › Employment conditions and structures › Health management Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » The EnBW Group 97 Areas of focus in HR The International VNG P-Community meeting – which enabled a comprehensive exchange of ideas on current and perspective The most substantial measures and activities carried out by HR issues – was also held for the first time in 2018. EnBW and the key subsidiaries are reported in the following areas of focus. Safeguarding and promoting expertise: An important goal for EnBW is to be an attractive employer so that it can secure the Leadership: The digital energy industry is characterised by a expertise it requires and then retain this expertise within the high level of complexity. In order to be able to react and lead company. In particular, the concepts and measures developed appropriately in this environment, new skills are required. The for this purpose focus on the themes of diversity, the promotion leadership development activities at EnBW concentrate on the of young talent and the attractiveness of the employer. themes of managing the business, developing new products, leading people, methodological excellence and self-manageProportion of women and part-time employees at EnBW ment as part of the “Digital Leadership” programme. Special importance is being given here to the improvement of crossin % 2018 2017 Change departmental cooperation and the formation of effective Proportion of women in the overall leadership coalitions, which are also supported by the increased workforce 26.4 26.2 0.2 use of agreements on team targets. The “Next Level Leadership” Proportion of women in initiative has grown out of the “Digital Leadership” programme: management positions 15.3 15.2 0.1 After receiving fundamental guidance on what behaviour and Proportion of women in skills are helpful in an increasingly dynamic and less predictable management positions at EnBW AG world, employees in leadership positions are provided with First level below the Board of advice and offered individual learning experiences. A group of Management 1 0.0 4.3 -4.3 digital pioneers is, for example, being provided with an Second level below the Board of opportunity to learn about specific digital technologies and Management 1 15.1 14.0 1.1 business models. In addition, change projects can be mentored Total proportion of part-time through internal and external advice given on the job. For this, employees 2 9.4 9.4 0.0 we use modern learning formats that enable participants to of which women 2 82.8 82.6 0.2 directly experience contemporary leadership at work. The aim is of which men 2 17.2 17.4 -0.2 to realise the digital transformation of the Group more quickly 1 The values refer to EnBW AG. and effectively. 2 Excluding those in semi-retirement. The Leadership Forum 2018 focused on the theme of “leadership and cooperation in a period of transition” for the successful EnBW promotes diversity amongst its employees. Under the implementation of the strategy post 2020. More than 700 motto “Diversity generates success”, EnBW relies on a diverse managers and employees in leadership positions without workforce in terms of numerous different criteria such as disciplinary responsibility were able to exchange ideas on the gender, age, interculturality, sexual orientation and people with new challenges, common values and individual learning goals at disabilities, as well as sector backgrounds, different working the event. models and work organisation. We hope to use the diversity in people and perspectives to better respond to the needs of the Alongside the annual management day and continuous training market, accelerate the speed of innovation, be an attractive opportunities, the focus at PRE was placed on carrying out employer and thus shape a successful future. The aim is to Assessment and Development Centres and work assessments utilise the opportunities offered by diversity in all areas of the based on a competency model. The Development Centre company so as to generate added value for employees and also generally defines the development requirements for new or for EnBW. In recognition of this diversity, EnBW took part in the existing managers once a year based on eight managerial skills. Christopher Street Day in Stuttgart for the first time in 2018 with its own float. The motto was “LivingDiversity”. We want to signal At Stadtwerke Düsseldorf (SWD), the focus in terms of through our involvement that our workforce reflects the leadership in the reporting year was placed on the continuation diversity of society and our customers and that we stand for an of the “Management Dialogue” and “Health-oriented Leaderopen society. In November 2018, the second “Diversity and ship” formats, as well as the “Kick-start for new managers” and Innovation” conference was held at the Innovation Campus in “Equal opportunities in leadership” concepts. Karlsruhe with both internal and external participants. The focus was placed on the theme of “Actively managing diversity – VNG started the “Leadership compass” project in 2017. As part of opportunities and challenges”. The aim of the conference was to this project, principles for appreciative leadership were discuss and promote the current diversity agenda at EnBW. developed together with managers. Eight meetings were held on this theme in 2018. The 180 degree feedback process for all The fall in the proportion of women at the first level below the management personnel at the VNG Group, which included a Board of Management was due to one person leaving the self-assessment by the managers and also an assessment by company without replacement and the fact that no other new their superiors and employees, was also carried out. In addition, appointments were made at this level in 2018. EnBW AG is placing there were three managerial and employee days held on the its focus on increasing the number of women at the second level theme of leadership and cooperation in the era of digitalisation. in order to develop suitable candidates for the first level. 98 Management report » The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW The Board of Management has set the goal of further increasing Promotion of young talent the proportion of women in both management levels below the Board of Management in the period from 1 January 2017 to in % 2018 2017 Change 31 December 2020. At both the first level (top management) and Proportion of trainees including second level (upper management), the proportion of women DH students 4.1 4.3 -0.2 should increase to at least 20%. Despite a great deal of effort, these Proportion of working targets were not yet achieved in 2018 (as of 31 December 2018). students/interns 5.0 4.2 0.8 Above and beyond the statutory requirements, the Board of Another part of the HR policy is promoting young talent. The Management focuses on diversity when filling management EnBW Group employed 938 trainees and students from the positions at the EnBW Group and also strives to give appropriate Cooperative State University (DH) as of 31 December 2018. There consideration to women. A fundamental goal of EnBW is to are plans to appoint 346 new trainees and DH students in 2019. appoint women at all levels of the hierarchy. After piloting the multi-stage advisory service “CareerCompass” in 2016, the SWD launched the “Employer brand” project in 2018. Workshops number of women provided with advice increased from 17 in were used here to assess aspects of cooperation and interaction 2017 to 49 in 2018. The advice is specifically designed for women in the company and compare the current situation with the with the potential to assume leadership roles, based on their desired goal. The results from these workshops and interviews previous career experience. The internal EnBW women’s network are summarised in the positioning statement of the company as is a well-used platform for female employees with and without an employer. This is then communicated to the workforce and leadership responsibility to exchange information and ideas. used as the basis for HR marketing. In the external recruitment of young female leadership talent, VNG started discussions with Berufsakademie Sachsen, Staatliche EnBW relies on, amongst other measures, the Femtec network Studienakademie Leipzig (the University of Cooperative and participates in trade fairs and discussion forums tailored Education) in 2017 about replacing the apprenticeship to become specifically for women. In the “Initiative Chefsache” network, an industrial merchant with a dual degree. In particular, the new the company has collaborated in five working groups. These course should take into account the requirements of the digital include groups focussing on the themes of “Rethinking the world. The aim is for VNG and the university to develop a development of talent” and “Part-time management” from module on digitalisation together by 2019 that accounts for which the internal pilot scheme “Management on a partaround 30% of the teaching content. In 2018, three students time/job-sharing basis” was derived in 2018 for employees in started their dual degrees at the university. Both internal and management positions. In the individual business units, sectorexternal workshops on the theme of digital working were also specific events and campaigns are carried out to address held. In a list compiled by the business magazine Focus on “The relevant requirements. For example, the subsidiary Netze BW best employers in Saxony 2018”, VNG was ranked in third place. holds an annual Women’s Day that is specifically tailored to interested female students. ED started a competence management project for the operation and maintenance of power plants in 2018 with a focus on the To ensure the success of the digital transformation at EnBW and following four aspects: competence matrix, competence assessfind the right employees for growth fields such as electroment, career and succession planning, and functional descripmobility, recruitment activities focus on securing the necessary tions. Five information events were held to inform employees new talent on the market. It is becoming increasingly difficult to about the subject matter and train them to use the tools. A find qualified experts with the required know-how on the management workshop was then held at the end of November to external job market. Therefore, EnBW is developing its own evaluate the results from these events. In addition, managers active sourcing expertise to actively seek out potential candiwere trained on how to handle discussions and evaluations, as dates. For this purpose, the placement of advertisements and well as on general themes dealing with the characteristics campaigns together with the channels and media used are required for leadership. oriented towards specific candidates. In addition, EnBW has started an “employees recruit employees” programme in sePRE implemented numerous specific measures in 2018 that lected areas of the company. An example of the success of our focussed on the recruitment of new employees in growth fields measures is the fact that EnBW AG was also certified by the Top and the promotion of young talent. Employers Institute as a Top Employer Germany 2018 based on a comprehensive catalogue of criteria and an external audit. EnBW introduced the new communication platform Yammer in 2018. It offers employees a diverse range of opportunities to exchange ideas, share experiences and work together on different themes. Yammer replaces Teamblog, which was introduced as the first digital dialogue medium within the Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » The EnBW Group 99 Group at the end of 2014. Every employee can use the new dates by €80, €50 and then a further €50. The collective platform to write articles, start small surveys and exchange bargaining agreement at PRE was extended by two years at the ideas and information within public and closed groups. These beginning of 2018. The agreed increase in remuneration was groups are not tied to the departments and can be directly set above the guaranteed minimum increase in the previous up by all employees. The decision to launch Yammer as the collective bargaining agreement due to the challenges on the official communication channel is the result of a joint project by Czech labour market. IT and internal communication in close cooperation with the works council. Health management: The welfare of employees has always been an important issue for EnBW. As part of occupational health and Employment conditions and structures: Further efficiency safety management, the company offers a variety of activities in measures in some of the operational areas and functional units the areas of occupational safety and health protection in the key of EnBW AG are necessary to achieve additional savings up to companies. For example, a week-long campaign on the theme of 2020. In the functional units, the main focus was placed on the “Don't stress about stress” was held at the Karlsruhe site at the realignment of the IT department. In 2018, special emphasis was beginning of October 2018 in which employees of EnBW were placed on training employees and recruiting new employees able to participate in talks and workshops. In addition, with key skills with respect to digitalisation and further employees were able to measure their heart rate variability to strengthening the business orientation of the IT department. obtain information on their own personal stress levels. Another The ongoing efficiency enhancement programme in the area of example is provided by the health days that were organised by conventional generation was rigorously continued. In the area EnBW at the start of the 2018 training year for the new of nuclear generation, further measures were agreed for the commercial and technical apprentices at the sites in Karlsruhe, transition to the dismantling of the power plants. As a response Stuttgart, Heilbronn and Biberach. During these health days, the to the increasing market pressure and in order to retain or apprentices were able to gain an overview of the health services enhance market viability and competitiveness and thus offered by EnBW – from medical examinations and health safeguard jobs, B2C services and activities relating to the thirdcourses through to preventative measures for specific target party market were realigned within the operations business groups. In addition, the police departments at each of the unit. Alongside the optimisation of the organisational structure training sites supported the preventative activities offered by that was completed on 1 April 2018, this included the successful EnBW with talks and workshops on themes such as addiction to introduction of new, agile, cross-functional working methods. alcohol, drugs, mobile phones, the Internet and gaming, as well As part of the further refinement of the organisational structure, as traffic safety, cyberbullying, violence prevention and the another challenging milestone was achieved when the Yello correct use of digital media. brand went live on the new IT platform. This will make it possible to reduce the number of employees within the planned All of the teams and departments at ED were surveyed on the time period using socially acceptable tools. Other effects were subject of “Risk assessment – psychological stress” in 2018 and achieved through adjustments to provisions in collective the first measures were derived from the results. Furthermore, bargaining agreements as of 1 April 2018, such as increasing the the possibilities for working from home and for mobile working weekly working hours, extending the framework working hours were expanded as part of the measures undertaken for validation and adjustments to classifications. of the “berufundfamilie” (“career and family”) certificate. PRE offers, amongst other things, a comprehensive preventative Despite difficult underlying conditions, EnBW also achieved its programme that focuses on breast, skin and prostate cancer. SWD ambitious earnings target in 2018. The Board of Management has a programme focussing on health-oriented management at honoured the huge efforts made by the whole EnBW team with the team leader level. There are also numerous opportunities for its decision to pay a profit-sharing bonus in 2018. The existing employees to improve their personal fitness and take advantage arrangement – according to which no profit-sharing bonus of preventative healthcare, such as seasonal flu injections. VNG should be paid in 2018 – was once again suspended in offers a comprehensive range of preventative occupational agreement with the works councils. medicine in the fields of heart, circulation, metabolism and musculoskeletal illnesses via its company doctors and also The union ver.di and the Employers Association for Electricity carries out eye and hearing tests as well as ECG and laboratory Power Plants in Baden-Württemberg agreed on 19 February 2018 testing. In addition, the company arranges appointments with that remuneration will increase by 3.0% from 1 February 2018. specialist doctors at short notice in cooperation with a health– Remuneration will increase uniformly for all trainees by €70. care centre in Leipzig. Holiday pay under the collective agreement was increased by 9.0%. This collective remuneration agreement was terminated Sickness ratio by the union by the due date of 28 February 2019. The negotiations for a follow-up agreement resulted in an agreement in % 2018 2017 Change on 28 February 2019 whereby tariff-based remuneration will Sickness ratio 5.1 5.0 0.1 increase in three stages over a period that runs until at least 28 February 2021: by 2.5% from 1 March 2019, by a further 1.9% from 1 November 2019 and by an additional 1.9% from 1 July The sickness ratio did not change significantly compared to the 2020. The remuneration rates for trainees will increase on these previous year. 100 Management report » The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Other performance indicators Employees of the EnBW Group 1 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Change in % Sales 3,657 3,331 9.8 Grids 8,920 8,858 0.7 Renewable Energies 1,144 1,050 9.0 Generation and Trading 5,419 5,457 -0.7 Other 2,635 2,656 -0.8 Total 21,775 21,352 2.0 Number of full-time equivalents 2 20,379 19,939 2.2 1 Number of employees excluding apprentices/trainees and inactive employees. 2 Converted into full-time equivalents. As of 31 December 2018, the EnBW Group had 21,775 employees. Occupational safety As new appointments are only being made in strategic growth fields, the number of employees was just slightly higher than The main goals of EnBW in the area of occupational safety are to the level at the end of 2017. The increase in the Sales segment avoid accidents and work-related illness, to create a safe working was mainly due to restructuring within the Group. This was environment and clearly regulate responsibilities, roles and offset to some extent by the withdrawal from the B2B processes. In order to achieve these targets, EnBW already commodity business under the EnBW and Watt brands. The founded the Occupational Safety Working Group (AK KAS) in number of employees in the Grids segment increased compared 2003. AK KAS has the task of regulating issues that affect all to the previous year’s reporting date. This was due to two companies uniformly within the Group. Its scope of application conflicting developments: on the one hand, the movement of covers those companies that use LTIF as a performance indicaemployees to the Sales and Renewable Energies segments as tor. AK KAS is headed by the Chief Technical Officer of EnBW part of the restructuring, and on the other hand, an increase in and has the power to make binding decisions in accordance the number of employees due to the growing importance of the with the company’s rules of procedure. regulated business and the first-time consolidation of Technologie Service Heilbronn GmbH. The reduction in the Generation LTIF and Trading segment was mainly due to the deconsolidation of The key performance indicator LTIF is used to measure the VNG Norge. Restructuring within the Group and the associated number of accidents at work and the resulting days of absence. transfer of employees to the Sales segment and the planned Every Group company included in the consolidated companies departure of employees based on earlier restructuring profor the LTIF receives an individual target from the Board of grammes resulted in a decrease in the number of employees in Management for the relevant year – the fulfilment of this LTIF the “Other” segment. However, these two effects were partially target flows into the monetary assessments for the achievement balanced out due to the new appointments in the business areas of relevant targets. Above and beyond these targets, the comof digitalisation and critical infrastructure. panies also set their own individual targets. Turnover Key performance indicator in % 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change in % Forecast 2018 Employee turnover ratio 6.5 7.0 -0.5 LTIF 1 2.3 3.0 -23.3 ≤ 3.7 2 1 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (consideration of all employees In contrast to 2017, there were no new restructuring proat those companies controlled by the Group, except external agency workers and grammes in 2018. The employee turnover ratio thus fell in contractors). 2 Three-year target for 2017, 2018 and 2019. comparison to the previous year. Further performance indicators for employees, such as the In 2018, the LTIF improved significantly compared to the preregional distribution or age structure of our employees, can be vious year to 2.3, after this key performance indicator had found on our website at www.enbw.com/performance-indicators. already experienced a noticeable drop in 2017. However, the average days of absence per accident rose to 22.2 (previous We also refer you to the details provided in the “Report on year: 16.8). We believe that the significant improvement in opportunities and risks” (p. 118). occupational safety at EnBW is the result of consistent and effective activities in the area of occupational safety and health protection. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » The EnBW Group 101 In the reporting year, there was a fatal accident at a third-party We also refer you to the details provided in the “Report on company that was working on behalf of the EnBW Group. opportunities and risks” (p. 118). The measures for achieving targets are independently defined by the Group companies. There were various different activities Environment goal dimension focussing on occupational safety in 2018: The main subsidiaries of EnBW that have to deal with The new software EcoWebDesk (EWD) – which has been called environmental issues have an environmental management Quentic since October 2018 – was introduced into further areas system certified according to DIN EN ISO 14001:2015. These at EnBW. The technical preparations for the deployment of include, amongst others, EnBW AG, Netze BW, Stadtwerke Quentic have largely been concluded. Important elements of Düsseldorf and Energiedienst Holding. In accordance with the Quentic are the documentation of risk assessments and DIN standard, these environmental management systems hazardous substance management. The launch of the “Risk & follow a concept of continuous improvement in environmental Audit” (audit management) module at our subsidiary Netze BW performance which is based on the method Plan-Do-Check-Act will begin in 2019. (PDCA). The systems encompass the definition and realisation of environmental targets with their performance indicators and In the Grids segment, a series of campaigns to further improve corresponding measures, the procedures and responsibilities the safety culture were carried out in 2018: and the identification of environmentally relevant risks and opportunities. Alongside the Group environmental targets, › A meeting of the safety officers to discuss the latest issues which are modelled with the aid of the key performance was held in April. In addition, some manufacturers presented indicators, the main subsidiaries that have to deal with their products in the area of personal protective equipment environmental issues have also defined additional, quantified at this large event. Seminars have been offered for the safety environmental targets within the scope of their environmental officers to help them improve their role since the end of 2017. management systems – especially in the areas of energy › The occupational safety management system was successsaving/efficiency and mobility. Using established due diligence fully recertified in September. processes and internal audit programmes, the agreed regu› In November, Netze BW carried out a “Flashlight Day” across lations and guidelines are then monitored in terms of legal and all sites to raise awareness amongst employees for occupaother requirements, as well as with regard to the defined tional safety and health protection. environmental targets. In addition, the effectiveness of the › The project “Working safely on the grid” (SaiN), which was measures and targets is examined by external certification designed to ensure that employees working on behalf of the bodies as part of the annual conformity audits of the environgrid operating companies are trained to a sufficient level, was mental management systems. If necessary, the processes and concluded in 2018. guidelines, as well as the targets and measures, will be adjusted. The consistent implementation and further development of the In the area of conventional and renewable generation, a two-day environmental management system guarantees that significant campaign called “Occupational safety days” was held at each of negative impacts on the environment can be avoided as well as the power plant sites. Rescue concepts (rescuing at heights and possible. Risks generally exist in the area of environmental depths) at the individual sites were also improved further. In protection due to the operation of power generation and transaddition, the “100 days without accidents” campaign started in mission plants and the possible consequences for the air, water, 2015 was continued. The 100-day goal was achieved a total of 16 soil and ozone layer. These risks are countered by EnBW using times across a number of power plant sites. an emergency and crisis management system that has been implemented throughout the Group and includes compreThe main focus at SWD was placed on the following activities: hensive organisational and procedural measures. › As part of the occupational safety and healthcare protection Our Group environmental targets are related to the expansion programme OS/HP Programme 2015plus, a concept for of renewable energies and making our contribution to climate dealing with “near accidents” was developed. protection. These targets are measured using the key perform› The workshop covering behavioural aspects was continued as ance indicators “installed output of renewable energies (RE) and part of the OS/HP Programme 2015plus. the share of the generation capacity accounted for by RE” and › As part of the “RheinSchiene” project, a special “safety CO2 intensity (Glossary, p. 152). officers’ day” was held for the first time in Düsseldorf. 102 Management report » The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Expansion of Renewable Energies Installed output of renewable energies (RE) and the share of the generation capacity accounted for by RE In the reporting year, the installed output of renewable energies Key performance indicator increased by 387 MW to around 3.7 GW and was thus within the 2018 2017 Change Forecast range of the forecast. This was primarily due to the comin % 2018 missioning of the pumped storage power plant ObervermuntInstalled output of RE werk II. In addition, 178 MW was attributable to the expansion in GW and the share and acquisition of several onshore wind farms with a total of of the generation capacity accounted 3.6–3.7 / 81 wind turbines. An additional 22 MW of output was added at for by RE in % ¹ 3.7 / 27.9 3.4 / 25.8 8.8 / 8.1 27–28 photovoltaic power plants. Overall, the share of the generation 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. capacity accounted for by RE increased – within the range of the forecast – to 27.9%. Breakdown of the generation portfolio of the Own generation of the EnBW Group 1 by EnBW Group 1 (as of 31/12) primary energy source Electrical output 2, 3 in MW 2018 2017 in GWh 2018 2017 Renewable Energies 3,738 3,351 Renewable Energies 8,414 8,290 Run-of-river power plants 1,006 1,004 Run-of-river power plants 4,846 5,012 Storage/pumped storage power Storage/pumped storage power plants using the natural flow of plants using the natural flow of water 3 1,507 1,327 water 1,030 946 Onshore wind 718 540 Onshore wind 996 661 Offshore wind 336 336 Offshore wind 1,233 1,416 Other renewable energies 171 144 Other renewable energies 309 255 Thermal power plants 4 9,661 9,656 Thermal power plants 2 45,078 41,904 Brown coal 875 875 Brown coal 6,048 6,027 Hard coal 3,491 3,523 Hard coal 12,868 12,977 Gas 1,468 1,431 Gas 3,518 3,436 Other thermal power plants 349 349 Other thermal power plants 198 211 Pumped storage power plants that Pumped storage power plants that do not use the natural flow of water 3 545 545 do not use the natural flow of water 1,790 1,721 Nuclear power plants 2,933 2,933 Nuclear power plants 20,656 17,532 Installed output of EnBW Group 5 13,399 13,007 Own generation of the EnBW Group 53,492 50,194 of which renewable in % 27.9 25.8 of which renewable in % 15.7 16.5 of which low CO2 in % 6 15.0 15.2 of which low CO2 in % 3 9.9 10.3 1 The generation portfolio includes long-term procurement agreements and 1 Own electricity generation includes long-term procurement agreements and generation from partly owned power plants. partly owned power plants. 2 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 2 Including pumped storage power plants that do not use the natural flow of water. 3 Output values irrespective of marketing channel, for storage: generation capacity. 3 Excluding renewable energies; only gas power plants and storage power plants 4 Including pumped storage power plants that do not use the natural flow of water. that do not use the natural flow of water. 5 In addition, power plants with an installed output of 1,706 MW were registered for decommissioning. However, they were classified as system-relevant by the Federal Network Agency and TransnetBW and are thus used by TransnetBW as reserve grid capacity. Own generation of the EnBW Group increased in 2018 compared 6 Excluding renewable energies; only gas power plants and storage power plants that do not use the natural flow of water. to the previous year to around 53.5 TWh. Generation based on renewable energy sources mainly increased due to the expansion of onshore wind power. This was offset to some extent by lower generation from offshore wind power due to unfavourable wind conditions, and at the run-of-river power plants due to low water levels in the second half of 2018. The proportion of own generation from renewable energy sources fell despite the increased generation in comparison to 2017 to 15.7%. The reason for this was an increase in own generation from nuclear energy caused by the extension of the inspection and related production shortfall at KKP 2 in the previous year. In October 2018, a green bond (Glossary, p. 153) was issued to finance, amongst other things, the further expansion of the onshore wind farm portfolio (p. 85 f.). Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » The EnBW Group 103 Climate protection its gas sales due to the acquisition of VNG. VNG was only fully consolidated in the second quarter of 2017. Gas sales in the first quarter were thus reported for the first time in the 2018 Key performance indicator financial year. This resulted in a significant increase in Scope 3 2018 2017 Change Forecast emissions. As a result of the increased generation from renewin % 2018 able energy sources and rise in the use of biomethane, CO2 CO2 intensity emissions avoided rose from 6.3 to 6.9 million t CO2eq. in g/kWh 553 556 -0.5 -10% to 0% Energy consumption: Total final energy consumption includes CO2 intensity the consumption of final energy for the business activities of The CO2 intensity (Glossary, p. 152) of own generation of elecEnBW. It does not include conversion losses during energy tricity excluding nuclear power fell slightly in comparison to the generation or grid losses. Total final energy consumption is previous year by 0.5% to 553 g/kWh and was thus within our mostly influenced by pump energy as well as the company’s forecasted range. This fall was due to the higher generation from own consumption requirements and the operating consumprenewable sources and the simultaneous almost constant level tion of the power plants. It remained almost unchanged at the of electricity generation from fossil fuels in comparison to 2017. same level as in the previous year at 3,252 GWh. Other performance indicators The proportion of renewable energies in the final energy conIn addition to the key performance indicators in the area of the sumption increased from 49% in 2017 to 51% in 2018. This was environment, EnBW utilises a broad range of additional environprimarily due to an increase in pump energy at the pumped mental indicators for measuring, controlling and presenting the storage power plants operated by Vorarlberger Illwerke, which other results of its environmentally relevant activities. The most utilise green electricity. important performance indicators are presented in the following table on p. 104. A comprehensive presentation of the environThe energy consumption of our buildings covers the energy mental performance indicators for EnBW can be found on the required for heating rooms, providing hot water and electricity. Internet at www.enbw.com/umweltschutz. The energy consumption of buildings per employee increased from 10,214 kWh in 2017 to 10,482 kWh in 2018. This increase is There is also information available here on our wide-ranging not due to higher energy consumption, but rather to the fact measures to improve energy efficiency, the conservation of that VNG was only fully consolidated in the second quarter of biological diversity and the protection of nature and species, 2017. Accordingly, the high amount of energy consumed by such as our EnBW amphibian protection programmes or on VNG for heating due to the weather conditions in the first ecological enhancement measures in the area of our hydroquarter of 2017 was not included in the figures and resulted in electric power plants. In addition, further information relating lower energy consumption per employee for the previous year. to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI standards) can be found on the Internet. Environmental protection expenditure: We report environmental protection expenditure in line with the requirements of Carbon footprint: Direct CO2 emissions are determined mainly the statistical offices and using the guidelines published by our by the deployment of power plants. The slight decrease in elecsector association, the BDEW. Investment in the expansion of tricity generation from coal led to a corresponding reduction in renewable energies in 2018 was below the level in the previous the direct CO2 emissions from 16.7 to 16.6 million t CO2eq. Lower year. The reason for this development was the sharp expansion indirect CO2 emissions from grid losses led to a fall in Scope 2 in onshore wind farms in 2017. This led to a reduction in CO2 emissions from 1.1 million t CO2 to 1.0 million t CO2eq. The investment for environmental protection to €535 million and a Scope 3 CO2 emissions are mainly influenced by the gas condrop in the ongoing expenditure relating to environmental sumption of our customers. EnBW has significantly expanded protection to €268 million in comparison to the previous year. 104 Management report » The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Environmental performance indicators Unit 2018 2017 Carbon footprint Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1) 1, 2 millions of t CO2eq 16.6 16.7 Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2) 3 millions of t CO2eq 1.0 1.2 Other indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 3) 4 millions of t CO2eq 33.6 23.7 CO2 emissions avoided 2, 5 millions of t CO2eq 6.9 6.3 CO2 intensity of business journeys and travel 6 g CO2/km 181 176 Energy consumption Total final energy consumption 2, 7 GWh 3,252 3,254 Proportion of renewable energies in final energy consumption 2, 8 % 51 49 Energy consumption of buildings per employee 2, 9 kWh/MA 10,482 10,214 Environmental protection expenditure 10 Investment in environmental protection € million 535 650 Current environmental protection expenses 2 € million 268 345 1 Preliminary data. 2 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 3 Includes greenhouse gas emissions through electricity grid losses and through electricity consumption of plants in the gas and electricity grid, water supplies and buildings. 4 Includes greenhouse gas emissions through consumption of purchased electricity volumes by customers, consumption of gas by customers, fuel provision and business travel. 5 Includes CO2 emissions avoided through the expansion of renewable energies, through energy efficiency projects with customers/partners and through the generation and sale of biogas. 6 Includes all business travel and business activities (Scope 1 and Scope 3). 7 Includes final energy consumption of production including pump energy, energy consumption of grid facilities (electricity, gas and water) excluding grid losses, energy consumption of buildings and vehicles. 8 For electricity consumption for which the proportion of renewable energies is unknown, a proportion of renewable energies in accordance with the current Bundesmix (federal mix) label for electricity of 32% is used. For fuels, a proportion of 5% bioethanol is generally used. 9 Calculated partially on the basis of assumptions and estimations. 10 Pursuant to the German Environmental Statistics Act (UStatG) and BDEW guidelines on the recognition of investment and ongoing expenditure relating to environmental protection (April 2007). Mobility at EnBW: EnBW further expanded its fleet of electric guarantee that there is a sufficient level of residual water and also cars to 167 vehicles in 2018 and continues to follow the goal of ensure that this water is used for climate-friendly energy being one of the largest electric fleet operators in Germany. generation such as at the hydropower plants in Wyhlen and Ladenburg. In order to motivate its employees to use alternative, environmentally friendly solutions for the daily trip to work, EnBW Conservation of biological diversity: EnBW initiated the introduced attractive incentives for employees in 2018. These programme “Stimuli for Diversity” for the protection of amincluded, for example, a subsidy for the purchase of a yearly ticket phibian species together with the LUBW (Baden-Württemberg to use the public transport systems in Karlsruhe and Stuttgart. In State Institute for the Environment) in 2011. Due to the major the “job bike” scheme, EnBW as an employer offers its employees success of and positive response to the programme in the first the opportunity to purchase high-quality bikes and e-bikes at five years, the funding programme was updated in 2016 and has favourable conditions. As part of the “Your BMW i3” campaign, since also included funding for protective measures for reptiles. 180 employees were drawn at random from the numerous The EnBW funding programme “Stimuli for Diversity” is part applicants and were given the opportunity to purchase the latest of the project “The economy and business for nature”, which BMW i3 model at favourable conditions so they can complete is a component of the state initiative “Active for biological their daily commute using electric power in future. diversity”. It still remains the only conservation programme from a company both in Baden-Württemberg and nationwide Hydropower: Electricity generated from hydropower protects that not only funds the protection of one single species but two the climate. At the same time, the use of hydropower also whole groups of species across the state. In the reporting year, encroaches on nature. Therefore, EnBW is committed to nine further projects were realised. More than 100 measures harmonising hydropower with ecology. If power plants cause have been implemented in total across Baden-Württemberg changes to the natural landscape, we compensate for these since the start of the funding programme, which have successeffects through ecological enhancement measures. For example, fully improved the living conditions for many endangered we ensure or improve the continuity of watercourses by species in the state. EnBW will also continue the funding constructing or optimising fish passes and fish ladders for fish to programme in 2019 based on this tried-and-tested method. ascend or descend the river, such as at the small hydroelectric power plant in Maulburg. By constructing weir turbines, we We also refer you to the details provided in the “Report on opportunities and risks” (p. 118 f.). Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » EnBW AG 105 EnBW AG The financial statements of EnBW AG have been prepared in For statements that are necessary to understand the position of accordance with the regulations in the German Commercial EnBW AG and which are not explicitly described in the following Code (HGB), the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and the sections, especially those relating to the strategy of the law governing the electricity and gas industries in Germany company and economic and political conditions, please refer to (Energy Industry Act – EnWG). The regulations for large corthe information provided for the EnBW Group (p. 48 ff. and 72 ff.). porations apply. The full financial statements of EnBW AG are available for download at (www.enbw.com/report2018-downloads). The financial statements as audited by the KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Frankfurt am Main, as well as The annual net profit which indicates the company’s ability to pay the management report of EnBW AG contained in the Group a dividend is an important performance indicator for EnBW AG. management report, will be published in the German Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger). Results of operations of EnBW AG Condensed income statement of EnBW AG in € million 1 2018 2017 Change in % Revenue 24,883.1 16,734.6 48.7 Cost of materials -24,364.2 -15,969.4 52.6 Amortisation and depreciation -458.1 -436.4 5.0 Other operating result -502.6 1,228.7 -140.9 Earnings before interest and taxes -441.8 1,557.5 -128.4 Financial result -73.0 673.9 -111.4 Tax -285.9 -241.7 18.3 Annual net loss/profit -800.7 1,989.7 -140.4 1 In accordance with German commercial law. EnBW AG reports an annual net loss of €800.7 million. The sub€8,042.6 million to €21,780.3 million. This effect was further stantial decrease in comparison to the previous year was mainly strengthened by increasing prices on the energy markets. influenced by €1,999.3 million lower earnings before interest and However, the increase in revenue was also offset by the increase taxes and the decrease in the financial result of €746.9 million. in the cost of materials of €8,177.5 million to €21,207.5 million. The operating result of EnBW AG is primarily determined by the Revenues from sales activities were split into €1,746.0 million revenues generated from electricity and gas sales, as well as by for electricity and €189.6 million for gas, which represented an the associated cost of materials. overall drop of €128.5 million. In the earnings before interest and taxes, the increase in In the retail and end customer sector (B2C), electricity sales were revenue of €8,148.5 million was offset by an increase in the cost below the level in the previous year, decreasing by 0.3 billion of materials of €8,394.8 million. kWh to 6.9 billion kWh, which was also reflected in the fall in revenue. This was due to, amongst other things, increasing The revenue (after the deduction of electricity and energy taxes) energy efficiency and a slight fall in the contract portfolio. Gas of €24,883.1 million primarily includes revenue from electricity sales of 3.9 billion kWh in the same period were 0.1 billion kWh sales of €11,904.0 million and from gas sales of €11,771.5 million. higher than in the previous year due to the increasing number Electricity and gas sales comprise both the trading business, of contracts. Revenue was thus at around the same level as in involving deliveries to trading partners and stock exchanges, the previous year. and sales activities in the form of the direct delivery of energy to end customers. Due to the closure of the commodity sales business at a subsidiary, the reserve supply held for B2B customers and the As a result of the significant expansion in trading activities in internal supply contracts held within the Group were 2018, the trading business recorded an increase in revenue of transferred to EnBW AG. The sales to business customers (B2B) 106 Management report » EnBW AG Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW in the electricity business stood at 0.8 billion kWh as a result and from reversals of impairments of €132.5 million and lower were 0.7 billion kWh above the figure in the previous year. Gas earnings from the disposal of assets of €192.6 million in sales in the B2B sector increased in the same period by 0.1 billion comparison to the previous year. kWh to 0.3 billion kWh. The negative development of the financial result was mainly The cost of materials includes costs for electricity procureinfluenced by special dividend payments received from funds in ment of €10,507.8 million and costs for gas procurement of the previous year of €364.0 million, higher impairment losses €11,600.4 million. on financial assets of €98.8 million and higher interest expenses for pension provisions of €219.2 million. This mainly includes Alongside scheduled amortisation and depreciation, the amorthigher accretion of the provisions of €59.1 million and lower isation and depreciation item includes impairment losses of valuation effects within the Contractual Trust Arrangement €90.4 million. (CTA) of €144.0 million in comparison to the previous year. The considerable decrease in the other operating result was The tax expense in the 2018 financial year was €285.9 million, primarily attributable to the positive extraordinary effect in the which represents an increase of €44.2 million. The taxes mainly previous year of the reimbursement of the nuclear fuel rod tax. comprise allocations to the provisions for tax audit risks. The The share attributable to EnBW AG was €1,340.0 million. Other option of recognising a surplus of deferred tax assets was not important effects in the 2018 financial year were lower earnings exercised. Net assets of EnBW AG Balance sheet of EnBW AG in € million 1 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Change in % Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 635.4 762.2 -16.6 Property, plant and equipment 1,248.4 1,385.3 -9.9 Financial assets 20,130.5 19,558.1 2.9 22,014.3 21,705.6 1.4 Current assets Inventories 446.7 594.9 -24.9 Receivables and other assets 3,336.4 3,123.1 6.8 Securities 119.2 114.3 4.3 Cash and cash equivalents 628.1 1,655.7 -62.1 4,530.4 5,488.0 -17.4 Prepaid expenses 1,226.3 545.0 125.0 Surplus from offsetting 268.1 266.1 0.8 28,039.1 28,004.7 0.1 Equity and liabilities Equity Subscribed capital 708.1 708.1 0.0 Treasury shares -14.7 -14.7 0.0 Issued capital (693.4) (693.4) (0.0) Capital reserve 776.0 776.0 0.0 Revenue reserves 1,872.5 2,124.5 -11.9 Retained earnings 279.1 963.2 -71.4 3,621.0 4,557.1 -20.6 Extraordinary items 24.0 23.6 1.7 Provisions 11,032.4 10,965.9 0.6 Liabilities 12,414.7 12,044.4 3.1 Deferred income 947.0 413.7 128.9 28,039.1 28,004.7 0.1 1 In accordance with German commercial law. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » EnBW AG 107 The net assets of EnBW AG as of 31 December 2018 are sigNon-current liabilities exist to the amount of €2,622.0 million to nificantly influenced by the non-current assets (particularly the EnBW International Finance B.V. as part of the Debt Issuance financial assets), the receivables and other assets, as well as by Programme (DIP) (Glossary, p. 152), to the amount of €1,992.6 million cash and cash equivalents. These are primarily offset by nonfrom the issuing of three hybrid bonds and to the amount of current liabilities and provisions relating to nuclear power and €668.2 million from loan agreements with credit institutions. for pensions and similar obligations. The aim is to cover the non-current pension and nuclear proFinancial assets primarily consist of shares in affiliated entities visions with appropriate financial assets within an economically to the amount of €13,463.3 million, securities in non-current feasible time period. Overall, financial assets of €20,130.5 million assets to the amount of €2,751.7 million and equity investments are offset by long-term debt of €14,758.3 million. to the amount of €1,914.0 million. The increase in financial assets of €572.4 million includes, on the one hand, shares in The liquidity of EnBW AG on the reporting date guarantees the affiliated entities primarily as a result of payments into the solvency of the company for the payment of current liabilities capital reserve of EnBW Offshore 3 GmbH of €258.0 million and from the operating business. EnBW Renewables International GmbH of €82.7 million. In addition, loans to affiliated entities increased by €134.7 million in comparison to the previous year. Financial position of EnBW AG Trade receivables to the amount of €784.2 million mainly In comparison to the reporting date in the previous year, the comprise receivables for trading activities and consumption liquidity of EnBW AG decreased from €1,655.7 million by accruals for electricity and gas deliveries not yet invoiced and €1,027.6 million to €628.1 million. were €587.2 million below the figure in the previous year. The cash flows of EnBW AG fundamentally arise from both its The cash and cash equivalents of EnBW AG totalling €628.1 million own operating business and also those of its subsidiaries which mainly consist of bank deposits, which are invested as time balance payments received and made via the bank accounts of deposits to the amount of €492.7 million. More details on the EnBW AG as part of the intercompany cash pooling system development of this item can be found under “Financial (Glossary, p. 152) within the framework of the central financing position of EnBW AG”. and liquidity management. The provisions for pensions and similar obligations held by Important business transactions that had an effect on the EnBW AG to the amount of €4,768.5 million combine obligafinancial position of EnBW AG in the financial year are tions from the company pension scheme and other company summarised below: agreements made by major subsidiaries and EnBW AG. The resulting annual expenses for retirement benefits are paid by An important liquidity-related business transaction in the the subsidiaries concerned in each case. The increase in the reporting year was an investment in the area of renewable provisions for pensions and similar obligations of €504.5 million energies to the amount of €305.9 million. was mainly due to the effect of the further decrease in the discount rate as in the previous year. In addition, provisions Bonds issued by EnBW International Finance B.V. as part of the relating to nuclear power of €3,921.3 million are disclosed, which DIP with a total volume of €835.8 million were repaid on time by arise due to public law obligations and requirements in the the company. This was offset by the issuing of a bond with a operating licences. volume of €500.0 million and a commercial paper (Glossary, p. 152) with a volume of €250.0 million. The associated liability Of the liabilities totalling €12,414.7 million, €6,470.4 million to EnBW International Finance B.V. changed accordingly. have a residual term of more than one year. Overall, there are liabilities of €8,233.3 million to affiliated entities, which Cash and cash equivalents of €219.1 million were used as primarily result from intercompany settlement transactions collateral for trading transactions. within the framework of the centralised financial and liquidity management, as well as from loan agreements. A total of €135.4 million was distributed to the shareholders of EnBW AG in dividends. The increase in liabilities by €370.3 million was mainly due to the increase in other liabilities from margin payments of In the 2018 financial year, EnBW AG paid tax arrears for income €362.9 million and to option premiums received of €70.9 million. tax from previous years (including the associated interest) in This was offset by the repayment of a bank loan with a volume the amount of €131.3 million. of €70.5 million. 108 Management report » EnBW AG Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Overall assessment of the economic these effects, the annual net profit will be between €200 million situation of EnBW AG and the developand €300 million. The amount from the valuation of the provisions for pension obligations and the valuation of the ment of EnBW AG dedicated financial assets (Glossary, p. 152) in the CTA that is ineligible for distribution as dividends will stand at around In our judgement, the development of the results of operations, €850 million by 31 December 2019. In 2020 and 2021, we expect financial position and net assets of EnBW AG as of 31 December the negative impacts on earnings due to the falling average 2018 is satisfactory after taking into account the effects desinterest rate to lessen. cribed below that are not relevant to the ongoing management of the company. In the previous year, an annual net loss of €400 million was expected in 2018. The annual net loss for 2018 Opportunities and risks stands at €800.7 million and was significantly influenced by effects not relevant to the ongoing management of the As the business performance, economic situation and opporcompany, which arose both at EnBW AG itself and also at its tunities and risks relating to the future development of EnBW AG subsidiaries which had an impact on EnBW AG due to profit and do not deviate from the business performance, economic loss transfer agreements. situation and opportunities and risks relating to the future development of the EnBW Group, the management report of The main effects not relevant to the ongoing management EnBW AG is combined with that of the EnBW Group (p. 114 ff.). of the company were higher interest expenses for pension provisions and provisions relating to nuclear power totalling €571.5 million (€518.0 million of which is reported under interest Comments on reporting expense of EnBW AG) resulting from the drop in the discount rate and were thus €33.5 million higher than expected. FurtherThe consolidated financial statements of EnBW AG are prepared more, the allocations to the provisions relating to nuclear in accordance with section 315 e (1) HGB using the International power, mainly due to the higher rate of increase of costs, of Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) set by the International €284.0 million (of which €208.8 million was reported under the Accounting Standards Board (IASB), the adoption of which is cost of materials of EnBW AG) had a negative effect and were mandatory in the EU as of the reporting date. As a vertically €160.0 million higher than expected. Other negative effects integrated energy company in the sense of EnWG, EnBW AG arose from income taxes relating to other periods (mainly from engages in other activities within the electricity sector, other tax audit risks) of €319.9 million, as well as impairment losses on activities within the gas sector and other activities outside of the financial assets of €104.3 million and on intangible assets and electricity and gas sectors in accordance with section 6 b (3) property, plant and equipment of €90.4 million. Further negative sentence 3 and sentence 4 EnWG. effects on earnings were the extension to the inspection of Block 2 of the Neckarwestheim nuclear power plant (GKN II) and the lower electricity generation from the run-of-river power EnBW share and dividend policy plants as a result of low water levels caused by the unfavourable weather conditions. As a result of the small proportion of EnBW shares in free float (www.enbw.com/shareholder-structure), events on the financial These were mainly offset by the reversal of provisions for markets and the development of the DAX generally only have a onerous contracts of €278.0 million and the reversal of impairvery minor influence on the development of the EnBW share ment losses on property, plant and equipment and financial price. The price of EnBW shares was €28.80 at the start of 2018 and assets of €190.2 million. stood at €29.20 by the end of the year (www.enbw.com/stock-chart). Based on an annual net loss of €800.7 million and taking The trust placed in EnBW by capital market participants is based account of the profit carried forward of €827.8 million and the on the value generated by the company. Against this backwithdrawals from other revenue reserves of €252.0 million, ground, EnBW pursues the aim of disclosing a positive internal retained earnings amounted to €279.1 million. financing capability and refraining from building up any additional net financial debt. The size of the dividend is thus We anticipate an annual net profit of around €200 million in also based on the amount of net investment and the retained 2019. The net result for the year will be negatively influenced by cash flow, whereby EnBW strives to generally pay out between high interest expenses for non-current provisions. As a result of 40% and 60% of adjusted Group net profit. Based on the annual the low-interest phase, the average interest rate will fall further net loss of EnBW AG of €800.7 million and taking account of the in the future. In 2019, we expect a negative impact on earnings profit carried forward of €827.8 million and the withdrawals due to effects not relevant to the ongoing management of the from other revenue reserves of €252.0 million, there are company of between €500 million and €600 million overall. retained earnings of €279.1 million for the financial year and These negative impacts on earnings will be offset by expected thus dividends will be paid for the 2018 financial year. If positive effects on earnings that are not relevant to the ongoing approved by the Annual General Meeting, the dividend to be management of the company of €500 million. Adjusted for distributed for the 2018 financial year will be €0.65 per share. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Overall assessment of the economic situation of the Group 109 Overall assessment of the economic situation of the Group The energy sector in Germany has been experiencing profound In total, these developments – together with the changes in the change since 2012 due to the Energiewende. The share of investment result, financial result and income taxes – resulted electricity generation accounted for by renewable energies is in a Group net profit attributable to EnBW shareholders for the increasing, driven by regulatory funding mechanisms, the trend 2018 financial year of €334.2 million. In the previous year, the towards decentralisation and technological advances. Nuclear Group net profit attributable to EnBW shareholders was electricity generation will cease by 2022. The use of fossil fuels, €2,054.1 million. Earnings per share thus fell from €7.58 in the above all brown coal and hard coal, is currently the subject of previous year to €1.23 in 2018. intense political debate. Another driver of change in the energy sector are new patterns of demand amongst customers due to The financial position of the company remains sound. The an increasing desire for autonomy and sustainability, as well as solvency of the EnBW Group was ensured at all times falling energy consumption due to improved energy efficiency. throughout the 2018 financial year thanks to the company’s The energy landscape is becoming increasingly interconnected available liquidity and the external sources available for with other economic sectors, such as in the area of financing. In October 2018, EnBW issued its first green bond electromobility. As a consequence, energy supply companies (Glossary, p. 153) with a volume of €500 million that was very require new business models and the revitalisation of their well received on the market. The key performance indicator corporate cultures. internal financing capability stood at 93.2% in 2018 and was slightly below the target value of ≥ 100% due to a decrease in EnBW is well on track in its EnBW 2020 strategy to once again adjusted retained cash flow. The fall in the key performance achieve the same level of earnings in 2020 as in 2012 – although indicator ROCE was mainly due to the increase in the average on the basis of a realigned business portfolio. EnBW confirmed capital employed. in 2018 that it had turned the corner in terms of earnings and achieved other important steps along the way to achieving the In the customers and society goal dimension, the Reputation targets in the 2020 strategy. Index of EnBW fell slightly in 2018 in comparison to the previous year, which war partly due to the reduced media The operating business of the EnBW Group generally developed presence of the themes relevant to EnBW. The satisfaction of the in 2018 as expected and forecast at the start of the year. The customers of EnBW and Yello remained at a good level but fell in adjusted EBITDA of the EnBW Group increased by 2.1% in 2018 due to the general trend in the sector, as well as to specific comparison to the previous year. An important positive effect measures such as a price adjustment and a system migration. was the full consolidation of VNG in the second quarter of 2017, Supply reliability also remained at a similarly high level in 2018. which had an impact on almost all of the segments. Adjusted for In the employees goal dimension, the Employee Commitment the effects of changes in the consolidated companies, the Index rose due to the improved perception of the current adjusted EBITDA of the EnBW Group would have stood at almost competitiveness of EnBW and employees having greater trust in the same level as in the previous year (-0.4%). The result in the the future viability of the Group. Occupational safety noticeably Sales segment developed negatively in the reporting year. The improved once again at EnBW in 2018, which was demonstrated improved result in the Grids segment was mainly attributable to by a fall in the LTIF. In the environment goal dimension, the the full consolidation of VNG. In addition, there were higher expansion of renewable energies is continuing according to earnings from the use of the electricity grids. The lower result in plan. However, the CO2 intensity (Glossary, p. 152) of own the Renewable Energies segment in comparison to the previous generation of electricity only fell slightly because the generation year was mainly due to the unfavourable weather conditions. from renewable energies was impacted by the unfavourable The result in the Generation and Trading segment developed weather conditions. better than expected. This was primarily attributable to positive out-of-period earnings due to the clarification of open issues In the estimation of the Board of Management, the operating relating to electricity procurement agreements. In total, the Grids business of the EnBW Group developed satisfactorily in 2018. and Renewable Energies segments contributed around two Overall, the operating results increased as expected, although thirds of the adjusted EBITDA of EnBW. there were deviations from the forecast in individual segments. EnBW is also generally on course in the non-financial goal The non-operating result, which includes effects not relevant to dimensions. The goals being pursued by EnBW in the 2020 the ongoing management of the company, decreased strategy will be achieved with a very high degree of probability. considerably in 2018 in comparison to the previous year. The reason for this development was a series of positive extraordinary items, such as the reimbursement of the nuclear fuel rod tax, in 2017. 110 Management report » Forecast Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Forecast In our forecast we take a look, as far as possible, at the expectAround 28% of the total investment will be attributable to the ed future growth and development of EnBW in the years 2019 Renewable Energies segment – of which 27% will be for growth to 2021. investment. This includes funds for the realisation of the offshore wind farms EnBW Hohe See and EnBW Albatros with a The expected economic, political and regulatory conditions are total output of 609 MW, which should be placed into operation presented in the chapter “General conditions” (p. 72 ff.). Potential in 2019. In addition, funds have been allocated for the confactors influencing the forecast are described in detail in the struction of onshore wind farms to achieve the 1,000 MW target report on opportunities and risks” (p. 114 ff.). by 2020 and for solar parks from our comprehensive project pipeline (p. 50). Expected trends in the finance and Around 7% of the investment will be attributable to the Sales strategy goal dimensions segment, split about 50/50 between growth and existing investment. The growth investment is mainly intended for the expansion of electromobility, as well as for the development of Investment over a three-year period energy solutions. In order to continue to play an active role in shaping the Around 7% of the total investment will be attributable to the Energiewende, total investment of €6.4 billion is planned for the Generation and Trading segment and Other. Growth invest2019 to 2021 period. This represents on average €2.1 billion per ment will account for a little more than half of this amount. This year. Some €1.4 billion (22%) of this investment will be on mainly comprises investment relating to the invitation to existing projects and €5.0 billion (78%) on growth projects. The tender for special technical equipment for grids. majority of the total investment will be made in the regulated business (Renewable Energies and Grids). This investment programme of the EnBW Group thus reflects our strategy for expanding renewable energies and ensuring Total investment 2019–2021 security of supply in the regulated areas of the transmission and in % distribution grids. 7.4 6.6 Generation and Sales It is expected that the target set in the EnBW 2020 strategy of Trading / Other (of which on growth making gross investment of around €14 billion in the period (of which on growth projects 3.8) 2012 to 2020 (based on the reference year of 2012) will be projects 4.3) exceeded by around €2 billion (p. 49). 27.7 58.3 In order to finance the entire investment volume of around Renewable Energies Grids €6.4 billion, divestitures amounting to almost €1 billion are (of which on growth (of which on growth planned in the years 2019 to 2021. This includes divestitures in projects 27.1) projects 42.4) the onshore sector, which will build on our already realised participation models. The remaining divestitures will involve the receipt of construction cost subsidies and the disposal of the remaining minority share in EWE. Around 58% of the investment will flow into the Grids segment, of which around 42% will be for growth projects and 16% for It is expected that the target set in the EnBW 2020 strategy of existing projects. In order to make the transport of renewable €5.1 billion in divestitures (based on the reference year of 2012) energies from the north to the south of Germany possible, will be slightly exceeded because divestitures of around funds have been allocated to the transmission grid for the €4.4 billion were already realised by the end of 2018 and realisation of two HVDC projects ULTRANET and SuedLink that divestitures of almost €1 billion are still planned (p. 49). involve our subsidiary TransnetBW and are part of the Network Development Plan (Glossary, p. 154). In addition, extensive The balance from gross investment and divestitures gives the investment in the expansion and upgrading of the existing net investment, which is €5.4 billion or €1.8 billion on average grids is planned. per year. The net investment will be fully financed from the company’s own funds. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Forecast 111 Adjusted EBITDA and the share of adjusted EBITDA accounted for by the segments Development in 2019 (adjusted EBITDA and the share of adjusted EBITDA accounted for by the segments) compared to the previous year Earnings performance (adjusted EBITDA) Development of the share of adjusted EBITDA compared to the previous year for the EnBW Group accounted for by the segments 2019 2018 2019 2018 Sales €225 to €300 million €270.6 million 5% to 15% 12.5% Grids €1,300 to €1,400 million €1,176.9 million 50% to 60% 54.5% Renewable Energies €425 to €500 million €297.7 million 15% to 25% 13.8% Generation and Trading €350 to €425 million €428.6 million 10% to 20% 19.9% Other/Consolidation €-16.3 million -0.7% Adjusted EBITDA, Group €2,350 to €2,500 million €2,157.5 million 100.0% The presentation of the earnings performance (adjusted in 2018 will also result in a fall in earnings. This will be offset to EBITDA) has been adjusted compared to the previous year to some extent by the fact that negative effect of the extension to focus on the ongoing transformation of the portfolio at EnBW to the inspection of Block 2 of the Neckarwestheim nuclear power a greater extent. The forecasted range for the earnings perplant (GKN II) in 2018 has come to an end. We expect a slight formance will now be presented in € million instead of as a decrease in the share of the adjusted EBITDA for the Group percentage change. accounted for by this segment. In the Sales segment, we expect earnings in 2019 at the same The adjusted EBITDA for the EnBW Group in 2019 will increase level as in the previous year. Therefore, we expect a stable share further and be between €2,350 million and €2,500 million. This of the adjusted EBITDA for the Group accounted for by this will be due primarily to the areas of growth in the Grids and segment. Renewable Energies segments. In addition, we anticipate that our efficiency target will be achieved early in 2019 with an effect to the The adjusted EBITDA for the Grids segment will increase further in amount of €650 million. We also expect a further increase in 2019. It will thus continue to be the segment with the highest adjusted EBITDA for the Group in 2020, which will be supported earnings. In comparison to the previous year, we expect higher above all by the year-round earnings contribution from the EnBW revenue from the use of the grids as we start to see returns on the Hohe See and EnBW Albatros offshore wind farms. This means increased investment activity in projects that are included in the that we will not only achieve the strategic target for adjusted Network Development Plan Electricity and Network Development EBITDA in 2020 of €2.4 billion, but we even expect to exceed it. Plan Gas. The share of the adjusted EBITDA for the Group accounted for by this segment is expected to remain stable. The EBITDA in 2019 and 2020 will develop in line with the adjusted EBITDA. We do not make any forecasts relating to The adjusted EBITDA for the Renewable Energies segment will material non-operating effects. increase significantly in 2019. In the offshore wind sector, this will be due to the planned commissioning of our offshore wind The EBT relevant to remuneration will be between €850 to farms EnBW Hohe See and EnBW Albatros. In addition, the €950 million in 2019 as a result of the rise in adjusted EBITDA expansion and acquisition of onshore wind farms in 2018 and and will thus increase substantially in comparison to the those planned in 2019, including in Sweden, will make a positive previous year. A further increase in EBT is expected in 2020. The contribution to earnings. The forecast for the volume of accuracy of the forecast for EBT is, however, still dependent on electricity generated by the run-of-river power plants is based other exogenous factors that cannot be planned for, such as on the long-term average water levels. The wind-yield forecasts impairment losses, the reversal of impairment losses or imare also based on the long-term average. As 2018 was negatively pending losses for onerous contracts for electricity procureinfluenced by poor wind conditions and low water levels, we ment agreements. expect a significantly higher result in 2019 in comparison to the previous year. We expect an increase in the share of the adjusted Assuming an adjusted EBITDA in the range of €2,350 million to EBITDA for the Group accounted for by this segment. €2,500 million, we expect to achieve an adjusted retained cash flow (p. 89) of between €1.3 billion and €1.4 billion. This includes The adjusted EBITDA for the Generation and Trading segment in an increase of €245 million from the reimbursement of the 2019 is not expected to exceed the figure achieved in the nuclear fuel rod tax. Adjusted for this effect and the anticipated previous year. In comparison to the previous year, we anticipate dividend payment of around €320 million (including payments lower out-of-period earnings which will mainly be attributable to from investments to third parties), we expect an FFO of between the clarification of open issues relating to electricity pro€1.4 billion and €1.5 billion despite high income tax payments. A curement agreements that were recognised through profit or further increase in the adjusted retained cash flow is expected in loss in 2018. The loss of the earnings contribution made by VNG 2020, which will be primarily attributable to the expected Norge AS and its subsidiary VNG Danmark ApS due to their sale increase in the adjusted EBITDA. 112 Management report » Forecast Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Internal financing capability Reputation Index EnBW will strive to noticeably improve its reputation Key performance indicator continuously over the next few years, even if a decrease was 2019 2018 recorded in 2018. The Reputation Index is an important nonInternal financing capability in % ≥ 85 93.2 financial performance indicator because this index value is influenced by a whole series of factors that are important to the future viability of our company. The existing reputation The internal financing capability will, as communicated, lie above management department and the stakeholder team at EnBW 100% for the whole period from 2017 to 2020. However, it is that was newly established in 2017 recommend measures for possible that the internal financing capability may fall below optimising the reputation of the company. 100% temporarily in individual years. We expect an internal financing capability in 2019 of ≥ 85% due to the fact that the fast Customer Satisfaction Index growing investment volume for our EnBW Hohe See and EnBW Albatros offshore wind farms and for projects contained in the We continue to expect a high level of competitive pressure in network development plans will only be partially covered by the 2019 both from direct competitors within the energy industry increasing adjusted EBITDA. As things currently stand, we expect and to an increasing extent competitors from other sectors that an internal financing capability of ≥ 100% once again in 2020. have already entered the energy market or will do so shortly. In addition, exogenous factors could negatively impact customer ROCE satisfaction more and more in the future, such as discussions about the future of coal-fired power generation, the development of state levies, increasing costs or delays to the expansion Key performance indicator of the grids. To improve the satisfaction of our customers, we 2019 2018 are thus also expanding our range of sustainable energy ROCE in % 6.0–7.0 6.5 industry services and energy solutions and targeting our sales activities in this direction in 2019. We will combine traditional energy products (electricity and gas) with more household and In the 2019 financial year, ROCE is expected to remain at the energy-related products in future, to offer our customers a same level as in the previous year and thus be between 6.0% range of “ecosystem solutions”. Using our new digital skills, we and 7.0%. In general, investments tend to lead at first to a fall in will continue to create up-to-date, convincing and tailor-made ROCE due to a low initial contribution to earnings. In accordcustomer experiences of the highest quality. On this basis, we ance with our strategy, we also expect a high volume of are striving to achieve an index value of between 114 and 141 investment with a further increase in earnings in subsequent points in the 2019 financial year. years. After the commissioning of our offshore wind farms EnBW Hohe See and EnBW Albatros, we expect the ROCE to start We also want to maintain the satisfaction of Yello customers at a increasing again from 2020. An increasing adjusted EBIT due to high level in 2019. Following the successfully completed system the growth in the adjusted EBITDA will be offset by a signifimigration in 2018, Yello has further expanded its range of digital cantly higher capital employed due to planned investment. services and will be able to align the product portfolio even better to the requirements of its customers in future. In The ROA will develop in line with the ROCE. In 2019, the ROA is addition, Yello has had a new marketing campaign both on TV expected to be between 4.5% and 5.5%, while we anticipate that it and online since January 2019. On this basis, we are striving to will increase in 2020 compared to 2019 as things currently stand. achieve an index value of between 148 and 159 points in the 2019 financial year. Expected trends in the customers and SAIDI society goal dimension The grid subsidiaries of EnBW have always ensured a highly reliable supply throughout their grid area and for their customers. The corresponding key performance indicator SAIDI, Key performance indicators which states the average duration of supply interruptions per 2019 2018 connected customer per year, stood at 17 minutes in 2018. We Reputation Index 54.1 51.3 are striving to achieve a value of between 15 and 20 minutes in the 2019 financial year and subsequent years. Customer Satisfaction Index for EnBW/Yello 114–141 / 148–159 120 / 152 SAIDI (electricity) in min./year 15–20 17 Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Forecast 113 Expected trends in the employees Expected trends in the environment goal dimension goal dimension Key performance indicators Key performance indicators 2019 2018 2019 2018 Employee Commitment Index (ECI) 1 63 62 Installed output of RE in GW and the share of the generation capacity LTIF 2 < 3.7 3 2.3 accounted for by RE in % 4.4–4.5 / 31–32 3.7 / 27.9 1 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (consideration of companies CO2 intensity in g/kWh -10% to 0% 553 controlled by the Group [without ITOs]). 2 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (consideration of all employees at those companies controlled by the Group, except external agency workers and contractors). 3 Three-year target for 2017, 2018 and 2019. Installed output of renewable energies (RE) and the share of the generation capacity accounted for by RE Employee Commitment Index The installed output of renewable energies in 2019 is expected to increase by between 700 and 800 MW, primarily as a result of The Employee Commitment Index (ECI) increased from 60 to 62 the commissioning of the EnBW Hohe See (497 MW) and EnBW points in 2018. The implementation of the 2020 strategy is well Albatros (112 MW) offshore wind farms in the North Sea. As a on track and the perception of the competitiveness and future result, the share of the generation capacity of the Group viability of the Group has significantly improved once again. accounted for by renewable energies will increase appreciably. Overall, employee commitment is at a very satisfactory level. In subsequent years, we also expect a continuous increase in the Therefore, EnBW has set itself the target of maintaining this level installed output of renewable energies. This will also increase in 2019 and further increasing the ECI to 63 points. the share of the generation capacity accounted for by RE further. LTIF CO2 intensity Our goal is to continuously improve occupational safety within In 2019, we expect an increase in own electricity generation the company for both our own and third-party employees. from renewable energy sources due to the further expansion of Therefore, EnBW has implemented numerous accident prerenewable energies. We also expect the continued good vention measures. In 2019, we are striving to once again keep availability of our highly efficient hard coal power plants this the value for this key performance indicator for occupational year. Important factors for uncertainty in the 2019 forecast safety below the three-year target. The main focus will be placed include the volatility of the wind and water supplies, the further on the roll-out of the new Quentic software and a heightened development of the clean dark spread (Glossary, p. 152) and the awareness for unsafe situations and conditions. Consistent utilisation of the power plants for redispatch. We anticipate a reporting of these types of occurrences and communication positive development overall and expect a reduction in the CO2 amongst employees about hazardous situations will help EnBW intensity (Glossary, p. 152) of between -10% and 0% in 2019 in to increase the awareness of employees. EnBW intends to lower comparison to the 2018 reporting year. In the next few years, we the LTIF in small steps in the long term. expect that the CO2 intensity will continue to reduce gradually. Further significant developments Overall assessment of anticipated In view of the difficult conditions, it will be important over the coming years to realise further improvements in efficiency developments by the management across the entire company. There will be a moderate increase in the number of employees in the Renewable Energies and Grids We expect an increase in adjusted EBITDA for the Group in 2019 segments as part of the repositioning of our business portfolio. compared to 2018. The shift in earnings between the segments This will be offset by further measures to optimise processes laid out in our strategy will continue in 2019. We are well on the across the entire company with a focus on the functional units, way to achieving our 2020 targets at a Group and segment level. sales and operations of EnBW AG and in the area of thermal We are adhering to the implementation of our divestiture propower plants. gramme and are able to continue to make sufficient investment funds available to enable us to play an active role in shaping the Energiewende. This also supports our aim to maintain a solid investment-grade rating (Glossary, p. 154). With respect to our non-financial key performance indicators, we expect a stable to positive development in 2019 towards our 2020 targets. 114 Management report » Report on opportunities and risks Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Report on opportunities and risks Principles of the integrated opportunity and risk management system Opportunity and risk map Strategic / sustainability Operative Financial Compliance Strategy Sustainability Business Infrastructure ImplementaFinancial Corporate Compliance activity tion of growth management financing fields Sustainable Climate Business Plants / grids / Renewable Market prices Capital market Corruption generation change processes storage / IT Energies structure Market Environmental Operating Information Gas / biogas Liquidity Rating Antitrust law developments / protection activities security / business management social trends conﬁdentiality System critical Weather / Products / Crime / E-mobility / Earnings Data protection infrastructure natural events contracts sabotage / digitalisation management terrorism Smart infraPersonnel Operational Expansion of Investment Fraud structure for projects the grids management customers Occupational Approvals / Taxes and safety / health licences / levies protection patents Human rights Legislation / regulation / litigation Social issues Reputation Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Corporate social responsibility (CSR) The integrated opportunity and risk management system (iRM) this purpose, EnBW defines an opportunity/risk as an event that of EnBW is based on the internationally established COSO II might cause a potential over-attainment/non-attainment of framework as a standard for risk management systems that strategic/sustainability, operational, financial and compliance span entire companies. The iRM aims, through a holistic and goals in the future. The iRM process also takes into account the integrated approach, to effectively and efficiently identify, guidelines for a non-financial declaration. In order to identify evaluate and manage opportunities and risks (including and categorise opportunities and risks, the opportunity and risk monitoring) and report on the opportunity/risk position, as well map that is anchored throughout the Group is utilised. The risk as to ensure the appropriateness and functionality of related map is used to explicitly consider possible opportunities and processes. Risk management involves measures for avoiding, risks that affect the sustainable orientation of EnBW. As well as reducing or transferring risk through adequate accounting focusing on the fulfilment of the requirements for a non-finanprovisions, as well as measures for managing risk tolerance. For cial declaration, the recommendations of the Task Force on Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Report on opportunities and risks 115 Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) (Glossary, p. 155) and envisaged management instruments. The relevance class is were also taken into account. In addition, the efficiency of the determined in each case based on quantitative and qualitative entire iRM processes and reporting was increased further. criteria for each of the four dimensions: strategic/sustainability, Amongst other things, this involved further improving the operational, financial and compliance. technical aspects of reporting and optimising the process for identifying and evaluating opportunities/risks. In addition, the The opportunities and risks allocated to relevance class 5 or iRM process was also subject to ongoing development within higher and with a probability of occurrence of over 50% are the scope of digitalisation. generally included in the Group report on opportunities and risks. Insofar as a financial evaluation is possible, this corresStructure and processes of the ponds to a value of €50 million within the medium-term planning period. Long-term opportunities and risks that are of integrated opportunity and risk particular importance are then added. The reports are submitted management system on a quarterly basis in standardised form. In the case of any significant changes, a special report is immediately issued. The structures and processes of the iRM are anchored throughout the Group in all relevant business entities, business units and The probability of occurrence is split into six levels: functional units. The central risk management & ICS functional unit is responsible for specifying methods, processes and systems iRM levels for the probability of occurrence for the whole Group, determining the opportunity and risk Description Level for the probability position of the Group and for reporting. The central steering body of occurrence is the risk committee, which – with the involvement of specially Very low 0% to 10% selected business units/entities – is responsible for clarifying Low > 10% to 30% relevant issues from various Group perspectives, as well as for determining the top opportunities/risks. Medium > 30% to 50% High > 50% to 70% The iRM is regularly checked by the Group auditing department Very high > 70% to 90% and the results of the audit are presented to the Supervisory Almost certain > 90% to 100% Board. Structure and processes of the iRM system Those opportunities or risks relevant to the Group report on opportunities and risks are generally evaluated in relation to the current planning period using quantitative methods (e.g. scenario Audit committee (Supervisory Board) techniques and distribution functions) for the purpose of stochastic modelling. Any possible effects on the adjusted EBITDA, the adjusted EBIT and the capital employed (with any associated Full Board of Management of EnBW AG impact on the ROCE), the retained cash flow or the adjusted retained cash flow and net investment (with any associated impact on the internal financing capability) are considered. Supervisory body where Risk committee Alongside these financial effects, opportunities and risks can also necessary have impacts on the other key performance indicators (p. 51 ff.), which are discussed with those responsible in the specialist areas. Management of Central functional unit of Any opportunities and risks with a probability of occurrence of up risk management & ICS companies / units to 50% are subject to an individual review to determine whether they should be taken into account in the next planning session. Opportunities and risks with a probability of occurrence of over iRM managers of 50% are generally taken into account in the planning process and, business entities / units as far as possible, appropriate accounting measures are taken in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS. Risk ofﬁcers Alongside the top opportunities/risks, there are a wide variety of other opportunities and risks facing the Group that are allocated to relevant risk categories on the opportunity and risk map Formal reporting (p. 114) and evaluated with the aid of the iRM relevance filter. Coordination of Group reporting Alongside the key performance indicators in the finance and strategy goal dimensions, these effects can also have an impact on the key performance indicators in the customers and society, For the purposes of evaluation, all opportunities and risks are employees and environment goal dimensions. Any impact on firstly assessed with the help of the iRM relevance filter before the areas of compliance, social engagement and procurement is and after consideration has been taken of both implemented also examined in the process. 116 Management report » Report on opportunities and risks Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Relevance filter for classifying opportunities and risks Reporting Strategic / sustainability Operative Financial Compliance Achievement of strategic Achievement of business targets, Achievement of ﬁnancial Compliance with legal / ofﬁcial level targets, sustainability targets, functional processes, retaining targets, generally in accordregulations and internal e.g. climate protection, added value, customer / external ance with medium-term regulations environmental protection, effects planning or approved reputation (project) budgets Relevance class 0 None None None None Relevance class 1 No relevant impact on the » One operational target for an ≤ € 0.2 million Breach of legal / ofﬁcial achievement of strategic / internal department / area is not regulations and / or internal sustainability targets achieved regulations with minor Company, business and functional unit » Short-term negative impact negative consequences for on a relevant process without the department / area a material effect on the main(trivial breaches) tenance of operations Relevance class 2 The ability to achieve the » Several operational targets for ≥ € 0.2 million (relevance Breach of legal / ofﬁcial strategic / sustainability an internal department / area threshold for small comregulations and / or internal targets of the company / are not achieved panies / business units) regulations with negative business units / functional » Short-term negative impact on consequences for the units is negatively impacted a relevant process with maindepartment / area tenance of operations negatively impacted Relevance class 3 One strategic / sustainability » One operational target for the ≥ € 1 million (relevance Breach of legal / ofﬁcial target for the company / company / business units / threshold for medium-sized regulations and / or internal business units / functional functional units is not achieved companies / business units) regulations with negative units is not achieved » Long-term negative impact on consequences for the one / multiple relevant procompany / business units / cess(es) with maintenance of functional units operations severely impacted Relevance class 4 Several strategic / sustain» Several operational targets for ≥ € 5 million (relevance Breach of legal / ofﬁcial ability targets for the the company / business units / threshold for large comregulations and / or internal company / business units / functional units are not achieved panies / business units) regulations with serious functional units are not » The value added of the comnegative consequences for achieved pany / business units / functional the company / business units is massively disrupted units / functional units Relevance class 5 One strategic / sustainability » One key operational target for ≥ € 50 million (relevance Breach of legal / ofﬁcial target for the EnBW Group is the EnBW Group is not achieved threshold for functional regulations and / or internal not achieved » The value added is massively units and EnBW Group) regulations with negative disrupted across the company / consequences for the EnBW business units / functional units Group Relevance class 6 Group Several or all strategic / » Several or all operational ≥ € 250 million Breach of legal / ofﬁcial sustainability targets for targets for the EnBW Group regulations and / or internal the EnBW Group are not are not achieved regulations with serious achieved » Value added throughout the negative consequences for whole Group is massively the EnBW Group disrupted Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Report on opportunities and risks 117 Non-financial declaration Structure As part of the non-financial declaration, EnBW closely analyses The accounting-related ICS at EnBW is organised at both a the opportunities and risks for compliance, social engagement, centralised and decentralised level. All important business procurement, the customers and society goal dimension, the entities, business units and functional units have an ICS officer. employees goal dimension and the environment goal dimenThese officers monitor the effectiveness of the ICS and evaluate sion. In order to guarantee that the requirements for a nonany control weaknesses that may arise. A report on the financial declaration are fulfilled, the iRM established across the effectiveness of the ICS is prepared on an annual basis, which is Group and the associated process are used. From relevance class approved by the management of the business entity or unit. The 5 and a probability of occurrence of over 50%, opportunities and ICS officer at Group level assists the business entities/units with risks are also reported externally. In this context, the iRM also the implementation of standardised procedures and also identifies opportunities and risks relating to climate protection consolidates collected data. and thus provides important impetus for the implementation of the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Processes Financial Disclosures (TCFD) (Glossary, p. 155). You can find further information on this subject on p. 136. Standardised procedures ensure completeness and consistency in the preparation of the financial statements and financial reporting. The accounting-related ICS defines controls designed Structure and processes of the to ensure compliance with the accounting policies used by the accounting-related internal control Group, as well as procedures and deadlines for the individual accounting and consolidation processes. During the Group system consolidation process, the rigorous implementation of the foureye principle is observed, while random samples and deviation Principles analyses improve quality. An annual control cycle monitors whether the documentation is up to date and also checks the Alongside the internal control system (ICS) that is anchored appropriateness and functionality of the controls. In addition, it within the company’s business processes via the iRM, an identifies and evaluates any control weaknesses that may arise. accounting-related ICS was established at EnBW that is designed to ensure proper and reliable financial reporting. In order to A risk-based selection process defines relevant business guarantee that this ICS is effective, the appropriateness and entities/units, significant items in the financial statements and functionality of the Group-wide control mechanisms are tested processes including their associated control measures. This regularly at an individual business entity and Group level. selection process is based on quantitative and qualitative risk indicators. If any existing weaknesses are identified in the control system and are considered relevant to the financial statements, they are Phases of accounting-related ICS promptly remedied. This accounting-related ICS methodology is based on the COSO II standard – an internationally accepted 6. 1. framework for internal control systems. Declaration on Selection procedure ICS and reporting Once the control mechanisms have reached a standardised and monitored degree of maturity, and no material control 5. 2. Compilation, weaknesses can be identified, the accounting-related ICS is Consolidation documentation of results deemed to be effective. The materiality of control weaknesses is measured as the probability of occurrence and the extent to 4. 3. Evaluation of Assessment of which there could be a potential misstatement in connection to control shortcomings control activities those financial statement items concerned. The accountingrelated risk management system defines measures for identifying and assessing risks that jeopardise the preparation The defined processes and controls are recorded in a central of compliant financial statements as part of the accountingdocumentation system. The effectiveness of the various control related ICS. activities is then assessed. This includes analysing whether the control activities are generally appropriate for the purpose of Despite having established an ICS, there is no absolute certainty reducing the risk of erroneous financial reporting. In addition, that it will attain its objectives or that it will be complete. In regular monitoring of the implementation of the controls and individual cases, the effectiveness of the ICS can be impaired by their documentation is carried out to review the functionality of unforeseeable changes in the control environment, fraud or the defined controls, as well as the operational effectiveness of human error. the processes. If any control weaknesses are identified, their effect on the financial statements is evaluated. The results are reported at both a business entity or unit level and at a Group level. Furthermore, the Group auditing department performs ICS reviews as part of its risk-oriented audit planning. 118 Management report » Report on opportunities and risks Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Risks associated with the non-financial declaration Customers and society goal dimension Reputation: All opportunities and risks, as well as non-financial The non-financial declaration describes, amongst other things, issues, can have a positive or negative impact on reputation and the fundamental opportunities and risks connected with the thus on the key performance indicator Reputation Index (p. 94). EnBW business model and the activities based upon it that The reputation management department thus identifies opporcould have a possible impact on any individual issue. Material tunities and risks related to reputation, develops measures to individual risks with a very high probability of a serious protect and improve reputation, advises the Board of Managenegative impact in relation to any of the following issues do not ment and management and provides recommendations for exist at EnBW. action. Compliance Customer proximity: Risks exist especially in connection with The observance of relevant legal regulations and internal the still high level of competitive pressure both from direct company rules forms the basis of our business activities. competitors within the energy industry and, to an increasing Managing compliance risks at EnBW (with a main focus on extent, competitors from other sectors that have already corruption, antitrust and data protection risks) is the responentered the energy market or will do so shortly. This is sibility of the compliance management system, which comassociated with the risk of a negative impact on the customer prises regular risk assessments of this type. Risks related to base and sales volumes. Opportunities exist above all through fighting corruption and bribery are addressed on p. 57 f. in a the provision of a broader range of customer-specific products cross-segment manner. and services such as offering hardware bundles (Glossary, p. 152) and product options, as well as through processes more Social engagement oriented to the customer. EnBW will also continue to expand its There are no risks in the area of social engagement. In fact, we range of sustainable energy industry services and energy take our social responsibility for civic and social engagement solutions in 2019 and will target its sales activities in this seriously (p. 61 f.). direction (p. 112). Procurement Employees goal dimension Sustainable procurement – purchasing: In the area of procureEmployee commitment: Due to competition on the job market, ment, risks cannot be excluded due to increasing levels of there is a risk when recruiting employees that the company will complexity and the large number of suppliers. Purchasing not be able to secure a sufficient number of employees with the utilises an active risk management system, counters procurenecessary qualifications and expertise in the relevant target ment risks and implements the necessary measures for groups. In addition, this risk is exacerbated by demographic safeguarding against and avoiding risk. These risks are managed trends and the stricter conditions facing the energy industry. using defined processes and, in this context, especially through We believe that regular anonymous employee surveys, from the pre-qualification process (p. 69 f.). which we derive the Employee Commitment Index (ECI) as a key performance indicator, are an important tool for seizing Raw materials procurement – coal and gas: In the area of raw opportunities early in the areas of employee development and materials procurement and thus in the associated supply chain, employee loyalty (p. 96 ff.). there are above all potential human rights risks. Respect for human rights is ensured using a multi-stage auditing process as Occupational safety: Risks generally exist in the areas of part of the procurement process – with all existing and potential occupational safety and health protection in our business suppliers being regularly subjected to a screening process. Other activities. The EnBW Group counters these risks using commeasures that form part of the assessment are carried out in prehensive organisational and procedural measures, such as direct cooperation with the compliance department. In coal workplace-specific hazard analyses, to protect employees as well mining, there are possible human rights risks related to the as possible against any adverse consequences. EnBW also views working and living conditions of people in the coal mining these measures as an opportunity to preserve the capacity of its regions. Increasing civil society activity in this context can in employees to do their work and to maintain the position of turn increase reputational risks. EnBW is in constant contact EnBW as an attractive employer. Occupational safety is with representatives from civil society and keeps them measured in the form of the key performance indicator LTIF informed about the advances made and challenges faced in all within the employees goal dimension (p. 100 f.). sustainability topics (p. 70 f.). Environment goal dimension In preparation for future (liquid) gas contracts, EnBW has carried Expansion of renewable energies: In relation to the expansion of out further preliminary human rights assessments as part of the renewable energies, there is a general risk posed by the auction audit of business partners. No material human rights risks were process and thus the sluggish expansion of onshore wind power. identified in the supply chain for the USA as a potential supply Due to the fact that the auctions are held on equal terms, we country, while further in-depth analyses may be required for continue to expect a high level of competition. We measure the other business partners. expansion of renewable energies with our key performance indicator “installed output of renewable energies (RE) and the share of the generation capacity accounted for by RE” (p. 102). Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Report on opportunities and risks 119 Climate protection: Risks generally exist in the area of environthus the security of supply (electricity grids). The operation of mental protection due to the operation of power generation and hydropower plants can be restricted by both a lack of or also an transmission plants and the possible consequences for the air, abundance of water. The output from thermal power plants that water, soil and ozone layer. The importance of climate promust be cooled could possibly be impacted by temperature tection is taken into account in, amongst other things, the key limits on discharged water. Increasing volatility in the performance indicator CO2 intensity (Glossary, p. 152) (p. 103). availability of wind, water and sun presents challenges in terms of planning certainty for the operation of power plants and the EnBW counters these risks using, amongst other things, an sale of volumes of electricity (p. 49 ff.). For this reason, the top environmental management system certified according to DIN opportunity/top risk wind fluctuations has been reported since ISO 14001, which has been established at key subsidiaries (p. 101). the Integrated Annual Report 2016, although these opporEnBW takes the safety of the population and the protection of tunities/risks have no material effect on non-financial issues. In the environment very seriously. In this context, risks also exist addition, there is uncertainty due to increasing environmental due to external circumstances, such as extreme weather conrestrictions for the realisation of projects for sustainable energy ditions. These risks are countered by EnBW using an emergency generation and for the operation of power plants. These risks are and crisis management system that has been implemented managed and mitigated in internal processes using targeted throughout the Group and includes comprehensive organcontrol measures. isational and procedural measures. EnBW ensures that the risks posed by crisis and emergency situations are mitigated quickly, Alongside changes in physical climate parameters and other effectively and with a coordinated approach through the use of developments relating to or governed by environmental regular crisis management exercises and other measures. factors, regulatory guidelines and changes in the market also Through its diverse range of activities in the areas of flow into the risk evaluation process. However, there are also environmental, nature and species protection, EnBW also opportunities such as changing customer needs (p. 94 ff.) and utilises the opportunity – beyond its core activities – to make a an increasing demand for climate-friendly products such as substantial contribution to improving environmental proe-mobility. These opportunities and risks are regularly and systection. Thanks to the positive public perception of these tematically identified Group-wide. The first recommendations activities, they can also have a positive impact on our key from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures performance indicator Reputation Index (p. 94). (TCFD) (Glossary, p. 155) have been implemented and are communicated in the report on opportunities and risks. Building on At the same time, EnBW also faces potential risks due to the the revision of the risk map in 2016, special focus will be placed ongoing process of climate change. For example, more frequent on sustainability aspects – especially climate protection targets – extreme weather conditions leading to highly fluctuating water and they will be anchored more deeply in the risk evaluation levels or limits being placed on emissions locally could have an process in future. especially negative impact on the operation of power plants and Opportunity and risk position Top opportunities / risks as of 31/12/2018 Mitigate risks Manage opportunities / risks Top opportunities / risks 1 Market prices of ﬁnancial investments 2 Discount rate applied to pension provisions 1 3 4 5 6 3 Liquidity 7 8 9 10 4 Competitive environment 5 Political and economic environment in Turkey Risk potential 6 Fluctuations in wind energy yield 7 Availability of nuclear power plants 8 Operation and dismantling of nuclear power plants 9 Hedging 10 Power plant optimisation 2 Cross-segment Sales Monitor Seize opportunities Renewable Energies Opportunity potential Generation and Trading 120 Management report » Report on opportunities and risks Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW The diagram illustrates how the opportunity and risk position is delays, in the investment and divestiture portfolio. The majority reported to the Board of Management and the audit committee of the planned divestitures have now been implemented. of the Supervisory Board. The arrangement of the top Opportunities and risks exist for the years 2019 and 2020 that opportunities/risks in the quadrants indicates whether EnBW could have an impact on net investment and thus on the key can employ control measures to exploit the opportunities or to performance indicator internal financing capability, insofar as counteract the risks. the actual income from the participation models and divestitures does not meet our medium-term planning goals. On the basis of the individual evaluation of the top opporWe currently identify a balanced level of opportunity and risk in tunities/risks, it is clear – based on the relative level of this area. opportunity/risk – what effects they could likely have on the adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBIT, capital employed, retained cash Financial opportunities and risks flow or adjusted retained cash flow and net investment. The risks Market prices of financial investments: The financial are depicted after the implementation of the risk limitation investments managed by the asset management system measures. (Glossary, p. 152) are subject to opportunities and risks due to price changes and other valuation changes as a result of the No new material opportunities and risks emerged in 2018. volatile financial market environment (p. 84). A significantly higher amount of securities allocated to the dedicated financial Details on the top opportunities/risks, as well as other assets must, since 2018, be measured at fair value through profit opportunities/risks relevant to the report, and their potential or loss in accordance with IFRS 9. The fluctuation in the value of effects on the relevant performance indicators are listed in the these securities is recognised in profit or loss and stood at following section. €-38.5 million in the reporting year. Through corresponding effects, this could have both a positive and negative impact in Cross-segment opportunities and risks 2019 and 2020 on net debt in the low to mid three-digit million euro range. For the market prices for financial investments, we EnBW faces general risks from legal proceedings due to its currently identify an equal level of opportunity and risk due to contractual relationships with customers, business partners and the increased volatility on the financial markets. employees. To a lesser extent, we are also conducting legal proceedings relating to topics in the area of corporate law. For this Discount rate applied to pension provisions: There is a purpose, adequate accounting provisions are made or, in the general opportunity and risk due to any change in the discount event of a probability of occurrence of < 50%, adequate contingent rate applied to the pension provisions because the present value liabilities. As a consequence, there is also an opportunity of of the pension provisions falls when the discount rate increases positive effects on earnings if these provisions can be reversed and increases when the discount rate falls. At the end of 2018, once again. In addition, various court cases, official investigations the discount rate remained unchanged from the previous year or proceedings and other claims are pending against EnBW. The at 1.8%. The future development of interest rates could have a probability of these actions being successful is, however, positive impact in the low three-digit million euro range or a considered very low and thus they are not reported under negative impact in the low four-digit million euro range on net contingent liabilities and other financial obligations. debt in 2019 and 2020. Against the background of the expected development of interest rates in future, we currently identify a In connection with these types of legal proceedings, we also balanced level of opportunity and risk in this area. recognise the water concession risk in Stuttgart. In the court proceedings dealing with the takeover of the water grid after the Liquidity: Due to unforeseeable developments, especially water concession in the state capital Stuttgart expires, EnBW is margin payments, unused project funds or tax issues as well as still striving to reach an amicable settlement. The court financial market crashes, the Group’s liquidity planning is proceedings have been suspended several times, namely from subject to uncertainty that could lead to deviations between January 2015 until the end of 2016 and from April 2018 until the actual payments and planned payments. In general, there is also end of January 2019, to give the parties the opportunity to reach a risk of additional liquidity requirements if the rating agencies an amicable settlement. Unfortunately, it was not possible to downgrade the credit rating of EnBW (p. 87). The risk of margin reach such an agreement due to a difference of opinion on the payments is increasing primarily as a result of rising trading valuation. The next negotiations are expected to be held in volumes, increasing market prices and greater volatility on the September 2019. Therefore, there continues to be a risk in 2019 of energy market. Overall, these effects could have an indirect losing the water grid without receipt of adequate compensation. positive or negative impact in the mid three-digit million euro range on the key performance indicator ROCE in 2019 and 2020. Strategic opportunities and risks We currently identify a balanced level of opportunity and risk in Participation models (previously the top opportunity/risk this area. “Participation models and divestitures”): Opportunities and risks exist due to surplus or reduced revenue, as well as time Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Report on opportunities and risks 121 Compliance opportunities and risks cabling also applies to the SuedLink project. In both projects, Compliance risk assessments focus, in particular, on assessing there are currently general risks of potential delays and risks and defining appropriate preventative measures in the additional costs, as well as a low level of risk that the necessity compliance risk areas of corruption, antitrust law and data for these transmission lines might no longer be confirmed in a protection. new Network Development Plan. Risks for which EnBW derives measures for fighting corruption Financial opportunities and risks and bribery primarily exist in sales activities relating to local Year-end balance on the EEG bank account: The EEG bank authority/political business when dealing with public officials. account is a separately managed bank account in accordance Important preventative measures, especially training and with section 5 of the German Compensation Mechanism advisory services, are described on p. 57 f. Ordinance (AusglMechV) and is thus kept separate from other areas of activity. In accordance with AusglMechV, a deficit or In addition, there are antitrust risks in the sales activities of surplus on the account balance can have a temporary positive some subsidiaries that could result in fines and damage or negative effect on the calculation of the net debt of EnBW, reputation and also have significant strategic implications. This respectively. As of the reporting date on 31 December 2018, there risk is countered by the joint preventative measures of the was a surplus in the mid three-digit million euro range on the compliance and legal departments. EEG bank account of our subsidiary TransnetBW. Due to the EEG cost allocations (Glossary, p. 153) defined for 2019, we anticipate a The incorrect handling, or illicit disclosure or use, of personal positive value for the bank account for 2019. data poses data protection risks. This risk exists in view of the digital transformation of many business activities. Advisory and Renewable Energies segment awareness services and process controls are in place to guarantee adherence to legal data protection requirements in Strategic opportunities and risks the Group. Company-specific measures are coordinated via the Political and economic environment in Turkey: EnBW has compliance and data protection department. been commercially active in Turkey for many years in the expansion of energy generation from wind power and hydropower. In the past few years, the economic and political Sales segment framework conditions in Turkey have deteriorated noticeably. Financial opportunities and risks EnBW is continuing to monitor these developments very closely, Competitive environment: There is a risk that the continued especially because it has a duty of care for those employees tense competitive situation for all EnBW brands in the working in Turkey. There has been an increased security risk for a electricity, gas and energy solutions business could have a number of years, although no immediate risk to local employees negative effect on the customer base, sales volumes and price can currently be identified. EnBW is still in regular contact with levels. There is still a willingness amongst customers to switch the German embassy, the German Consulate General, our suppliers and the pressure on prices remains. The EnBW 2020 partner Borusan and other German companies active in Turkey strategy also covers the development and expansion of system so that it will be able to identify any negative developments as solutions and complete solutions that are specifically tailored to early as possible and respond in good time. the various customer segments (p. 48 ff.). Alongside the traditional supply of electricity and gas, EnBW sees good Financial opportunities and risks opportunities here also for offering its customers innovative Fluctuations in wind energy yield: There is a general energy solutions in the areas of energy technology in the home, opportunity or risk for wind power plants due to wind fluctue.g. with products such as photovoltaic storage systems, the area ations because the amounts of electricity generated by them are of corporate energy efficiency and also electromobility (p. 94 ff.). subject to fluctuations in the mean annual wind speed. In order The aim is to generate corresponding earnings contributions for to take these wind fluctuations into account in our planning, EnBW. This could result in both a positive or negative effect in wind reports were created. In addition, measurement campaigns 2019 and 2020 on the key performance indicator adjusted are being carried out up to the end of 2020 to evaluate wind EBITDA in the low single-digit million euro range. We currently speeds. Nevertheless, wind fluctuations could by their nature identify a low level of opportunity and risk in this area. have a positive or negative effect on the key performance indicator adjusted EBITDA and on the key performance indicator Grids segment internal financing capability in the low double-digit million euro range in 2019 and 2020. We currently identify a generally lower Strategic opportunities and risks level of opportunity and risk in this area. Recognition of costs for high-voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission technology: TransnetBW plans to set up new Generation and Trading segment connections using high-voltage direct current transmission technology (HVDC) (Glossary, p. 153) with other transmission system There are general risks associated with the operation and disoperators. A regulation stipulating the use of underground mantling of nuclear power plants. 122 Management report » Report on opportunities and risks Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW During the dismantling of nuclear power plants, there is an Financial opportunities and risks additional risk of a delay in the return of waste to the local Hedging (Glossary, p. 153): When selling generated electricity intermediate storage facilities, with possible additional costs as volumes, EnBW is exposed to the risk of falling electricity prices a result of the waste being stored for a longer period of time in and the risk of the unfavourable development of fuel prices in Great Britain and France, as well as the risk of further costs for relation to electricity prices. The concept underlying our approval and authorisation procedures. hedging strategy not only limits risk but also seeks to exploit opportunities. The hedging instruments utilised in 2018 were At the end of 2018, the remaining provisions held by EnBW were forwards, futures and swaps. The EnBW Group has exposure to revalued as part of the regular examination of the discount foreign exchange risks from procurement and the hedging of rate and escalation rate. Due to changes in these kinds of prices for its fuel requirements, as well as from gas and oil assumptions in the future, we currently identify a low level of trading business. This could have a positive effect in 2020 on the opportunity and risk for the remaining nuclear provisions. key performance indicator adjusted EBITDA and on the key Depending on market developments and the framework performance indicator internal financing capability in the mid conditions related to the Energiewende, there is a general risk of double-digit to low three-digit million euro range. We currently a negative impact on earnings due to impairment losses on identify a high level of opportunity for 2020 in the area of power plants and impending losses for onerous contracts for hedging due to increasing fuel and CO2 prices. Further electricity procurement agreements. information can be found in the section “Accounting for financial instruments” in the notes to the consolidated financial Operative opportunities and risks statements (www.enbw.com/report2018-downloads). Availability of nuclear power plants: There is a general risk that exogenous and endogenous factors will have an influence Power plant optimisation: Following the conclusion of the on the availability of power plants. We strive to counter these hedging of generation activities, the trading business unit will risks using preventive measures. Depending on their duration, manage the further deployment of the power plants. This is interruptions to the operation of the power plants can positively being carried out as part of power plant optimisation on the or negatively impact the operating result. In the first half of forward market (Glossary, p. 153), through the sale of system 2019, the risk of a temporary shutdown of KKP 2 will increase services (Glossary, p. 154) and through placements on the spot due to the upgrading of the reactor building crane. The and intraday trading platforms (Glossary, p. 154). However, availability of the nuclear power plants could have a positive or regulatory interventions continue to have a strong influence. In negative impact in the low double-digit million euro range in particular, fluctuating revenues from system services and 2019 and a positive impact in the low single-digit million euro volatility on the forward and spot markets (Glossary, p. 153, 154) range or a negative impact in the low double-digit million euro could have a positive or negative effect on the key performance range in 2020 on the key performance indicator adjusted indicator adjusted EBITDA in 2019 and 2020 in the low doubleEBITDA and the key performance indicator internal financing digit million euro range. We currently identify a low level of risk capability. We currently identify a relatively low level of opporand opportunity that is dependent on the development of tunity and risk in this area. market prices. Operation and dismantling of nuclear power plants: At the Compared with the previous year, the following opportunities two power plant blocks GKN I and KKP 1, there is a possibility of and risks were either eliminated or will no longer be included in delays and additional costs due to an increase in complexity and the Group reporting due to their low level of relevance: expenses during the dismantling and disposal process. Deadlines and costs are being permanently monitored and controlled Unplanned shutdown of GKN II: The maintenance work has within a strategic dismantling project. This could result in been completed. This risk – which was reported during the opportunities and risk with an effect on the net debt in the mid course of the year – thus no longer exists. double-digit million euro range in 2019 and 2020. We currently identify a relatively low level of opportunity and risk in this area. Link to the key performance indicators The top opportunities/risks can have an impact on our key performance indicators, whereby the effects on the non-financial key performance indicators are potential in nature and have thus been shown less boldly in the following diagram. In the past financial year, these links were not monitored individually. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Report on opportunities and risks 123 Linking the top opportunities / risks with the key performance indicators Key performance indicators Financial Strategic Non-financial performance performance performance indicators indicators indicators Top opportunities / risks A B C D E F G H I J K L M N 1 Market prices of ﬁnancial investments 2 Discount rate applied to pension provisions 3 Liquidity 4 Competitive environment 5 Political and economic environment in Turkey 6 Fluctuations in wind energy yield 7 Availability of nuclear power plants 8 Operation and dismantling of nuclear power plants 9 Hedging 10 Power plant optimisation Cross-segment A Adjusted Total share of adjusted H Reputation Index L LTIF Sales EBITDA EBITDA: I EnBW / Yello M Installed output Renewable Energies B Internal D “Customer proximity” / Customer Satisof RE and share ﬁnancing Sales faction Index of generation Generation and Trading capability E Grids J SAIDI (electricity) capacity accounted Direct effect C ROCE F Renewable Energies K Employee Commitfor by RE Potential effect G Generation and Trading ment Index (ECI) N CO₂ intensity Overall assessment by the Group management The risk situation for the EnBW Group increased slightly in 2018. resolutely pursue these with our revised post 2020 strategy – Changes to the framework conditions for the entire sector of which is based on the EnBW 2020 strategy that has been energy companies are continuing. Uncertainties with respect to successfully implemented up to now. For example, the EnBW risk potential and payment flow have reduced. Due to higher Group believes there are opportunities in a diverse range of fuel prices and a recovery in the CO2 prices, 2018 was thus also customer-oriented measures such as innovative energy characterised by an upwards trend in electricity prices. EnBW solutions in the areas of energy technology, e.g. photovoltaic still faces numerous factors that pose a danger to planning storage systems, corporate energy efficiency and electrocertainty and thus the achievement of its economic targets, and mobility. The commercial development of environmentally that have high risk potential, such as regulatory requirements friendly and CO2-efficient energy solutions will be resolutely and laws dealing with sustainable energy generation. This has pushed forward. The implementation of our post 2020 strategy far-reaching consequences for the operating business of the aims to secure the future viability of the company and tap into EnBW Group and places a burden on its earnings potential. this potential for growth. The persisting competitive and market risks could influence the Some risks that exist or existed for EnBW have reduced or been operating result, financial position and net assets. At the same eliminated during the course of 2018. However, additional risks time, the Energiewende offers a multitude of opportunities to have also emerged or were exacerbated. No risks currently exist develop new models for future business segments. We will that might jeopardise the EnBW Group as a going concern. Opportunity and risk position 2018 Development of the opportunity position Development of the risk position Cross-segment Sales Grids Renewable Energies Generation and Trading Overall assessment Decline Increase Amelioration Deterioration 124 Management report » Remuneration report Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Remuneration report The remuneration report summarises the principles relevant for The remuneration in 2018 comprises basic remuneration, onedetermining the remuneration of the members of the Board of year and multi-year variable remuneration, as well as Management and explains the structure and level of both Board contributions as part of the company pension scheme. The ratio of Management and Supervisory Board remuneration. of single-year to multi-year variable remuneration is 40% to 60%, so that multi-year variable remuneration significantly The remuneration report takes the recommendations of the outweighs single-year variable remuneration. In general, the German Corporate Governance Code (DCGK) and the German variable remuneration components have a multi-year measureAccounting Standard (GAS) 17 (amended in 2010) into conment basis in accordance with section 4.2.3 sentence 4 DCGK. sideration in this respect. It also contains disclosures required The single-year variable remuneration component is described by German commercial law included in the notes pursuant to below as the Short Term Incentive (STI) while the multi-year section 314 of the HGB and the management report pursuant to variable remuneration component is described as the Long section 315 HGB. Term Incentive (LTI). Fixed remuneration Board of Management remuneration The fixed remuneration comprises basic remuneration and Based on proposals of the personnel committee, the Supervisory fringe benefits. Board passes resolutions on the remuneration of the Board of Management, including the main contract elements, and reviews Variable remuneration it on a regular basis. The criteria for determining appropriate remuneration include the responsibilities and performance of the Short-term variable remuneration (Short Term Incentive – STI) members of the Board of Management, the economic situation, The STI is paid for a period of one financial year in each case and the success and sustainable development of the company and paid out in the following financial year. The measurement the relationship between the remuneration of the Board of period for the STI is the financial year for which it is paid. Management and the remuneration of senior management and the workforce as a whole, as well as its development over time. The performance indicators for calculating the extent to which the target for the STI has been achieved are the following nonThe current version of the Board of Management remuneration adjusted corporate performance indicators for the EnBW Group system has been valid since 1 January 2018. determined for one financial year: The following diagram shows the structure of the total re› EBT (earnings before taxes), adjusted for earnings from the muneration: measurement of financial assets allocated to the financial result and outstanding items for derivatives allocated under Components of the target remuneration trading as well as (since the resolution passed by the Supervisory Board of EnBW Baden-Württemberg AG on 5 December 2018 with effect from 1 January 2019) for effects EBT due to the adjustment of the nuclear provisions and to the change in the inflation rate for costs for the operation, LTI dismantling and disposal of the nuclear power plants and in the discount rate Variable remuneration ROA › FFO (funds from operations), adjusted for the items of income tax paid and income tax received EBT STI The Supervisory Board will define the target values for the FFO performance indicators EBT and FFO each year before the start of the single-year measurement period. Basic remuneration The target value for the performance indicator EBT is generally Fixed remuneration defined on the basis of the figure actually achieved in the Fringe benefits previous year, whereby the Supervisory Board can, at its own discretion, make the achievement of the target easier or more difficult by adjusting the figure from the previous year, taking Company pension scheme into account extraordinary events in the previous year and Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Remuneration report 125 general considerations about the development of earnings The actual payout factor is derived using the actual value (target-actual comparison). achieved for the performance indicator and the piecewise linear function for the target range. The target value for the performance indicator FFO corresponds to the value defined for the performance indicator in the singleTarget range year budget plan approved in the year before the start of the measurement period (plan-actual comparison). Payout factor in % The target remuneration for the STI consists of two equally weighted partial remuneration amounts (50:50). Each partial Target range remuneration amount will be achieved if the target value for the 180 (Xmax; 180) respective performance indicator is achieved to 100%. The extent to which the individual targets for each of the performance indicators are achieved is based, in case of the underachievement or overachievement of the target value, on 100 (Xtarget; 100) the ratio of the defined target value and the actual value for the performance indicator in the measurement period as defined in the consolidated financial statements for the year of payment. In the event of the overachievement of the target, the maximum possible remuneration that can be paid is limited to 180% of the partial target remuneration defined for each (Xmin; 0) performance indicator (partial remuneration cap). The sum of Xmin Xtarget Xmax Target achievement both partial remuneration caps gives the total STI remuneration level in % cap, which is 180% of the total amount for the STI target remuneration. In the event of the underachievement of the target, STI remuneration has no lower limit and can fall to an If the definitions for the performance indicators or accounting amount of €0. policies change, especially as a result of amendments to accounting standards, the target values and ranges will be When defining the target values for the short-term readjusted correspondingly during the ongoing measurement muneration components, the Supervisory Board can also period, insofar as these changes cause the relevant achievement separately define a minimum and maximum value – at its own level to differ by more than +/-5 percentage points in com– discretion – and thus the target range for each of the perparison to the value that would have been achieved without formance indicators on an annual basis. these changes. The sum of the partial remuneration amounts for each performance indicator gives the total preliminary STI The target range corresponds to a piecewise linear function, as remuneration. shown in the adjacent diagram, which is determined by the value of the lowest achievement level Xmin in relation to the The amount of the total preliminary STI remuneration, which is lowest payout factor and the value of the highest achievement calculated exclusively on the basis of financial performance level Xmax in relation to the highest payout factor. The indicators, is then evaluated qualitatively using additional relationship between the target value and the minimum and criteria. The adjustment is carried out by multiplying the total maximum values can be used to determine the lowest and preliminary remuneration by a certain factor, whose lowest highest achievement levels (Xmin and Xmax), respectively, while value is 0.7 and highest value is 1.3. Only one decimal place is the relationship between the target remuneration and the used for this factor. If not defined otherwise by the Supervisory minimum and maximum remuneration can be used to Board, the default factor is 1.0. The level of this factor is primarily determine the lowest and highest payout factors, respectively. determined by the Supervisory Board on the basis of an The partial amount of the short-term variable remuneration for evaluation of criteria that are defined in advance on an annual each performance indicator based on the achievement level is basis. The sustainable growth of the company is an aspect that is calculated by multiplying the actual payout factor by the target particularly taken into account. remuneration defined for the respective performance indicator. 126 Management report » Remuneration report Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Calculation of the Short Term Incentive (STI) Partial target Target achievement remuneration EBT level EBT Evaluation factor based Total ﬁnal on deﬁned criteria STI remuneration Partial target Target achievement remuneration FFO level FFO In the event of extraordinary performance by the whole Board › ROA (return on assets = return on the capital expenditure for of Management or one member of the Board of Management, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment based the Supervisory Board can at its own discretion grant special on the relationship between the non-adjusted EBIT [adjusted remuneration as part of the short-term variable remuneration. in line with the regulations for deviations in the performance indicator EBT] and the sum of the intangible assets and As part of a final evaluation of the short-term variable property, plant and equipment [adjusted for subsidies related remuneration, the Supervisory Board also has the discretionary to capital expenditure]) power to appropriately adjust the amount of the STI to take into account extraordinary and unforeseeable events that cannot be The target values for the performance indicators EBT and ROA controlled by the Board of Management that have had a for a performance period are defined by the Supervisory Board considerable impact on the financial performance indicators on at its own discretion on an annual basis based on the corporate which the remuneration system is based. This discretionary strategy and with effect for the next performance period that power does not apply to the success targets or comparative begins in the following year. values, the subsequent adjustment of which should be excluded according to the recommendations in section 4.2.3 paragraph 2 The target remuneration for the LTI consists of two equally DCGK. weighted partial remuneration amounts (50:50). Each partial remuneration amount will be achieved if the target value for the If remuneration is granted in accordance with the two previous respective performance indicator is achieved to 100%. paragraphs, the total STI remuneration cap of 180% of the target STI remuneration still applies. The extent to which the individual targets for each of the performance indicators are achieved is based, in case the Long-term variable remuneration (Long Term Incentive – LTI) underachievement or overachievement of the target value, on The LTI is paid for a period of one financial year and paid out in the ratio of the defined target value and the arithmetic mean of the financial year following the conclusion of the measurement the actual values for the performance indicator as defined in the period. The measurement period for calculating the LTI covers a consolidated financial statements for each individual year of the period of three financial years which includes the year for which performance period. the remuneration is being paid and the two subsequent financial years (performance period). In the event of the overachievement of the target, the maximum possible remuneration that can be paid is limited to The performance indicators for calculating the extent to which 180% of the partial target remuneration defined for each the target for the LTI has been achieved are the following nonperformance indicator (partial remuneration cap). The sum of adjusted corporate performance indicators for the EnBW Group both partial remuneration caps gives the total LTI remuneration determined for one financial year in each case: cap, which is 180% of the total amount for the LTI target remuneration. In the event of the underachievement of the › EBT (earnings before taxes), adjusted for earnings from the target, LTI remuneration has no lower limit and can fall to an measurement of financial assets allocated to the financial amount of €0. result and outstanding items for derivatives allocated under trading as well as (since the resolution passed by the When defining the target values for the long-term Supervisory Board of EnBW Baden-Württemberg AG on remuneration components, the Supervisory Board can also 5 December 2018 with effect from 1 January 2019) for effects separately define a minimum and maximum value – at its due to the adjustment of the nuclear provisions and to the own discretion – and thus the target range for each of the change in the inflation rate for costs for the operation, performance indicators on an annual basis (see here the dismantling and disposal of the nuclear power plants and in information provided for the STI). the discount rate Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Remuneration report 127 The partial amount of the long-term variable remuneration for advance by the Supervisory Board. The basic LTI is determined each performance indicator based on the achievement level is by the accumulated contribution to value added derived from calculated by multiplying the actual payout factor by the target the three-year medium-term planning. It is calculated from the remuneration defined for the respective performance indicator. difference between the performance indicators ROCE and WACC The actual payout factor is derived using the actual value (weighted average cost of capital) multiplied by the average achieved for the performance indicator and the piecewise linear capital employed. The competition component measures the function for the target range. The sum of the partial relative performance of the EnBW Group in the respective threeremuneration amounts for each performance indicator gives year performance period against a peer group of competitors on the total LTI remuneration. the basis of the value spread (= ROCE WACC). The goal of the sustainable growth of the company in its strictest sense is also If the definitions for the performance indicators or accounting taken into account through the LTI sustainability component. In policies change, especially as a result of amendments to this component, the impact of the sustainable growth of the accounting standards, the target values and ranges will be company on the areas of customers, employees and adjusted correspondingly during the ongoing measurement environment/society is taken into account. The extent to which period, insofar as these changes cause the relevant achievement the targets for all three components have been achieved is level to differ by more than 5 percentage points in comparison to determined after the conclusion of the three-year planning the value that would have been achieved without these changes. period that acts as the basis for the calculations in each case. The Supervisory Board is entitled to adjust the targets if events arise The regulations for the Board of Management remuneration that are not relevant to the ongoing management of the system that were valid up to 31 December 2017 apply for the company and thus outside of the sphere of influence of the long-term variable remuneration in the measurement periods Board of Management. The size of the value appreciation bonus 2015 to 2017, 2016 to 2018 and 2017 to 2019, whereby the for 100% achievement of the targets, as well as the maximum Supervisory Board of EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG and minimum values for the overachievement or underpassed a resolution on 12 July 2018 that a remuneration cap for achievement of the agreed targets, can also be found in the table the total LTI of 110% of the total target remuneration will be “Target income of members of the Board of Management”. The introduced for the measurement periods 2016 to 2018 and 2017 amount based on the achievement of the relevant targets is paid to 2019. The LTI value appreciation bonus according to the old out after the conclusion of the three-year measurement period. remuneration system consisted of a basic LTI, a competition With a view to maintaining the previous level of target income, component and a sustainability component. The total value interest of 3% per annum is accrued on the calculated bonus appreciation bonus is the sum of the variable remuneration payment for two years and is paid after the conclusion of the payments that are calculated from these three components. three-year calculation period. Target values, lower limits and upper limits are defined in 128 Management report » Remuneration report Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Remuneration of members of the Board of Management in the 2018 financial year in € Dr. Frank Mastiaux, Chairman Dr. Bernhard Beck, LL.M. 2018 2017 2018 2017 Fixed remuneration Basic remuneration 990,000 990,000 515,000 515,000 Other remuneration 1 17,086 30,933 18,715 32,078 Variable remuneration Without long-term incentive 802,705 999,350 413,075 593,950 With long-term incentive 1,198,817² 1,282,331 732,021² 755,354 Total 3,008,608 3,302,614 1,678,811 1,896,382 1 Other remuneration includes monetary benefits, particularly from the provision of company cars amounting to €196,687 (previous year: €126,911). 2 Current preliminary value appreciation bonus for the performance periods 2017 to 2019 (and 2018 to 2020) is €1,130,000 for Dr. Frank Mastiaux (€1,314,985), €690,000 for Dr. Bernhard Beck (€685,918), €590,000 for Thomas Kusterer (€685,918) and €590,000 for Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer (€685,918). The exact level of the value appreciation bonus for the performance periods 2017 to 2019 (and 2018 to 2020) can only be determined following the end of the 2019 financial year (and 2020 financial year), and can fluctuate within the LTI spread pursuant to the following table Target income of members of the Board of Management. Target income of members of the Board of Management 1 in € Dr. Frank Mastiaux Dr. Bernhard Beck, LL.M. Chief Executive Officer Chief Personnel Officer 2018 2018 (min.) 2018 (max.) 2017 2018 2018 (min.) 2018 (max.) 2017 Fixed remuneration 990,000 990,000 990,000 990,000 515,000 515,000 515,000 515,000 Fringe benefits 17,086 17,086 17,086 30,933 18,715 18,715 18,715 32,078 Total 1,007,086 1,007,086 1,007,086 1,020,933 533,715 533,715 533,715 547,078 One-year variable remuneration performance bonus 710,000 0 1,278,000 748,000 370,000 0 666,000 455,000 Multi-year variable remuneration LTI 2016 to 2018 1,026,000 0 1,130,000 1,026,000 630,000 0 690,000 630,000 Total 2,743,086 1,007,086 3,415,086 2,794,933 1,533,715 533,715 1,889,715 1,632,078 Pension expenses 546,663 546,663 546,663 545,005 112,847 112,847 112,847 222,398 Total remuneration 3,289,749 1,553,749 3,961,749 3,339,938 1,646,562 646,562 2,002,562 1,854,476 1 This table illustrates the remuneration in both the reporting year and previous year which arises given 100% achievement of the targets (target income) and the potential minimum and maximum remuneration for the financial year. Remuneration is described for Board of Management members who were appointed at least on a part-time basis in either the reporting year or previous year to the Board of Management at EnBW AG. Payments to Board of Management members 1 in € Dr. Frank Mastiaux Dr. Bernhard Beck, Chief Executive Officer LL.M. Chief Personnel Officer 2018 2017 2018 2017 Fixed remuneration 990,000 990,000 515,000 515,000 Fringe benefits 17,086 30,933 18,715 32,078 Total 1,007,086 1,020,933 533,715 547,078 One-year variable remuneration performance bonus 838,069 892,250 464,059 503,050 Multi-year variable remuneration Deferrals from 2014 – 445,231 – 261,901 LTI 2014 to 2016 – 796,118 – 386,059 LTI 2015 to 2017 1,222,921 – 718,222 – Total 3,068,076 3,154,532 1,715,996 1,698,088 Pension expenses 546,663 545,005 112,847 222,398 Total remuneration 3,614,739 3,699,537 1,828,843 1,920,486 1 This table illustrates payments in both the reporting year and previous year pursuant to the German Income Tax Act (Einkommensteuergesetz). Earnings are described for members of the Board of Management who were appointed at least on a part-time basis in either the reporting year or previous year to the Board of Management of EnBW AG. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Remuneration report 129 Thomas Kusterer Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer 2018 2017 2018 2017 515,000 515,000 515,000 515,000 23,594 23,313 39,956 41,309 419,686 514,994 418,477 514,820 625,931² 651,327 625,931² 651,327 1,584,211 1,704,634 1,599,364 1,722,456 Thomas Kusterer Dr. Hans-Josef-Zimmer Chief Financial Officer Chief Technical Officer 2018 2018 (min.) 2018 (max.) 2017 2018 2018 (min.) 2018 (max.) 2017 515,000 515,000 515,000 515,000 515,000 515,000 515,000 515,000 23,594 23,594 23,594 23,313 39,956 39,956 39,956 41,309 538,594 538,594 538,594 538,313 554,956 554,956 554,956 556,309 370,000 0 666,000 390,000 370,000 0 666,000 390,000 535,000 0 590,000 535,000 535,000 0 590,000 535,000 1,443,594 538,594 1,794,594 1,463,313 1,459,956 554,956 1,810,956 1,481,309 380,180 380,180 380,180 320,993 235,725 235,725 235,725 239,981 1,823,774 918,774 2,174,774 1,784,306 1,695,681 790,681 2,046,681 1,721,290 Thomas Kusterer Dr. Hans-Josef-Zimmer Chief Financial Officer Chief Technical Officer 2018 2017 2018 2017 515,000 515,000 515,000 515,000 23,594 23,313 39,956 41,309 538,594 538,313 554,956 556,309 445,103 475,294 443,895 475,120 – 235,711 – 235,711 – 349,453 – 349,453 620,561 – 620,560 – 1,604,258 1,598,771 1,619,411 1,616,593 380,180 320,993 235,725 239,981 1,984,438 1,919,764 1,855,136 1,856,574 130 Management report » Remuneration report Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Compensation agreed with the Board of Management When the pension is due (age, invalidity, death), payment of the in the event of termination of service pension assets is generally made in five to ten instalments. Alternatively, a life-long pension payment can be made on the The Supervisory Board of EnBW AG passed a new resolution on request of the member of the Board of Management – including a 18 March 2016 for the reorganisation of the company pension 60% entitlement for surviving dependants – or a mixed form of scheme for the Board of Management, effective as of 1 January payment. Payment options are also available to the surviving de2016. pendants. If the member leaves the Board of Management before the pension is due, the pension account will remain at its current The regulations that were valid up until then can be found in the balance plus any surplus payments that are still due to be made. following publications: The members of the Board of Management are entitled to make › The company pension scheme that was valid for members of their own contributions to the pension scheme and supplement the Board of Management up until 31 December 2015 is the pension provision financed by the employer. For this purpresented in detail in the remuneration report for 2015, pose, a proportion of the annual STI bonus up to a maximum which was published in the combined management report of sum of €50,000 p.a. can be converted into a pension entitlethe EnBW Group and EnBW AG for the 2015 financial year. ment. The regulations described above apply correspondingly to › The regulations governing the transition of the company self-financed contributions. pension scheme that was valid for members of the Board of Management up until 31 December 2015 are presented in Vested pension entitlements from the old pension scheme: As detail in the remuneration report for 2016, which was part of the transfer of the existing pension entitlements from published in the combined management report of the EnBW the old pension scheme, the following vested pension entitleGroup and EnBW AG for the 2016 financial year. ments – in accordance with the individual term of service in each case – were determined for the serving members of the The company pension scheme for the members of the Board of Board of Management as of 31 December 2015: Dr. Frank Management at the company is a modern and market-oriented Mastiaux: €80,676 p.a., Dr. Bernhard Beck: €195,846 p.a., Thomas pension system that provides members of the Board of ManageKusterer: €89,523 p.a., Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer: €174,636 p.a. ment with flexibility with respect to how the pension benefits are paid out. Following the introduction of the new system, there has Individual pension contributions that deviate from the regubeen a shift from the previous defined benefit pension plan to a lations for the new pension scheme: From 1 January 2016, the defined contribution pension model. In the new system, annual annual pension contributions and the interest on the contripension contributions will be paid that accrue interest at a rate butions will generally be paid in accordance with the rules of the oriented to the capital market. In order to ensure that the new system for new members of the Board of Management business risks associated with the pension scheme – especially the appointed in the future. However, a deviation was necessary for interest rate risks and biometric risks – remain calculable in the the current members of the Board of Management to take future, the interest model only contains a relatively low fixed account of the transition to the new system, and individual interest entitlement that forms the basic interest rate plus a nonpension contributions and an individual contribution period guaranteed surplus that is based on the actual development of have been defined. The following individual pension contribuinterest rates in the life insurance industry. tions were determined: Dr. Frank Mastiaux: €360,000 p.a., Dr. Bernhard Beck: €170,000 p.a., Thomas Kusterer: €215,000 p.a., During the term of the contract, EnBW pays fixed annual Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer: €120,000 p.a. contributions to the pension scheme to an individual pension account. Pension contributions are paid for a maximum period Regulation for limiting severance payments: No severance of three terms of office (or 13 years in office). The fixed annual benefit obligations exist in the event of premature termination contributions are €230,000 for ordinary members of the Board of service on the Board of Management. However, severance of Management and €390,000 for the Chairman of the Board of benefits may be payable on the basis of a severance agreement Management. In the event of invalidity and as a supplementary made with the individual. For agreements in place as of the risk benefit, age-dependent “notional” contributions will be paid reporting date, it was agreed that payments made to a member on top of the balance already existing on the pension account of the Board of Management on premature termination of his until the member reaches the age of 60 – although at the most or her contract without serious cause, including fringe benefits, seven contributions will be paid. shall not exceed the value of two years’ remuneration (severance cap) and compensate for no more than the As well as the annual contributions, interest is paid that is remaining term of the contract. In concluding or extending oriented to the market and consists of a guaranteed basic contracts for the Board of Management, care is taken to ensure interest rate and a non-guaranteed surplus. The guaranteed that no payments will be made to a member of the Board of interest is paid on every contribution in advance until the Management in the event of the premature termination of the defined retirement age (63 years old). In addition, annual contract due to an important reason for which the member of surplus payments can be paid above and beyond the the Board of Management is responsible. guaranteed interest. These are based on the current average interest rate for capital investments actually achieved in the In the event of the premature termination of service on the past year in the life insurance industry and are not guaranteed. Board of Management due to a change of control, the possibility Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Remuneration report 131 of a severance payment for the member of the Board of member of the Board of Management is not responsible, Management is limited to the pro rata share of annual remuneration will be paid for the first six months. The amount remuneration(s) for the residual term of the contract. However, of variable remuneration will be calculated from the average of the severance payment must not exceed three times the annual the last three years, and basic remuneration will be paid for a remuneration. further six months. However, payments in the event of unavailability for work will be made no longer than until the In concluding or extending contracts for the Board of Manageend of the term of the service agreement. ment in the event of the premature termination of service on the Board of Management due to a change of control, it is agreed The disclosures for the 2018 financial year concerning postthat settlement or severance payments should not exceed three employment benefits are presented below. This presentation times the annual remuneration and must not compensate for satisfies the requirements of section 285 No. 9a HGB. The more than the residual term of the contract. disclosures include the vested entitlement as of the reporting date, the annual expenses for pension obligations and the Temporary unavailability for work: In the event of temporary present value of the pension obligations earned as of the unavailability for work on the part of a member of the Board of reporting date. Management due to illness or any other reason for which the Post-employment benefits in € Dr. Frank Mastiaux, Dr. Bernhard Beck, LL.M. Thomas Kusterer Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer Chairman 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Vested benefit from previous entitlement p.a. 80,676 80,676 195,846 195,846 89,5232 89,5232 174,636 174,636 Capital from contribution model 1,296,167 877,398 373,116 312,129 777,533 515,493 384,086 254,643 Annual expenses for pension obligations 1 546,663 545,005 112,847 222,398 380,180 320,993 235,725 239,981 Present value of pension obligations (defined benefit obligations) 3,396,435 2,899,870 5,216,617 4,971,364 3,151,738 2,786,574 4,845,098 4,564,216 1 Including an addition to capital for pension benefits totalling €128,128 (previous year: €74,580). This is a pension commitment financed through voluntarily waiving part of the salary. 2 In addition to the vested pension, Thomas Kusterer also has a special capital component of €135,000. Annual expenses for pension obligations include both service The Chairman of the Supervisory Board receives twice the and interest costs. There are defined benefit obligations in above, while the Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board accordance with IFRS of €16.6 million for the current members receives one and a half times the aforementioned amount. of the Board of Management (previous year: €15.2 million). Members of the Supervisory Board receive fixed remuneration Former members of the Board of Management and their surof €7,500 each per financial year to offset the additional work viving dependants received total remuneration of €4.8 million in involved in any activities in one or more Supervisory Board the 2018 financial year (previous year: €4.7 million). These pension committees. The Chairperson of one or more committees payments are indexed to the percentage change in remuneration receives twice the amount of the remuneration for the according to the collective bargaining agreement. committee work, unless the respective committee has not met in the financial year concerned. Supervisory Board members There are defined benefit obligations to former members of who have only belonged to the Supervisory Board or a the Board of Management and their surviving dependants committee or acted as a Chairperson for part of the financial in accordance with IFRS of €99.0 million (previous year: year are paid remuneration proportionate to the duration of €98.8 million). their office or their position in that financial year. As in the previous year, no loans or advances to members of the In addition, members of the Supervisory Board receive an Board of Management existed at the end of the financial year. attendance fee of €750 for Supervisory Board meetings and committee meetings. Attendance at preliminary meetings is remunerated with €250 per meeting, but only for one preSupervisory Board remuneration liminary meeting per Supervisory Board meeting. In response to a proposal of the Board of Management and According to this remuneration system, the members of the Supervisory Board, the Annual General Meeting on 25 April 2013 Supervisory Board will receive the total remuneration revised the regulations for Supervisory Board remuneration. (including attendance fees and remuneration for offices held at Accordingly, members of the Supervisory Board receive fixed subsidiaries) shown in the table for the 2018 financial year. remuneration of €40,000 each payable at the end of the financial year in addition to reimbursement of their expenses for the entire 2018 financial year. 132 Management report » Remuneration report Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW The disclosures for the remuneration for members of the SuperThe members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory visory Board include attendance fees amounting to €201,500 Board are covered by adequate D&O insurance concluded in the (previous year: €227,250) and attendance fees totalling €14,390 interest of EnBW. For this D&O insurance, the deductible for included in the remuneration for offices held at subsidiaries members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory (previous year: €20,265). No other remuneration or benefits for Board is 10% of the claim in each case, but no more than one services rendered personally, in particular consulting or mediation and a half times the fixed annual remuneration. services, were paid to members of the Supervisory Board, nor did they receive any loans or advances in the reporting year. Total remuneration for members of the Supervisory Board of EnBW AG in € Fixed remuneration Remuneration for offices Total (incl. attendance fees) held at subsidiaries 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Lutz Feldmann, Chairman 110,750 113,000 0 0 110,750 113,000 Dietrich Herd, Deputy Chairman 84,750 88,500 9,500 9,800 94,250 98,300 Dr. Dietrich Birk 57,250 57,250 0 0 57,250 57,250 Stefanie Bürkle 1 52,000 54,250 0 0 52,000 54,250 Stefan Paul Hamm 2 64,000 66,250 7,513 7,513 71,513 73,763 Volker Hüsgen (since 1 October 2018) 13,723 0 2,579 0 16,302 0 Michaela Kräutter 2 46,000 46,000 950 1,500 46,950 47,500 Silke Krebs 56,500 61,000 0 0 56,500 61,000 Marianne Kugler-Wendt 2 56,500 56,500 6,100 6,400 62,600 62,900 Thomas Landsbek 46,000 46,000 0 0 46,000 46,000 Dr. Hubert Lienhard 54,250 55,000 0 0 54,250 55,000 Sebastian Maier 56,500 56,500 6,615 6,615 63,115 63,115 Arnold Messner 63,750 66,250 8,113 8,113 71,863 74,363 Dr. Wolf-Rüdiger Michel 1 54,250 54,250 0 0 54,250 54,250 Gunda Röstel 64,000 66,250 11,513 11,513 75,513 77,763 Klaus Schörnich (until 30 September 2018) 42,777 56,500 200 11,150 42,977 67,650 Heinz Seiffert 1 55,750 55,750 0 0 55,750 55,750 Edith Sitzmann 3 54,250 55,750 0 0 54,250 55,750 Ulrike Weindel 56,500 56,500 0 0 56,500 56,500 Lothar Wölfle 1 63,250 64,750 0 0 63,250 64,750 Dr. Bernd-Michael Zinow 66,250 68,500 12,800 12,200 79,050 80,700 Total 1,219,000 1,244,750 65,883 74,804 1,284,883 1,319,554 1 The regulations in the State Civil Service Act (Landesbeamtengesetz) and the Ancillary Activities Ordinance (Landesnebentätigkeitsverordnung – LNTVO) of the Federal State of Baden-Württemberg for relinquishing remuneration from secondary employment to the administrative district apply. The regulations in LBeamtVG apply instead for Mr Seiffert. 2 In accordance with the regulations of the German Federation of Trade Unions (DGB) on the transfer of supervisory board remuneration, the remuneration is transferred to the Hans Böckler Foundation and ver.di GewerkschaftsPolitische Bildung gGmbH. 3 The members of the state government and the state secretaries are obligated to relinquish any remuneration, including attendance fees, received for membership of supervisory boards, executive boards, advisory boards and all other comparable boards to which they have been appointed in connection with their office or to which they are assigned as a member of the state government, applying section 5 LNTVO analogously, provided that the remuneration received in the calendar year exceeds the gross total for level “B6 and higher” (currently €6,100) (council of ministers resolution dated 05/07/2016). Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Disclosures pursuant to sections 289a (1) and 315a (1) German 133 Commercial Code (HGB) and explanatory report of the Board of Management Disclosures pursuant to sections 289a (1) and 315a (1) German Commercial Code (HGB) and explanatory report of the Board of Management In the following, the Board of Management provides the The Annual General Meeting has the right to make changes to information prescribed by sections 289a (1) and 315a (1) HGB and the Articles of Association in accordance with section 119 (1) No. explains this in accordance with section 176 (1) sentence 1 AktG. 5 AktG. The specific rules of procedure are contained in sections 179 and 181 AktG. For practical reasons, the right to amend the Composition of the subscribed capital and Articles of Association was transferred to the Supervisory Board shares in capital where such amendments affect the wording only. This option pursuant to section 179 (1) sentence 2 AktG is embodied in The composition of the subscribed capital is described and section 18 (2) of the Articles of Association. explained in the notes to the annual and consolidated financial statements in the section “Equity”. Direct or indirect shares in Pursuant to section 179 (2) AktG, resolutions by the Annual capital which exceed 10% of the voting rights are described and General Meeting to amend the Articles of Association require a explained in the notes to the annual financial statements in the majority of at least three quarters of the capital stock sections “Shareholder structure” and “Disclosures pursuant to represented when passing the resolution, unless the Articles of sections 33 ff. German Securities Trading Act (WpHG)” and the Association stipulate a different majority, which however for notes to the consolidated financial statements in section any amendment of the purpose of the company can only be “Related parties (entities)”. higher. Pursuant to section 18 (1) of the Articles of Association, resolutions by the Annual General Meeting require a simple Information and explanations about the company's treasury majority of the votes cast, unless legal regulations or the Articles shares are presented below and can be found in note 18 of the of Association stipulate otherwise. If the law requires a larger notes to the consolidated financial statements at www.enbw.com/ majority of the votes cast or of the capital stock represented report2018-downloads. when passing the resolution, the simple majority suffices in those cases where the law leaves the determination of the Restrictions relating to voting rights or required majority to the Articles of Association. transferability of shares Authority of the Board of Management regarding the Agreements were reached on 22 December 2015 between, on the possibility to issue or redeem shares one hand, Zweckverband Oberschwäbische Elektrizitätswerke (Zweckverband OEW) and OEW Energie-Beteiligungs GmbH No authorised or conditional capital nor any authorisation of and, on the other, the Federal State of Baden-Württemberg, the Annual General Meeting pursuant to section 71 (1) No. 8 NECKARPRI GmbH and NECKARPRI-Beteiligungsgesellschaft AktG for the purchase of treasury shares by the company mbH, which include clauses relating to restrictions of currently exists at EnBW. Therefore, the company may only authorisation over EnBW shares held by these parties and a acquire treasury shares on the basis of other reasons justifying general mutual obligation of both main shareholders to maintain such purchases in accordance with section 71 (1) AktG. As of parity investment relationships in EnBW with respect to each 31 December 2018, the company holds 5,749,677 treasury shares other. Restrictions relating to voting rights no longer exist to the which were purchased on the basis of earlier authorisations in knowledge of the Board of Management since the afore– accordance with section 71 (1) No. 8 AktG. The company’s mentioned direct and indirect EnBW shareholders annulled a treasury shares can be sold on the stock exchange or by public shareholder agreement on 22 December 2015 that had previously offer to all company shareholders. The use of treasury shares, in existed between them. particular their sale, in any other way can only occur within the scope of the resolution issued by the Annual General Meeting Legal provisions and statutes on the appointment and on 29 April 2004. The treasury shares held by EnBW do not grant dismissal of members of the Board of Management the company any rights in accordance with section 71b AktG. and amendments to the Articles of Association Material agreements of the company subject to the Pursuant to section 84 AktG in conjunction with section 31 condition of a change of control as a result of a MitbestG, responsibility for the appointment and dismissal of takeover bid and the resulting effects members of the Board of Management rests with the Supervisory Board. This competence is stipulated in section 7 (1) The following EnBW agreements are subject to the condition of sentence 2 of the Articles of Association of EnBW. If, under a change of control following a takeover bid as defined by exceptional circumstances, a necessary member of the Board of sections 289a (1) No. 8 and 315a (1) No. 8 HGB: Management is missing, section 85 AktG requires that a member of the Board of Management be appointed by the court in urgent cases. 134 Management report » Disclosures pursuant to sections 289a (1) and 315a (1) German Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Commercial Code (HGB) and explanatory report of the Board of Management A syndicated credit line of €1.5 billion, which had not been A bond of JPY 20 billion issued on 12 December 2008 under the drawn as of 31 December 2018, can be terminated by the lenders Debt Issuance Programme can be terminated by the lenders and and become due for repayment given a change of control at become due for repayment given a change of control at EnBW. EnBW. This does not apply if the purchaser of the shares is the This does not apply if the purchaser of the shares is EDF (whose Federal State of Baden-Württemberg or Zweckverband OEW or legal successor as shareholder has been the Federal State of another German state-owned public law legal entity. Baden-Württemberg since February 2011) or Zweckverband OEW or another German state-owned public law corporation. A promissory note loan of €200 million, two bilateral bank loans together totalling around €48 million and a syndicated Two bilateral long-term bank loans, drawn to the value of loan, of which €186 million was drawn as of 31 December 2018, €375 million and around €364 million as of 31 December 2018, taken out by Stadtwerke Düsseldorf AG (SWD) relating to the can be terminated by the lender and become due for repayment financing of their CCGT power plant can each become due for given a change of control at EnBW, provided the change of repayment given a change of control at SWD, including an control has a negative effect on repayment of the loan in future. indirect change of control. This does not apply if, after the This does not apply if the purchaser of the shares is EDF (whose change of control, the majority of shares in SWD are held legal successor as shareholder has been the Federal State of directly or indirectly by German government entities, and the Baden-Württemberg since February 2011) or Zweckverband OEW. City of Düsseldorf holds at least 25.05% of the shares in SWD. Compensation agreements A syndicated credit line with a volume of €700 million that was newly agreed with VNG AG in 2018, of which around €59 million Compensation agreements pursuant to sections 289a (1) No. 9 was drawn down as of 31 December 2018, can become due for and 315a (1) No. 9 HGB concluded with members of the Board of repayment given a change of control at VNG, including an Management to cover any case of a change of control are indirect change of control. This does not apply if, after the described and explained in the remuneration report, which is change of control, the majority of shares in VNG continue to be part of the management report. held directly by German public sector shareholders or indirectly by these shareholders via controlled legal entities. Nos. 4 and 5 of sections 289a (1) and 315a (1) HGB were not relevant for EnBW in the 2018 financial year. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Management report » Index for the non-financial declaration of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG 135 Index for the non-financial declaration of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG In accordance with sections 315b and 289b HGB, the EnBW EnBW Group and EnBW AG. We comply with all of the aspects Group and EnBW AG have been obligated to issue a nonrequired by the act and also with other aspects that are material financial declaration since the 2017 financial year. EnBW is from the perspective of EnBW, such as standing in society, complying with the requirements in the Act on Strengthening customer satisfaction and supply quality, by providing the Non-Financial Reporting by Companies in Management Reports respective information in each relevant section of the and Group Management Reports (CSR Directive ImplemenIntegrated Annual Report 2018. The following table describes the tation Act) – as in the previous year – through a non-financial relevant aspects that are contained in the integrated report. declaration that is fully integrated into the Integrated Annual They each provide explanations of the concepts and processes, Report as part of the combined management report of the measures, performance indicators and risks. Index for the non-financial declaration of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG Goal dimension Themes Aspects Section Page reference Compliance » Fighting corruption » Corporate governance page 57 f. and bribery » Report on opportunities and risks page 118 Social engagement » Social issues » In dialogue with our stakeholders page 61 f. » Report on opportunities and risks page 118 Procurement » Respect for human rights » Procurement page 69 ff. » Report on opportunities and risks page 118 Reputation » Standing in society » The EnBW Group page 94 » Forecast page 112 » Report on opportunities and risks page 118 Customer proximity » Customer satisfaction » The EnBW Group page 94 ff. Customers » Forecast page 112 and society » Report on opportunities and risks page 118 Supply reliability » Supply quality » The EnBW Group page 96 » Forecast page 112 Employee commitment » Employee issues » The EnBW Group page 96 ff. » Forecast page 113 » Report on opportunities and risks page 118 Employees Occupational safety » Employee issues » The EnBW Group page 100 f. » Forecast page 113 » Report on opportunities and risks page 118 Expansion of renewable » Environmental issues » The EnBW Group page 101 f. energies » Forecast page 113 » Report on opportunities and risks page 118 f. Climate protection » Environmental issues » Business model page 39 » General conditions page 73 f. Environment » The EnBW Group page 103 f. » Forecast page 113 » Report on opportunities and risks page 119 The non-financial declaration is issued jointly for the EnBW “Business model” (p. 38 ff.). We have not identified any material Group and EnBW AG. Differences between the statements for individual risks in the 2018 financial year that have a very high the Group and EnBW AG are clearly identified in the text. probability of a serious negative impact in relation to the Information on the business model can be found in the section relevant non-financial issues. 136 Management report » Index for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW The reporting of sustainability topics has been based for many KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft is commissioned to years on the standard issued by the Global Reporting Initiative audit the consolidated financial statements and the combined (GRI). Since the 2017 financial year, we have based the reporting management report including the contents of the non-financial on the GRI standards, including the Electric Utilities Sector declaration with reasonable assurance and then to issue an Supplement (www.enbw.com/gri-index). Our sustainability reportaudit opinion following the conclusion of the audit. ing also complies with the requirements of the Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact. The full consolidated financial statements and the combined management report for the 2018 financial year are accessible Information on the diversity concept can be found in the deto the public on the website at www.enbw.com/report2018claration of corporate management at www.enbw.com/corporatedownloads. governance. Index for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) EnBW started to implement the recommendations from the elements. The index also includes other themes besides these TCFD in 2017. This work has continued in the 2018 financial year where we are working on the further implementation of the and is being continuously developed in each of the four key TCFD recommendations. Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Issue Contents Page reference Governance » Corporate management page 56 » Materiality analysis page 59 f. » Investment guidelines pages 60 and 88 » Climate protection initiatives pages 60 and 73 » Overall assessment by the Group management page 109 » Board of Management remuneration page 124 ff. Strategy » Robustness of business model / scenario analysis page 39 » Strategy, strategic development pages 48 and 50 f. » Interdependencies page 53 ff. » Materiality analysis page 59 f. » Green bonds page 85 f. » General conditions, climate protection page 73 f. » Environment goal dimension: internal control system page 117 f. Risk management » Integrated opportunity and risk management including opportunity and risk map page 114 ff. » Environment goal dimension: opportunities and risks page 118 ff. Performance indicators and targets » Sustainability rating page 60 » Key performance indicators and long-term targets page 51 ff. » Environment goal dimension: key performance indicators and other page 101 ff. performance indicators Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Condensed financial statements » Table of contents 137 Condensed financial statements of the EnBW Group Income statement .............................................................. 138 Statement of comprehensive income ................................ 139 Balance sheet .................................................................... 140 Cash flow statement .......................................................... 141 Statement of changes in equity ......................................... 142 Information on the result of the audit of the consolidated financial statements and the combined management report of the company and the Group for the 2018 financial year ......................... 143 Note The full set of financial statements of the EnBW Group 2018 including the notes to the consolidated financial statements and the unqualified auditor’s report form part of the Integrated Annual Report 2018 – Extended Version, which is available in PDF format on our website at www.enbw.com/report2018-downloads. 138 Condensed Financial statements » Income statement Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Income statement in € million 1 Notes 2018 2017 Change in % Revenue including electricity and energy taxes 21,193.1 22,622.7 -6.3 Electricity and energy taxes -575.6 -648.7 -11.3 Revenue (1) 20,617.5 21,974.0 -6.2 Changes in inventories 13.9 22.7 -38.8 Other own work capitalised 102.1 134.9 -24.3 Other operating income (2) 1,116.7 2,750.3 -59.4 Cost of materials (3) -16,657.6 -18,189.3 -8.4 Personnel expenses (4) -1,871.8 -1,777.1 5.3 Impairment losses (24) -36.7 – – Other operating expenses (5) -1,194.5 -1,163.1 2.7 EBITDA 2,089.6 3,752.4 -44.3 Amortisation and depreciation (6) -1,213.8 -1,248.4 -2.8 Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) 875.8 2,504.0 -65.0 Investment result (7) 100.9 159.3 -36.7 of which net profit/loss from entities accounted for using the equity method (-24.1) (43.3) – of which other profit/loss from investments (125.0) (116.0) 7.8 Financial result (8) -380.4 194.6 – of which finance income (295.5) (704.1) -58.0 of which finance costs (-675.9) (-509.5) 32.7 Earnings before tax (EBT) 596.3 2,857.9 -79.1 Income tax (9) -128.7 -681.6 -81.1 Group net profit 467.6 2,176.3 -78.5 of which profit/loss shares attributable to non-controlling interests (133.4) (122.2) 9.2 of which profit/loss shares attributable to the shareholders of EnBW AG (334.2) (2,054.1) -83.7 EnBW AG shares outstanding (million), weighted average 270.855 270.855 0.0 Earnings per share from Group net profit (€) 2 (23) 1.23 7.58 -83.7 1 We publish the full set of consolidated financial statements at www.enbw.com/report2018-downloads. 2 Diluted and basic; in relation to profit/loss attributable to the shareholders of EnBW AG. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Condensed Financial statements » Statement of comprehensive income 139 Statement of comprehensive income in € million 1 2018 2017 Change in % Group net profit 467.6 2,176.3 -78.5 Revaluation of pensions and similar obligations -110.0 86.6 – Income taxes on other comprehensive income 31.8 -14.7 – Total of other comprehensive income and expenses without future reclassifications impacting earnings -78.2 71.9 – Currency translation differences 5.1 46.0 -88.9 Cash flow hedge -143.8 4.5 – Financial assets at fair value in equity -16.2 – Available-for-sale financial assets 103.8 – Entities accounted for using the equity method 1.0 -4.1 – Income taxes on other comprehensive income 81.5 -33.1 – Total of other comprehensive income and expenses with future reclassifications impacting earnings -72.4 117.1 – Total other comprehensive income -150.6 189.0 – Total comprehensive income 317.0 2,365.3 -86.6 of which profit/loss shares attributable to non-controlling interests (132.6) (135.6) -2.2 of which profit/loss shares attributable to the shareholders of EnBW AG (184.4) (2,229.7) -91.7 1 Further information is available in the notes under (18) “Equity”. We publish the full set of consolidated financial statements at www.enbw.com/report2018-downloads. 140 Condensed Financial statements » Balance sheet Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Balance sheet in € million 1 Notes 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets (10) 1,748.7 1,905.9 Property, plant and equipment (11) 15,867.5 15,597.4 Entities accounted for using the equity method (12) 1,600.2 1,388.6 Other financial assets (13) 5,426.5 5,985.7 Trade receivables (14) 302.0 320.9 Other non-current assets (15) 741.8 611.7 Deferred taxes (20) 1,059.3 956.4 26,746.0 26,766.6 Current assets Inventories 1,192.0 958.1 Financial assets (16) 774.7 588.1 Trade receivables (14) 4,515.7 4,408.7 Other current assets (15) 3,788.9 2,847.1 Cash and cash equivalents (17) 2,249.4 3,213.3 12,520.7 12,015.3 Assets held for sale (22) 342.3 3.0 12,863.0 12,018.3 39,609.0 38,784.9 Equity and liabilities Equity (18) Shares of the shareholders of EnBW AG Subscribed capital 708.1 708.1 Capital reserve 774.2 774.2 Revenue reserves 4,676.4 3,636.6 Treasury shares -204.1 -204.1 Other comprehensive income -1,976.7 -1,367.4 3,977.9 3,547.4 Non-controlling interests 2,295.4 2,315.5 6,273.3 5,862.9 Non-current liabilities Provisions (19) 13,246.0 13,124.5 Deferred taxes (20) 774.8 799.4 Financial liabilities (21) 6,341.4 5,952.0 Other liabilities and subsidies (21) 1,674.7 2,043.8 22,036.9 21,919.7 Current liabilities Provisions (19) 1,549.9 1,598.7 Financial liabilities (21) 654.8 1,306.8 Trade payables (21) 5,039.8 4,838.1 Other liabilities and subsidies (21) 4,033.1 3,258.7 11,277.6 11,002.3 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale (22) 21.2 0.0 11,298.8 11,002.3 39,609.0 38,784.9 1 We publish the full set of consolidated financial statements at www.enbw.com/report2018-downloads. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Condensed Financial statements » Cash flow statement 141 Cash flow statement in € million 1 2018 2017 1. Operating activities EBITDA 2,089.6 3,752.4 Changes in provisions -394.6 -472.3 Result from disposals -88.4 -317.8 Other non-cash-relevant expenses/income -27.6 -68.1 Change in assets and liabilities from operating activities -480.7 -4,671.4 Inventories (-201.7) (-27.3) Net balance of trade receivables and payables (49.6) (277.6) Net balance of other assets and liabilities (-328.6) (-4,921.7) Income tax paid/received -270.7 81.1 Cash flow from operating activities 827.6 -1,696.1 2. Investing activities Capital expenditure on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment -1,369.5 -1,419.2 Disposals of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 77.3 52.8 Cash received from subsidies for construction costs and investments, and tax refunds from recognised exploration expenditure 86.1 113.8 Acquisition of subsidiaries, entities accounted for using the equity method and interests in joint operations -297.6 -227.9 Sale of subsidiaries, entities accounted for using the equity method and interests in joint operations 297.9 235.4 Cash paid for investments in other financial assets -750.4 -721.2 Sale of other financial assets 765.3 3,491.0 Cash received/paid for investments in connection with short-term finance planning 10.5 44.3 Interest received 94.4 452.1 Dividends received 190.2 139.6 Cash flow from investing activities -895.8 2,160.7 3. Financing activities Interest paid for financing activities -247.0 -425.6 Dividends paid -312.8 -84.7 Cash received for changes in ownership interest without loss of control 4.6 1.5 Increase in financial liabilities 1,125.1 302.3 Repayment of financial liabilities -1,425.4 -1,279.8 Payments from alterations of capital in non-controlling interests -51.8 -55.0 Cash flow from financing activities -907.3 -1,541.3 Net change in cash and cash equivalents -975.5 -1,076.7 Change in cash and cash equivalents due to changes in the consolidated companies 6.6 300.3 Net foreign exchange difference 5.5 -1.9 Change in cash and cash equivalents due to risk provisions 0.2 0.0 Change in cash and cash equivalents -963.2 -778.3 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 2 3,212.6 3,991.6 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 2,249.4 3,213.3 1 Further information is available in the notes under (31) “Notes to the cash flow statement”. We publish the full set of consolidated financial statements at www.enbw.com/report2018-downloads. 2 Explanation in the “Changes in accounting policies”. 142 Condensed Financial statements » Statement of changes in equity Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Statement of changes in equity in € million 1 Other comprehensive income SubRevenue Treasury Revaluation Currency Cash Financial Entities Shares of Non-conTotal scribed reserves shares of pensions translation flow assets at accounted the sharetrolling capital and similar differences hedge fair value for using holders of interests and obligations in equity the equity EnBW AG capital method reserve 2 As of 01/01/2017 1,482.3 1,582.5 -204.1 -1,784.6 -48.2 -97.7 383.1 4.4 1,317.7 1,898.5 3,216.2 Other comprehensive income 67.7 36.2 -11.5 87.3 -4.1 175.6 13.4 189.0 Group net profit 2,054.1 2,054.1 122.2 2,176.3 Total comprehensive income 0.0 2,054.1 0.0 67.7 36.2 -11.5 87.3 -4.1 2,229.7 135.6 2,365.3 Dividends 0.0 -84.7 -84.7 Other changes 0.0 366.1 366.1 As of 31/12/2017/ 01/01/2018 1,482.3 3,636.6 -204.1 -1,716.9 -12.0 -109.2 470.4 0.3 3,547.4 2,315.5 5,862.9 Changes in accounting policies 842.7 -459.5 383.2 11.7 394.9 As of 01/01/2018 after changes in accounting policies 1,482.3 4,479.3 -204.1 -1,716.9 -12.0 -109.2 10.9 0.3 3,930.6 2,327.2 6,257.8 Other comprehensive income -74.6 3.2 -68.2 -11.2 1.0 -149.8 -0.8 -150.6 Group net profit 334.2 334.2 133.4 467.6 Total comprehensive income 0.0 334.2 0.0 -74.6 3.2 -68.2 -11.2 1.0 184.4 132.6 317.0 Dividends -135.4 -135.4 -139.2 -274.6 Other changes 3 -1.7 -1.7 -25.2 -26.9 As of 31/12/2018 1,482.3 4,676.4 -204.1 -1,791.5 -8.8 -177.4 -0.3 1.3 3,977.9 2,295.4 6,273.3 1 Further information is available in the notes under (18) “Equity”. We publish the full set of consolidated financial statements at www.enbw.com/report2018-downloads. 2 Of which subscribed capital €708.1 million (31/12/2017: €708.1 million, 01/01/2017: €708.1 million) and capital reserve €774.2 million (31/12/2017: €774.2 million, 01/01/2017: €774.2 million). 3 Of which changes in revenue reserves due to changes in ownership interest of subsidiaries without loss of control of €-1.7 million (31/12/2017: €0.0 million, 01/01/2017: €0.0 million). Of which changes in non-controlling interests due to changes in ownership interest of subsidiaries without loss of control amounting to €6.2 million (31/12/2017: €0.0 million, 01/01/2017: €0.0 million). Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Financial statements » Information on the result of the audit 143 Information on the result of the audit of the consolidated financial statements and the combined management report of the company and the Group for the 2018 financial year The condensed financial statements for the 2018 financial year auditor elected by the Annual General Meeting of EnBW Energie that form part of the Integrated Annual Report do not include Baden-Württemberg AG on 8 May 2018. Based on its audit, the notes to the consolidated financial statements and the KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft arrived at the overall declaration of corporate management 2018 of the EnBW Group conclusion that the audit did not lead to any reservations and and EnBW AG including the corporate governance report 2018. issued an unqualified audit opinion. The full set of consolidated The full set of consolidated financial statements – including the financial statements and the combined management report for notes to the consolidated financial statements – and the comthe company and the Group, both for the 2018 financial year, as bined management report for the company and the Group, well as the unqualified audit opinion issued by the auditor, can both for the 2018 financial year, were audited by KPMG AG be accessed on the website of EnBW Energie Baden-WürttemWirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft as the auditor and Group berg AG. 144 Corporate bodies » Table of contents Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Corporate bodies The Supervisory Board ...................................................... 145 Offices held by members of the Board of Management ............................................. 147 Other offices held by members of the Supervisory Board ................................................... 148 Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Corporate bodies » The Supervisory Board 145 The Supervisory Board Members › Lutz Feldmann, Bochum › Marianne Kugler-Wendt, Heilbronn › Ulrike Weindel, Karlsruhe Independent business consultant Regional Director of ver.di for the districts Chairwoman of the Karlsruhe works council Chairman Heilbronn-Neckar-Franconia and Rhinefor “functional units” of EnBW Energie Neckar Baden-Württemberg AG, Karlsruhe › Dietrich Herd, Philippsburg Chairman of the Group works council for › Thomas Landsbek, Wangen im Allgäu › Lothar Wölfle, Friedrichshafen the EnBW Group as well as Chairman of Member of the Group works council for District Administrator of the Lake the central works council for the the EnBW Group as well as Chairman of Constance district “generation sector” and Chairman of the the central works council for the “market Philippsburg nuclear power plant works sector” and Chairman of the Stuttgart › Dr. Bernd-Michael Zinow, Karlsruhe council for the “generation sector” of works council for the “market sector” of Head of the functional unit Legal Services, EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG, EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG, Auditing, Compliance and Regulation Karlsruhe, Deputy Chairman Karlsruhe (General Counsel) at EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG, Karlsruhe › Achim Binder, Stuttgart › Dr. Hubert Lienhard, Deputy Chairman of the Group works Heidenheim an der Brenz › Silke Krebs, Berlin council for the EnBW Group, Chairman of Supervisory Board Since 1 April 2018, Executive Consultant the central works council for the “grids for Political Communication for the sector” of EnBW Energie Baden› Marika Lulay, Heppenheim Alliance 90/Green Party parliamentary Württemberg AG and Chairman of the Chairwoman of the Managing Directors group in the German Bundestag regional service works council of Netze BW (CEO) and member of the Board of Until 31 March 2018, freelance consultant GmbH, Stuttgart (since 1 January 2019) Directors at GFT Technologies SE, (strategic and organisational consultancy) Stuttgart (since 14 February 2019) (until 31 December 2018) › Dr. Dietrich Birk, Göppingen Managing Director of the Verband › Dr. Wolf-Rüdiger Michel, Rottweil › Sebastian Maier, Ellenberg Deutscher Maschinenund Anlagenbau District Administrator of the Rottweil district Member of the Group works council for the e.V. (VDMA), Regional Association for EnBW Group and Chairman of the works Baden-Württemberg › Gunda Röstel, Flöha council at EnBW Ostwürttemberg Commercial Director of Stadtentwässerung DonauRies Aktiengesellschaft (until › Stefanie Bürkle, Sigmaringen Dresden GmbH and Authorised Officer of 31 December 2018) District Administrator of the Sigmaringen Gelsenwasser AG district › Arnold Messner, Aichwald › Jürgen Schäfer, Bissingen Manager for special tasks at Netze BW › Stefan Paul Hamm, Gerlingen Member of the Group works council for GmbH, Stuttgart Union Secretary/Head of the Department the EnBW Group and Deputy Chairman of Until 26 April 2018, Deputy Chairman of for Utilities and Waste Management, ver.di the works council for TransnetBW GmbH, the Group works council for the EnBW Baden-Württemberg Stuttgart (since 1 January 2019) Group and, until 26 April 2018, Chairman of the central works council of Netze BW › Volker Hüsgen, Essen › Harald Sievers, Ravensburg GmbH (until 31 December 2018) Member of the Group works council for the District Administrator of the Ravensburg EnBW Group as well as Chairman of the district (since 1 January 2019) › Klaus Schörnich, Düsseldorf works council and first Deputy Chairman Until 30 September 2018, member of the of the Supervisory Board of Stadtwerke › Edith Sitzmann MdL, Freiburg Group works council for the EnBW Group Düsseldorf AG (since 1 October 2018) Minister for Finance of the Federal State of and, until 24 April 2018, Chairman Baden-Württemberg and member of the of the works council of Stadtwerke › Michaela Kräutter, Stutensee State Parliament of Baden-Württemberg Düsseldorf AG (until 30 September 2018) Union Secretary for Utilities and Waste Management, ver.di Central Baden/North › Heinz Seiffert, Ehingen Black Forest district District Administrator (retired) (until 31 December 2018) Status » Active member » Inactive member Further information is available at: www.enbw.com/supervisory-board As of 7 March 2019 146 Corporate bodies » The Supervisory Board Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Committees Personnel committee Audit committee Ad hoc committee (since 7 June 2010) › Lutz Feldmann › Gunda Röstel Chairman Chairwoman › Dr. Bernd-Michael Zinow Chairman › Achim Binder (since 1 January 2019) › Stefanie Bürkle (since 1 January 2019) › Stefan Paul Hamm › Volker Hüsgen (since 1 October 2018) › Dietrich Herd › Dietrich Herd › Marianne Kugler-Wendt › Gunda Röstel › Edith Sitzmann (since 1 January 2019) › Thomas Landsbek (since 1 January 2019) › Harald Sievers (since 1 January 2019) › Lothar Wölfle › Dr. Hubert Lienhard › Dr. Wolf-Rüdiger Michel › Stefanie Bürkle (until 31 December 2018) › Silke Krebs (until 31 December 2018) › Ulrike Weindel › Arnold Messner (until 31 December 2018) › Sebastian Maier (until 31 December 2018) › Klaus Schörnich (until 30 September 2018) › Heinz Seiffert (until 31 December 2018) Finance and investment committee Nomination committee Mediation committee (committee pursuant to section 27 (3) German › Lutz Feldmann › Lutz Feldmann Co-determination Act (MitbestG)) Chairman Chairman › Achim Binder (since 1 January 2019) › Dr. Dietrich Birk › Lutz Feldmann › Dr. Dietrich Birk › Dr. Wolf-Rüdiger Michel Chairman › Stefan Paul Hamm (since 1 January 2019) › Dietrich Herd › Gunda Röstel › Dietrich Herd › Edith Sitzmann › Edith Sitzmann (since 1 January 2019) › Thomas Landsbek › Lothar Wölfle › Lothar Wölfle › Edith Sitzmann (since 1 January 2019) › Dr. Bernd-Michael Zinow › Silke Krebs (until 31 December 2018) › Silke Krebs (until 31 December 2018) › Arnold Messner (until 31 December 2018) › Heinz Seiffert (until 31 December 2018) Digitalisation committee (since 1 January 2019) › N. N. Chairman › Michaela Kräutter › Dr. Hubert Lienhard › Marika Lulay (since 14 February 2019) › Jürgen Schäfer › Harald Sievers › Ulrike Weindel Status » Active member » Inactive member Further information is available at: www.enbw.com/supervisory-board As of 7 March 2019 Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Corporate bodies » Offices held by members of the Board of Management 147 Offices held by members of the Board of Management › Dr. Frank Mastiaux › Thomas Kusterer Chairman – Netze BW GmbH – VNG AG (Chairman) › Dr. Bernhard Beck – EnBW Kernkraft GmbH (Chairman) › Colette Rückert-Hennen – Energiedienst AG (from 1 March 2019) – Stadtwerke Düsseldorf AG (Chairman) › Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer – EnBW Kernkraft GmbH – BKK VerbundPlus, Körperschaft des – Netze BW GmbH (Chairman) öffentlichen Rechts (alternating – terranets bw GmbH (Chairman) Chairman) – TransnetBW GmbH (Chairman) – Energiedienst Holding AG – Pražská energetika a.s. – Vorarlberger Illwerke AG Status Disclosures of office holders pursuant to section 285 No. 10 German Commercial Code (HGB) » Active member – Membership in other statutory supervisory boards » Inactive member – Membership in comparable domestic and foreign control bodies of business enterprises Further information is available at: www.enbw.com/board-of-management As of 7 March 2019 148 Corporate bodies » Other offices held by members of the Supervisory Board Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Other offices held by members of the Supervisory Board › Lutz Feldmann › Volker Hüsgen › Marika Lulay Chairman – AWISTA GmbH (since 1 October 2018) – Wüstenrot & Württembergische AG – Villa Claudius gGmbH (Chairman since – Netzgesellschaft Düsseldorf mbH 1 October 2018) (since 12 July 2018) › Dr. Wolf-Rüdiger Michel – Thyssen’sche Handelsgesellschaft mbH – Stadtwerke Düsseldorf AG – Kreisbaugenossenschaft Rottweil e.G. (Chairman) › Dietrich Herd – RheinWerke GmbH (since 7 June 2018) Deputy Chairman – ITEOS, Anstalt des öffentlichen Rechts – EnBW Kernkraft GmbH › Michaela Kräutter (since 1 July 2018) – NetCom BW GmbH (until 30 July 2018) – Kreissparkasse Rottweil, Anstalt des › Achim Binder – Netze BW GmbH (since 14 August 2018) öffentlichen Rechts (Chairman) – Netze BW GmbH – Schwarzwald Tourismus GmbH – NetCom BW GmbH (until 30 July 2018) › Marianne Kugler-Wendt – SMF Schwarzwald Musikfestival GmbH – Bausparkasse Schwäbisch-Hall AG – Sparkassen-Beteiligungen Baden› Dr. Dietrich Birk – EnBW Kernkraft GmbH Württemberg GmbH – SRH Holding (SdbR) – SLK-Kliniken Heilbronn GmbH – Sparkassenverband Baden-Württemberg, Körperschaft des öffentlichen Rechts › Stefanie Bürkle – Heilbronner Versorgungs GmbH – Wirtschaftsförderungsgesellschaft – SWEG Südwestdeutsche – Stadtwerke Heilbronn GmbH Schwarzwald-Baar-Heuberg mbH Landesverkehrs-AG – Zweckverband Bauernmuseum › Thomas Landsbek Horb/Sulz – Hohenzollerische Landesbank – Gemeindewerke Bodanrück GmbH & – Zweckverband Kommunale Kreissparkasse Sigmaringen, Anstalt Co. KG Informationsverarbeitung Reutlingendes öffentlichen Rechts (Chairwoman) – BürgerEnergiegenossenschaft Region Ulm (until 30 June 2018) – Flugplatz Mengen Hohentengen GmbH Wangen im Allgäu eG – Zweckverband Oberschwäbische (Chairwoman) Elektrizitätswerke (Deputy Chairman) – SRH Kliniken Landkreis Sigmaringen › Dr. Hubert Lienhard – Zweckverband Protec GmbH (Chairwoman) – Heraeus Holding GmbH (until 31 December 2018) – Sparkassenverband Baden-Württem– SGL Carbon SE (until 29 May 2018) – Zweckverband Ringzug Schwarzwaldberg, Anstalt des öffentlichen Rechts – SMS Group GmbH Baar-Heuberg – Verkehrsverbund Neckar-Alb-Donau – Voith GmbH & Co. KGaA Zweckverband RBB RestmüllheizkraftGmbH (naldo) (Chairwoman) (since 1 April 2018) werk Böblingen (since 1 January 2019) – Wirtschaftsförderungsund Standort– Voith Management GmbH – ZTN-Süd Warthausen marketinggesellschaft Landkreis (since 1 April 2018) (since 1 January 2019) Sigmaringen mbH (Chairwoman) – Voith Turbo Beteiligungen GmbH – Zweckverband Oberschwäbische (Chairman) (until 31 March 2018) Elektrizitätswerke (Deputy Chairwoman) – Zweckverband Thermische – Broetje Automation (Chairman) Abfallverwertung Donautal (TAD) (since 27 July 2018) (Deputy Chairwoman) – Heitkamp & Thumann KG (since 24 April 2018) › Stefan Paul Hamm – Voith Hydro Holding GmbH & Co. KG – Netze BW GmbH (Chairman) (until 31 March 2018) – Voith Turbo GmbH & Co. KG (Chairman) (until 31 March 2018) – Voith Digital Solutions Holding GmbH (Chairman) (until 31 March 2018) Status Disclosures of office holders pursuant to section 285 No. 10 German Commercial Code (HGB) » Active member – Membership in other statutory supervisory boards » Inactive member – Membership in comparable domestic and foreign control bodies of business enterprises Further information is available at: www.enbw.com/supervisory-board As of 7 March 2019 Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Corporate bodies » Other offices held by members of the Supervisory Board 149 › Gunda Röstel › Edith Sitzmann › Dr. Bernd-Michael Zinow – Universitätsklinikum Carl Gustav Carus – Landesbank Baden-Württemberg, – TransnetBW GmbH Dresden an der Technischen Universität Anstalt des öffentlichen Rechts (Deputy – VNG AG Dresden, Anstalt des öffentlichen Chairwoman) Rechts (Deputy Chairwoman) – Landeskreditbank Baden-Württemberg, › Silke Krebs – VNG AG Förderbank, Anstalt des öffentlichen – Netze BW GmbH Rechts (Chairwoman of the › Sebastian Maier Administrative Board) (Chairwoman of – EnBW Ostwürttemberg DonauRies AG – Hochschulrat der Technischen Unithe Advisory Board) (until 31 December 2018) versität Dresden, Körperschaft des – Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau, Anstalt öffentlichen Rechts (Chairwoman) des öffentlichen Rechts – NetCom BW GmbH – Stadtwerke Burg GmbH (until 31 December 2018) – Baden-Württemberg Stiftung gGmbH – Netzgesellschaft Ostwürttemberg › Jürgen Schäfer GmbH (until 31 December 2018) › Ulrike Weindel › Harald Sievers › Arnold Messner – Oberschwabenklinik GmbH › Lothar Wölfle – Netze BW GmbH (Chairman) – Abfallwirtschaftsgesellschaft of the (until 31 December 2018) Bodenseekreis and Konstanz districts – Gesellschaft für Wirtschaftsund (Chairman) › Klaus Schörnich Innovationsförderung Landkreis – Verkehrsverbund Bodensee– AWISTA GmbH (until 30 September 2018) Ravensburg mbH (WiR) (Chairman) Oberschwaben der Landkreise – Netzgesellschaft Düsseldorf mbH – Ravensburger EntsorgungsanlagenBodenseekreis, Lindau und Ravensburg (until 30 September 2018) gesellschaft mbH (REAG) (Chairman) (Chairman) (until 31 December 2018) – Bodensee-Oberschwaben – Bodensee-Oberschwaben-Bahn › Heinz Seiffert Verkehrsverbundgesellschaft mbH Verkehrsgesellschaft mbH (Deputy Chairman) – Sparkasse Bodensee (Chairman) – Bodensee-Oberschwaben-Bahn – Zweckverband Oberschwäbische VerwaltungsGmbH Elektrizitätswerke (Chairman) – Kreissparkasse Ravensburg (Chairman – Zweckverband Tierkörperbeseitigung of the Administrative Board) Protec (Deputy Chairman) (until – SV SparkassenVersicherung – 31 December 2018) Lebensversicherung AG – Wirtschaftsförderungsgesellschaft – Zweckverband Oberschwäbische Bodenseekreis GmbH (Chairman) Elektrizitätswerke – Regionales Innovationsund Technologietransfer Zentrum GmbH (RITZ) (Chairman) (until 31 December 2018), (Deputy Chairman) (since 1 January 2019) Status Disclosures of office holders pursuant to section 285 No. 10 German Commercial Code (HGB) » Active member – Membership in other statutory supervisory boards » Inactive member – Membership in comparable domestic and foreign control bodies of business enterprises Further information is available at: www.enbw.com/supervisory-board As of 7 March 2019 150 Service » Table of contents Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Service Financial terms .................................................................. 151 Glossary ............................................................................. 152 Multi-year overview ........................................................... 156 Highlights 2018 .................................................................. 158 Important notes ................................................................. 160 Rear cover pages: Financial calendar 2019 Intelligently networked – infrastructure of the future Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Service » Financial terms 151 Financial terms Adjusted EBITDA EBT Net debt relating to pension and nuclear The operating earnings of companies are EBT stands for earnings before taxes. obligations often measured based on adjusted EBITDA Net debt relating to pension and nuclear (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation Free cash flow obligations comprises the provisions for and amortisation). It describes earnings beThe cash flow freely available to the compensions and similar obligations and profore the investment and financial results, pany for the distribution of dividends and for visions relating to nuclear power. These income taxes and amortisation, adjusted for the repayment of debt. provisions are netted against receivables non-operating effects. The key performance relating to the dismantling of nuclear power indicator adjusted EBITDA is the central Funds from operations (FFO) plants and the › dedicated financial assets. earnings indicator for EnBW. Funds from operations (FFO) is the cashrelevant earnings from operating activities Non-operating figures Adjusted earnings figures that is available to the company for investThe non-operating figures include effects Adjusted earnings figures are operational ments, the distribution of dividends and the that cannot be predicted or cannot be earnings figures that are adjusted for nonrepayment of debt. directly influenced by EnBW and as such are operating effects. They include, amongst not relevant to the ongoing management of others, adjusted EBIT and adjusted Group net Internal financing capability the company. They include, amongst others, profit. The key performance indicator internal non-operating EBIT and non-operating financing capability describes the › adjusted Group net profit/loss. Adjusted retained cash flow retained cash flow in relation to the cashThe adjusted retained cash flow is the relevant › net investment and is the most Retained cash flow › retained cash flow adjusted to take into significant performance indicator for the The retained cash flow is decisive for the account the extraordinary effect of the Group’s ability to finance its activities › internal financing capability of EnBW. After reimbursement of the › nuclear fuel rod tax internally. covering ongoing costs and dividend payin 2017. In the 2018 financial year, the reimments, it is available to the company for bursed funds were used for the repayment of Net financial debt investment without the need to raise debt and for strategic investments. We plan to Net financial debt comprises the financial additional debt. distribute the remaining amount on a straight liabilities (including financial leasing) taken line basis in the period 2019 to 2020, also for on by the company less cash and cash ROCE the purpose of strategic investment. Accordequivalents and financial assets that are ROCE is the return on capital employed in a ingly, this will lead to an increase in the available to the company for its operating company. The key performance indicator adjusted retained cash flow over the period business. Financial liabilities are adjusted ROCE describes the relationship between 2018 to 2020. for valuation effects from interest-induced adjusted EBIT including the adjusted investhedging transactions and for the portion of ment result and the average capital emCapital employed equity for the hybrid bonds. ployed and is thus the central value-oriented Capital employed comprises all assets from performance indicator of EnBW for assesthe operating business. At EnBW, it primarily Net (cash) investment sing the return on capital employed in the comprises property, plant and equipment in Cash-relevant net investment describes the relevant financial year. the form of power plants or grids. Nonoverall cash-relevant investment less the interest-bearing liabilities – such as trade overall cash-relevant divestitures in the WACC payables – are deducted. relevant financial year. WACC stands for the weighted average cost of capital and is used in combination with EBIT Net debt value-based performance indicators. The EBIT stands for earnings before interest and Net debt comprises › net financial debt and cost of capital is determined based on the taxes. the › net debt relating to pension and nuclear weighted average cost of equity and debt obligations. together. EBITDA EBITDA stands for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation. 152 Service » Glossary Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Glossary Community energy cooperatives A C Community energy cooperatives are players in the energy industry with the legal form of Asset liability management (ALM) model Cash pooling a cooperative, mostly with the aim of A model for asset liability and cash flow Daily pooling of the cash or cash equivalents decentralised, independent and ecological management. A cash flow-based model is of one or multiple companies within a Group energy generation. They are a form of citizen used to determine the effects of the pension with the target of concentrating and transparticipation, primarily at a local authority or and nuclear provisions on the balance sheet, parently depicting them at the level of the regional level. Community energy cooperaincome statement and cash flow statement parent company in order to optimise the tives offer citizens the opportunity to conover the next 30 years. This ensures that the interest result. tribute to the Energiewende and climate Group can cover its long-term pension and protection through investment in local and nuclear provisions within an economically Certified Emission Reduction (CER) regional energy projects. viable time period using corresponding Certified emission reductions from Clean financial investments (so-called › dedicated Development Mechanism (CDM) projects. Coverage ratio financial assets). Pursuant to the Kyoto protocol, investors in Coverage of the pension and nuclear industrialised countries earn these in deprovisions of the Group by financial assets in Asset management veloping countries with CDM emission reducthe › dedicated financial assets. A financial asset management system tion projects. 1 CER corresponds to 1 t CO2. facilitates the active management of CERs can be used by companies to meet the CSR performance investments that are used to cover pension obligation to return allowances under the CSR performance provides an indication of a and nuclear provisions. The central focus of European emissions trading system. company’s entire sustainability performance. this activity is to generate appropriate It examines measures to protect the enreturns while taking into account the risks Clean Dark Spread (CDS) vironment and human rights, promote good incurred. The difference between the electricity price working conditions and fight corruption and the generation costs for a typical coal within the traditional dimension of corporate power station, which is calculated using the social responsibility (CSR) and also focuses B coal price, CO2 allowance price and the on which processes a company has estabdegree of efficiency of the power station. lished to guarantee them. Base Base load product. The constant base level CO2 allowances of supply/demand over a period of time. CO2 allowances have been traded on the D Leipzig electricity exchange since 2005. If a Broadband infrastructure company purchases a CO2 allowance, it is Debt Issuance Programme (DIP) EnBW supports local authorities and entitled to emit 1 t CO2. The DIP, also known as EMTN (Euro Medium municipal associations with tasks ranging Term Notes), is a standardised documentation from broadband planning and the instalCO2 intensity platform for raising debt through the issuing lation of the infrastructure through to In the energy sector, CO2 intensity refers to of medium and long-term bonds on the operation, as well as with the associated CO2 emissions connected with electricity capital market. end-customer business (Internet, telephone generation. It is measured in terms of g/kWh and television). or t/MWh. CO2 intensity as referred to here in Dedicated financial assets the energy sector should not be confused Dedicated financial assets are cash and cash Bundle with the meaning used in the wider economy. equivalents and financial assets that are Product bundling (bundle offer) describes held to cover the pension and nuclear offering multiple products or services toCommercial paper (CP) programme obligations. gether in one package. Customers receive a The CP programme is a flexible financing suitable add-on in addition to their purchase. instrument and serves to issue unsecured bonds on the money market for the purpose of short-term financing. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Service » Glossary 153 Derivatives Energy saving contracting Green bonds Financial instruments whose price or The cross-discipline optimisation of building Green bonds are issued exclusively to market rate is derived from its underlying technology together with building operation finance climate-friendly projects. The asset. based on cooperation in partnership. Investproceeds from the bond are invested in ments in renovations or efficiency enhancesustainable environmental and climate District development ment measures are financed through energy protection projects, such as wind farms, District development deals with smart and cost-savings. photovoltaic power plants or environmentally sustainable urban planning, as well as friendly mobility concepts. The Green Bond connecting up, constructing and operating Energy supply contracting Principles define minimum requirements modern residential districts. It comprises The outsourcing, for a specific period and for with respect to the integrity and transurban infrastructure themes such as energy, a specific area, of tasks relating to energy parency of these bonds, including the grids, e-mobility, digital networking, safety optimisation or utility energy supplies to a selection process for the projects, disclosing and smart services. third party. the use of the funds and defining reporting requirements. EnBW issued its first green EPEX bond taking into account the Green Bond E The European Power Exchange (EPEX SPOT Principles. SE) is a stock exchange for the short-term EEG cost allocations wholesale trading of electricity in Germany, Greenhouse gas emissions Cost allocations under the EEG (Renewable France, Austria, Switzerland and LuxemThe increase in the concentration of various Energies Act) are charged by the transbourg. greenhouse gases, especially carbon dioxide mission system operators (TSO). On the one (CO2), increases the greenhouse effect and hand, the cost allocations cover the differEU allowance (EUA) leads to global warming, which itself has ence between the income generated by the EU emission allowance. An EUA entitles a many consequences. Alongside carbon transmission system operators from selling company to emit 1 t CO2. Each EU state dioxide, other greenhouse gases include the electricity from EEG plants and the allocates its supply of EUAs (1 EUA = 1 t CO2) methane, nitrous oxide, fluorinated hydroexpenses incurred by the transmission to its national companies either free of carbons, sulphur hexafluoride and nitrogen system operators for the fixed feed-in charge or via auctions. trifluoride. remuneration and market premium payments to direct marketers of EEG plants, Grid topology while on the other hand, they also cover the F Grid topology describes the structure of the costs of implementing the EEG. More than supply network and is developed primarily half of the electricity price for household Forward market based on the criteria of security of supply, customers today consists of taxes, duties Market on which the supply and procureinvestment and operating costs, load density, and cost allocations. The EEG cost allocation ment of electricity, fuel and CO2 allowances spatial conditions and the function of the accounts for the largest share. are traded for a future period. Usual periods grids (transmission grid, distribution grid). include weeks, months, quarters and years. Common grid topologies are star, ring and Electromobility charging infrastructure Settlement can be either physical or finanmesh networks, as well as mixed forms of There are currently four different types of cial. The forward market has the primary these basic structures. electrical connectors for charging electric function of acting as a price hedge. vehicles. An AC charging station provides alternating current with up to 3.6 kW of H electricity via a Schuko connector and up to G 22 kW of electricity via a type-2 connector at Hedging each charging point. An AC/DC charging GASPOOL Hedging is a structured approach for securstation (quick-charging station) is equipped GASPOOL Balancing Services GmbH, based in ing against financial risks through financial with a CCS and CHAdeMO connector proBerlin, is one of two market area managers transactions. Hedging involves engaging in viding up to 50 kW (DC = direct current) of on the German natural gas market. Market countertrade transactions to offset a transelectricity and with a type-2 connector area managers are joint ventures formed by action or an existing position. This is usually providing up to 43 kW (AC = alternating multiple independent transmission system carried out in the form of futures contracts. current) of electricity. A charging station can operators. The gas grid operators GASCADE have multiple charging points. The actual Gastransport GmbH, Gasunie Deutschland HVDC charging output is dependent on how quickly GmbH & Co. KG, ONTRAS Gastransport GmbH High-voltage DC transmission lines (HVDC) a vehicle can charge. Starting in 2019, existand Dong Energy Pipelines GmbH combined are used to transport electrical energy ing locations will be upgraded with quicktheir respective market areas in 2009 and thus across large distances. The transmission charging stations with a charging output of created a cross-regional market area colines use direct current for transportation as up to 150 kW. operation. The company GASPOOL Balancing the transmission losses are lower. Services GmbH was founded for this purpose. 154 Service » Glossary Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Network Development Plan Electricity Sector coupling I (NDP Electricity) Sector coupling is the networking of elecThis plan describes the measures that need tricity, heating, mobility and industrial proIndependent Transmission Operator (ITO) to be deployed over the next 10 and 20 years cesses for the purpose of lowering carbon The “Independent Transmission Operators” to expand and restructure the German landdioxide emissions. As sector coupling offers must fulfil the European unbundling regulabased high-voltage grid to ensure the secure synergy effects in the integration of high tions for greater liberalisation of the elecoperation of the network. These measures proportions of renewable energies, it is tricity and natural gas markets (3rd EU make a significant contribution to the viewed as a key concept for the Energieinternal energy market package), that were integration of rapidly growing renewable wende and the development of energy implemented in the German Energy Industry energies and thus also to the Energiewende. systems using 100% renewable energies. Act (EnWG) in 2011. The aim of the unThe NDP Electricity is prepared jointly by the There is a general consensus that sector bundling regulations defined in the EnWG is four German transmission system operators coupling is necessary for the implemento increase competition on the European every two years (since 2016), before being tation of the Energiewende and the achieveenergy market. An important prerequisite submitted to the German Federal Network ment of climate protection targets. here is that the transmission grids are made Agency (BNetzA) as the responsible regulator. available to all market participants as a Smart grid neutral platform in a non-discriminatory way. Nuclear fuel rod tax The smart electricity grid: a communication This tax was imposed from 2011 to 2016 at a and control network that monitors and Intraday trading rate of €145/g of nuclear fuel employed. optimises the operation of its interconnected Intraday trading of electricity is carried out However, it was declared unconstitutional on elements – from electricity generators, on both the › EPEX SPOT in Paris and the 7 June 2017 and also repaid to all energy storage systems, consumers of electricity OTC (Over-the-Counter) market, i.e. via supply companies in 2017. and network operating equipment in energy contracts negotiated off-exchange between transmission and distribution grids. The aim electricity purchasers and sellers. It deis to optimise the supply of energy by scribes the continuous purchase and sale of P operating the system efficiently, reliably and electricity that is delivered on the same day. cost-effectively. Therefore, it is also described as short-term Pari passu clause wholesale electricity trading. A pari passu clause (Latin “pari passu” = on Smart meters equal footing) is an obligation in financial A combination of a modern measurement Investment-grade rating agreements (for example, in bond agreesystem and a data communication module An investment-grade rating exists if a credit ments or loan agreements). The debtor/ (smart meter gateway). The smart meter rating of at least Baa3 (Moody’s) or BBBissuer obligates themselves during the term can be securely integrated into a communi(Standard & Poor’s) has been issued. of the uncollateralised financial liability (for cation network. example, bond or loan) to the principle of equality, meaning future uncollateralised fiSpot market N nancial liabilities will not be given preceMarket on which electricity supply and dence over the existing financial liability. procurement quantities are offered and NCG requested for the following day. NetConnect Germany, a market area operator on the German natural gas market; R Spread NetConnect Germany GmbH & Co. KG This term describes here the difference in (NCG), based in Ratingen, is one of two Repowering the electricity price and the costs for coal, market area managers on the German Old power plants for generating energy are gas or brown coal and emissions allowances natural gas market. Market area managers replaced by newer and more efficient ones. used for the generation of electricity. are joint ventures formed by multiple The term is mainly used in connection with independent transmission system operators. wind turbines. System services The complete set of services required to Network Development Plan Gas (NDP Gas) ensure the quality of electricity supplies: In the NDP Gas, German gas transmission S provision of operating reserves, maintaining system operators calculate the transportafrequency stability, maintaining voltage tion capacities that they will require in the Sectoral productivity factor (Xgen) levels, re-establishing supply, management future. The plan is prepared every two years The sectoral productivity factor (Xgen) services. in close cooperation with the German reflects the difference between cost developFederal Network Agency (BNetzA) and in ments in the efficient operation of electricity consultation with relevant market particiand gas grids and the development of prices pants. within the whole economy. It is used as an adjustment factor for the consumer price index and is taken into account in the revenue cap for the grid operators. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Service » Glossary 155 TEG (Technical Expert Group on Treasury T Sustainable Finance) Department of the company that deals with The European Commission set up an expert liquidity management (disposition, liquidity TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related group in July 2018 with the task of drawing up planning, money markets), currency manFinancial Disclosures) key aspects for the development of a susagement (hedging against foreign exchange The Task Force on Climate-related Financial tainable financial system for the European risks, obtaining foreign currencies) and Disclosures (TCFD) has developed recominternal market. Alongside the development interest management (hedging against risks mendations for the climate-related opporof a taxonomy for sustainable economic due to changes in interest rates, managing tunity and risk reporting by companies. activity, the aim is to develop minimum the interest rate position). Companies are encouraged to disclose standards for green bonds and sustainability climate-related information – in the four key benchmarks, as well as to update the nonareas of Governance, Strategy, Risk Managebinding guidelines on non-financial disclosure V ment and Metrics and Targets – where such while paying particular consideration to cliinformation is considered material for the mate-related information. The Chief Financial Virtual power plant company. EnBW is represented on the interOfficer of EnBW, Thomas Kusterer, was apA virtual power plant is a business segment national task force appointed by the G20 pointed to the expert group. where products are marketed through a through its Chief Financial Officer Thomas single platform that increases the value of Kusterer (www.fsb-tcfd.org). decentralised energy plants – renewable energies, storage systems, loads – by bundling, marketing and optimising them together. 156 Service » Multi-year overview Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Multi-year overview Financial and strategic performance indicators EnBW Group 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Earnings External revenue in € million 20,618 21,974 19,368 21,167 21,003 Adjusted EBITDA in € million 2,158 2,113 1,939 2,110 2,167 EBITDA in € million 2,090 3,752 731 1,918 2,137 Adjusted EBIT in € million 958 999 1,025 1,182 1,291 EBIT in € million 876 2,504 -1,663 277 0 Group net profit/loss 1 in € million 334 2,054 -1,797 158 -466 Earnings per share from Group net profit/loss 1 in € 1.23 7.58 -6.64 0.58 -1.72 Balance sheet Non-current assets in € million 24,643 24,878 23,382 24,388 25,995 Total assets in € million 39,609 38,785 38,535 38,158 38,312 Equity in € million 6,273 5,863 3,216 5,123 4,546 Equity ratio in % 15.8 15.1 8.3 13.4 11.9 Net financial debt in € million 3,738 2,918 3,654 3,329 4,403 Coverage ratio ALM 2 in % 51.8 53.3 60.8 74.2 –3 Cash flow Retained cash flow in € million 999 3,050 950 1,718 –3 Internal financing capability in % 93.2 111.9 72.1 347.8 –3 Total investments in € million 1,770 1,770 2,585 1,462 1,957 Profitability Return on capital employed (ROCE) 2 in % 6.5 7.3 7.8 9.5 10.0 Weighted average cost of capital before tax in % 6.3 6.3 6.9 6.9 7.2 Average capital employed 2 in € million 16,053 15,120 13,761 13,627 13,424 Value added 2 in € million 32 151 124 354 376 Sales Electricity 4 in billions of kWh 137 122 115 115 126 Gas in billions of kWh 328 250 139 135 117 Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Service » Multi-year overview 157 Financial and strategic performance indicators EnBW Group 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Sales Electricity sales in billions of kWh 37 40 44 48 48 Gas sales in billions of kWh 57 57 54 82 72 External revenue in € million 7,061 7,354 7,771 9,061 9,067 Adjusted EBITDA in € million 271 330 250 255 231 Grids External revenue in € million 3,215 7,472 6,644 6,351 6,231 Adjusted EBITDA in € million 1,177 1,046 1,004 747 886 Renewable Energies Electricity sales in billions of kWh 2 2 3 3 4 External revenue in € million 478 508 511 447 407 Adjusted EBITDA in € million 298 332 295 287 191 Generation and Trading Electricity sales in billions of kWh 97 80 68 65 75 Gas sales in billions of kWh 272 193 85 53 45 External revenue in € million 9,856 6,631 4,434 5,300 5,290 Adjusted EBITDA in € million 429 377 337 777 900 1 In relation to the profit/loss attributable to the shareholders of EnBW AG. 2 The figures for the 2017 financial year have been restated. 3 No figures for the comparative period 2014 are available for the new performance indicators. Non-financial performance indicators EnBW Group 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Customers and society goal dimension Reputation Index 51.3 52.1 50.0 48.5 -1 EnBW/Yello Customer Satisfaction Index 2 120 / 152 143 / 161 132 / 150 136 / 152 114 / 145 SAIDI (electricity) in min./year 17 19 16 15 15 Employees goal dimension Employee Commitment Index (ECI) 3 62 60 59 60 56 LTIF 4 2.3 3.0 3.9 3.8 4.3 Environment goal dimension Installed output of renewable energies (RE) in GW and the share of the generation capacity accounted for by RE in % 5 3.7 / 27.9 3.4 / 25.8 3.1 / 23.1 3.1 / 23.6 2.6 / 19.1 CO2 intensity in g/kWh 553 556 577 606 -1 1 No figures for the comparative period 2014 are available for the new performance indicators. 2 EnBW has been working together with a new market research company since 2017. Despite using the same survey methodology and random sampling, current and earlier values are only comparable to a limited extent. 3 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (consideration of companies controlled by the Group [without ITOs]). 4 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (consideration of all employees at those companies controlled by the Group, except external agency workers and contractors). 5 The figures for the 2017 financial year have been restated. 158 Service » Highlights 2018 Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW h l i g h t s 2 0 1 8 Hig EnBW achieved a series of successes in 2018. They included, amongst other things, the construction and expansion of charging infrastructure. Expansion of e-mobility EnBW made further progress in the area of e-mobility in 2018. This included, amongst other things, the construction and ​​ Bosch and EnBW inaugurate new expansion of charging infrastructure with other cooperation battery storage system partners, such as Tank & Rast, OMV, EURONICS, ECE and hagebau, the award-winning EnBW mobility+ app with new The battery storage system with a 5 MW output that was functions, the BMW i3 leasing offer for EnBW employees, ​ jointly developed by Bosch and EnBW was inaugurated at the the start of the “E-Mobility Avenue” pilot project in Ostfildern by Heilbronn power plant site in April. It will enable the power Netze BW and the award of the “SAFE” project funding to a conplant to respond better to fluctuating decentralised feed-ins sortium consisting of EnBW, public utilities and local authorities. from renewable energies. EnBW strengthens its position on EnBW receives fourth and final the growth market for decentralised approval for the dismantling of the energy solutions Obrigheim nuclear power plant EnBW became a full-service provider for home energy solutions In April, EnBW received the fourth and final dismantling by acquiring Deutsche Energieversorgung GmbH (DEV). DEV approval for the Obrigheim nuclear power plant (KWO) from has sold more than 20,000 electricity storage systems under the the Baden-Württemberg Ministry for the Environment. The name SENEC and is one of the most important suppliers on the dismantling work is due to be completed within the guidelines German home electricity storage market. DEV was renamed as laid down by the Atomic Energy Law by the mid-2020s. Overall, SENEC GmbH in autumn. all five of the EnBW nuclear power plants are now already involved in the dismantling process. Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Service » Highlights 2018 159 Start of construction of the EnBW Hohe See and EnBW Albatros wind farms Since April 2018, our offshore wind farms EnBW Hohe See and EnBW Albatros have been under construction in the German North Sea. The combined total of 87 wind turbines with an output of 609 MW are due to be placed into operation by the end of 2019, generating around 2.5 billion kWh of electricity. EnBW is continuing to focus on its core country of Germany for expansion but is also looking at international markets, working with partners on offshore projects in North America and Taiwan Photovoltaic auction proves and onshore in Sweden, France and Turkey. successful for EnBW In the first joint auction for photovoltaic and onshore wind energy projects held by the Federal Network Agency, EnBW had bids for three solar parks with a total output of 18 MW accepted. The EnBW solar parks Löffingen and Ingoldingen with a total output of around 7 MW were placed into operation in 2018. Major contract for RBS wave as general planner for expansion of broadband network in the Rastatt district In the promising broadband business, the company RBS wave, a subsidiary of Netze BW, secured the contract in a Europewide tender process in July to develop a broadband network for the Rastatt administrative district as the general planner. In the largest project to date in the history of the company, RBS wave will plan, amongst other things, the fibre-optic backEnBW issues its first green bond bone network. EnBW successfully issued its first green bond with a volume of €500 million and a term to maturity of 15 years on the capital market in October. It was thus one of the first German EnBW acquires 7 wind farms in Sweden companies to issue a green bond of this magnitude. The proceeds from the bond will flow into wind power, photovoltaic Following the foundation of the Swedish subsidiary EnBW and electromobility projects. Sverige AB and the start of construction of a wind farm with an output of around 11 MW, EnBW acquired two operating companies with seven wind farms in Sweden at the end of the year – with a total installed output of 105 MW. EnBW also founded a branch office in France in June in order to expand Onshore activities into the onshore wind and photovoltaic sectors in the country. in Sweden Bliekevare Säliträdberget Hedbodberget Sweden is the second foreign Granberget Röbergsfjället market within Europe that EnBW Tidaholm (under construction) has selected for further growth Kulltorp Brahehus in the area of onshore wind energy over the next few years. 160 Service » Important notes Integrated Annual Report 2018 of EnBW Important notes Published by Publication in the German Federal Gazette EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG The complete consolidated financial statements prepared by EnBW Durlacher Allee 93 Energie Baden-Württemberg AG and audited by KPMG AG Wirtschafts76131 Karlsruhe prüfungsgesellschaft, Frankfurt am Main, and the management report, which is combined with the Group management report, will be published Coordination and editor in the German Federal Gazette (“Bundesanzeiger”) together with the Communication Media & Events, Karlsruhe unqualified audit opinion. The necessary documents will be submitted to the German Federal Gazette (“Bundesanzeiger”) by 30 April 2019 at the Concept, design and editing of image section latest. Truffle Bay Management Consulting GmbH, Munich No offer or investment recommendation Illustrations This report has been prepared for information purposes only. It does not Jindrich Novotny, Hanover constitute an offer, an invitation or a recommendation to purchase or sell Marcel Drzimotta, Munich securities issued by EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG (EnBW), a company of the EnBW Group or any other company. This report also does Photos for image section not constitute a request, invitation or recommendation to vote or give EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG consent. All descriptions, examples and calculations are included in this Paul Gärtner, Karlsruhe report for illustrative purposes only. Photo credit p. 18 (painting in the background): Florian Depenthal, 1992 Forward-looking statements This report contains forward-looking statements which are based on Photos of the Board of Management and current assumptions, plans, estimates and forecasts made by the Supervisory Board management of EnBW. Forward-looking statements of this kind are Matthias Hangst, Karlsruhe therefore only valid at the time they were first published. Forward-looking statements are indicated by the context, but may also be identified by the Photos for the Highlights use of the words “can”, “will”, “should”, “plans”, “intends”, “expects”, EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG “thinks”, “estimates”, “forecasts”, “potential”, “continued” and similar expressions. Typesetting In-house using firesys By nature, forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that cannot be controlled or accurately predicted by EnBW. Actual Printed by events, future results, the financial position, development or performance Elanders GmbH, Waiblingen of EnBW and the companies of the EnBW Group may therefore diverge considerably from the forward-looking statements made in this report. ISBA: R.3594.1903 Therefore, it cannot be guaranteed nor can any liability otherwise be Publication of the Integrated assumed that these forward-looking statements will prove complete, Annual Report 2018: 28 March 2019 correct or precise, or that expected and forecast results will actually occur in the future. Contact General No obligation to update the information Phone: 0800 1020030 (only within Germany) EnBW assumes no obligation of any kind to update the information E-mail: kontakt@enbw.com contained in this report or to adjust or otherwise update forward-looking Internet: www.enbw.com statements to future events or developments. This Annual Report can also be downloaded from the Internet in German or English. In cases of doubt, Investor Relations the German version shall be authoritative. E-mail: investor.relations@enbw-ir.com Internet: www.enbw.com/investors www.twitter.com/enbw Printed on paper awarded the EU Ecolabel, European Union Ecolabel under Licence No. AT/011/001 F ina n c i a l l e n d a r 2 0 1 9 c a 28 March 2019 Publication of the Integrated Annual Report 2018 8 May 2019 Annual General Meeting 2019 10 May 2019 Publication of the Quarterly Statement January to March 2019 25 July 2019 Publication of the Six-Monthly Financial Report January to June 2019 8 November 2019 Publication of the Quarterly Statement January to September 2019 n e two r k e d – n t e l l i g e n t l y I t he f u t u r e s t r u c t u r e o f infra All areas of our lives are becoming more interlinked and the boundaries between living, working and free time are less well defined. EnBW has the tools to handle these changes: energy and the infrastructure for each task. Using our core expertise, we are focussing on, for example, the development of sustainable mobility and safe transport management, as well as stable com­ munications and innovative concepts for cities and urban districts. We are prepared. The future of energy is changing – and we’re changing with it. Co n t e n t s The future of mobility is electric The image section can be found at the beginning of the report. Interview with the Board of Management ...................... 24 Condensed financial statements Report of the Supervisory Board (condensed) ............... 30 of the EnBW Group About this report ............................................................. 33 Income statement ........................................................... 138 Statement of comprehensive income ............................. 139 Combined management report Balance sheet ................................................................. 140 of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG Cash flow statement ....................................................... 141 Statement of changes in equity ...................................... 142 Fundamentals of the Group Information on the result of the audit of the Business model .............................................................. 38 consolidated financial statements and the Strategy, goals and performance management system ... 48 combined management report of the company and the Group for the 2018 financial year ...................... 143 Corporate governance .................................................... 56 In dialogue with our stakeholders .................................. 59 Research, development and innovation .......................... 64 Corporate bodies Procurement ................................................................... 69 The Supervisory Board ................................................... 145 Offices held by members Business report of the Board of Management ........................................... 147 General conditions .......................................................... 72 Other offices held by members of the Supervisory Board ................................................ 148 The EnBW Group ............................................................. 80 EnBW AG ......................................................................... 105 Overall assessment of the Service economic situation of the Group ..................................... 109 Financial terms ............................................................... 151 Forecast .......................................................................... 110 Glossary .......................................................................... 152 Report on opportunities and risks .................................. 114 Multi-year overview ........................................................ 156 Remuneration report ...................................................... 124 Highlights 2018 ............................................................... 158 Disclosures pursuant to sections 289a (1) and 315a (1) German Commercial Code (HGB) and explanatory Important notes .............................................................. 160 report of the Board of Management ............................... 133 Index for the non-financial declaration Rear cover pages: of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG .................................. 135 Financial calendar 2019 Index for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) ......................................... 136 Intelligently networked – infrastructure of the future Navigation The integrated management of EnBW comprises financial and non-financial Our key performance indicators are labelled with this symbol. goals in the dimensions: The cross-references take you to further information within this report or to the definition of terms in the glossary. We have also published an online version of the Integrated Annual Report Customers 2018 at: www.enbw.com/report2018. Finance Strategy and society Employees Environment EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG Durlacher Allee 93 76131 Karlsruhe www.enbw.com
