COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 1 Jan 2018 To: 31 Dec 2018 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE OWNER 10 January 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Sustinere Pte Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Grace Cheah Sustinere Pte. Ltd. 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Sustinere provides primarily consulting services to our clients, and the consulting services we provide cover areas relating to labour rights, business ethics, health and safety and environment. OUR POLICIES Human Rights Sustinere believes that all our employees, business associates and contractors deserve a fair and ethical workplace. Everyone must be treated with dignity and respect. No employees, business associates or contractors should discriminate against any other person based on age, disability, ethnicity, gender, marital status, national origin, political affiliation, race, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, union membership, or any other status protected by applicable national or local law. Sustinere is committed to a workplace free of harassment and abuse. Employees, business associates and contractors shall not threaten other persons with, or subject them to, harsh or inhumane treatment, including but not limited to verbal abuse and harassment, psychological harassment, mental and physical coercion, and sexual harassment. Labour Sustinere shall ensure that all work done by employees, business associates and contractors is voluntary. Sustinere is committed to the prevention of involuntary labour and human trafficking. There shall not be any form of involuntary, slave, forced, bonded, indentured, or prison labour in our workplace. Involuntary labour includes the transportation, harbouring, recruitment, transfer, receipt, or employment of persons by means of threat, force, coercion, abduction, fraud, or payments to any person having control over another person for the purpose of exploitation. Environment Sustinere is committed to protecting the environment, and maintain environmentally responsible business practices. Anti-Corruption Sustinere is committed to uphold the highest standards of ethical conduct in all of our endeavours. Sustinere shall be ethical in every aspect of our business, including relationships, practices and operations. Sustinere shall not engage in corruption, extortion, embezzlement, or bribery to obtain an unfair or improper advantage. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES As part of our consulting work, we have helped companies to improve their internal processes and practices to meet internationally recognised social compliance standards. Some key points for companies which are in compliance to these standards include: Workers in these companies are working a maximum of 60 hours a week and get one off day every week There is no forced labour or bonded labour in the company The workers do not have to pay recruitment fees to work in the company The workers hold their own personal identification Humane treatment for workers What we have achieved in the last one year  Sustinere, together with our clients, has enabled more than 5,000 foreign migrant workers in Singapore and Malaysia to be working without bonds or recruitment fees.  Sustinere has provided training on human rights and freely chosen employment, as well as business ethics to more than 100 persons who are managing overseeing recruitment of workers, workers’ dormitories and HR personnel.  Together Global Compact Network Singapore and other partners, Sustinere has provided training for new aspiring professionals who are keen to embark on a career in sustainability.
