We create solutions to unlock energy safely and sustainably for future generations. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Content CEO Introduction Introduction People Are Key to Our Success Health, Safety and Security Integrity Environmental Impact Vision. Building on almost 200 years of Supply Chain Management technological and engineering excellence Aker Solutions is at the forefront in forging a sustainable Society future for the energy industry and the world it serves. A spirit of About this Report collaboration and openness is at the heart of this effort as we set Appendix: Global Reporting new standards and seek to solve Initiative (GRI) Index new challenges. AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 CEO INTRODUCTION MENU CEO Introduction Forging a Sustainable Future. Aker Solutions embraces the transition to a new energy future. We are committed to taking a leading role in forging a sustainable future for the global energy industry and the world it serves. 3 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 CEO INTRODUCTION MENU As a player in the global energy industry, we have a unique opportunity to help drive the By actively enforcing our code of conduct, we work to ensure that our shift towards sustainable energy production and improved access to energy around the business is conducted in a transparent and ethical manner. Our business world. We believe that this is critical for accelerating economic development and progress integrity and anti-corruption compliance program are implemented in all towards peace and prosperity for communities everywhere. locations globally. We have been a signatory member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2008. Guided by our values and commitments to corporate responsibility, We are committed to the goals of the United Nations and the 10 principles they have set we strive to conduct our business in ways that go beyond compliance, forward are interwoven in our endeavors. and to establish an inclusive framework for our stakeholders. A part of our commitment is to invest in local development. In Angola, we have In 2018 we updated our corporate responsibility (CR) strategy, focusing on the areas sponsored scholarships for technical education in cooperation with where we believe we can truly contribute to making a difference. The updated CR strategy University Agostinho Neto and the Norwegian University of Science and will be operationalized in 2019 and is embedded in our enterprise strategy. The focus of Technology (NTNU) until 2021. our CR strategy is divided into three areas, forge, manage and comply. Each focus area has clear objectives and is aligned towards the United Nations Sustainable Development We are committed to forging a sustainable future in all that we do, both Goals (SDGs) we believe is most appropriate. for the oil and gas industry as well as for future energy developments. Through our spirit of innovation, collaboration and openness, we seek to We strive to develop offerings and solutions that create value for our customers, and empower our employees to solve new challenges. As a global provider of enables them to reach the goals of reducing the carbon footprint of their operations. We products, systems and services to the oil and gas industry, we strive to set have offered solutions for Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage (CCUS) since 1996 and new standards for safe, cost-effective and low carbon solutions. offer services, products and solutions through the whole CCUS chain. Aker Solutions expects to remain a player in the oil and gas industry for years to come. In parallel, with the ongoing shift from carbon-based energy to renewables, we have invested in the floating wind power technology company, Principle Power, bringing our offshore oil Luis Araujo and gas engineering expertise into the future-oriented renewable energy market. Chief Executive Officer We believe that we can help mobilize action for cleaner energy and a less polluted environment at a very local level, working with local communities. Therefore, in 2018 we sponsored a solar power generator unit at a rural hospital in India. We also participated in World Environmental Day on June 5, where employees from all over the world teamed up to clean plastic from the beaches in support of the theme of “Beat Plastic Pollution.” Throughout our endeavors, the highest priority for Aker Solutions is our employees and their health, safety and security. Safe operations are at the core of our business. We work hard to ensure that employees and others working on our behalf can return home safely every day. 4 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION MENU Introduction Corporate responsibility is about proactive and precautionary business decisions that reflect our commitment to integrity, accountability and sustainability. 5 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION MENU Every day we make decisions that have an impact across our value chain: they affect our people, our customers and our suppliers, as well as the environment and the communities Charters and Memberships Aker Solutions is a signatory member of the UN Global Compact, the in which we operate. Some of our decisions have a short-term impact, while others have a world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, and is committed long-term effect on our stakeholders and the environment. We believe that the effects are to its 10 principles. This report is our annual Communication on positive overall, but we are aware of the difficult trade-offs and dilemmas that characterize Progress. The company is also a member of Trace International, an our industry. We know that how we conduct ourselves as an employer and as a business international organization promoting transparency and compliance has a profound impact on our ability to create long-term value for society and for our with anti-corruption rules, and participates in informal compliance shareholders. forums with other Norwegian companies. Our code of conduct is our key governing document and the foundation of our drive to Aker Solutions reports and communicates on CR based on the Global uphold the highest levels of integrity and avoid becoming complicit in unethical or illegal Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. This report has been prepared in behavior. We strive to minimize harm to the environment by providing environmentally sound accordance with the GRI Standards core level guidelines. technology for our own activities and those of our customers’ activities. We recognize our “ responsibility to positively impact societies and strive to ensure that they benefit from our We recognize our responsibility to operations. Governance positively impact societies and strive The responsibility for corporate responsibility (CR) is defined in Aker Solutions’ business to ensure that they benefit from our operations. integrity policy. The board of directors is responsible for overseeing and safeguarding management of the company’s CR work. In 2018, the company’s communications team had the responsibility to assess, maintain and report on CR. The company’s delivery centers are responsible for implementing, monitoring and reporting on the company’s CR work. Each of our locations is responsible for ensuring compliance with local legal requirements in addition Stakeholders to our corporate requirements. Aker Solutions is committed to ongoing engagement with a range of stakeholders in order to understand their expectations of our company and listen to their concerns. We interact with investors, Strategy customers, suppliers, governments and national authorities, Aker Solutions’ global CR strategy defines our vision and goals for ensuring responsible banks, non-governmental organizations and industry groups, conduct toward people, the environment and society. The strategy was developed through owners, employees, and collaborative partners, through a variety assessment of sustainability risks and communication with internal and external stakeholders. of channels. These channels include management meetings, It provides a detailed framework with clear objectives for the direction and ambition of our CR seminars and workshops, dialogue with customers and suppliers, activities. The strategy was updated in 2018 to reflect specific areas of focus and is closely meetings with investors and employees, quarterly presentations, linked to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. In 2019, we will operationalize the updated articles and interactive blogs on the company’s intranet, and CR strategy to ensure that it is adopted across our entire organization. feedback from training courses. 6 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION MENU In 2018 we conducted a materiality assessment, drawing on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. Within the company, representatives from our corporate office, business operations and global offices took part in an internal workshop. We also collected input from an employee survey. We identified and prioritized the CR themes most material to Aker Solutions based on our evaluation of: ¡¡ The expectations of Aker Solutions’ key stakeholders around each topic ¡¡ The economic, environmental and social impacts we have as a business ¡¡ Where in our value chain these material impacts occur ¡¡ The risks and opportunities for Aker Solutions, given these impacts The feedback from the meetings and the comments from the survey, helped us better understand our stakeholders’ information needs, interest in and influence on our business and our corporate responsibility work. The results were presented in a materiality matrix, which has helped us to update our CR strategy, select the UN Sustainable Development Goals we will focus on, as well as determine the scope and content of this year’s report. 7 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 PEOPLE ARE KEY TO OUR SUCCESS MENU People Are Key to Our Success Attracting, developing, motivating and retaining highly competent employees globally is key to the success of Aker Solutions. 8 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 PEOPLE ARE KEY TO OUR SUCCESS MENU The company has a diverse workforce, which it seeks to develop and motivate through Respecting Human and Labor Rights competency management, career development and leadership training. Our focus on Aker Solutions respects and supports internationally accepted people builds on a culture characterized by adaptability, competency and cooperation. human and labor rights principles. Our code of conduct, business integrity policy, and UN Global Compact membership underpin our respect of and support for international standards such as Diversity and Equal Opportunity the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD Aker Solutions is strongly committed to the principles of non-discrimination and equal Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the ILO Declaration on opportunity, regardless of gender, nationality or other factors. Men have traditionally Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the UK Modern dominated the oil and gas industry and, particularly, offshore work. This continues to be Slavery Act. We also adhere to the Voluntary Principles on reflected in our organization, where around 17 percent of our employees are women. Security and Human Rights. “ Men hold about 76 percent of our management positions and women hold 24 percent. The number of women in leadership roles increased from 124 to 136. Aker Solutions seeks to promote diversity in its workforce through clear requirements for diversity in recruitment, and development of individuals and programs supporting equal opportunity, in accordance We continuously work to ensure that with its people policy and recruitment policy. human and labor rights violations, We have around 79 nationalities in our workforce. Aker Solutions is committed to enabling including slavery and human trafficking, do not take place in our supply chain local staff to move into management positions, in support of rules for local content and job creation for nationals enacted in some countries. Local management teams actively seek to promote, build and retain local talent, ensuring legal compliance and securing long-term operations. or in any other part of our business. In the UK we are required to reporting publicly and to the government on the gender pay gap, which is the difference in the average pay and bonuses of all men and women Aker Solutions supports Building Responsibly. This is a group of across the company. The 2018 results for Aker Solutions showed a mean pay gap of 19.9 leading engineering and construction companies working together percent, down from 24.1 percent in 2017, and a median pay gap of 23.9 percent, down to raise the bar in promoting the rights and welfare of workers from 34.6 percent in 2017. globally across the industry. We welcome this transparency measure as an opportunity to engage with employees We consider the risk of direct involvement in human and labor on equality, diversity and inclusiveness and to discuss these issues in the UK Employee rights infringements to be low. However, indirect involvement in Consultative Forum. The company is taking several measures to address the pay gap in such infringements is a risk due to the size of our supply chain. the UK, including setting up a diversity and inclusion committee. We are also working with schools and universities to promote the energy sector as an attractive career choice, and Our commitment to human and labor rights is addressed in to encourage more women to enter the industry. the Global Framework Agreement between Aker ASA and the Norwegian and international trade unions Fellesforbundet, IndustriALL Global Union, NITO and Tekna, dating from 2008. 9 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 PEOPLE ARE KEY TO OUR SUCCESS MENU This agreement was renewed in 2012 and focuses on standards for general employment terms, employee relations, non-discrimination, health and safety practices, the prohibition of child and forced labor, and the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. The agreement demands similar standards in our supply chain. We continuously work to ensure that human and labor rights violations, including slavery and human trafficking, do not take place in our supply chain or in any other part of our business. In 2018 we continued to use qualification requirements and background screening to check our suppliers, potential customers and business partners for human and labor rights infringements. We report follow up on risks related to such infringements in our supply chain. In 2018 we experienced an increased focus from customers on compliance with human rights principles. We underwent three human and labor rights audits in 2018, none of which surfaced any issues of concern for our customers. No material human rights grievances against the company were substantiated through formal channels in 2018. Leadership, Talent and Performance In 2018 we continued the execution of our ‘Enabling Agile Leadership’ program, which aims to strengthen leadership skills and support a culture focused on continuous improvement. During the year, 82 participants completed the program. We also relaunched our global development programs for first and second line managers, and around 280 managers completed these during 2018. Aker Solutions strengthened its talent management and succession planning during 2018. The objective is to ensure that Aker Solutions has a pool of talent who can move into senior leadership and professional roles. In December 2018, the company introduced a new, digital solution for people performance management. The new software tool supports alignment with the enterprise performance management process. Aker Solutions strives to offer professional development, worldwide career opportunities, competitive pay and benefits, and a healthy work-life balance. 10 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 PEOPLE ARE KEY TO OUR SUCCESS MENU Protecting Personal Data Aker Solutions follows the legal requirements for national As a Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) approved corporation, Aker Solutions takes data legislation on the minimum requirements of notification period protection seriously. We have an organization dedicated to protecting personal data, with in the countries where there are operations. This is in regards to a team of privacy officers supervising and supporting this effort. In 2018 Aker Solutions organizational changes that will affect employees. concluded the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) project. Our focus in 2019 will be to operationalize the GDPR in our business. Aker Solutions conducted a global survey in 2018 to gauge employee engagement. The engagement score improved with 5.8 percent compared to the 2017 results. The survey is held annually Employee Turnover and based on the feedback the management evaluates for which The global voluntary workforce turnover averaged 5.5 percent in 2018 compared with 7.0 areas to focus on in the following year. percent in 2017. The decrease is correlating with the improvement of the results from the employee engagement survey and our increased focus on career development plans. The company works with all employees on career development plans to increase employee Key Staff Figures retention. In 2018 the number of employees increased by around 900 employees due to project awards. We have also used more external contractors in 2018. The increase in number of Employee Representation and Engagement employees is mainly in Norway and Brazil. Good industrial relationships are an important part of Aker Solutions’ history and culture. We encourage employee representation in our business units worldwide. This is part of our commitment to human and labor rights. Employees worldwide have the right to be heard and represented, and to form and join trade unions of their own choice. Employee representatives provide employees with influence and lines of communication through their participation in working committees, on the board of directors, and in operational improvement and organizational change projects. In 2018 union representatives in Norway had regular meetings with management on a local and regional level, in addition to more regulatory discussions in accordance with union agreements entered into by the company. Once a year, the unions hold a conference with a formal election process for all union representatives in Norway. Twice a year employee representatives from Norway, the UK, Brazil, Malaysia and India meet with management from the Aker ASA companies as part of the Global Works Council (GWC). The council aims to develop communication and consultation between management and employees on issues such as operations and strategy. The meetings in 2018 included an update on Aker ASA, Aker Solutions, Aker Energy, REV Ocean and specific themes like updates on GDRP, Cyber security, and newly established Internet sites for GWC. 11 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 PEOPLE ARE KEY TO OUR SUCCESS MENU Key Staff Figures Percentages rounded 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total Staff 19,442 16,175 16,177 17,673 Own employees office 1 8,561 8,165 8,726 10,898 Own employees non office 1 6,144 5,631 5,659 42497 Contract staff 4,737 2,379 1,792 2,278 Own employees (percent) 75.6 85.3 88.9 87.1 External contracts (percent) 24.6 14.7 11.1 12.9 Own office employees (percent) 58.2 59.2 60.7 70.8 Non-office employees (percent) 41.8 40.8 39.3 29.2 Total own employees Norway (percent) 39.7 40.4 40.60 48.8 Own Employees 14,705 13,796 14,385 15,395 North America 471 511 534 868 Brazil (including C.S.E Mecânica e Instrumentacâo Ltda) 3,883 3,345 3,313 1,378 Africa 212 225 216 187 Asia Pacific 2,246 2,085 2,623 2,994 Europe (excl. Norway and UK) 3 3 2 112 UK 2,056 2,049 1,858 2,348 Norway 5,834 5,578 5,839 7,508 Age Groups Own Employees (percent) <30 12.8 12.4 15.5 19.5 30-50 61.3 63.2 61.3 59.6 >50 25.9 24.3 23.2 20.9 Part-time Own Employees (percent) Part-time own employees Norway 1.0 1.2 0.9 0.8 Part-time own employees UK 2.0 2.0 2.2 1.8 Key staff figures continues on next page 12 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 PEOPLE ARE KEY TO OUR SUCCESS MENU Key Staff Figures (continued) 2018 2017 2016 2015 Recruited 2 Own employees office 1,731 527 360 689 Own employees non-office 2,074 1,654 590 847 Age Groups Recruited (percent) 1 <30 28.4 22.0 27.5 37.6 30-50 59.3 58.6 49.4 49.7 >50 12.4 19.3 23.2 12.8 Staff Turnover (percent) 1 5.5 7.0 6.2 5.2 Gender Distribution female Own employees office (percent) 1 27.1 26.6 26.4 26.5 Own employees non-office (percent) 1 3.4 2.5 3.5 3.6 Total own female employees (percent) 17.1 16.8 19.6 19.9 Own female leaders (percent) 1 23.9 22.5 22.4 22.3 Total female leaders 136 124 137 275 1) Regular and temporary employed on our payroll (judicially employed) 2) Regular employees 13 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 PEOPLE ARE KEY TO OUR SUCCESS MENU Parental Leave Own Regular Employees Percentages rounded Employees taking parental leave in Employees taking parental leave in Employees taking parental leave in Employees taking parental leave in 2017 2016 2015 2014 Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total Norway Employees taking parental leave 76 148 224 77 224 301 119 141 260 144 233 377 Employed at Aker Solutions 12 months after 86.4 82.2 83.6 70.1 72.3 71.8 60.5 76.5 69.2 88.2 89.3 88.9 parental leave ended (percent) UK Employees taking parental leave 28 31 59 24 63 87 28 34 62 25 52 77 Employed at Aker Solutions 12 months after 82.4 86.1 84.3 62.5 74.6 71.3 67.9 85.3 77.4 84.0 94.2 90.9 parental leave ended (percent) Malaysia Employees taking parental leave 12 63 75 21 68 89 48 167 215 46 138 184 Employed at Aker Solutions 12 months after 85.7 96.9 94.9 81.0 89.7 87.6 83.3 92.2 90.2 76.1 83.3 81.5 parental leave ended (percent) India Employees taking parental leave 13 41 54 22 73 95 29* 87* 116* 21 75 96 Employed at Aker Solutions 12 months after 72.2 70.7 71.1 59.1 71.2 68.4 96.6* 93.1* 94.0* 90.5 86.7 87.5 parental leave ended (percent) *2015 figures incorrect, 116 total taken maternity/paternity leave 14 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 PEOPLE ARE KEY TO OUR SUCCESS MENU Targets and Initiatives for 2019 We progressed well on the three year targets set out in the 2018 CR report. The three year targets had the aim to attract, motivate, develop and retain our workforce. Our 2018 targets were: ¡¡ Build career paths and training programs that fulfill employee development and serve business needs ¡¡ Reinforce a culture of accountable leaders who develop their people, embrace change and continuously improve ¡¡ Establish automated and digitalized processes and systems ¡¡ Ensure workforce planning that supports the Aker Solutions strategy with regards to competence, flexibility, cost profile and geography ¡¡ Establish and develop a dynamic and progressive HR team that is passionate about employee welfare, adding business value and continuous improvement We achieved the expected progress and will further develop these in 2019 to follow one of our key priorities to further develop the company culture and leadership. The company culture aims to deliver results through teamwork, driving innovation and learning, and being bold and decisive. A key element of this is to build a culture that promotes inclusion and diversity. The ambition is 25 percent female leaders and a representative share of leadership from the geographies based on revenue creation by 2021. Our 2019 updated three year targets are outlined below: ¡¡ Build a culture that delivers on the strategy and is recognized by teamwork, learning and boldness ¡¡ High performance through strong leadership and accountability ¡¡ Cost efficient organizational design and compensation that ensures sustainable business operation ¡¡ High quality HR function that is a true business partner 15 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY MENU Health, Safety and Security Safe operations are at the core of our values and our value proposition to customers. We believe all incidents can and should be prevented. 16 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY MENU We work hard to ensure that employees and others working on our behalf can return home safely. The company often engages in work under challenging conditions, requiring the highest level of diligence in order to maintain the safety of employees and customers, subcontractors, consultants and other parties. The CR strategy reinforces our goal to protect the health, safety and human rights of the workforce. Entrenching a Safety Culture Aker Solutions’ updated health, safety, security and environment (HSSE) policy states that the company “shall promote safe, reliable and sustainable operations to achieve our goal of zero harm to people, assets and the environment.” The foundation for this continuous diligence is the company’s management system. This ensures that executive management is focused on HSSE performance and that all delivery centers set HSSE initiatives and goals for the coming year. The HSSE mindset is one of our core values. We believe this mindset is an important contributor in reducing the number of serious incidents. Back in 2017, Aker Solutions launched a global HSSE mindset program at all units. The program was continued in 2018 with four new modules, and the modules for 2019 are now in the planning phase. The goal is to create awareness of the main HSSE risks and/or opportunities and to ensure our employees are prepared to handle these situations correctly in their daily work. Identifying risks Risks related to HSSE are defined as a risk category in the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) procedure. On a company level these risks include physical security threats, the risk of major accidents related to malfunctions in our products and/or insufficient service, and the risk for fatalities, serious injuries or environmental spills in our own operations. However, as Aker Solutions is a very multifaceted company, most of the risks are identified and mitigated on lower organizational levels. The global HSSE function is responsible for the development, implementation and maintenance of the ERM framework within each discipline, and has a global responsibility for operational effectiveness. Within this responsibility there also lies an obligation to develop and execute global HSSE audit programs and facilitate and coordinate efforts within all units. In 2019 we will be including HSSE risks in the company risk management tool. This will strengthen the company’s global overview and make it easier to follow up identified risks and perform risk targeted audits. 17 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY MENU Aker Solutions is a member of the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP). Aker Solutions is not content with these results and we have been The objective of the IOGP process safety management initiative is to implement systems working to identify the causes of the injuries. During the first part for hardware (technical), human (operational) and system elements into company routines. of the year we saw that many of the incidents were connected to Membership in the IOGP allows Aker Solutions to collaborate with clients, peers and other one specific project and related to industrial relations issues in the exploration and production stakeholders to standardize and share knowledge in order to UK market. Actions were taken and the injury rate for this project achieve improvements within HSSE, social responsibility, engineering and operations. has now decreased. In the second half of the year, most of the injuries took place on the west coast of Norway. This is a trend The process safety management system, also known as the major accident hazard we have also observed among our peers and there is an ongoing management system, is currently being incorporated into the way we work across Aker back-to-basics safety initiative that will continue in 2019. Solutions. Areas of excellence regarding process safety management have been identified in deliverables, and a new head of process safety was appointed during the third quarter of When incidents occur, Aker Solutions initiates an investigation 2018. process according to our internal incident investigation standard. Depending on the risk classification of the incident, a team of investigators is tasked with uncovering the details of the incident. Zero Incident Mindset The outcome of this process is a report describing the underlying Aker Solutions has a zero incident mindset and we believe all incidents can be prevented. causes of the incident and outlining the changes and measures that need to be implemented to prevent the incidents from For 2018 we had a goal of achieving a Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) of <0.27. This reoccurring. All red or black incidents require an incident review target was not met. At the end of 2018 the LTIF was 0.6, compared to 0.5 at the end of panel, where cross-functional leaders review the investigation, 2017, showing a slight increase. Most of these LTIs were minor injuries like cuts, burns identify all root causes, and agree on clear actions to ensure that and pinching of fingers and hands, and some injuries were caused by slips, trips and falls remediating arrangements are in place. on level surfaces. The remaining were cases where the injured person either was hit by an object or bumped into the object, causing muscle pains and/or dislocation of joints (knee, Typically, the most serious incidents occur due to a lack of shoulder). At the end of 2018, the Total Recordable Injuries Frequency (TRIF) was 2.0, or insufficient risk assessments before the operation and/or compared to 1.4 in 2017, showing an increase in this indicator as well. managing change during the operation. This area receives a great deal of attention, including through the HSSE mindset program, 2018 2017 2016 implementation of lessons learned, and in the day-to-day toolbox talks and operation planning meetings. Total Recordable Injuries Frequency (TRIF), per million worked hours 2.0 1.4 1.3 including subcontractors Total Recordable Injuries Frequency (LTIF), per million worked hours 0.6 0.5 0.3 including subcontractors Fatalities, including subcontractors 0 0 4 Figures are rounded up to nearest decimal point. 18 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY MENU HSSE Indicators Aker Care Over the past years, Aker Solutions has had an internal shift of focus from Lost Time Aker Care offered a comprehensive selection of healthcare Injury Frequency (LTIF) to Total Recordable Injury Frequency (TRIF). While we recognize services and activities to employees in Norway during 2018. The the importance of injuries leading to lost time, we think it is imperative to focus on all main focus of Aker Care is to promote health and wellness, detect personnel injuries to better understand the causes and consequences of these incidents. individual and work related health risks, and quickly examine We have therefore chosen to use TRIF as our main internal HSSE key performance health problems employees may encounter. In 2018 Aker Care indicator and use LTIF as a performance indicator. has completed a nationwide mental health campaign as well as several local campaigns and exercise programs tailored to each Since 2017 Aker Solutions has used two other key performance indicators (KPIs). One location. Mandatory health surveillance has been performed of them is the zero days indicator. This KPI counts days without a recordable injury, according to industry and national regulations. Sustained focus work-related illness, environmental spill or near miss across the company. In 2018, Aker has been placed on sick leave prevention and follow-up of Solutions had 288 zero incident days compared with 314 in 2017. This represents a employees. decrease of 26 days. We aim at getting back to the 2017 level and have set a goal of 314 zero days for 2019. Global Health Aker Solutions also uses the serious incident frequency (SIF) KPI to focus on the The company centralized and strengthened the global leadership occurrence of high-risk incidents. These are incidents where the actual or potential team in the new HSSE function, enabling an increased focus consequence is high or extreme, as defined in our risk matrix. Our 2017 SIF number was a on health and the working environment. The company hired a record low at 0.2, but knowing that the amount of more risk exposed work would increase working environment specialist in the global health team with a in 2018, we set last year’s target at 0.8. At the end of 2018 we see that we managed to main responsibility to ensure systematic recognition, evaluation, achieve a SIF of 0.4, which is significantly lower than our target. control and prevention of working environment hazards that may result in injury, illness or affect the well-being of our employees globally. Having this expertise helps to eliminate or control health Continued Focus on Employee Health hazards such as chemicals, biological agents, noise, radiation and HSSE is dedicated to protect and promote the health and well-being of our global work vibration to bring our global health discipline in line with our main force through the development of a unified and standardized global health system. objectives and responsibilities. As part of Aker Solutions’ commitment to the health of its employees, we drive and support a number of initiatives to help employees enjoy a healthy work environment and personal well-being through various lifestyle, nutrition and exercise programs in many locations. 2018 2017 2016 Sick leave rate (percent) 2.6 2.8 2.8 19 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY MENU In 2018 the company’s global sick leave rate was 2.6 percent, down 0.2 percent from Knowledge Sharing and Monitoring the two previous years. Targeted initiatives and actions have been taken to reduce high All employees have access to HSSE information and documents sick leave numbers in certain locations and in the offshore workforce. Reporting and through a variety of online libraries, our HSSE eLearning courses calculations of sick leave in each country have been improved and standardized in 2018, and all of our incident registrations in the Synergi database. From and the aggregation into a global sick leave figure has been streamlined and quality January 2019, Aker Solutions will be using a new and updated checked. version of Synergi Life and start using the Synergi Life mobile app. This will make the reporting of incidents and observations easier During 2018 the company has piloted a new tool, E-Score from Norsk Industri for for end users, while streamlining the data analysis process. assessment of potential health hazards such as noise, chemicals, radiation, biological agents, poor work ergonomics, and psychosocial factors in the work environment. The In addition, the online HSSE community enables professional objective is to gain an overview of how well a specific work site identifies exposure to discussions, information and document sharing, as well as hazards and proactively manages the various risks linked to ill-health, short and long term. internal networking and resource sharing, creating a complete Four work sites in Norway and two in Angola have used the E-score tool and each site learning package that is available throughout the company. has established their own health hazard scorecard which will serve as a benchmark for annual or biannual self-assessments going forward. The purpose is to reduce the health hazards with highest exposure score (highest hazard potential) first and eventually bring HSSE Management of Suppliers all hazards to an acceptable risk level. Preliminary results show that we are exposed to and Subcontractors different hazards from site to site, depending on the type of activity at the location. The Aker Solutions values the partnerships and relationships local operations have provided encouraging and constructive feedback in advance of a with its vendors and works to ensure that the highest quality more extensive roll-out that will be performed in 2019. products and services can be supplied to Aker Solutions without compromising HSSE. With the increased HSSE resources Malaria prevention has received high priority in 2018. A global malaria prevention allocated to Aker Solutions’ Supply Chain in 2018, Aker Solutions procedure has been established and communicated to all employees. To further secure was able to focus on greater follow-up efforts, intervention, compliance to the malaria procedure, a set of malaria specific questions has been systems, processes and relationships within its Supply Chain. In implemented in the travel risk assessment process. In addition, all employees travelling to 2019 the combined utilization and collaboration across functions malaria risk areas need to complete and pass the malaria eLearning course provided by will increase to ensure that risks can be identified and mitigated. International SOS. During 2018, 188 employees passed the eLearning course. The implementation of automated HSSE dashboards, globally Other main occupational health achievements in 2018: standardized auditing tools, and reporting systems has allowed greater resources to be allocated to HSSE development plans ¡¡ Mapped out radiation exposure and protection at all our global operation sites with key suppliers, and our ambition is to improve in 2019. ¡¡ Rolled out a global mental health and well-being campaign as a part of the HSSE mindset program ¡¡ Performed IOGP/IPIECA Health Performance Survey ¡¡ Established a national Exposure Register in Norway as required by The Norwegian Labor Inspection Authority ¡¡ Established registration and reporting of work related illness cases in Norway 20 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 CHAPTER TITLE MENU Security Our commitment towards safeguarding our employees, assets and reputation has been further enhanced by strengthening the Global Security Operations Centre (GSOC). GSOC can remotely monitor and provide security assistance to company locations such as Brazil, Malaysia, Angola, UK and Norway. The center also includes a dedicated resource to monitor incidents around the world, ensuring early identification of situations potentially affecting Aker Solutions’ sites or employees. Further it offers support and assistance for all employees on business travels, and maintains an overview of the travelling population within the company. All Aker Solutions employees are required to perform an annual code of conduct and business ethics training. The line management have a direct overview of the level of completion on this for their direct reports and in 2018, 100 percent of all security personnel completed this. For third party security personnel this is controlled through the individual contract with the security companies. Compliance is checked through the Security Risk Assessments (SRA), which are conducted regularly at all locations. The SRA checklist asks if the security guards are trained in human rights, ethical behavior and anti-corruption. The corporate visitor management system was replaced in 2018, in line with GDPR requirements and provided an improved user interface. Physical security requirements have been updated and will be communicated globally to ensure the same minimum standards across the company regardless of geographical location. Aker Solutions is committed to the IOGP expectation of providing five star New Car Assessment Program (NCAP) rated vehicles only and continues to replace its owned and leased vehicles to the highest safety standard. Emergency Preparedness and Response There have been no major incidents in 2018 involving the company’s Corporate Emergency Response Team (CERT). Training has taken place at all levels in order to ensure a robust and resilient response, including media training for senior managers. Improvement measures include further development of the designated software and centralizing notification lines to the GSOC center. 21 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY MENU Our 2019 targets are outlined below: Targets and Initiatives for 2019 We did not meet all our 2018 targets for HSS as set out in last year’s CR report. ¡¡ The most important target is always zero fatalities, and we shall promote safe, reliable and sustainable operations to Our 2018 targets were: achieve our goal of zero harm to people, assets and the environment. ¡¡ Zero fatalities ¡¡ Safeguarding and developing a unified global HSSE culture ¡¡ Issue a new HSSE policy driven by ongoing initiatives such as the HSSE mindset ¡¡ Serious incidents < 0.83 module. ¡¡ LTIF < 0.27 ¡¡ We will replace our current Just Rules with the industry standard IOGP Life-Saving Rules. The intention is to ¡¡ TRIF < 1.17 go live globally with the new rules in March 2019. A ¡¡ Zero days more than 314 days wide communication package will ensure successful implementation and compliance with the rules. In addition, ¡¡ Sick leave rate < 2.5 percent we will work to have applicable supporting procedures in Health, safety and security is about safeguarding our people and our assets. We place. often work under challenging conditions, and our activities often involve large, heavy ¡¡ During the second half of 2019, we will initiate the equipment, significant construction related activity and hazardous chemicals, where implementation and improvement of our control of work our workforce and customers are exposed to potentially unhealthy, unsafe and tools. Step Change for Safety has developed an industry unsecure conditions. Increasing digitalization also poses a risk of information security standard which we will implement in applicable areas breaches. Our main priority must always be to maintain the health, safety and security globally. of our employees and our customers, our subcontractors, consultants and other parties working together with us. ¡¡ We will also strive towards improved HSSE performance through driving the new initiative on Major Accident Hazard Management, and ensure robust crisis and emergency response management through existing tools and processes. 22 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 INTEGRITY MENU Integrity Doing business with integrity is imperative at Aker Solutions. We are committed to operate with the highest standards of integrity, everywhere and always. 23 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 INTEGRITY MENU Internal Organization The company conducted Integrity Due Diligence (IDD) of potential The Business Integrity and Compliance (BIC) function is responsible for continuously business partners in 2018, taking a risk based approach. developing Aker Solutions’ anti-corruption compliance program. BIC is a centralized Moreover, a systematic process for follow up and reporting on corporate team with compliance officers dedicated to each delivery center, supported by high risk business partners was implemented. a network of local compliance officers at several of our locations. This setup enables Aker Solutions to work proactively with compliance in our operations. In 2018, neither Aker Solutions nor any employee faced criminal action related to corruption. No contracts with partners were terminated or allowed to expire due to violations related to Business Integrity Program corruption. No criminal actions were brought against us for Aker Solutions’ Code of Conduct is the company’s main governing document. It anticompetitive, anti-trust behavior or monopoly violations. addresses important principles and sets clear rules and expectations for behavior and ethical standards for all employees. The Code of Conduct is supported by the Business Integrity Policy, which outlines Aker Solutions’ commitment to key areas such as antiProject Screening corruption, human rights, integrity risk management, integrity training and continuous Aker Solutions’ presence in many countries, combined with global improvement. tender activities, requires a proactive approach and assessment of potential prospects in markets associated with high integrity Our business integrity and anti-corruption compliance program is our main tool for risks. The assessments are performed before making any ensuring that our business is conducted in a transparent and ethical manner. The company commitments in the tender phase. Based on the results of the has implemented the program at all locations globally. All locations complete business assessments, the company may decide not to bid for potential integrity self-assessments annually. The anti-corruption program includes components prospects if the risks are deemed too high. The process aims to that aim to reduce the risk of becoming involved in unethical or illegal behavior. avoid participation in activities considered unethical or illegal. As part of the process, the company assesses risks of corruption, Aker Solutions has a group wide business integrity strategy, which is updated annually. In human or labor rights infringements, negative publicity or addition, each delivery center has established risk based business integrity plans, which environmental damage. The company performed 146 project include key focus areas and targets. Local compliance plans for Angola, India, Malaysia assessments in 2018 compared with 135 in 2017, 135 in 2017 and Brazil have been created. and 97 in 2016. A separate corporate risk committee evaluates any project seen as having an extraordinary risk. The plans aim to support the implementation of the anti-corruption compliance program, while also increasing awareness and reducing integrity risks in our operations. Progress on the plans and results are reported to the executive vice presidents on a quarterly Reporting Concerns basis. Progress on the anti-corruption compliance work is reported monthly to the chief Aker Solutions’ whistleblowing channel allows anyone to report executive officer and the board of directors. The anti-corruption program is subject to incidents, breaches or suspected breaches of the Code of monitoring by the board of directors, who has delegated the monitoring to the audit Conduct, other internal policies, or laws and regulations. The committee. The audit committee receive quarterly reporting from the chief compliance web-based tool is hosted by a third party and designed to officer. secure reports and all related data, as well as protecting the identity of the whistleblower. This includes offering the possibility of anonymous dialogue between the whistleblower and the 24 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 INTEGRITY MENU investigator. Reports are received and managed by Aker Solutions corporate business integrity and compliance department. All reports are treated with strict confidentiality. The number of reported cases did not increase significantly in 2018, but in general the annual figures have increased year-on-year since the channel opened in 2010. We see this as a healthy sign that the channel is working, while the number of cases are in line with the benchmark for companies our size. There were 117 reports in 2018 (compared to 116 reports in 2017 and 101 in 2016). More than two thirds of reports in 2018 concerned employee relations and human resources issues. The remaining were related to company/ professional code violation, corruption/fraud and regulatory breach. Corporate BIC is responsible for deciding when investigation of a whistleblower report and related activities shall be closed. The closing of the whistleblower report is subject to monitoring by the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee. At the end of 2018 only two material cases were open. When a report is substantiated, responses can range from internal communication and policy updates to warnings and dismissals. The company maintains a lessons learned database to share experience within the organization. In addition to the web-based tool, the company has an ethics helpline for questions or concerns. The helpline is open to all employees at ethics@akersolutions.com. Training and Awareness Continuous focus on and awareness of compliance and business integrity is important to ensure that our employees know what to do if they find themselves in a difficult situation. Although our anti-corruption compliance program, policies and procedures are applicable globally, we place importance on interacting with employees on the ground to ensure that the local context is considered in our communication and training material. This is to ensure that expectations of business conduct are understood in the context where the training is conducted. Several awareness activities were targeted towards particular employee groups, for example in management teams and within specific functions. Some locations held compliance weeks, involving local management and employees in tailor made activities designed to boost awareness of compliance topics. As part of our follow up of business partners, onsite training was provided to several of the company’s business partners. 25 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 INTEGRITY MENU Aker Solutions’ business ethics training program consists of three main mandatory Targets and Initiatives for 2019 components: We met our 2018 targets for the integrity and compliance work as set out in last year’s CR report. In 2018 our main target was to ¡¡ E-learning course which provides an introduction to business integrity in Aker further strengthen and continuously develop the anti-corruption Solutions to all new employees compliance program. ¡¡ Classroom course in business ethics for office-based employees Our 2018 targets were: ¡¡ Code of Conduct E-learning course which all employees must complete annually. The company modified all training material in 2018 to reflect updates in the anti-corruption ¡¡ Develop and implement a new business ethics training policy framework, new trends and risks. Moreover, the 2018 annual code of conduct program and provide training to all employees e-learning primarily addressed human and labor rights concerns, and the classroom ¡¡ Strengthen follow-up process of business partners training material was updated to better reflect this. ¡¡ Continuously identify, monitor and manage business integrity risks at a company level and delivery center level Business Ethics Training Overview 1 Our 2019 targets are outlined below: Total number of Total number of Total number of employees trained employees trained employees trained ¡¡ Digitalize key business integrity work processes aided by Course Type Duration implementation of governance, risk and compliance software end 2018 (incl. end 2017 (incl. end 2016 (incl. hired-in staff) 2 hired-in staff) 2 hired-in staff) 2 ¡¡ Refine risk based framework for integrity due diligence with E-learning: Introduction to 15 particular focus on mergers and acquisitions processes 300 N/A 3 N/A 3 business integrity minutes ¡¡ Provide annual Code of Conduct training to all employees E-learning: Aker ASA’s zero 15 N/A 4 8,100 8,600 tolerance to corruption minutes Classroom course in 2 11,700 10,600 7,700 Business Ethics5 hours E-learning: Annual Code 10 12,200 11,000 N/A of Conduct training6 minutes 1) The table shows only current employees who have completed business ethics training. 2) Numbers have been rounded up to the nearest 100. 3) Replacement course released July 1, 2018. 4) The course has been discontinued and replaced with introduction to business integrity e-learning. 5) Topics: Values and policies, anti-corruption, conflict of interests, confidential information, human and labor rights, gifts and hospitality, country risk and reporting concerns (whistleblowing). 6) Topics: Anti-Harassment and intimidation, diversity and equal opportunities, and human and labor rights. 26 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MENU Environmental Impact The oil and gas industry, particularly the deep water sector, is exposed to significant environmental risks, including oil spills and carbon dioxide emissions. 27 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MENU The Paris Climate Agreement and the IPPC 1,5°C special report has accelerated the chemicals and hydrocarbons to air, soil or sea is the most drive towards low carbon solutions in all sectors, industries, transport, agriculture, etc. important one. Carbon emissions from power generation, fuel The market landscape is changing and there is a rapid shift towards renewables that combustion and air travels is also one of our main aspects. We can compete with fossil fuels. Oil and gas companies are searching for new “green” are currently implementing these aspects into the company’s technologies and solutions e.g. offshore wind, solar power, electrification, CCUS (Carbon global risk register to grant better overview and easier access. Capture, Utilization, and Storage), Hydrogen etc., and Aker Solutions has a vision to be a Identifying and managing potential environmental risks are integral leader in forging a sustainable future for our industry and the world it serves. aspects of the company’s project tendering and execution, ensuring that appropriate measures are taken for each project and Managing environmental and climate change risks ensures a sustainable future for our location. These activities contribute to increased environmental company, our clients and the industry at large. awareness at Aker Solutions and its customers. Our target is to be a recognized leader, creating value through green engineering, Company programs are in place to monitor and improve energy the development of low carbon offerings and solutions, and improved environmental use and to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and waste. In 2018 performance for all stakeholders. our top nine energy users performed internal energy audits aimed to improve the efficiency of our facilities and operations. Several sites implemented energy reducing initiatives, like new and more Managing Our Footprint efficient heating and lighting systems, and others are planning Aker Solutions’ commitment to reducing its environmental impact is detailed in its health, similar objectives for 2019. safety, security and environment (HSSE) policy: During the second and third quarter of 2018, Aker Solutions joined ¡¡ We shall secure prevention and control of events that have the potential to release the United Nations’ World Environment Day campaign. The topic hazardous materials and energy by focusing on process safety was ‘Beat Plastic Pollution – if you can’t reuse it, refuse it.’ Over 300 Aker Solutions’ employees worldwide participated in local ¡¡ We shall conduct our operations through efficient use of materials and energy cleaning activities and the removal of about four tons of plastic and garbage from beaches, wetlands and recreational areas. ¡¡ We shall design products and services to have no undue environmental impact, to be safe and to be efficient in consuming energy and natural resources Throughout 2018, Aker Solutions continued its focus on waste reduction and material optimization. Several locations replaced ¡¡ We shall provide the right level of resources to ensure that this policy is implemented single use plastic cutlery, cups and food trays and wrapping with appropriately biodegradable alternatives. Measures to reuse wood packaging for product transportation and scrap metal for minor repairs The HSSE policy is implemented through the management system and various leadership further decreased the environmental impact. development initiatives. Aker Solutions is also represented in several of the IOGP As a part of our ISO 14001 standardization, all Aker Solutions’ sites have to perform a committees where the business’ environmental impacts are being review of their environmental aspects and the associated impacts, and describe how discussed, making sure we contribute to a sustainable future for to mitigate these. On an overall level, we see that Aker Solutions’ largest environmental our industry. aspect is related to our operations, where the potential for uncontrolled release of 28 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MENU In 2018 Aker Solutions experienced only minor spills with very limited impact. Most were small spills of hydraulic oil from pumps and other equipment, and all spills were handled Low Carbon Offerings & Solutions Aker Solutions’ leadership will forge a sustainable future for locally. our industry and the world we serve. Our focus is to develop new low carbon offerings and solutions for our clients and Aker Solutions was not subject to any significant fines or sanctions for non-compliance create value through green engineering. Currently, we are an with environmental laws and regulations, and no grievances about environmental impact established partner in Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage were filed through formal channels in 2018. We continuously monitor governmental (CCUS). Aker Solutions is the only company to offer services, guidelines, directives and regulations regarding the environment to ensure that we are products and solutions throughout the whole CCUS chain, informed and prepared for changes. from capture via transport to safe storage. Our proprietary post combustion technology efficiently reduces CO2 emissions from industrial flue gases. The pure, captured CO2 can be utilized Reducing Energy Consumption and Emissions or transported via ship or pipelines for permanent storage Aker Solutions’ activities and related impacts are influenced by customer demands and in geological structures, and further used for increased oil activities. The impact assessment results measured at the corporate level are associated production from mature fields Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR). with the type of projects the company is working on. As a provider of physical items, engineering hours and product maintenance, our footprint is never the same. Fabrication In 2018 Aker Solutions invested in Principle Power Inc., a requires materials and energy for production, fluctuation in engineering hours often lead floating wind power technology company, to advance its to adjustments in office needs and service tasks will in many cases require the technical offshore oil and gas field engineering expertise into the fastexpert to travel to the product’s physical location. The mix of these tasks, as well as growing renewable energy market. The offshore wind solutions the amount of work we have, is greatly influencing our environmental footprint for the alliance combines Aker Solutions’ experience in developing and given period. This does not exempt us from our responsibilities, but it helps explain the managing large and complex offshore projects with the proven fluctuation in our environmental performance, despite our continued pursuit of energyWindFloat® technology from our partner Principle Power. efficient and resource-efficient products and services. While these products are being further commercialized, our engineers are continuously working on smarter and more Waste Management environmental friendly products, tools, processes and solutions. The company continues to focus on waste reduction. Total waste varies from year to year, An internal project is defined for 2019 to help us achieve our depending on the project portfolio. For example, a decommissioning project will naturally goal of becoming a leader in developing low carbon offerings produce more waste than other kinds of projects. In 2018 the company launched a new and solutions. waste management procedure and revised the reporting method for total waste and recycled waste. The major change lies in the way we report recycled waste. Previously this fraction included waste to energy and hazardous waste, but these fractions are no longer considered as recycled according to the industry standard, made by IOGP. This change in reporting boundaries has led to a reduced recycling factor (71 percent in 2018 compared to 87 percent in 2017 our target with the new method was to be above 65 percent), but we are confident that our stakeholders will understand that these changes allowing more transparent waste management and better control of our waste handling. 29 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MENU The last bullet point is rooted in the company’s Corporate Targets and Initiatives for 2019 Responsibility Strategy for 2019-2023. Over time, Aker We met many of our 2018 targets for managing environmental risk as set out in last year’s Solutions has had a great focus on operational excellence to CR report. In 2018 Aker Solutions implemented a new method for calculating waste, in minimize cost and stay ahead of schedule whenever possible. accordance with its new waste management procedure. The new method only includes Maximizing operational efficiency has led to great savings material recycling in our recycled waste numbers, not waste-to energy recovery. In of both energy and materials, as well as time spent in the addition, the hazardous waste will be included in the total waste numbers. This leads to a fabrication phase. This has also a positive environmental lower recycling factor compared to previous values. effect, as lower consumption of energy and material per unit reduces the negative impacts on climate change and other Our 2018 targets were: environmental impacts. Operational performance is also vital to meet stringent environmental regulations and the associated ¡¡ Conduct energy reviews of our main energy consuming units and identify improvement costs of implementing sustainable environmental technology. projects to reduce the company’s carbon footprint As a large company and responsible corporate citizen, the ¡¡ Arrange a sustainable technology workshop with relevant internal stakeholders management of environmental and economic performance is a high priority. ¡¡ Organize World Environment Day events across the company to raise and strengthen environmental awareness among our employees A two percent year by year reduction goal has been set for ¡¡ Reduce energy use, emissions, spills and waste through operational excellence emission intensity from own activities (scope 1 direct GHG emissions and scope 2 energy indirect GHG emissions). We have re-enforced our 2019 targets and initiatives, particularly in regards to reducing energy use and emissions. The environmental targets and key initiatives for 2019 are For air travels (scope 3) our main focus is to make sure we explained in the company’s HSSE plan. The main goal for the coming year is to further capture all flight emission data. Currently we capture data for implement and safeguard the environmental management system and initiatives Norway, UK and the US, and Canada will be included from the introduced into the organization during 2017 and 2018. first quarter in 2019. However, we are aiming at also including large regions such as India, Malaysia, Brazil and our African Our 2019 targets are outlined below: units as soon as travel data can be retrieved from our travel companies. This task has high priority in 2019. ¡¡ Follow up the implementation of our aspects and impacts register in the company’s risk register tool As mentioned in Managing Our Footprint above, Aker ¡¡ Carry out an environmental module in the global HSSE mindset program Solutions continuously strives towards environmentally sound management of waste and environmental hazards. We focus on ¡¡ Organize World Environment Day events across the company to raise and strengthen activities that ensure sustained biodiversity and minimal adverse environmental awareness among our employees impacts on human health and the environment. Our work ¡¡ Reduce energy use, emissions, spills and waste through operational excellence towards developing and deploying environmental technologies, such as efficient production and decommissioning technologies, will further mitigate environmental impact for us and our customers. 30 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 CHAPTER TITLE MENU As Aker Solutions is primarily a project-driven company, its energy consumption is closely linked to the amount of work it does. This means that it is difficult to target an overall reduction in energy consumption. Therefore, we focus on energy intensity, and ultimately carbon dioxide emission intensity. We aim to reduce this number by two percent per year by selecting renewables over non-renewables where possible, operational excellence and improved technological solutions. Environmental Figures As seen in the table below, our total energy consumption and energy intensity showed an increase in 2018 compared to 2017. This was an expected increase, as work activities have risen over the past year. In the past year, we have also worked with reporting and compliance, so more of our sites are reporting now compared to earlier years. Some of these sites were previously under the clients’ reporting systems and some smaller office sites started reporting for the first time in 2018. All operational sites are reporting, but some very small sites, typically 1-5 people in a shared office areas, are not a part of the reporting, as landlords have difficulties in providing accurate data for multitenant buildings. Looking at the energy intensity, which is a measure of the amount of energy consumed per million man hours, it remains fairly stable. When it comes to the carbon dioxide emissions and carbon dioxide emission intensity, these numbers cannot be compared to the 2017 numbers, as we for 2018 have included carbon dioxide from air travels booked out of Norway, UK and the US. In 2019 we will be including travellers from more locations, so we expect these CO2 numbers to increase even more. 31 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MENU Environmental Figures Non-Renewable Fuel Sources 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Energy consumption (MWh) 97,434 90,709 109,122 Biofuel (liters) 15,000 No data No data Energy intensity (MWh per million worked hours) 2,554 2,499 3,291 Diesel (liters) 1,059,000 639,300 1,069,463 Carbon dioxide emissions (tonnes) 34 025 18,383 22,133 Heavy fuel oil (liters) 110,567 95,966 106,623 Carbon dioxide emission intensity (tonnes per million worked hours) 892 506 667 Natural gas (cubic meters) 448,507 408,341 509,221 Recycled waste (tonnes) 6,420 5,570 6,618 Petrol/gasoline (liters) 11,000 12,693 57,278 Total waste (tonnes) 9,034 6,410 7,690 Waste to energy recovery (tonnes) 1,172 No data No data Recycling factor (percent)1 71 87 86 Hazardous waste (tonnes) 673 446 460 Accidental spills (number) 0 0 1 Electricity MWh 1) New calculation method implemented in 2018 gives lower results than the previous years as it only includes material recycling. 2018 2017 2016 Electricity Asia/Australia ex China 13,585 11,711 13,527 Electricity Europe, ex Norway and UK 670 717 707 Electricity Scandinavia/Brazil 53,887 50,903 60,910 Electricity UK 5,538 7,699 11,233 Electricity US 3,644 4,884 3,645 32 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT MENU Supply Chain Management We depend on a trustworthy supply chain committed to quality and cost efficient solutions to our customers. 33 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT MENU We seek an open and transparent relationship with our partners and expect them to adhere to our business ethics and standards. A Responsible Global Supply Chain Our commitment to corporate responsibility includes our external operations, such as those related to our suppliers and customers, as well as our internal operations. We are committed to engaging only with suppliers who meet our expectations. Suppliers are expected to adhere to our business ethics and values, including our standards for health and safety, human and labor rights, environment, quality management, business integrity and corporate social responsibility as well as being competent and trustworthy. Aker Solutions’ supply chain management team works with around 10,000 direct and indirect suppliers across the globe and employs 987 people. Supply Chain Management includes strategic sourcing, category management, supplier quality and surveillance, material planning, procurement, inventory management and logistics. Material costs are the bulk of our budgets and play a significant role in the success of the business as a whole. The majority of the products we procure include tubes, valves, actuators, forgings, connectors and instrumentation. Sourcing IT services, travel and temporary personnel are important parts of our indirect procurement. Through our international presence, we establish mutually beneficial relationships with local suppliers and subcontractors. Their local presence, knowledge and expertise is key to our business. It enables us to perform well in complex industrial landscape and remote locations. Approved Vendor List (AVL) In 2018 demanding better compliance and visualization of our strongly consolidated supplier base, we began the transition to replace our Supplier Qualification and Information System (SQiS) with a new integrated Approved Vendor List (AVL). Aker Solutions’ supplier base is qualified and monitored through our qualified supplier list AVL. Compliance with our requirements is assessed through process and/or technical audits or due diligence analyses. A chosen supplier, direct or indirect, is expected to meet certain key requirements and fully embrace our ethical standards. 34 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT MENU AVL’s rigorous qualification, monitoring and performance evaluation process to measure Supplier Accreditation and predict supplier performance is supported by a fact and risk based approach to Accredited suppliers and their manufacturing and inspection supplier selection and development. The qualification requirements can be increased or processes help us minimize quality surveillance, document decreased depending on the complexity of the product or service required, and on the review and purchase order administration, ultimately reducing country or location of the supplier. costs and lead times. Supplier accreditation builds on our systematic process of prequalification. Aker Solutions’ supplier Our supply chain information system allows us to continuously monitor the performance quality department in Supply Chain Management, drives of our qualified suppliers and is integrated with the company’s internal audit management detailed reviews of processes with main suppliers to ensure tool. This tool tracks audit reports and findings, lost time incidents and near misses, full quality control and HSSE in the product manufacturing HSSE and operational performance. It also issues alerts when certifications are expiring. processes. Aker Solutions’ supplier audit program is risk based and determines where the company focuses its audits. In 2018 the company conducted 124 external audits of suppliers. The program includes a supplier performance review, a supplier The process has recently been revamped, through the introduction of a more detailed process audit and supplier improvement workshops. In 2018, 50 questionnaire and verification of adherence with business integrity and compliance, e.g. suppliers were chosen for their relentless efforts to continuously UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. improve both on their quality of delivery and their cost base in cooperation with Aker Solutions. As it progresses, the program In 2018, 242 new suppliers were prequalified for the company’s qualified supplier will form the basis for increased preapproval of standardized list (AVL). All of the suppliers were screened for quality management, health, safety supplier processes and documentation. Going further with the and environmental management, corporate social responsibility, anti-corruption intention to have an accredited supplier base of 100 suppliers, and compliance management, human and labor rights management, supply chain representing half of our direct materials spend. management, human resources and process management. The supplier qualification summary is available to all purchasing departments. This information, combined with Our key focus is to ensure that suppliers have proven, quality operational performance evaluations, provides the procurement department with a solid management processes, including change management. risk picture of our suppliers, enabling an informed selection. The company did not identify significant actual or potential negative impacts on society, human rights, labor practices or the environment in 2018. However, we rejected certain supplier qualifications based on poor environmental management or compliance risks. 35 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT MENU Targets and Initiatives for 2019 Supply chain management met the 2018 corporate responsibility targets. The 2018 targets were: ¡¡ Define and enhance human rights criteria for the supplier qualification process ¡¡ Implement monitoring of human rights risk ¡¡ Evaluate criteria on human rights as part of the accreditation program ¡¡ Increase monitoring and management of environmental impact through the supply chain We will drive a responsible and sustainable supplier base by implementing a risk based monitoring and auditing program to ensure that our suppliers meet our 2019 targets. Our 2019 targets are outlined below: ¡¡ Improve incident monitoring of suppliers through a detailed HSSE dashboard application ¡¡ Reduce the number of incidents at suppliers through focused supplier development ¡¡ Integrate Business Integrity and Compliance as a new function within Supply Chain Management ¡¡ Strengthen compliance with supplier qualification through introduction of SAP Ariba ¡¡ Integrate a dedication clause related to Business Integrity and Compliance in all supplier audits 36 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIETY MENU Society Aker Solutions is committed to helping the communities where it works benefit from its operations. 37 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIETY MENU We recognize the opportunity and responsibility to positively impact upon our surroundings and are determined to ensure that Country Employees 1 Revenue 2 Investments in assets 3 Paid taxes 4 our presence is marked by integrity and transparency. NOK million NOK million NOK million Aker Solutions operates in markets that face socio-economic Norway 5,834 15,606 291 0 challenges such as poverty, violation of human rights and Brazil 3,883 1,821 43 9 corruption. The company conducts several assessments a UK 2,056 4,709 39 -93 year to prepare for potential challenges in such markets and India 1,072 438 7 18 to guard against becoming complicit in unethical activity that Malaysia 795 1,377 10 10 could negatively impact the societies where we operate. With an expanding global footprint, these assessments become Brunei 347 711 1 6 more comprehensive, complex and challenging and the results USA 275 944 31 6 sometimes require difficult decisions. Nevertheless, the company Angola 174 904 6 101 is determined not to compromise its integrity and reputation. Canada 196 390 9 15 Australia 29 94 0 1 Country by Country Report Congo 25 237 0 33 Transparency is essential in an industry that can have a significant Cyprus 3 63 66 -5 impact on local communities. Aker Solutions operates globally, Other 16 149 4 30 including in societies that depend heavily on oil and gas revenue, Sum of countries 14,705 27,442 505 130 suffer from poverty, struggle with corruption and have low Eliminations 2 0 -2,210 0 0 transparency. Openly sharing information and having honest Total Aker Solutions 14,705 25,232 505 130 dialogues with our stakeholders is one of the company’s core values. It is crucial for improving transparency where we operate 1) The locations of employees are based on the location of the company where they are employed. Branches are therefore and building trust with those affected by our operations. included in the figures for the legal entity. The figures represent own employees as of December 31, 2018. 2) Revenue figures per country include internal and external revenues and are based on location of the Aker Solutions company that has recognized the revenue. Intercompany sales are subtracted in the line “eliminations” to present external Aker Solutions The table to the right shows 2018 revenue, employees and revenues as in the income statement. investments as reported by the various Aker Solutions’ companies 3) Investments in assets includes additions to property, plant and equipment as well as technology development and other intangible assets during the year. in each country. The right column reflects the amount of tax paid 4) Paid taxes include income taxes, witholding taxes and other corporate taxes, but does not include value added taxes (VAT) and to each country. other indirect taxes. Aker Solutions has not paid corporate income taxes in Norway due to tax losses carried forward. The negative amount in the UK is due to refunds of prepaid taxes and tax losses carried back. 38 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIETY MENU Local Content Customers or local authorities often require local content as a prerequisite for executing projects or maintaining a local presence. These requirements regularly involve partnering with local companies, sourcing locally or enhancing local competence through training and knowledge-sharing initiatives. Aker Solutions aims to comply with these requirements and follow up continuously, both from corporate and local offices, to ensure that compliance is in place. We believe that using local staff, products and services is important. We depend on local knowledge to succeed and strive to contribute to improving local social and economic conditions. ¡¡ In Angola, we have pledged USD 1.9 million towards scholarships for technical education in cooperation with University Agostinho Neto until 2021. This will take place at Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU) in Norway. We have also given USD 700,000 in operational engineering and technical training at Aker Solutions facilities worldwide and through suppliers over various fields. This including sending 12 Angolan employees to train in MMO techniques and processes at Aker Solutions in Aberdeen, UK. ¡¡ Aker Solutions is fulfilling local content requirements in Nigeria. A Learning Center facility is currently under construction near Yenagoa, Bayelsa state. The learning center is envisioned as an engine to enhance indigenous oil and gas engineering competence. Once complete, the center will consist of a main building for training activities, a 23 room hostel, security houses, a mini football pitch and a sewage treatment plant. The project is constructed with help from local contractors and suppliers, and estimated completion is in the third quarter of 2019. The project has high focus on HSSE performance and is closely monitored and supported by local management and central functions at Aker Solutions. ¡¡ In India, we have sponsored a solar power generation unit at the Dr. M. L. Dhawale Memorial Trust’s Rural Hospital in Palghar. The hospital is a large primary healthcare center located about 100 kilometers from Mumbai and serves the rural population in surrounding villages. It currently has 100 beds and caters to almost 36,000 outpatients. The average power consumption is up to 22,000 units a month, covering needs ranging from sonography machines to routine utilities and charging of the mobile medical van used for rural visits. The new 60 kilowattpeak (kWp) power generation unit uses 168 solar panels on the hospital’s roof to generate power for the facility’s largest building. This will significantly reduce operating expenses, enabling the funds to be used to serve the needs of the community. This installation will also reduce the emission of carbon dioxide over the design life of the unit. 39 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIETY MENU Donations and Sponsorships Employee Engagement in Local Communities As part of building relations with local communities and stakeholders, the company In 2018 employees across our organization initiated and participated in numerous contributes to a variety of good causes and projects. Our local offices lead these charitable activities at a local level. initiatives, which are often employee driven, so they can be tailored to local needs. These efforts help improve relations with local communities and organizations. We ¡¡ Every year the United Nations marks World Environment Day with a special also aim to contribute to and support vulnerable groups. campaign addressing key environmental issues. In 2018 its theme was “Beat Plastic Pollution.” In summer 2018, all Aker Solutions sites were encouraged to participate in Aker Solutions also uses sponsorships to promote the company and its business. the initiative and arrange local beach cleaning drives, or similar activities. Employees Our sponsorships are strategic and aligned with the company’s values. As a matter responded to the call for action in several locations, including activity targeting of policy, we do not sponsor political or religious groups. The company set out a new Strandryddedagen in Norway, Versova Beach in Mumbai, India, and Bagan Lalang in sponsorship and donations policy in early 2018 that specifies the rules for background Malaysia, where Aker Solutions joined forces with the Selangor government to clean checks and assessments for donation and sponsorship contributions. the beach. In total more than 300 employees contributed to the campaign, removing almost four tons of plastic and garbage from beaches, wetlands and recreational ¡¡ Aker Solutions joined the VI Campaign, together with 10 other companies in the areas near Aker Solutions locations worldwide. Along with the challenge, a Aker ASA group with a NOK 2.0 million yearly donation for five years, NOK 10 competition was devised to see “Who can collect the most garbage per participant?” million in total. VI aims to create a movement to rectify the imbalance between When the contest was launched in June, the Aker Solutions site in Sandnessjøen, people with and without disabilities. This supports our belief in equality and Norway quickly set the record of 16 kg of garbage per participant. However, a new corporate responsibility. VI wants to give disabled people the opportunity to enjoy record was set in the summer as 25 employees from the Mumbai office collected a full and active life. VI aims to contribute to a higher quality of life, improved 1,500 kg of garbage, an average of 60 kg per employee. health, increased self-efficiency and more social interaction with others. ¡¡ In 2018, Aker Solutions impacted, through volunteering work, more than 400 ¡¡ In 2018, we donated NOK 100,000 to Doctors without Borders, which is an students in a program called “Entrepreneurial Trail” preparing young people from the independent, global movement providing medical aid where it is needed most, public school system in Brazil for the job market. Since 2017, Aker Solutions has including to war zones and scenes of natural disasters and epidemics. participated in the “Entrepreneurial Track” volunteer initiative in partnership with the Brazilian Petroleum Institute (IBP) and Junior Achievement. ¡¡ Since 2012, Aker Solutions has supported Karanba Project with financial assistance and participation on its’ board. Karanba is a Norwegian social project ¡¡ In 2017 Aker Solutions concentrated its volunteering efforts in the city of Rio de in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Utilizing football as a tool for personal development, Janeiro. In 2018 we extended the activity to schools in São José dos Pinhais (Eunice Karanba helps a large number of children and young people from slum areas Borges State College and Luiz Singer Municipal School) and Lagos Region (CIEP access opportunity and education. The project activities give children a means Gabriel Joaquim dos Santos). In 2018 we provided 32 volunteers. to express themselves and offer an alternative to passivity and crime. Karanba is made up of a mix of locally employed staff and volunteers working within the following areas: administration and structure, pedagogy, teaching, vocational training, football and employment. The project is educationally oriented with classes at its main base in Rio de Janeiro focusing on English, math and Portuguese. 40 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 ABOUT THIS REPORT MENU About this Report This report presents Aker Solutions ASA’s corporate responsibility performance and activities in 2018. 41 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 ABOUT THIS REPORT MENU The report addresses the legal requirements for company reporting as specified in Report Boundaries the Norwegian Accounting Act (“Regnskapsloven”) for reporting on corporate social We have prepared the report on the basis of the GRI Standards responsibility. and guidance on boundaries. The report is also our Communication on Progress in 2018 to the UN Global Compact and The report boundary is, in general, drawn around companies represents our continued commitment to implementing the principles of the UN Global under the operational control of Aker Solutions ASA. However, Compact. Aker Solutions has published CR reports since 2006, with annual releases since we also provide information on some aspects where we 2010. have the potential to influence but do not have direct control. Aker Solutions demerged from Akastor and was listed on the Our CR report for 2018 is based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. This Oslo Stock Exchange on September 29, 2014. The historical report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards ‘core’ level. Our overview operational and financial figures for the group are presented as if of disclosure according to GRI, including references to sections of the report where GRI the demerger occurred at the start of the earliest period presented indicators are reported upon and the list of material aspects, can be found at the end in this report. of the report. While preparing the report, we have also considered the guidance on the reporting of corporate responsibility issued by the Oslo Stock Exchange. Data Quality The basis and scope of the report has been shaped by our analysis of material impacts We continue to work to improve our data quality to enhance the and our stakeholders’ expectations obtained through monitoring and dialogue and, more reporting processes and transparency, and continuously strive to specifically, from the materiality assessment conducted in 2018. The report’s content has improve our internal data reporting procedures. not been significantly changed from past editions. The initiatives highlighted in this report include those that have an impact on our employees, customers, investors and societies where we are present. 42 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 43 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards ‘core’ level. We 102-7 Scale of the organization Subchapter: Key staff figures have sought to report fully on all possible dimensions of the disclosures, but where Main chapter: People this is not possible, we have reported as comprehensively as possible, based on the Note 4 (Operating Segments) in the 2018 Annual data systems we have. The table refers to where information about each disclosure Report Note 26 (Subsidiaries) in the 2018 Annual Report is presented in our Corporate Responsibility Report, Annual Report or company Balance sheet in the 2018 Annual Report website. For a complete description of the individual disclosures, please see GRI’s Note 16 (Equity) in the 2018 Annual Report website (www.globalreporting.org). Note 17 (Borrowings) in the 2018 Annual Report Note 23 (Capital Management) in the 2018 Annual Report GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-8 Information on employees Subchapter: Key staff figures and other workers Main chapter: People Disclosure # Disclosure name Located in 2018 Report 102-9 Supply chain Partly reported: Organizational Profile Main chapter: Supply Chain Management 102-1 Name of the organization Front page of this report 102-10 Significant changes to the The new organizational structure is described in organization and its supply the board of directors’ report in the 2018 AR. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, Note 3 (Revenue) in the 2018 Annual Report chain and services Note 4 (Operating segments) in the 2018 Annual Report 102-11 Precautionary Principle or Main chapter: Introduction 102-3 Location of headquarters Note 1 (Company information) in the 2018 Annual approach Report 102-12 External initiatives Subchapter: Charters and memberships 102-4 Location of operations Note 26 (Subsidiaries) in the 2018 AR Main chapter: Introduction Other information chapter in the 2018 AR Subchapter: Human and labor rights Main chapter: People 102-5 Ownership and legal form Note 1 (Company information) in the 2018 AR Note 12 (Shareholders Parent Company 102-13 Membership of Subchapter: Charters and memberships Accounts) in the 2018 AR associations Main chapter: Introduction Subchapter: Human and labor rights 102-6 Markets served Board of Directors’ report in the 2018 AR Main chapter: People Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior CEO Introduction decision-maker 44 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Ethics and Integrity 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year (2018) 102-16 Values, principles, Subchapter: Anti-corruption compliance program 102-51 Date of most recent report March 2018 standards, and norms of Main chapter: Integrity behavior 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual Governance 102-53 Contact point for questions communications@akersolutions.com regarding the report 102-18 Governance structure 2018 Corporate Governance Statement 102-54 Claims of reporting in Subchapter: Charters and memberships Stakeholder Engagement accordance with the GRI Main chapter: Introduction Standards Main chapter: About this report 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Subchapter: Stakeholders GRI Index table Main chapter: Introduction 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index table 102-42 Identifying and selecting Subchapter: Stakeholders stakeholders Main chapter: Introduction 102-56 External assurance No external assurance on the Corporate responsibility report 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Subchapter: Stakeholders engagement Main chapter: Introduction SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES 102-44 Key topics and concerns Subchapter: Stakeholders MAIN CATEGORY: ECONOMIC raised Main chapter: Introduction GRI Standard: 201 Economic Performance Reporting Practice 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Letter from the CEO 102-45 Entities included in the Note 26 (Subsidiaries) in the 2018 AR Subchapters: governance, strategy consolidated financial Main chapter: Introduction statements Subchapter: Country by country report Main chapter: Society 102-46 Defining report content and Subchapter: Stakeholders Board of Directors’ report in the 2018 AR topic Boundaries Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: About this report 201-1 Direct economic value Income Statement in the 2018 AR generated and distributed Note 6 (Other Operating Expenses) in the 2018 102-47 List of material topics Subchapters: Strategy, stakeholders AR Main chapter: Introduction Note 5 (Personnel Expenses) in the 2018 AR Main chapter: About this report Note 7 (Finance Income and Expenses) in the GRI index table 2018 AR 102-48 Restatements of Main chapter: About this report Cashflow chapter in the 2018 AR information Subchapter: Environmental Figures Main chapter: Environment Subchapter: Country by Country Report Main chapter: Society 102-49 Changes in reporting Main chapter: About this report 45 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 201-2 Financial implications Partly reported: MAIN CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL and other risks and Main chapter: Letter from the CEO opportunities due to climate GRI Standard: 302 Energy change 103 1-3 Management approach Subchapters: Governance and strategy 201-3 Defined benefit plan Note 18 (Pension Obligations) in the 2018 AR Main chapter: Introduction obligations and other Main chapter: Environment chapter retirement plans 302-1 Energy consumption within Subchapter: Environmental Figures GRI Standard: 205 Anti-corruption the organization Main chapter: Environment 103 1-3 Management approach Subchapters: Governance and strategy Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Integrity 302-3 Energy intensity Main chapter: Environment 205-1 Operations assessed for Partly reported: GRI Standard: 305 Emissions risks related to corruption Subchapters: Project Screening and Anti103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Introduction corruption compliance program Main chapter: Environment chapter Main chapter: Integrity chapter 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Partly reported 205-2 Communication and Subchapter: Training and Awareness emissions Subchapter: Environmental Figures training about antiMain chapter: Integrity Main chapter: Environment corruption policies and procedures 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Partly reported GHG emissions Subchapter: Environmental Figures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of Subchapter: Anti-corruption compliance program Main chapter: Environment corruption and actions Main chapter: Integrity taken 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) Partly reported GHG emissions Subchapter: Environmental Figures GRI Standard: 206 Anti-competitive Behaviour Main chapter: Environment 103 1-3 Management approach Subchapters: Governance and strategy 305-4 Greenhouse gas (GHG) Subchapter: Environmental Figures Main chapter: Introduction emissions intensity Main chapter: Environment Imain chapter: Integrity 206-1 Legal actions for antiSubchapter: Anti-corruption compliance program competitive behavior, Main chapter: Integrity anti-trust, and monopoly practices 46 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index GRI Standard: 306 Effluents and Waste MAIN CATEGORY: SOCIAL 103 1-3 Management approach Subchapters: Governance and strategy GRI Standard: 401 Employment Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Environment chapter 103 1-3 Management approach Subchapters: Governance and strategy Main chapter: Introduction 306-2 Waste by type and disposal Partly reported: Main chapter: People method Subchapter: Environmental Figures Main chapter: Environment 401-1 New employee hires and Subchapter: Key staff figures employee turnover Main chapter: People 401-3 Parental leave Partly reported: 306-3 Significant spills Subchapter: Environmental Figures Subchapter: Key staff figures Main chapter: Environment Main chapter: People GRI Standard: 402 Labor/Management Relations 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Introduction GRI Standard: 307 Environmental Compliance Main chapter: People are the Key to Our Success 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Introduction 402-1 Minimum notice periods Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Environment chapter regarding operational Subchapter: Employee Representation and 307-1 Non-compliance with Main chapter: Environment changes Engagement environmental laws and Main chapter: People are the Key to Our Success regulations GRI Standard: 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment 103 1-3 Management approach Subchapters: Supplier accreditation Main chapter: Introduction 308-1 New suppliers that Subchapters: Approved Vendor List (AVL) were screened using Main chapter: Supply Chain Management environmental criteria 308-2 Negative environmental Subchapters: AVL, Supplier accreditation impacts in the supply chain Main chapter: Introduction and actions taken 47 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index GRI Standard: 403 Occupational Health and Safety GRI Standard: 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103 1-3 Management approach Subchapters: Governance and strategy 103 1-3 Management approach Subchapters: Governance and strategy Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Health, Safety and Security Main chapter: People 403-2 Types of injury and rates 405-1 Diversity of governance Subchapter: Key staff figures of injury, occupational Main chapter: Health, Safety and Security bodies and employees Main chapter: People diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number We do not have available gender / region 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and Subchapter: Diversity and Equal Opportunity of work-related fatalities information. remuneration of women to Main chapter: People men 403-3 Workers with high Subchapters: Continued focus on employee GRI Standard: 406 Non-discrimination incidence or high risk of health and sick leave follow-up, Aker Care and 103 1-3 Management approach Subchapters: Governance and strategy diseases related to their Travel Risk Assessment Main chapter: Introduction occupation Main chapter: Health, Safety and Security Main chapter: Integrity 403-4 Health and safety Subchapter: Respecting human and labor rights 406-1 Incidents of discrimination Subchapter: Reporting concerns topics covered in formal Main chapter: People and corrective actions Main chapter: Integrity agreements with trade taken unions GRI Standard: 407 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining GRI Standard: 404 Training and Education 103 1-3 Management approach Subchapters: Governance and strategy 103 1-3 Management approach Subchapters: Governance and strategy Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: People 407-1 Operations and suppliers Subchapter: Respecting human and labor rights identified in which the right Main chapter: People 404-2 Programs for upgrading Subchapter: Leadership, Talent and Performance to exercise freedom of Subchapter: Project screening employee skills and Main chapter: People association and collective Main chapter: Integrity transition assistance bargaining may be violated Subchapter: A responsible global supply chain programs or at significant risk Main Chapter: Supply chain management 404-3 Percentage of employees Subchapter: Leadership, Talent and Performance receiving regular Main chapter: People performance and career development reviews 48 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index GRI Standard: 408 Child Labor GRI Standard: 412 Human Rights Assessment 103 1-3 Management approach Subchapters: Governance and strategy 103 1-3 Management approach Subchapters: Governance and strategy Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Supply chain management Main Main chapter: Supply chain management chapter: People Main chapter: Integrity 408-1 Operations and suppliers at Subchapter: 412-1 Operations that have Subchapter: Project Screening significant risk for incidents A responsible global supply chain been subject to human Main chapter: Integrity of child labor Main chapter: Supply chain management rights reviews or impact Subchapter: A responsible global supply chain Subchapter: Respecting Human and labor rights assessments Main chapter: Supply chain management Main chapter: People Subchapter: Project Screening 412-2 Employee training on Subchapter: Training and awareness Main chapter: Integrity human rights policies or Main chapter: Integrity procedures GRI Standard: 409 Forced or Compulsory Labor 412-3 Significant investment Subchapter: Project screening 103 1-3 Management approach Subchapters: Governance and strategy agreements and contracts Main chapter: Integrity Main chapter: Introduction that include human rights Main chapter: Supply chain management Main clauses or that underwent chapter: People human rights screening 409-1 Operations and suppliers at Subchapter: A responsible global supply chain GRI Standard: 414 Supplier Social Assessment significant risk for incidents Main chapter: Supply chain management of forced or compulsory Subchapter: Respecting Human and labor rights 103 1-3 Management approach Subchapters: AVL labor Main chapter: People Main chapter: Introduction Subchapter: Project Screening Main chapter: Integrity 414-1 New suppliers that were Subchapters: AVL , Supplier accreditation GRI Standard: 410 Security Practices Human Rights Assessment screened using social Main chapter: Introduction criteria 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Health, Safety and Security 414-2 Negative social impacts Subchapters: AVL , Supplier accreditation chapter in the supply chain and Main chapter: Introduction actions taken 410-1 Security personnel trained Partly reported in human rights policies or Main chapter: Introduction procedures Main chapter: Health, Safety and Security chapter 49 AKER SOLUTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index GRI Standard: 415 Public Policy 103 1-3 Management approach Subchapters: Governance and strategy Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Society 415-1 Political contributions Subchapters: Sponsorship and Donations Main chapter: Society GRI Standard: 416 Customer Health and Safety 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Health, Safety and Security chapter 416-1 Assessment of the health Main chapter: Health, Safety and Security and safety impacts of product and service categories 416-2 Incidents of nonMain chapter: Health, Safety and Security compliance concerning the chapter health and safety impacts of products and services GRI Standard: Socioeconomic Compliance 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Integrity 419-1 Non-compliance with laws Subchapter: Anti-corruption compliance program and regulations in the social Main chapter: Integrity and economic area 50 Contact Information Aker Solutions ASA Telephone: Oksenøyveien 8, +47 67 51 30 00 1366 Lysaker E-mail: Postal address: communications@akersolutions.com P.O. Box 169 NO-1325 Lysaker Web: www.akersolutions.com COPYRIGHT AND LEGAL NOTICE Copyright in all published material including photographs, drawings and images in this publication remains vested in Aker Solutions and third party contributors to this publication as appropriate. Accord­ ingly, neither the whole nor any part of this publication can be reproduced in any form without express prior permission. Articles and opinions appearing in this publication do not necessarily represent the views of Aker Solutions. While all steps have been taken to ensure the accuracy of the published contents, Aker Solutions does not accept any responsibility for any errors or resulting loss or damage whatsoever caused and readers have the responsibility to thoroughly check these aspects for themselves. Enquiries about reproduction of content from this publication should be directed to Aker Solutions.
