Communication On Progress September 2019 « With this document, I reaffirm Havas Group’s commitment to the ten principles of the Global Compact and renew our engagement to respect, promote and implement them in our daily business activities” Yannick Bolloré Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Havas Group ` Foreword This document aims to transparently reflect our approach and the actions taken within the Group, as well as the progress achieved throughout the years. 2 This document is structured around our six commitments to progress: 1. Promoting a harmonious and healthy working environment that supports collaborators’ growth and development. 2. Reinforcing social responsible procurement policies in our supply chain. 3. Promoting transparency and ethics in our business. 4. Taking the lead in the creation and diffusion of responsible communications throughout our agencies and in collaborations with clients and partners. 5. Reducing the environmental footprint of our operations. 6. Maintaining our commitment to collaborative efforts in reducing climate change. Many steps have been taken to advance our CSR strategy such as setting up the extrafinancial reporting, which enabled us to fully trace all of our quantitative data for the past eight years; the development of internal tools and international platforms as well as the continuous work of promoting and sharing CSR practices between our agencies. It’s up to us to continue working to contribute within our capabilities to a positive change in this world. Methodology Havas has introduced a specialized sustainable development reporting software for the decentralized gathering and subsequent consolidation of non-financial indicators. The system is fully operational and was deployed for the eight year in a row. The reporting covers all domains of our CSR strategy and an array of indicators was defined, covering every aspect of CSR and divided into five themes: Environment, Human Resources, Ethics and Governance, Economics and Purchasing and Responsible Communication. The indicators refer in part to the NRE law, GRI guidelines, Global Compact commitments and also to specific indicators relating to the activity, challenges and commitments adopted by the Group. *** HAVAS CSR STRATEGY The communications sector has a considerable influence on society at large. It plays a part in the economic development of companies by raising brand awareness and image in an increasingly global and competitive world. However, people’s motives and expectations 3 with regard to consumption change over time, and the relationship between brands and consumers is becoming more fragile. Communications must innovate in order to re-establish a relationship based on trust, by focusing on how companies and brands really help build a new social model. The creation of brand capital, which is the core function of communications, must now be based on the value created for society. This will probably entail greater transparency, greater humility and greater consideration for all stakeholders. Communications mirror society and also act as a driving force, and through the values and representations used, they are also highly instrumental in the development of society, its standards, morals and mentality. Havas is fully aware of its responsibilities in this area and has reasserted its commitment to implementing the 10 principles of the Global Compact to which it has subscribed to since 2003. After 2009, the group has set six commitments to progress that act as guidelines for all its businesses, wherever it operates, whether in France or abroad. These six guidelines serve as a framework for the Havas group’s corporate and social responsibility (CSR) undertakings. They are aimed at reducing the impact of our activities on the environment and on social and societal issues, with quantitative and qualitative objectives set for 2020 to engage our collaborators in the CSR strategy. Havas group continues to address the key CSR issues in their field. Their CSR strategy encourages its agencies to use their creative potential to push forward initiatives for the betterment of society. 4 5 6 Reference table Principles 1. Businesses should support and respect the Commitments 1, 2 & 3 protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in Commitments 1, 2 & 3 human rights abuses. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Commitment 1 & 3 association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and Commitments 2 & 3 compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and Commitments 2, 3 & 4 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of Commitments 1, 2 & 4 employment and occupation 7. Businesses should support a precautionary Commitments 5 & 6 approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater Commitments 5 & 6 environmental responsibility; and 7 9. encourage the development and diffusion of Commitments 4, 5 & 6 environmentally friendly technologies. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in Commitments 2 & 3 all its forms, including extortion and bribery. For more information please contact : Maria Escobar-Granet Global CSR manager maria.escobar-granet@havas.com 29-30 quai de Dion Bouton 92817 Puteaux Cedex, France Tel +33 (0) 1 58 47 80 00 Fax +33 (0) 1 58 47 99 99 www.havas.com – Suivez-nous sur Twitter : http://www.twitter.com/HavasGroup/ 8
