United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Contents About the report 3 CEO statement 4 Introduction 5 Company profile 5 Our sustainability framework 10 Sustainable Development Goals 12 UK Modern Slavery Act 16 Stakeholders 16 Corporate governance 17 Management structure 18 Internal control and risk management systems 18 People and society 19 Empowerment and support 20 Protecting human and labour rights 29 Environmental protection 38 Material compliance 39 Energy consumption performance 40 Environmental initiatives 42 Business ethics 44 Corruption and bribery 44 Data privacy 44 Concluding remarks 45 Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 2 About the report This report represents Demant ManageThe report is published annually and ment’s commitment to ensuring good covers the calendar year 2018 from corporate governance and business 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. ethics as well as upholding social and environmental responsibilities of the Within Demant, Vice President of CorGroup. The reported numbers are repreporate Communication & Relations Trine sentative of the Group and the policies Kromann-Mikkelsen is responsible for coencompass all companies in the Demant ordinating the CSR policies and activities Group, which also includes our joint and the liaison between the organisation venture Sennheiser Communications A/S. and the Executive Management Board Encompassing our joint venture means (see page 17 on Corporate Governance). that we will pin out specific numbers and initiatives from Sennheiser CommunicaContact information: tions here and there in the report. Trine Kromann-Mikkelsen +45 23 968 968 The structure of this report is based on trkr@demant.com the Group’s own sustainability framework and activities as well as our Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact. It also functions as Demant’s statement on the UK Modern Slavery Act. In addition, this report represents the statutory report cf. Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99a and 99b. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 3 Introduction CEO statement With technological development moving To ensure employee satisfaction and Our people-centric approach extends to at ever faster pace, innovation aimed at high levels of engagement, we prioritize our suppliers as well, which is the reason creating customer-centric solutions is development of our employees through we have updated our Code of Conduct paramount to success. While strengthannual development dialogues, Demant for suppliers and formalized standards ening our business activities for the Training Academy’s tailor-made courses we have always believed in and emfuture is essential, we pride ourselves and retail training for our employees at braced. on always putting responsibility first. clinics globally. We also provide numerCare for the world around us – creating ous employee benefits and advocate Since the formulation of the Sustainable life-changing differences – has always healthy work-life balance. In order to Development Goals, we have been workbeen the very core of Demant. monitor the progress of our engagement, ing on how they can guide our work, in we have rolled out a global engagement particular the goals that focus on health, Over a century ago, Hans Demant’s survey called Demant Pulse. sustainable growth and innovation. passion to help his hearing-impaired We are inspired to contribute beyond wife lead a better life led him to establish I am also proud to be a CEO of a diverse our business via our engagement and the company. Our purpose thus remains and inclusive global group of companies. continuous improvement of social and unchanged from the founder’s: to create Diversity and inclusion at all levels are environmental standards and via the life-changing differences through hearundoubtedly not only crucial drivers of William Demant Foundation. ing health. The essence of the testimoinnovation and engagement, but also the nials from our customers illustrated in only way forward in a modern company. I invite you to read through the report this report are the reason my colleagues Demant has an official Diversity policy to see how Demant’s activities improve around the world and I wake up every ‘More Female Managers’, striving to lives of people living with a hearing morning to go to work. encourage progress of female employees loss, while at the same time furthers the to leadership positions, however we fully efforts to reach the global Sustainable Focus on people, however, extends embrace diversity along all inherent and Development Goals. I hope to inspire you beyond our customers and precipitates acquired traits, such as age and nato help us improve the world around us everything we do. tionality. We have invested a significant in the years to come. amount of time this year to explore what the topics mean to our diverse global Søren Nielsen companies and employees and how to President & CEO develop this further in the future. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 4 Introduction Company Profile Hearing Devices Hearing Implants For more than a century, Demant has played a vital part in developing innovative technologies and know-how to help improve people’s hearing. In every aspect, at every touchpoint, from hearing devices, hearing implants and intelligent audio solutions to diagnostic equipment and hearing care all over the world, Demant is active and engaged. Our ambition is to pave new ways in hearing health, while ensuring our long-term presence and conducting busiDiagnostic Instruments ness responsibly. Personal Communication Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 5 Introduction Ensuring hearing health is more important than ever We facilitate good hearing by offering William Demant Foundation Grant activities the newest technology and hearing care. Overcoming the boundaries of hearing William Demant Invest A/S loss by the active use of hearing aids 100 % and by professional hearing care makes it easier for people living with hearing Össur hf. 52 % loss to participate in everyday life. Good Demant A/S hearing is a vital element when it comes Vision RT Ltd. to enjoying a healthy life. 89 % 55 60 % Vitrolife AB Demant A/S is listed on Nasdaq Co23 % penhagen as part of the C25 index Hearing Hearing Diagnostic Personal Cellavision AB consisting of 25 of the largest and most Devices Implants Instruments Communication 12 % frequently traded Danish shares. The Jeudan A/S William Demant Foundation is the ma42 % jority owner of Demant A/S through the investment company William Demant Borkum Riffgrund 1 19 % Invest. A copy of Demant’s annual report for 2018 can be found online at: Other Investments www.demant.com/media#media-documents. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 6 Introduction We focus on three business activities Hearing Devices, Hearing Implants and Diagnostic Instruments. By utilising technology from our hearing devices and know-how from the Group, we also develop and expand our activities in the growing market of headsets for office and leisure through our joint venture Sennheiser Communications (in 2020 part of Sennheiser al distribution Communications will be fully integrated into the Demant Group Glob and the remainder in Sennheiser KG). Hea nts rin pla gD Im e ng Hearing He ces ari vi rastructure Devices Inf Hearing In a nov ti on Implants Hearing Devices represents our main focus area. In our journey to improve life of people suffering from hearing loss, we Hearing Implants comprises of bone target all sales channels and customer anchored hearing systems and cochlear segments striving to deliver the best implants, and we aim to improve the life products possible and state-of-the-art of people who are profoundly deaf or technology. have severe hearing loss. D ia ts gno en stic I n str u m Diagnostic Instruments Diagnostic Instruments helps to diagnose and measure patients affected by hearing loss and balance problems. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 7 Introduction Our companies collaborate in many arRevenue by business activity eas and to a wide extent share resources and technologies as well as infrastruc9% ture and distribution channels. These synergies help millions of people expe4% rience the joy of hearing for many years to come just as they facilitate smarter ways of working and further decreasing the Group’s already low environmental impact and footprint. Demant operates globally employing 87% more than 14,500 people. The Group operates through local subsidiaries in more • Hearing Devices than 30 countries and has an extended presence through our trusted distributors in over 130 countries. Over 95% of the • Hearing Implants total volume of hearing aids production is based in Poland, hearing implants are • Diagnostic Instruments also produced in France, while our chip production is located in Denmark and custom production or service and repair Revenue by geographic regions is located mainly in the Americas (US, Canada, Mexico, Brazil), EMEA region 3% 8% (Poland, Italy, Germany, Turkey, South Africa) and Asia Pacific (Australia, China, Japan and Korea). 7% Group Services We strive to bring true innovation to the market in an efficient manner. Sharing • Europe • North America knowledge and expertise across our Group also implies leveraging our shared 41% services function, infrastructure and • Pacific common distribution to increase cost • Asia • Other countries efficiency and stay highly competitive. 41% In the financial year 2018, total revenue was DKK 13,973 million. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 8 Introduction Life-changing Differentiators hearing health Focus on health Hearing care is healthcare, and we keep stressing the strong link Founded on care between hearing care and general health. Our company begins with one man’s We are confident that our solutions do more passion to help his hearing-impaired wife: than just amplify sound, and we know that Hans Demant’s eagerness to act on Camilla’s hearing care professionals do more than just fit hearing loss and to truly make a life-changing hearing aids. By combining qualified care and the difference – carried on by their son William. By newest technology – in hearing instruments and committing their time and energy to improving the implants as well as in diagnostic and fitting lives of people with hearing difficulties, the Demant equipment – we actually make life-changing family gave us a solid foundation on which to differences to people living with hearing create the future of hearing health. This commitdifficulties, thereby empowering them to ment to change lives through healthcare live more active and healthier lives. Purpose continues to engage us all at Demant Our purpose is to create life-changing differences every single day. through hearing health. The aim of all our businesses is to become each customer’s preferred supplier of state-of-the-art solutions and Shaping the future services and to create a platform for continued organic Our passion for innovation and growth. We strive to meet end-user needs by maintaintechnology will help us make the ing a high level of innovation and constantly expanding unthinkable a reality. With a firm intent to our global infrastructure. reward the many different users of our products with solutions that are compatible with modern life and work in the digital age, we continue to bring innovative products to market. And by pushing scientific boundaries and sharing our research-based expertise in hearing technology, diagnostic and fitting equipment and professional hearing care, we play a pivotal role in shaping a better future; benefitting us all as we live active lives and grow older. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 9 Introduction Our sustainability framework Corporate governance Business People and ethics society Environmental protection We organise our work within Corporate Social Responsibility in a sustainability framework, which is aligned with the UN Compact’s principles and supports the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in their ambition to achieve a better world for all. The framework consists of four priorities and 14 principles and provides a guidance for our management and all employees. Moreover, Demant also recognises the responsibility to promote similar practices among our suppliers and external business partners. The sustainability framework is reviewed and updated – if necessary – by Demant Management on an annual basis. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 10 Introduction Corporate People and Environmental Business governance society protection ethics The Board of Directors and the ManageThe Group contributes positively to Demant operates in an industry with We believe that in a competitive market ment of Demant review the corporate individuals and communities by job genvery limited environmental impact and the Group’s business can only flourish governance on an ongoing basis and eration, economic growth, tax payment use of hazardous materials. Despite the if based on sound business ethics. The regularly assess whether amendments of and the actual products, which strive to limited impact, we nevertheless enGroup adheres to the United Nations the Company’s Articles of Association or enhance people’s quality of life. Demant deavour to protect the environment for Convention against Corruption and the managerial processes are required. supports the Universal Declaration of future generations by monitoring and UK Bribery Act. Most of the Group’s acHuman Rights, ILO’s Declaration of Funreducing the environmental impact of our tivities can be characterised as “relation1. We maintain an accountable and damental Principles and Rights at Work business activities. Furthermore, various ship business”, which frequently involves efficient management structure. and the UK Modern Slavery Act. projects and initiatives across the Group close interaction with clients, including 2. We communicate in an open, transare undertaken on continuous basis to consulting, training and collaborating parent, impartial and timely manner 4. We treat our employees with respect promote and practice environmental with hearing care professionals, for inwith the stock market about the and dignity, encourage diversity and responsibility. stance audiologists, hearing aid dispensGroup’s strategy, objectives and risks. ensure fair treatment. 9. We use materials efficiently and ers, ear-nose-and-throat specialists and 3. We maintain adequate internal 5. We prohibit the use of forced or child strive to optimize packaging as well clinic owners. control mechanisms with the intent labour. as waste handling. 12. We are committed to abide by the to monitor, manage and mitigate any 6. We provide a safe and healthy work10. We limit the use of hazardous sublaws and regulations of the countries material risks associated with our ing environment where employees stances in products and processes in which we operate. In the absence business. can perform to their full potential and and abide all rules and regulations. of adequate laws and regulations, where initiative is encouraged. 11. We monitor our impact on the climate we are guided by recognised internaPlease read more on page 17 7. We recognise our employees’ rights and aim to reduce energy consumptional standards and industry norms. to freedom of association and collection. 13. We work against bribery and other tive bargaining. forms of corruption, both directly 8. We strive to maintain good relations Please read more on page 38 and indirectly through our business with local communities and the surpartners, and we avoid facilitation rounding society through involvement payments. and open communication. 14. To benefit the users of our products is our primary goal. Therefore, we avoid Please read more on page 19 actions that may influence business decisions with disadvantageous effect on the end users. Please read more on page 44 Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 11 Introduction Sustainable Development Goals The 14 principles imply our commitIn addition, our sustainability framework ment to the UN Global Compact’s ten and CSR activities also contribute to principles which are integrated as a (the achievement of) the UN Sustainable part of our business strategy and daily Development Goals, which have been operations. The ten principles of UNGC developed and agreed upon globally touch upon four main areas: human in 2015. We especially recognise our rights, labour rights, environment and CSR focus on SDG no. 3, 4, 8 and 9 by anti-corruption. Our compliance with the improving people’s health, their quality principles can be found in the report as of life, generating sustainable business below: growth, encouraging innovation in technology and beyond and supporting Human rights: page 31-33 education, research and inclusion. While Labour rights: page 34-37 we have our primary SDGs focus, we Environment: page 38-43 also directly or indirectly contribute to Anti-corruption: page 44 secondary SDG goals 5, 7, 12 and 17 through our business operations and CSR initiatives, also listed below. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 12 Introduction Primary Sustainable Development Goals We strive to select projects with potential to be self-sufficient after one or several years of funding, in order to ensure sustainability of progression toward the SDG achievement. Our projects and initiatives corresponding to the SDGs can be found throughout this report. Sustainable Development Goal Demant’s contribution 3.2 By 2030, end preventable deaths of new-borns and children • Hearing health research conducted by our research and 3 under five years of age development experts improving the overall quality of life and health of our customers Good health and well-being – 3.4 By 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from • Work-life balance and employee benefits ensure healthy lives and pronon-communicable diseases through prevention and treat• IDA Institute – patient centred hearing care mote well-being for all at all ment and promote mental health and well-being • Mary Foundation – projects alleviating social isolation ages and bullying • New-born health project in Ethiopia • Hearing health in sub-Saharan Africa – Mario Sanna Foundation By 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and • Supporting the creation of inclusive communities and 4 4.5 ensure equal access to all levels of education and vocational learning environment in schools: training for the vulnerable, including persons with disabiliFront Row in Uppsala Quality Education – ensure ties, indigenous peoples and children in vulnerable situations The Mary Foundation inclusive and equitable quality • Encouragement of youth education: education and promote lifelong Build and upgrade education facilities that are child, disAudio Explorers 4.a learning opportunities for all ability and gender sensitive and provide safe, non-violent, Eriksholm summer camp inclusive and effective learning environments for all • Velkommen Hjem education and inclusion at later stage in life • Scholarships and donations for educational purposes made by the William Demant Foundation Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 13 Introduction Primary Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable Development Goal Demant’s contribution Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diver• Protecting human rights and labour rights 8.2 sification, technological upgrading and innovation • Running a stress management program 8 • Rolling out a global engagement project Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource ef• Investing in talent Decent work and economic 8.4 ficiency in consumption and production and endeavour to • Policy to avoid harassment and bullying growth – promote sustained, decouple economic growth from environmental degradation • Circular Economy initiatives inclusive and sustainable eco• Further strengthened Code of Conduct for suppliers nomic growth, full and produc8.7 Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced • Safe and secure work environment, resulting in a low tive employment and decent labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking and number of non-severe accidents and no severe ones secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of work for all child labour 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment 9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to • Supporting education, institutions and research projects, 9 make them sustainable, with increased resource-use effiencouraging innovation: ciency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally three new PH.D. projects and continuous sponsorship Industry, innovation and infrasound technologies and industrial processes of the previously awarded PH.D. projects structure – build resilient infraResearch funding structure, promote inclusive and 9.5 Enhance scientific research, upgrade the technological capaDonations to universities around the world sustainable industrialization bilities of industrial sectors in all countries • Hosting Audio Explorers Challenges and foster innovation • Hosting Eriksholm Summer Camp • Cutting edge hearing health research Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 14 Introduction Secondary Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable Development Goal Demant’s contribution Gender equality – achieve gender equality and empower all • Diversity policy 5 5 women and girls • Explorative ten-month research and new projects on the horizon focusing on Diversity and Inclusion Gender equality • Special consideration for pregnant employees in the new supplier Code of Conduct By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable ener• Windmills 7 7.2 gy in the global energy mix • Low-impact type of a business • IT recycling and refurbishment Ensure access to affordable, By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy • Solar energy introduction in our Brisbane (Australia) 7.3 reliable, sustainable and efficiency office modern energy for all • Upgrades in office buildings, IT and production sites around the world leading to continuous energy savings By 2030, halve per capita global food waste at the retail and • Responsible production 12 12.3 consumer levels • Food waste elimination • Organic food increase Ensure sustainable production By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through • Waste academy training for employees and consumption patterns 12.3 prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse • Recycling – in offices and at production sites • Circular Economy team and initiatives Encourage companies, especially large and transnational 12.3 companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle Partnerships for the goals – strengthen the means of imple• Cooperation with various organisations, such as: 17 17 mentation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainBørns Læring able development Danish Deaf Sports Federation Partnerships for the goals Velkommen Hjem Partnership between Mario Sanna Foundation/Gruppo Otologico/Oticon, to collectively make a difference and bring about sustainable changes Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 15 Introduction UK Modern Slavery Act It is intended for stakeholders who are Our company brands engage in direct Denmark. Around the world, we actively In addition to partaking at the UN Global interested in learning about our CSR customer communication via social meparticipate in political discussions with Compact, we also comply with the approach. Our main stakeholders are dia, newsletters, magazines, satisfaction local authorities and make ourselves British legislation of March 2016 that customers (audiologists, hearing aid dissurveys, events and conferences as well available for business/public officials’ organisations are required to publish an pensers, ear-nose-and-throat specialists as direct sales meetings with customers. visits and collaboration activities. annual statement setting out steps to and clinic owners), end-users, partners We are also members of several industry ensure no modern slavery within their and suppliers, healthcare professionals organisations, e.g. Dansk Industri (DenWe strive to maintain an active and open organisation or supply chains, we have and policy makers as well as shareholdmark), EHIMA (Europe) and HIA (United dialogue with the media and provide included a detailed explanation of our ers, analysts, the public and media. We States). quick, current, accurate and relevant anprocesses and policies in place on page also encourage our employees to study swers to inquiries in a professional and 31. In addition, we have further improved the report. Our supplier dialogue is via our Code of respectful manner. our Code of Conduct for Suppliers to Conduct and audit activities. ensure even stricter focus on fair employIn order to engage in a dialogue with our Internally, we have the intranet Kitenet, ment and protection of Human Rights. stakeholders, Demant employs different Politically, we actively work on pursuing an online news portal also called Dechannels: and promoting collaboration on public/ mant Inside, as well as an annual global Stakeholders private research through our participaengagement survey Demant Pulse. In This report is a presentation of our CSR Investor Relations services analysts and tion in e.g. the People’s Political Meeting addition, our global teams can now also activities based on information collected investors daily by email and phone calls (Folkemøde) in Denmark and a joint communicate and update each other via across the Group told in a simple manner as well as road shows, capital market project group with representatives from the professional social media channel yet with a comprehensive scope. days and on our webpage. the industry, patient organisations and Workplace, which helps us to stay curhealth and education system in rent and engaged daily. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 16 Corporate governance Corporate governance In order to balance our many stakeholders’ interests, we have established a set of processes and relations by which we control and direct our company. Demant’s Board of Directors and Management consider corporate governance on an ongoing basis and regularly assess whether amendments to the Company’s Articles of Association or managerial processes are required. Demant A/S is subject to the Danish Reccommunicate in an open, transparent, ommendations on Corporate Governance impartial and timely manner with the laid down by the Danish Committee on stock market about the Group’s strategy, Corporate Governance in respect to the objectives and risks. Control mechanism way in which we adhere to the recomare in place with an objective of monitor, mendations. As a listed company, the manage and mitigate any material risks Group strives to maintain an accountable associated with our business. and efficient management structure and Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 17 Corporate governance 1.1 1.2 To ensure high quality of the Group’s Reporting on corporate governance Management structure Internal control and risk management financial reporting systems, the Board of When reporting on corporate goverDemant A/S has a two-tier management systems Directors and the Executive Board have nance, we follow the “abide or explain” structure consisting of a Board of DirecThe Board of Directors and the Executive adopted policies, procedures and guideprinciple, which means a failure to tors and an Executive Board. Board are in an ongoing dialogue on the lines for financial reporting and internal comply with a recommendation does not identification, description and handling of control to which the subsidiaries and constitute a breach, as long as we exUnder the Company’s Articles of Associthe business risks to which the Company reporting units must adhere, including: plain why we have chosen not to follow ation, the Board of Directors must consist may be exposed. Any material risks are a given recommendation and explain of four to six Board members elected by described in the Annual Plan and Budget • Continuous follow-up on results what we do instead. The four cases the shareholders at the general meeting, on an annual basis, which the Board of achieved compared to the approved where we have chosen to deviate from in addition to staff-elected Board memDirectors approves. In the chapter on budgets; a recommendation are well-founded, as bers. Currently, the Company’s Board of risk management activities in our annual • Policies for IT, insurance, cash manwell as substantially explained what we Directors has eight members: five elected report, we provide a review of the main agement, procurement etc.; do instead. To further increase transparby the shareholders and three elected by elements of our internal control and risk • Reporting instructions as well as ency, we have decided to provide suppleour employees in Denmark for duration management systems in connection with reporting and finance manuals. mentary and relevant information, even of four years. The elections elections the financial reporting process. when we follow the recommendations. taking place in January 2019, where emThe responsibility for maintaining A complete schematic presentation of ployees were reelected are done now. From a financial reporting process and sufficient and efficient internal control the recommendations and our cominternal control point of view, once a year and risk management in connection to pliance, Corporate Governance 2018 The Company’s Executive Board presentwe conduct a very detailed planning financial reporting, governance and cor– Statutory report on corporate goverly consists of two executives: President and budgetary process. Any deviations porate social responsibility lies with the nance, cf. section 107 b of the Danish & CEO and Chief Financial Officer. The from the plans and budgets concluded Executive Board. As such, the Executive Financial Statements Act, is available at Executive Board has the overall responin the process are carefully monitored on Board is responsible for shaping and www.demant.com/media#media-docusibility for the activities and the daymonthly basis. supporting the corporate social responsiment. to-day operations of the Company. The bility mission and activities of the Group tasks, responsibilities and scope of the and the responsibility of coordinating, Executive Board as well as the guidelines aligning and reporting to the Executive in respect to the delegation of duties Board lies with Demant Corporate Combetween the Board of Directors and the munication & Relations. Executive Board are stipulated in the Instructions for the Executive Board. The annual general meeting is the supreme authority in all company matters. The Company has one majority shareholder, the William Demant Foundation, which directly or indirectly holds 55-60% of the shares and voting rights at the annual general meeting. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 18 People and society People and society I feel part of life again – can you imagine how wonderful that is? Irene, bilateral Ponto 3 SuperPower user They are so much clearer that it feels like I have a brand-new pair of ears on Amanda, 18-year-old student, Oticon Opn user Care for people is the very foundation of Empowerment and Support focuses on our company. The founder Hans Demant the topics of alleviating hearing loss, started the company out of passion contributing to education and research I was going to resign, and I had to help his hearing-impaired wife and and empowering people through rehaalready turned in my paperwork other people in need to live a better life. bilitation, hearing care programmes and More than 100 years later, this care for other philanthropic activities. Shannon, a committed teacher, already gave other people on which the company was Protecting Human and Labour Rights up on her passion to help children who need founded and developed is still the core elaborates on our policies, actions and her, when Oticon Opn allowed her to fully enof everything we do. We aspire to help outcomes regarding human rights and gage in her working and private life again. people hear better, have conversations labour rights, child labour, code of conwith their loved ones and be a part of the duct, modern slavery, sustainability in Shannon, Oticon Opn user society again. the work place and female leadership. We will unfold this topic in two sections: Empowerment and Support Protecting Human and Labour Rights Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 19 People and society 2.1 philanthropic activities through the WilEmpowerment and support liam Demant Foundation is to separate We take pride in empowering and supsponsoring and grant activities from the porting individuals and communities not commercial activities of the companies of only directly through our products, but Demant. also through our projects and initiatives with the aim of improving people’s lives. We believe that an independent foundation will enable us to best allocate Our growth strategy of the Group (see resources that serve the purpose of Company Profile) also plays a posiempowering and supporting people tive role in our CSR. With an increased and society. Following this vision, two focus on CSR, various teams across the experts specialized in audiology and organisation have taken actions and related disciplines work jointly with the initiated projects to better contribute William Demant Foundation to ensure to our people and society. Aside from applications are reviewed in a strict and this, the William Demant Foundation, professional manner. the majority shareholder of Demant, is a charitable business foundation whose In 2018, the William Demant Foundamain purpose is to secure and expand tion in total donated DKK 111.5 million the commercial activities of the Group, to projects in such areas as research, to invest in society and to donate money education, culture and care. DKK 62.2 to charitable causes. With the income million was donated to projects aiming at derived from its profits in Demant as alleviating hearing loss all over the world well as other investments, the William and to education and research projects Demant Foundation sponsors social within hearing healthcare and the rest and educational programmes, publicaof the DKK 111.5 million to a variety of tions, conferences, cultural activities and projects, e.g. culture activities, exhibitions researchers, students, hearing care proand humanitarian healthcare projects, fessionals and the general public. One of described, but not limited to the ones the reasons for channelling our Demant illustrated in this report. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 20 People and society From 2017, Demant 2.1.1 has supported the organizaNon-hearing related philanthropic tion Velkommen Hjem (Welcome activities Home). Welcome Home is an organizaDemant supports various philanthropic tion working with companies to bridge the activities through both the William Degap between military veterans and businessmant Foundation and initiatives across es. The road from military to civil can be a big the Group. Sponsored by the challenge. Therefore, companies offer mentors William Demant Foundation, to veterans to help them start a career out of Maternity Foundation has been runthe military. Following last year’s success, ning a project to enhance maternal and Demant was again presented with four new-born health (MNC) in Ethiopia since 2017. veterans to mentor, while the number With a joint effort, the project contributes to imof Demant volunteers outnumproving maternal and neonatal health by increasing bers the mentees. the quality, availability, acceptability and accessibility of MNC services at facility and community levels in West Wollega Zones in Ethiopia. To empower the local women to make informed choices about their health, the project offers various activities including trainIn 2018, William ing, community conversations and reproductive Demant Foundation decided health clubs. Moreover, initiatives like loan to award Mary Foundation with a associations are adopted to improve donation of DKK 10 million to support its livelihood opportunities. noble work of inclusion. The Mary Foundation’s efforts focus on three areas: Bullying and Well-being, Domestic Violence and Loneliness. It strives to get these issues onto the public agenda and to identify, develop and complete projects in schools, after-care centres, crisis centres and other areas in life where people feel alone. Through its work, the Foundation promotes diversity and gives everybody the right to belong. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 21 People and society Next, Oticon USA’s week-long event, OtiCongress 2018, 2.1.2 combined professional development and Hearing health projects humanitarian efforts, bringing more than 100 independent hearing care professionals who work with Oticon’s products to rural communities in southwest Alaska. Oticon partnered with Yukon-Kuskokwim Health Corporation (YKHC), a Tribal Organization that administers a comprehensive healthcare delivery system for 58 rural communities, to provide hearing tests to more than 200 patients and fit more than 150 hearing aids donated by the Oticon Hearing Foundation. The Oticon USA President Gary Rosenblum took part as well and described the experience, “Although I’ve spent most of my career in healthcare with a focus on consumer-driven medical devicThe Veterans Health Administration (VA) is the United es, I didn’t fully understand the immediate impact a hearing States’ largest integrated health care system, providing care device can have on someone’s life until I spent time with at 1,243 health care facilities, serving 9 million enrolled Veterour customers and sat in on their fittings. Then, I joined ans each year. Roughly 500 of the sites provide audiology services the mission trip in Alaska and saw that change on including compensation, pension, and hearing aid dispensing. The VA a different level—hundreds of lives changed fiscal year 2017-2018 dispensed more than 760,000 hearing aids. in a matter of hours.” Demant has grown greatly within the VA system over the past two years, currently representing 21% of the hearing aids purchased by the VA. Much of this growth is due to the success of Oticon’s Opn 1, offering life changing technology for veterans. This technology has enabled veterans to increase their participation We keenly listen to in the situations that matter most to them, in turn improving their quality of life. our customers, their families and strive to remain close to those we Oticon has also partnered with the VA in creating a remote programming offerserve to. This year we had 21 advocates and ing. This technology, called RemoteCare, will enable the VA audiologist to remotely their families attend our Oticon Medical Friends: program the veteran’s hearing aids while they are in the comfort of their home. Hence, Advocacy Weekend event where we met and heard increasing the VA’s access to providing care to their veterans. The VA’s choice in workstories from new and old patient advocates. The ing with Demant on this initiative shows both organizations commitment to a long term conference was an opportunity for patients and their working relationship. RemoteCare is expected to be released within the VA in the first families to connect with Oticon Medical staff, learn more half of 2019. about our product, Ponto, and share their thoughts and ideas with our team. “What I enjoyed the most? I think The current VA hearing aid contract is in its fifth and final year, and Demant is working finding others that you have so much in common with on its submission for the next five-year contract. We are excited to continue working that formed immediate bonds. And that Oticon with the VA in providing unsurpassed hearing healthcare offerings for years to come. Medical is an amazing company that really cares about their patients,” explained one of the participants, Kim Russel. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 22 People and society Early screening is undoubtedly essential, but so is prevention. Audika has therefore also partnered up with the largest music festival in France Les Vieilles Charrues, attended by nearly 300,000 predominantly young visitors to help educate them about the Audika in France importance of hearing health and has joined a noble project protection, giving out advice, free National Campaign for Better audiological screening Hearing, a part of an international and earplugs. program uniting different partners to Mario Sanna Foundation help raise awareness about the imin collaboration with Oticon, Grupportance of early hearing screening at po Otologico and funded by William Demant 60 years of age. A part of the project Foundation have initiated a three-phase project in includes free hearing screening at sub-Saharan Africa to help with learning, diagnosing and mobile clinics throughout France, treating hearing loss and related issues, build up a network as well as financial support with suppliers of hearing aids and cochlear implant devices to treat for the Campaign. as many people as possible. The project is enabled using a telehealth platform for remote diagnostic and hearing care support, and a hub-andspoke model for hearing treatment in selected clinics. In the region, hearing Inclusion and equal loss especially among children poses a big risk of complete societal exclusion. opportunities for all are Therefore, treatment and diagnosis, even in remote areas with poor audioprinciples Demant strongly logical infrastructure is a major need. The project expands an already existing believes in and has supported telehealth platform and online infrastructure originally developed for supportDansk Idrætsforbund, the Danish Deaf ing remote area clinics in diagnosing and treating HIV with remote support Sports Federation, with DKK 4 million, from doctors in Europe. The platform is already operational in more than 40 which will be distributed over the next four remote clinics in sub-Saharan Africa, and the key focus of the project is to years to ensure that hearing impaired extend the platform and local infrastructure to hearing diagnosis, and in athletes have the best possible conditions linking remote clinics to selected treatment facilities (hub-spoke modfor preparation, qualification and particel), and training and supporting medical staff on-site at the hubs to ipation at European Championships, treat hearing loss with relevant hearing solutions (including CI World Championships and the surgery) and providing relevant aftercare. The end goal of 2020 Paralympic Games the project is to ensure access to hearing care in the in Tokyo. region through a project that is self-sustainable in a long-run. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 23 People and society Another enriching educational initiative sponsored by the William Demant Foundation is the Eriksholm Summer Camp. In 2018, the 2.1.3 13th Eriksholm Summer Camp invited 59 young Education and research audiologists from 20 countries to participate a programme packed with interesting lectures and Supporting education, institutions and research projects in and social activities with leading scientists from Eriksholm outside of the field of audiology is an important part of the William Research Centre, guest experts, Oticon audiologists and specialists. The theme of the summer camp is Demant Foundation’s activities. Hearing and the Brain, and lectures and workshops exploring the link between hearing and other cognitive processes were carried out among the participants, giving the young audiologists the chance to learn more about the field. For several years, the William Demant Foundation has funded the IDA Institute and it has contributed DKK 12.5 million to the work of the Institute in 2018, while allocatMoreover, the William ing the same sum for 2019. IDA is an organisaDemant Foundation has a long The Audio Explorers tion working to integrate person-centred care in history of funding projects that promote Challenge was also carried out hearing rehabilitation. The work of the institute research and the dissemination of knowledge in successfully for the third time. Oticon aims at enabling people with hearing loss to audiology. In 2018, the Foundation financed 19 reand the William Demant Foundation hosted take an active role in their care by expressing search projects, including three new PH.D. projects. As the a nationwide competition aimed at engineering their needs and preferences. Together with PH.D. projects typically last three years, the Foundation also students with an interest in mechanical, electrical hearing care professionals around the funded seven continued PH.D. projects from the previous years. or software development. 250 students signed up in world, IDA develops free tools and small teams to solve a real hearing instrument related resources to strengthen the In 2018, the Oticon Foundation donated a total of DKK 12.3 brainteaser posed by our research and development team. counselling process. million to leading universities around the world in for instance the In the spring, 25 highly talented students who won the US, Canada, the UK and Spain. Approximately DKK 17.2 million challenge flew to New York together with the Oticon was donated to Danish universities. crew for a study trip. During the trip, they experienced audiological lectures given by renowned professionals In 2018 we also contributed to Uppsala Commune with and mapped the sound levels in the urban space Front Row equipment, which enables both children with to find out whether it poses danger to healthy hearing difficulties, as well as children with normal hearing – and in the long run – do hearing to hear and learn better. This enables all comparative studies in other children to attend regular schools and be large cities. integrated in a classroom. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 24 People and society We are proud to have our own research centre, Eriksholm, which together with our research and development experts continuously pushes the boundaries of research to study human hearing, the concept of brain hearing and develop the next generation of solutions, which provide not only exceptional audiological products, but improve the overall quality of life and health of people. It has been proven that quality hearing solutions improve people’s overall health and mental well-being and we are inspired to deliver superb products enabling people to live to their fullest potential and feel included. Centre for Applied Audiology Research Eriksholm Research Centre Oticon Medical – Technology Development Research Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 25 People and society First, Eriksholm’s research is focusing on the three megatrend research areas eHealth, Augmented Hearing and Cognitive HearEriksholm Research Centre ing Science. Following are the selected highlights of the resent research in these three fields. eHealth Augmented Hearing In addition, the Deep Neural Networks In another European Horizon2020 proj• Under the EU Horizon2020 frame• A well-known challenge within (DNN) algorithm can mimic the human ect, CoCoHa, we showed it is possible work, Eriksholm is leading the mulhearing healthcare continues to be brain’s capability of separating voices. to measure the EEG signal of the human tinational Evotion project, involving the “Cocktail Party Syndrome”, where A capability which comes easy and intubrain via electrodes on the hearing 13 mainly academic partners across multiple speakers and a background itive for the normal hearing and increasinstrument. Europe. The project is receiving an EU noise create a “babble”, which is hard ingly difficult for people with hearing grant of EUR 5 million over the period to understand for people with hearimpairment. Also, the signal can be used to continof three years. The purpose of the ing impairment. uously adjust the hearing instrument project is to enable and realize hearIn recent research with our academperformance to minimize listening effort. ing health policies through collection Artificial Intelligence is highly instrumenic partners at Tampere University in One application method is steering the and integration of solid evidence. The tal in solving the issue. While modern Finland we were able to show that hearing instrument with your eye gaze. project therefore collects data from hearing instruments are powerful and using DNN, it is possible for people with The eyes are strong dipoles and their more than 1000 hearing aid users, offer many parameters, which can be hearing impairment to achieve the same movements can be measured via the which will enable the development of adapted to specific listening conditions, separation of competing voices, which EEG electrodes in the ear. By knowing a Big Data informed decision support it is practically impossible to adapt all people with normal hearing achieve. where the user is looking, we can focus system for the improvement of hearparameters continuously to the evthe hearing instrument to the same ing loss prevention, rehabilitation, er-changing listening conditions during Cognitive Hearing Science direction. In combination with the above and treatment. a day. Therefore, we experiment with • Pupillometry has proven to be a described DNN for speech separation, applying Artificial Intelligence on the highly efficient means of measuring this presents a big step toward the user information obtained from hearing cognitive load of listeners. Our pupils solution of the Cocktail Party Syndrome. instruments, in order to create optimized change size depending on the level of Additionally, the EEG signals measured settings dynamically. This would help the cognitive load we put into listening. over long periods of time offer new users to always get the optimum perforConstant monitoring of the listening opportunities for helping people not only mance of the hearing instruments, thus effort in future hearing instruments within hearing healthcare, but also in the best possible support in any listening will enable them to support the lisgeneral healthcare. situation. tener in keeping the listening effort at a minimum level in any situation. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 26 People and society Oticon A/S is involved in applied research on new technologies. Two current projects in Denmark and in the US show our commitment to pursuing the BrainHearing research, creating technologies that make it easier for the brain to make sense of Centre for a sound and free up brain capacity for other processes, such as Applied Audiology Research remembering what one has heard, reflecting and responding. Improved learning for children with Better customization of hearing aids hearing aids from public healthcare system • First, The US study focuses on • Oticon is also involved in the Danish children with hearing loss and their BEAR study, looking into the benefits ability to learn. In the study we look of better individualization of hearing at how specific novel technologies aids for people getting hearing aids can both increase general learning from the public healthcare system. and speed up the learning process, Modern hearing aids can be custompreventing children with hearing loss ized to individual diagnosis and other from developing at a slower rate than listening needs, however, most of the their peers. In addition, the project public healthcare providers do not also looks at how the brain struchave sufficient time and the capabilture matures over time in children ities to provide such customization. with hearing loss, who wear hearing The BEAR project investigates how aids. A major challenge associated diagnosis of hearing loss and cuswith treating hearing impairment tomization of hearing aids can be imis that speech perception varies a proved, with the long-term objective lot in children with similar extent of to show it leads to improved health hearing loss. The project will provide outcomes and presents a good valuable knowledge on how the brain investment for the public healthcare connectivity and function are assosystem. ciated with the variability in speech perception and learning in children wearing hearing aids. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 27 People and society Oticon Medical – Technology Development Research Music and Cochlear Implants (CI) BrainHearing for hearing implants • Listening to music evokes many • We are running many BrainHearcognitive processes, including emoing research projects with Cochlear tional responses and can be used Implants (CI) and Bone Anchored for relaxation or even management Hearing Systems (BAHS) partners of mental health conditions, such as across the globe to ensure CI and stress. Music also triggers associaBAHS patients are using solutions tions and activates motor functions and fittings that not only bring auditapping or dancing, while playing an bility, but also minimizes listening efimportant role in social interactions. fort. The program is being rolled out Many CI users are deprived of this at clinics across the globe, including experience. Our portfolio of activities Medical School Hannover, Seoul Nain this area, for example the bi-annutional University hospital, Gentofte/ al International Symposium on Music Rigshospitalet, University Hospital of and CI, is our dedication to support Sao Paulo and many others. the research community in bringing music to CI users, thereby better mental health and social wellbeing. Although it is not a simple fix, but requires substantial research and technology development in the years to come, we are determined to bring better music experience to CI users. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 28 People and society 2.2 strive to ensure our suppliers and exProtecting Human and Labour rights ternal partners comply with our code of Demant always strives to fulfil its conduct and execute audits if necessary. responsibilities toward the people and organisations it works with and toward Regarding enactment of our human and the surroundings it influences through its labour rights and principles, we have imbusiness. Therefore, Demant supports plemented a global/local approach in our the Universal Declaration of Human global organisation. The Demant Group Rights and ILO’s Declaration of Fundacentrally formulates policies and guidemental Principles and Rights at Work. lines, while the local management has the mandate and is responsible for daily We evaluate the potential adverse operations, as well as solving, reporting impacts on human rights and labour and taking actions in line with both the rights on an on-going basis and have not company policies and local legislations. identified any critical or significant risks embedded in our operations or business We have adopted a Code of Conduct to networks. Nevertheless, we always improve and encourage high human and uphold and respect the universally-aclabour rights standards for our suppliers, cepted human and labour rights and which will be explained further in the have in place principles, policies, internal following section. Besides, the Group has systems and approaches to ensure our taken various approaches to contribcompliance and contribution. ute to and work on protecting human rights and labour rights respectively. For Our five human and labour rights princiinstance, we always aspire to achieve ples (see Sustainability Framework page workplace sustainability and create a 10) are set as our guidance for operarewarding, respectful and safe working tions, business activities and relationenvironment for our employees to thrive ships. professionally and personally. Therefore, we have adopted approaches like stress In the recent years, we have also esmanagement, engagement project and tablished a strategic global HR Board, diversity strategy to achieve that. which functions as a coordinating body in terms of HR strategy, organisational Our focus and actions aimed at proand leadership development, as well as tecting human and labour rights have deployment of global HR systems. The fuelled Demant to grow in a responsible board convenes on regular basis and can way and develop into a successful and also be activated in case of an urgency sustainable global company. or a breach of company policies. We also Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 29 People and society 2.2.1 Code in writing: We are continuously working on inacIf we identify a risk that a supplier does Code of conduct Further assurance to prevent and tivating suppliers that we no longer do not live up to our code of conduct, we All new suppliers must sign a comprereduce modern slavery business with and consolidating exconduct an audit followed by a rehensive code of conduct that lists criteria, Defining maximum amount of workpense. In 2018, we have conducted busiport, listing the issues that need to be governing aspects of human rights, week hours ness with 360 suppliers out of which 309 addressed before we can initiate or conlabour rights, the environment as well as Provision of religion breaks have signed the code of conduct. That tinue a cooperation with that supplier. anti-corruption. The code of conduct is Clearer and better-defined health constitutes 86%, compared with last In 2018, six CSR audits to our suppliers to help our suppliers improve social and and safety rules, including signs year, when 72% of our active suppliers were performed. In addition, four exterenvironmental standards and is the guidon machinery, machine guarding, were the code signatories. The continunal CSR audits has been performed by ance for our suppliers to contribute to the precautionary rules for pregnant ous improvement is an achievement we Sennheiser Communications. protection of human and labour rights. women, clear instructions in languagare proud of. es understandable to all workers, The code of conduct has been introduced physically demanding tasks need to We select and assess our suppliers and used since 2010 throughout the be identified and controlled based on this code. The suppliers are Group, while improved this year even furBonded labour and recruitment fees grouped in three categories according to ther. Although we have always encourdefined and prohibited the level of risk of breaching our code of aged the following points, we have taken Increased focus on environmental isconduct. The risk assessment is based on an active approach to add them to the sues, impacts and proactive prevenDemant’s own methodology. It is subject tative measures to independent audit and based on the Defined data privacy supplier’s geographical presence, sector, Defined fair business management practices and strategic Encouragement of management importance for Demant. The categorisasystems and management processes tion of suppliers helps us to prioritise the to ensure compliance and follow-up resources needed for further dialogue with the suppliers. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 30 People and society 2.2.2 local legislation, we act in accordance to Human rights the UN Global Compact Principles. On Demant respects the protection of hutop of this, we have in place the impleman rights through the implementation mentation of principles and policies from of the established principles and reguour Code of Conduct and Business Ethics lations contained in its business ethics Policy. policy and code of conduct. The policies can be found on our website at: www. Most of our production sites are located demant.com/media/#media-documents. in OECD countries. When we operate in countries outside of OECD we mitigate When we look into our productions, the risk by making sure we only employ operations and business network, we and conduct business with highly skilled haven’t identified any significant process labour to handle our products. Violating that implicates adverse impact or human proclaimed human rights is against our rights violation. For example, the probusiness model and against our business duction of hearing aids is not identified ethics and policy. as a dangerous or risky manufacturing activity, since employees are not exposed Where local legislation does not naturalto dangerous procedures, materials or ly protect human rights and labour rights, environments. Therefore, we do not see we apply our code of conduct to ensure any significant risk from our productions that high standards are met when doing and we have a good record on low probusiness and dealing with stakeholders duction accident rate. In 2018, the global (e.g. suppliers), which are beyond the accident report from our production and boundaries of our own company. service sites in Denmark, Poland, Mexico and US shows only 31 accidents among All in all, we endeavour to support the 3500 employees, none of which were protection of internationally proclaimed severe or critical. human rights within and beyond the corporate boundaries. Even though it At Demant, more than 90% of our can hardly be justified as protection of turnover comes from the OECD counhuman rights, Demant tries to exercise tries; this does not mean we absolutely a positive spill-over effect and improve avoid the risk of human rights violation; conditions for people less fortunate, with however, it still has a considerably low a specific focus on our core business and potential of risk. In countries where mission: health and hearing care. protection of human rights is covered by Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 31 People and society Sustainability in the workplace Stress management Number of employees at Danish sites affected by stress per year The occupational health and safety Prevention and handling of stress is a team makes sure our company is run part of our responsibility as a modern 60 in a safe environment. Our initiatives and accountable company and for this include: safety evaluations at work, risk reason we actively engage employees in 50 assessment, safety training for employpreventing and dealing with stress. The ees, safety instructions at the workplace, company has established a stress policy 40 protective measures and relevant consulto support this focus, and have defined tancy. prevention initiatives, courses and toolbox. The purpose of our stress policy is 30 To ensure that our employees develop in to clarify what is expected of each of us the best possible way and thrive within in our various roles and not least, during 20 the organisation, managers evaluate the different phases of cases of stress. their competences, performances and The policy should be treated as a guide10 career plans on an annual basis by deline for what we must do depending on velopment dialogues, and the Group has the role we have in the company. 0 established an education platform called It is our ambition to keep stress to an 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Demant Training Academy which offers absolute minimum and to constantly a broad variety of training opportunities. strive to keep it minimized for the benefit A healthy lifestyle and work-life balance of employees and the company. Top The numbers include all occurrences As the perception of and focus on work is one of our company’s emphasis. In Management expects that leaders in the from minor, short-term situations to related stress is very dependent on counsome of our premises, we have built gym company, as a part of their duties, know longer, monthly leave of absence. They try culture we do not work with stress areas in the office for our employees. In when a member of their staff is suffering cover employees at our locations in prevention as a global concept. However, our headquarter, employees can sign up from stress. In these cases, the leader Denmark. at our production site in Poland as well for our canteen schemes, which serves must take the necessary action normally as our site in Bern, Switzerland, stress freshly made meals made of 67% of orin cooperation with Human Resources. In 2018, we see the approximately prevention is also on the agenda. ganic food. A variety of leisure activities Our top Management also expects that same number of employees affected by and sport clubs are also offered to our leaders have made themselves familiar stress as in 2017 out of an increasing no employees. with the company stress policy and the of employees in our Danish sites. This tools described in the Stress Toolbox. encourages us to keep our strong focus. By developing the stress policy and In peer to peer analysis, we only find few taking actions, we have managed to other companies with as comprehensive decrease the occurrence of stress cases policies and actions as us and we trust significantly, as shown by the table to our continuous commitment to the stress the right. management policy to keep us on the right track. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 32 People and society Demant Pulse – Global Employee EnIt is our ambition to make Demant a The policy is in accordance with Danish now developed to the following streams: gagement project Group where each company or organisalegislation, which states that the employDigital Business, Global Finance, Global Having deeply engaged employees and tion offer an environment where we can er is responsible for protecting the emOperations, Engineering and Diagnostics the best in class managers is paramount all do our best in our daily work, no matployees from harassment and violence at Business. The graduates have rotations in our journey to develop Demant as the ter in which part of the world we work, work. All existing employees have been in organisations like: Finance, Operastrongest and most innovative Group or whether we belong to Group Services, informed, while all new employees are tions, IT, Sales & Marketing, Quality and in this industry – with the purpose to Hearing Implants, Hearing Instruments, instructed to read the policy during their R&D, Retail, Wholesale US, Sales Denmake life-changing differences through Diagnostics or Retail. introduction courses. All complaints of mark and Corporate Functions. hearing health. We have in 2017 taken bullying, violence or sexual harassment the first steps to perform a yearly, global Policy to avoid harassment and bullying will be taken seriously and treated with To secure and plan for future recruitment engagement survey including parts of Demant is committed to providing a safe respect and in confidence. No one will be of engineers, which is always a top prithe global organisation and expanding work environment for all employees, victimized for making such a complaint. ority for Demant, we have invested in the this to the rest of Demant globally over free from discrimination on any ground Polish market and established a developthe next two years. In 2018, we have and from harassment at work, including Graduate programme and talent investment centre in 2016 called Demant Techasked 11.000 employees to complete the sexual harassment. Demant will operate ment nology Centre. In 2018, we have further engagement survey and have worked a zero-tolerance policy for any form of In order to attract new talents and to expanded the research and development actively with the results in the included bullying or sexual harassment in the train them within the organisation, division in Warsaw. organisations globally. This provides workplace and will treat all incidents Demant has developed a Graduate Prous with valuable information on the seriously and promptly investigate all algramme scheme starting in 2014. The engagement level across our global busilegations of sexual harassment. In 2017, Graduate Programme is a two-year proness, while, at the same time, enabling we have developed and formulated a gram where recent university graduates us to work with engagement in a far policy to avoid harassment and bullying. explore Demant and develop their permore professional manner. sonal and professional skills throughout four job rotations. The programme has Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 33 People and society 2.2.3 Since there are certain requirements to Statement on the UK Modern Slavery Act We tackle the risk of exploitation in the Labour rights handle our products and services, the Last year we updated our reporting labour market by working with suppliers, Protecting labour rights vast majority of our employees and the in order to adhere to the new British entities, sales subsidiaries and distriThe Demant Group has signed collective employees of the companies with which legislation on Modern Slavery. We stand butions network that comply and abide agreements with relevant labour unions. we conduct business are highly skilled by building awareness of modern slavery with our code of conduct, regulations on Subsequently, we negotiate and sign with years of training and/or education. and against exploitation of labour, slavhuman rights, labour rights and busilocal agreements, duly considering local Thus, we have concluded that the risk ery, servitude, forced and compulsory ness ethics. A significant percentage of conditions, thus further improving terms of negative impact or child labour in our labour and human trafficking. We have our collaborators has to undergo formal regarding salary, working hours, salary business activities is considerably low not had any cases of modern slavery. education and training scheme, and this increments, education, etc. and we have not had any case of it. reduce even more the risk associated We consider the risk of human trafficking with human trafficking. We respect the individual’s membership in our supply chain to be very mild. Our of labour unions. revenue model has a predominant base More details about our statement on the in OECD countries, where the governUK Modern Slavery Act can be found on Engagement against child labour ment has a higher level of control over our website at: As declared in our business ethics policy human rights, labour rights and modern www.demant.com/about/responsibility. and code of conduct, and likewise imslavery enforcement. In terms of proplemented by our suppliers, we uphold duction and assemblies of our products, the effective abolition of child labour and the company operates predominantly in condemn its usage. Europe, North and Latin America, where the risks are contained. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 34 People and society Diversity and gender equality The rules also require that once a year In terms of gender equality in the Board We also continue with the previously Diversity at management level adthe company must announce its targets of Directors, a female Board member established approaches adopted to dresses age, gender and nationalities. regarding gender equality in top manwas elected at the annual general enhance female employment and In recent years, soft law and statutory agement and incorporate its policies and meeting in April 2014 and reelected in leadership in the Group: requirements have focused specifically progress either in the company’s annual 2018, which also means that the Board on gender equality. On 1 April 2013, new report or on its corporate website. As a reached its first target within one year • In job advertisements, employer rules for the gender-specific composition responsible company, Demant complies after the target was set. In 2016, the branding material and communiof top management in all large Danish with the rules of law by our commitment Board set a new target on female leadcation, we always strive to balcompanies became effective. The rules to the UN Global Compact and we report ership: by the end of 2020, the Board ance the tone between male and aim to ensure that the percentage of on relevant topics via our annual CSR of Directors aims to have at least two female connotations and visuals. females in managerial positions in large reports. female members. • Regarding recruitment, we require companies increase significantly. The qualified female candidates in the rules oblige companies to set a target for This report covers our focus, policy and While there is currently no female Board second round when cooperating the representation of the under-repreprogress on female leadership. More demember at our joint venture Sennheiser with external recruiting agencies. sented gender on the company’s board tails are available on our website: www. Communications, it will be fully integratIn terms of external recruitment and to set a deadline for reaching this demant.com/about/responsibility ed in the Demant Group by 2020 and events, relevant departments in target. We continuously work on encouraging we are therefore directing our focus at the Group must prioritise sending more female employees to seek opporensuring we have the needed female female employees to job fairs. Moreover, companies must establish poltunities for executive and managerial representation at the Demant Board. • From a talent management pericies in place on how they will enhance positions. This commitment is anchored spective, our managers make an women’s access to managerial positions with the Board of Directors and the effort to guide and nudge female based on the assumption that more Management. In 2012, we defined a talents towards pursuing opporwomen in managerial positions will – diversity policy and specific initiatives for tunities for promotion. generally speaking – lay the foundation increasing the ratio of female managers for future recruitment of female board in the Group, which is called ‘More Femembers. male Managers’. On an on-going basis, various initiatives have been taken to support the policy, from communication to recruitment and leadership. Furthermore, there will be an on-going update with Demant’s executive management. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 35 People and society Split of female vs. male managers, Denmark, 2013 2018 Since we started tracking these numbers 90 in 2009, the male/female manager ratio 80 in our Danish companies has improved 70 from 89/11 in 2009 to 72/28 in 2018. In 60 middle and first-line management, the 50 ratio has increased from 84/16 in 2009 40 to 71/29 in 2018. 30 20 10 % 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Female Male Split of female vs. male managers, Selected countries, 2018 80 From a global perspective, our compa70 nies in South Africa, Poland and the UK 60 have a relatively high female manager 50 ratio compared to the other countries in 40 2018. 30 20 10 % ca nd U K nd s ia ce d an ark nd y an fri Po ustr Fr m er A la la al an al en la m ut he r Ze itz er h et A D G So N ew Sw N Female Male Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 36 People and society Total numbers of female vs. male managers, Selected countries, 2018 Some of the global offices with larger In 2018, our recruitment team has numbers of employees have naturally organized two workshops to explore greater challenge to optimize the gender Country Female Male Total the themes of diversity, inclusion balance, however nevertheless keep South Africa 5 3 8 and external bias in recruitment improving on yearly basis. In our Danish processes. Poland 70 65 135 companies, the percentage of female managers has been relatively stable for UK 13 14 27 Recognising the importance of the the past four years. topic for Demant, we have additionNetherlands 9 14 23 ally dedicated 12 months of thorAustralia 29 49 78 We will continuously work on our recruitough internal and external research ment process to address gender equality France 14 27 41 on the topic of diversity and incluand employ more talented females into sion and best practices within the New Zealand 3 6 9 the Group. area. Throughout the year, the top Denmark 66 167 233 Management has paid keen attenRegarding our joint venture SennheisSwitzerland 7 20 27 tion, been a sparring partner in the er Communications, in 2018, the ratio discussion and convened two Global Germany 2 6 8 of male and female managers in top HR Board meetings to elaborate management is 2/0, which remained on the outcomes of the research, unchanged from last year; and the ratio discuss what diversity and incluof male and female managers until 2nd sion should embody in the world of management level is 25/7, which was Demant and what new initiatives to increased from 28/5 in 2017. We are roll out in 2019, in order to continue proud of the steady progress and intend improvement. to continue the improvement. Please note that organisational levels in Denmark were redefined in 2016 and actual numbers may not be directly comparable with previous years. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 37 Environmental protection Environmental protection On the basis of our sphere of influence, we are committed to minimising our impact and footprint on the environment and undertaking initiatives that advocate environmental responsibility. Moreover, we encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies in the Group. Naturally, we comply with all current environmental rules and regulations in all the countries where we operate. Through an internal risk evaluation to assess our environmental impact, we have concluded that there is no significant environmental risk in Demant. Our product-related environmental impact is considerably limited, and we have not identified any significant environmental risks arising from our business activities. The production of hearing devices and diagnostic equipment does not involve significant amount of material or water and we strictly comply with our product safety rules and restricted list. By way of example, one single hearing aid weighs only 2-6 grams and contains no hazardous substances. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 38 Environmental protection 3.1 It is mandatory for our suppliers to Substances are categorised as below: On top of the mandatory requirements Material Compliance comply with the restricted list, which is according to laws, we have enforced Although the use of raw material is limitcontrolled through a declaration of conClass I extra specifications, e.g. ban on the use ed in our manufacture compared to other formity and/or audits. Prohibited (not to be introduced of al phthalates and natural rubber latex. industries, we still enforce a precautionin the production or be presented Working with the restricted list ensures ary approach to environmental chalThe list is based on the following in any products put on the market full transparency on the use of hazardlenges. We have implemented the use of regulations: by companies of Demant) ous substances, compliance with rele‘restricted list’, which provides instruc• Restriction of Hazardous Substances vant directives and the opportunity to set tion and information on the utilisation (ROHS) a higher bar than the external required and categorisation of substances and • Toys directive Class II or recommended standards. We are material. The aim is to ensure that the • Conflict minerals that are subject Restricted (for restricted use only) developing a risk-based approach where Group complies with relevant regulations to the requirements of Dodd-Frank material compliance is not only secured related to specific substances. In the reSection 1502 by supplier declarations, but also via maClass III stricted list, all relevant components and • Registration, and the Evaluation, terial analysis for high risk materials. Subjected to special deliberation (can materials that are banned or restricted Authorisation and Restriction of be used, but under observation) are listed. Chemicals directive (REACH) Class IV Under observation (can be used after thorough risk assessment) Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 39 Environmental protection 3.2.1 We believe that customers, investors and Environmental risk management potential employees prefer to work with The Company has not identified any sigcompanies like Demant whose sustainnificant risks and/or opportunities arising ability concerns are integrated into the from climate changes. However, when Group’s daily business operations. Focus preparing the strategic, budgetary and on climate change and CSR in general annual plans, the directors always conpresents an opportunity for us to attract sider all risks identified by the Company. talented staff, long-term investors and Due to the fact that the Group’s scope possibly also customers. In addition, our 1 and scope 2 emissions are relatively responsible business practices ensure low and that energy costs only account continued access to the increasing numfor a minor part of total costs, we do ber of investors signing up for the UN not anticipate any future regulation Principles for Responsible Investments. 3.2 Our emission rates both in total and per regarding direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Finally, as products become increasingly Energy consumption performance employee are considerably low and we emissions to significantly impact our similar in technological capabilities, the We started tracking our energy condo not consider it relevant to set up speoperations. Among the general regulaconduct of the companies behind may sumption from 2008, providing us with a cific reduction targets. The most signifitory risks, which are not only applicable gain importance when customers select means of measuring and recording our cant emissions come from Scope 1, the to Demant, but to most manufacturing supplier of products and services. As our environmental impact and footprint. In electricity and heating in our buildings. companies, are: stricter energy efficiency customers do not currently consider cli2017, we made the decision not to conHence, we consider the emission factor requirements for offices and factories, mate changes when selecting products, tinue the Carbon Dioxide Project (CDP) every time we make minor or major higher taxation on energy consumption the timescale for materialisation of such reporting. Instead, we have expanded physical changes and act accordingly leading to higher production and logistics opportunities may be long-term. Acting the reporting of our energy consumption and responsively. costs and mandatory energy standards responsibly towards our stakeholders performance with a more comprehenfor manufacturing equipment. globally has always been part of our hersive scope in this report. Reports about We experience stable growth rates itage, be they customers, staff, investors former energy consumption performance throughout the Demant Group, both in fiUnlike in the past, modern hearing aids or other groups. For us, taking environare available on our website under: denancial terms and number of employees. contain no lead, nor any heavy metals. mental responsibility means ensuring mant.com/media#media-documents This growth is both organic and related The entire industry is embarking on the that our companies limit any adverse Management continuously seeks to minito acquisitions, and it has mirrored in a change to rechargeable batteries, which impacts on the external environment, mise any financial consequences of damslight growth in emissions; yet, we seek will significantly reduce environmenincluding climate changes, as much as age to corporate assets, including any to minimise the growth in emissions as tal impact due to their reusability and possible. operating losses incidental to potential much as possible by making wise choicdurability. damage. The Company has not identified es along the way. any significant risks and/or opportunities arising from climate changes. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 40 Environmental protection Emissions by GHG scope, 2018 3.2.2 The total Sennheiser Communications CO2 consumption performance CO2 emission reached 243.8 tonnes CO2 emissions (tonnes) In 2018, our Group’s CO2 emissions compared to 232 tonnes in 2017. HowScope Retail entities included Retail entities excluded reached 40,568 tonnes, including Sennever, the emission per employee has heiser Communications and our retail decreased from 1.15 to 1.14 CO2 tonnes, 1: direct greenhouse gas 7,199 3,960 entities. While the number presents an therefore pointing to the same trend as 2: indirect greenhouse gas 33,369 11,951 increase compared to 37,671 tonnes in the rest of the Group – business growth Total 40,568 15,911 2017, it should be seen in the light of the accompanied by improved energy effiongoing expansion of our business acciency. tivities and the gradual inclusion of new Emissions by countries, 2018 retail entities into the Group. In 2018, Demant’s CO2 emissions are Selected countries CO2 emissions (kg), CO2 emissions CO2 emissions split among electricity and heating non-retail (kg), retail (kg), country total In 2017, we have included the energy accounting for 61% and cars for 39%. Australia 257,023 1,496,459 1,753,482 consumption results from our retail While last year’s cars accounted for entities in France, USA, Canada, Poland 23% of CO2, we have increased our Canada 221,443 31,163 252,606 and Australia, while adding the UK, scope of retail reporting. The nature of France 393,316 1,158,235 1,551,550 Switzerland and Portugal in 2018, hence retail business inherently encompasses delivering on our last year’s commitment more frequent travel. Portugal -1,224,388 1,224,388 to continue expanding our reporting Poland 5,453,561 16,728,452 22,182,013 scope. Our energy consciousness is thus The selected retail entities’ CO2 emisSwitzerland 51,623 57,701 109,324 better reflected in CO2 emissions per sions reached 24,657 tonnes, repreemployee, which has decreased from senting 4.9 CO2 tonnes per employee, UK 241,094 1,187,869 1,428,963 3.5 tonnes in 2017 to 3.24 CO2 tonnes a significant improvement compared to USA 5,059,236 2,678,310 7,737,546 per employee. We have therefore delast year’s 7.01 tonnes. While a sampling Denmark 2,233,779 -2,233,779 creased our CO2 emission per employee methodology was adopted, the selectby 7.4% in just one year. ed retail entities represent over 77% of Italy 226,833 -226,833 our shops. We have increased our retail Germany 684,515 -684,515 Contained CO2 emissions despite our reporting scope by 16% compared to growth and increased scope of reportlast year. After benchmarking with other Brasil 45,205 -45,205 ing are a result of higher utilization of companies in the industry, the energy Korea 114,888 -114,888 green power, such as solar energy in our consumption of our retail entities is Malaysia 68,804 -68,804 Brisbane office leading to 15% decrease aligned with the common expectation in electricity consumption, merging of within the industries. Japan 138,307 -138,307 offices or deployment of power efficient China 160,594 -160,594 IT solutions. Singapore 26,736 -26,736 Turkey 127,727 -127,727 South Africa 213,779 -213,779 Spain 192,497 -192,497 Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 41 Environmental protection 3.3. To support our employees in embracing Further supporting circular econoIn Denmark, Demant joined the camEnvironmental initiatives sustainable lifestyle, we have also intromy efforts, Demant collaborates with paign Bike to Work. The Danish Cyclists’ duced new charging stations for electriTier1Asset, a global hardware recycling Federation organizes the Bike to Work 3.3.1 In-house environmental initiatives cal cars at our headquarters this year. company. While our Danish IT departcampaign that has been an annual – facility, IT, employee activities. In order to achieve and maintain optimal ment has collaborated with Tier1Asset tradition since 1997. The campaign runs At Demant, we aspire to act in a responwaste management, Demant has collabpreviously, we are proud to be joined by during the month of May and has had sible way and raise awareness across orated with WastePartner Management our Spanish, French and the US office. between 70,000 and 110,000 particithe Group by developing innovative to establish an educational training We have made a global request to all our pants in the last five years. The purpose initiatives and optimizing our solutions to programme called WasteAcademy. With entities in December 2018 and look forof the campaign is to encourage more contribute to the environment. Besides a joint effort, our employees are offered ward to be joined by the rest. Tier1Asset people to use their bike for commuting paying attention to product safety training in correct waste management first collects used hardware, predomiand everyday transportation, and thereand our energy consumption perforand gaining an overview of our entire nantly computers and printers. All data is by improve their physical and mental mance, we also stress the importance waste management system, containthen deleted correctly with Blancco tool, health, and reduce the damage to the of environmentally friendly initiatives ers, fractions, disposed amounts and ISO 27001 certified, ensuring we abide environment. One person can reduce CO2 in our daily workplace. We believe that the cost involved is developed. In 2019, the latest GDPR regulations. Instead of emissions by 450 kilos per year by biking seemingly trivial actions may result in we will continue to work on innovative instantly recycling the material from the six kilometres back and forth every day. a collectively significant impact on our ways to recycle waste with the purpose hardware, it refurbishes and repurposenergy consumption and hence on our to achieve even better environmental es 90% of the hardware, expanding its The participants join in teams competenvironmental footprint. contribution and optimize cost saving. lifespan and decreasing the IT waste. ing with and against each other biking For example, we have entered into a to and/or from work as many days as We have actively adopted various apcollaboration with DAKA, a company colDemant has continued our ambitious possible in May. Demant employees have proaches regarding facility in the offices lecting our unconsumed food waste and goal to ensure more for less and has succumulatively biked 1845 days togethto reduce energy consumption. At our turning it into energy source. As a result, ceeded in the area of decreasing power er, compared to 1709 days in 2017, headquarter, a cooling system that helps we have saved more than 50 tonnes consumption at our main datacentre. together adding up to staggering 47,567 saving energy was installed in the sumof organic waste in 2018, which would While we have been growing, we have kilometres, which exceeds the distance mer of 2017. Sun protection films were have been otherwise thrown away. still lowered our power consumption due around the earth. Each of our bikers applied to the skylight windows in our to investments in more efficient solutions had an average of 12.3 biking days and main buildings and it positively reduces and meticulous planning. Decreasing the traversed 317 kilometres compared to the energy consumption used by cooling power consumption in the datacentre other Danish teams, where an average during summer time. is a vital parameter, but the paramount participant biked ten days. We are proud accomplishment is our centralization of to see our employees contribute posiservices in countries with more environtively to the environment, but also inspire mentally friendly power deliveries. In the others around them. years ahead, we will include the same focus on optimization and ensure strict attention to avoid overcommitment to power consuming resources. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 42 Environmental protection Circular economy 3.3.2 We are excited to report on a new Offshore windmills farm cross-departmental team of employees Another example of our environmental passionate about circular economy, initiatives is our stake in the offshore who have been exploring the past year windmills farm in the German North Sea, throughout our global supply chain how which was commissioned in 2017. It is and where meaningful initiatives could an investment that is capable of producbe introduced to bring even more susing electricity to the equivalent consumptainable practices to Demant. The activition of 320,000 households with all 78 ties include, among others, investigating wind turbines operated. new sustainable materials for both our packaging and hearing aids, where tests The investment of DKK 1.7 billion was will be conducted throughout 2019. made in early 2012 by the William Demant Foundation via William DeHow to measure the effect of new mant Invest (WDI), the majority owner packaging methods is being aligned of Demant. WDI’s interest in the windwith our Future Operating Model project, mills farm constitutes about 18.5%. In which could significantly decrease our 2018, the revenue of the windmills farm overall packaging consumption globally. is estimated to be DKK 1.8 billion with Among other initiatives, we are continthe production in 2019 estimated at uously improving our stock forecasting 1,297GWh. and optimising the use of resources. The circular economy initiative has also been analysing requirements necessary to develop better fit for purpose packaging that will ultimately eliminate double-packaging. In addition, by 2020 50% of all our packaging will be FSC marked. These are only few examples of all the initiatives we have been working on in 2018 and will pursue further in the coming years. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 43 Business ethics Business ethics and data privacy 4.1 We do not offer, give, accept or receive The Group adheres to the United Nations 4.2 Corruption and Bribery bribery in any form and we discourage Convention against Corruption and the Data Privacy We are convinced that our business facilitation payments. Along these lines, UK Bribery Act. Most of the Group’s acData privacy continues to be among our can only flourish if based on sound it is important to note that situations tivities can be characterised as “relationtop compliance priorities. We are aware business ethics. We develop innovative, where corruption is prevalent often ship business”, which frequently involves and highly respectful of the sensitive high-quality products and our primary occur in third-world countries in connecclose interaction with clients, including nature of the personal data that our goal is for the users to benefit from our tion with public tenders and that these consulting, training and collaborating customers, end-users, employees and products. We therefore have no interest tenders represent a very limited part of with hearing care professionals, for inother stakeholders trust us to process, in supporting business conduct that our total revenue. By the nature of our stance audiologists, hearing aid dispensand we are committed to protecting contributes to distorting market mechabusiness, challenges regarding corrupers, ear-nose-and-throat specialists and such personal data through high levels nisms. Equally, we want to protect any tion are thus extremely rare. Nevertheclinic owners. of security measures and responsible end-user data that we process. less, according to the policy, we have policies. In 2018, with the implementaincorporated business ethics principles The Group’s strong focus on ensuring tion of GDPR, we have raised awareness In 2010, we adopted a formal business into contracts with third parties where the highest degree of business ethics of data privacy in the Group even higher ethics policy that applies to all Group relevant, and we have applied a set of possible has resulted in the fact that and taken measures to ensure complicompanies. The policy outlines how we principles to avoid misuse of payments the Group has not received any reports ance with the applicable legal framewant to act and how we want to be and financial transactions. on cases of either corruption or bribery works. Data privacy is not a project but perceived, when it comes to the ethical in 2018. We believe that this is a direct is the backbone of an increasingly digital aspects of doing business and interresult of the significant attention paid to organisation and will thus continue to be acting with customers. Specifically, the the business ethics policy by employees of utmost importance to us. A permanent policy provides guidelines as to what is and managers on all levels of the Group. function as Data Privacy Manager for appropriate and inappropriate marketDemant has thus been created to reflect ing, hospitality and other interaction with this. For 2019 we envision that the main hearing healthcare professionals. During focus will be on the continued training of 2019 we will review the business ethics employees and adherence to policies. policy to assess whether it is still valid or if it needs to be updated. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 44 Concluding remarks Concluding remarks Looking back at 2018, we are proud we We have defined the below initiatives as Demant is committed to ensuring its have invested the time and resources our guidance for corporate social responbusiness practices are responsible, to comply with our 14 principles and to sibility in 2019 and beyond: transparent, in line with our principles deliver on the promises we made (put and with the UN Global Compact, conforward in last year’s report) to our best • Further improve ongoing data tributing to the UN Sustainable Developabilities. We have been updating our collection on diversity and inclusion ment Goals on continuous basis. supplier risk assessment system, while throughout our global Group. having rolled out a new Code of Conduct • Add new initiatives to the already This report complements Demant’s for suppliers. We have also focused on existing ones to further enhance Annual Report 2018 which presents anti-bribery legislation and invested a diversity and inclusion and explore the Group’s strategy and consolidated significant amount of time into exploring whether our current diversity policy results regarding financial, social and the concepts of diversity and inclusion in addresses our needs. environmental performance. In addition, Demant. In addition, our energy con• Continue strengthening our one our reporting resembles the requirements sumption reporting has been extended company approach by leveraging such as company profile, a clear explaby including more retail entities and synergies and collaborations in the nation of our processes, risk assesscountries. CSR area. ments and KPIs. • Invite more stakeholders to work across our functions, company Our ambition is to pave new ways in brands and countries to collectively hearing health, while ensuring a longdefine what Corporate Social Reterm, sustainable profile and conducting sponsibility means to us, improve our business in a responsible way. processes and develop our way of contributing to Sustainable DevelopOur purpose is to create life-changing ment Goals. hearing health. • During 2019 we will also review the business ethics policy to assess whether it is still valid or needs to be updated. Demant ∙ CSR Report 2018 45
