Communication on Progress 2018 Redspher Statement of continued support About Redspher Redspher CSR Strategy The 10 principles of UN Global Compact Redspher Communication on Progress 2 Statement of Continued Support As Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Redspher, I am pleased to conﬁrm our continued support for the United Union Global Compact and renew our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its 10 principles on Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This Communication on Progress aims to share with you the efforts we made since our membership to the UN Global Compact to improve our CSR performance by making its 10 principles part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. Enjoy the reading! Sincerely yours, Philippe HIGELIN Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 3 About Redspher Group Redspher is an open platform that facilitates and simpliﬁes on-demand delivery. Redspher, as a platform, covers most of the services related to On-Demand delivery, offering tailor made solutions. Redspher brings together all legal entities operating under the following brands: Easy2Go, Easy4Pro, Easy2Trace, Flash, GeniusAcademy, Roberts.eu, Rubiwin, Schwerdtfeger Transport, Upela & Yoctu (this list is exhaustive on the date of last update of the document and may change according to the evolution of the Group). What is on-demand delivery? On-Demand delivery, as opposed to programmed transport, is organized upon request from a shipper. It offers more ﬂexibility for the shipper. 4 Facts & ﬁgures USA €300 M Turnover in 2018 Over 1.000.000 deliveries in 2017 49 ofﬁces in 19 Countries Global presence 672 employees Majority Management owned + 43% by PE Eurazeo PME Insight on Redspher brands European leader in Specialized in time A web based solution to A Tool comparing Premium Freight. Flash critical transports, manage all ad hoc worldwide shipping and offers tailor made Schwerdtfeger relies on transports. Easy4Pro is tracking solutions for solutions worldwide, by its strong presence in much more than a TMS. your parcels. road and air. Germany, with its teams, drivers and partners. easy4pro.com www.upela.com www.ﬂash.global schwerdtfegergmbh.de Online solutions for companies looking to Online training center creating quickly improve their An App to monitor new horizons for logistics. Set Get online access to the customer logistic vehicles and shipments. up new standards with biggest european ﬂeet of experience: ﬁrst, last mile Improve the attractive and tailor made small vehicles for your & direct delivery in communication between content. urgent and direct Europe. shippers and drivers for a deliveries. better quality of service. easy2go.fr geniusacademy.eu roberts.eu easy2trace.com Rubiwin is the pit Offers a set of basic tools crew for carriers, for IT to help companies offering tools and and startup kickstart negotiated deals to their applications save time and money. yoctu.com rubiwin.com Redspher CSR Strategy What is our CSR strategy? To improve the sustainability of our development path by reinforcing our attractivity and by being competitive. What do we stand for? To become a great place to work for & with in our market. What are our priorities? To reduce our environmental footprint To improve our social footprint To create sustainable value What are our key levers? Innovation Training Fair business practices 7 Strategic CSR Goals ENVIRONMENT CUSTOMERS To measure and to reduce the impact To become their strategic partner for our of our activities on the environment CSR performances To offer our customers a carbon neutral To promote our CSR commitments and transport solution achievements EMPLOYEES PARTNERS To attract and keep good and talented To integrate the CSR expectations employees on board in the management of transport To create a working environment suppliers promoting diversity, innovation and trust To support improvements in working conditions of drivers Human Labour Rights UN GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES Environment Anti-Corruption 9 Human Rights 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights 2. no complicity in Human Rights abuses. International expansion, both organic or external, is a pillar of the Group’s growth strategy. Redspher applies the same policy in all its agencies in order to ensure the Group’s worldwide reputation and quality of service. It means respecting a comparable level of ethics and identical operational processes across the whole group. 10 Human Rights Goal Solutions Results Implementation of a Code of Conduct for the Group’s employees Awareness to the respect of Human Comparable level of ethics Rights made in the CSR e-learning and respect for Human training program Rights guaranteed in all the Group’s agencies regardless Engage the Group Implementation of a reporting the country of operation and its employees procedure for concerns and unethical with respect for behaviors Human Rights Realization of an anonymous Employee satisfaction: employee satisfaction survey every + 0,3 percentage points year in order to enforce the freedom compared to 2017 of expression within the Group Topics addressed in the Code of Conduct: 11 Child & forced labour, anti-discrimination policy and prohibition of harassment Labour 3. Support the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4. Eliminate of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5. Abolish child labour 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Human Resources management is a top priority. Redspher made a signiﬁcant investment in training, promotion of internal mobility and talent management. Redspher also promoted the use of digital communities among employees and worked on the development of its employer brand. 12 LABOUR Goal Solutions Results Development of a CSR e-learning program, Raise employees’ promoting diversity at work 1 awareness Implementation of a Code of Conduct for the Group’s employees Promote diversity and equal Gender equality Percentage of women in the total workforce opportunities through hiring and is 12 % higher than the sector average within the Group career management Implementation of a Comparable level of working conditions and reporting procedure in respect for individuals guaranteed in all the case of violation of the Group’s agencies regardless the country of Code of Conduct principles operation Topics addressed in the Code of Conduct: Respect for ILO conventions, child & forced labour, freedom of association and right to collective bargaining, respect for staff fundamental rights, anti-discrimination policy and prohibition of harassment 13 LABOUR Goal Solutions Results Same training opportunities for all the In 2018 12 220 online trainings have been Group’s employees completed by the Redspher’s employees thanks to Redspher’s e-learning platform 2 Development of the 29 internal mobilities in 2018, 10 of which Group’s talents by enabled the employees to move to Attracting, internal mobility management positions retaining & developing New premises answering to high quality talented Creation of a healthy standards for Contern (2015), Lille (2017) and employees and stimulating work Maastricht (2018) ofﬁces and ongoing program environment for the of compliance of premises in France Group’s employees 1 work accident in 2018 Realization of a yearly employee satisfaction Regular measurement of survey with deﬁnition of an improvement plan the impact of the actions Employee satisfaction for 2018: carried out by Redspher + 0,3 percentage points compared to 2017 14 WORKING IN 49 OFFICES OVER 19 COUNTRIES Redspher 672 EMPLOYEES IN Talent THE GROUP 34% OF EMPLOYEES ARE FEMALE Pool 25 CULTURALLY AND LINGUISTICALLY DIVERSE COMMUNITIES SECTOR AVERAGE: 22% OF WOMEN IN REPRESENTED IN THE TRANSPORT (*) GROUP 24% EMPLOYEES ARE AGED LESS THAN 30 YEARS 20% OF LEADER TEAM ARE FEMALE (*) Source: Eurostat 2017 15 Environment 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8. Promote greater environmental responsibility 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Redspher decided to place the respect of the environment at the heart of it’s strategy. A large set of initiatives has been launched in order to reduce the environmental footprint as well as to improve the Group’s efﬁciency. 16 Environmental Policy The Environmental Management System (EMS) of Redspher covers in particular the operations of the sites of Lille (France) and Maastricht (The Netherlands) that are We believe that Redspher environmental objectives are aligned engaged in an ISO 14001 certification process and underpins the objectives set in our and contribute to meet Group’s long term targets: Environmental Policy. ● Reducing the environmental impact of Redspher direct The policy of Redspher is focused on implementing and maintaining the EMS in an activity and of its employees effective and profitable way. Goal of the EMS is to be able, at any moment, to comply with the requirements of customers and interested parties as well as with all relevant ● Reducing the environmental impact of the transports organized by the Group for its customers by: legislation and regulations. The EMS incorporates the requirements of ISO 14001:2015. ● Optimization and reduction of empty mileage thanks to innovative and digital new solutions Redspher is fully committed to continuous improvement in all its processes and practices ● Promoting the use of cleaner and lower to enhance its environmental performance through constant review. Redspher is consumption engines within our suppliers committed to the protection of the environment in all aspects of its business and in particular to significant aspects of its operations including prevention of pollution. Redspher’s long term strategy: sustainable growth Our Environmental approach, like all the initiatives launched by the group, aims above all ● Expand our leadership position in Europe and do our first step in another continent, to satisfy customers and interested parties. Our EMS must be simple, pragmatic and ● Meet our 2023 financial target, innovative, both in terms of solutions designed to reduce environmental impacts and ● Offer value added services to our customers in terms of how to involve teams. It is a unifying project illustrating the Group's CSR commitments, Environment, Social and Business Ethics, based on concrete, measurable and verifiable actions by all interested parties. ● Invest in process digitization to achieve our goals and protect the interests of our stakeholders Philippe HIGELIN Chief Executive Officer 17 Environment Goal Solutions Results 1 The execution of organized expedites per Measure the impact of Realization of a Carbon Redspher has been Redspher’s activity on assessment identiﬁed as the main the environment and source of GHG emissions identify the main sources of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions directly or A measurement system Build up a reliable indirectly generated by has been built up in measurement system of the Group’s activity house to ensure a GHG emissions linked to regular follow up of the Redspher activity deﬁned KPIs Scope 3 represents more than 99% of the Group’s emissions Road activities are accountable for approximately 97% of those emissions The emissions generated by upstream activities (business travels, employees commuting, capital goods, …) have comparatively a negligible impact (<1%) 18 Environment Goal Solutions Results Development and use of advanced mileage Optimization and optimization technology reduction of empty mileage thanks to Training of the employees to the optimization innovative and digital tools and process developed by Redspher 2 new solutions Creation of an optimization center Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions generated by the Achievement of a 20% CO2 reduction for road Implementation of a transports organized activity over a consecutive period of 5 years: program that will lead by Redspher for its obtention of the 1st Lean & Green Star in 2015 into a customers & operated Lean & Green award Qualiﬁcation for the 2nd Lean & Green Star by the Group’s transport suppliers Launch of an urban delivery service based on Fostering the use of full electric vehicles (Easy2Go) cleaner and lower Work with Carrier Community to encourage consumption engines Euronorms regular upgrade within our customer supply chain Implementation of a Code of Conduct for the Group’s transport suppliers 19 Environment Goal Solutions Results Selection of a green hosting provider Taking into account environmental criteria “Green IT” when buying computer equipment Donation campaign of computer equipment that is no longer used 3 Eco-friendly e-learning module Raise employees’ implementation Reduce greenhouse awareness Environmental protection clause in the gas (GHG) emissions Group's Code of Conduct directly generated by Implement an effective Redspher activity Environmental 2 sites engaged in an ISO 14001 certiﬁcation and its employees Management System process in 2018: tailored to all the Group’s Lille (FR) & Maastricht (NL) activities Choice of buildings with excellent energy Improvement of energy performance for the Group’s ofﬁces efﬁciency of Redspher’s (incl. Contern, Lille and Maastricht) ofﬁces Use of renewable energies in Maastricht ofﬁce which is equipped with 120 solar panels 20 Fight against corruption 10. Work against corruption in all its forms The Group Management believes that opposing any kind of corruption and maintaining a high level of business ethics is essential to the sustainable growth of the Group. Redspher worked on the commitment of its management team and of all employees, formalized in the form of signed documents. 21 Fight against corruption Goal Solutions Results Ensure Formalization of a business ethics management statement, signed by Excom commitment in the members ﬁght against Implementation of a Code Comparable level of corruption of Conduct for the Group’s employees. business ethics Dedicated e-learning module to the guaranteed in all the ﬁght against corruption Group’s agencies Prevent corruption regardless the risks within the Implementation of a Code country of operation Group and raise of Conduct for the Group’s transport awareness of suppliers. Redspher’s Implementation of a reporting employees procedure Topics addressed in the Code of Conduct: gifts given and received, conﬂict of interests, prevention of money laundering, ﬁght against corruption and relationships with suppliers, customers or any third party associate. 22
