about this report Cover Story contents 26_Promote a Safe and Healthy Dietary Culture We expressed our determination for business Overview CJ CheilJedang prepares a Sustainability Report every year to transope rations us ing i m ag es relating to our own Food and Bio business as well as our LETTER 04. Letter from the CEO parently disclose the company’s sustainability management goals and material issues including shared growth with FROM CEO stakeholders, social, environment and global performances and utilizes the report as a communication channel impacts. Based on these core issues, the with stakeholders. We will continue to share our progress of creating Report presents our will to lead a healthy shared values with stakeholders through the publication of Sustainability dietary culture and contribute to society’s OVERVIEW 08. OnlyOne CJ sustainable growth. 10. Global CJ Reports. 12. Our Business Reporting Period and Scope 16. Performance Overview This report covers activities and performances from January 1st to External Evaluation of Sustainability 31_Lead the Global Market with Eco-Friendly December 31st, 2018, and includes some information about the first four months of 2019 to enhance our stakeholders’ understanding Management Bio-based Strategies MATERIAL 20. CJ CheilJedang CSV of the data. The scope of the report encompasses all domestic and ISSUES IN 22. SDGs COMPASS 23. Stakeholder Engagement overseas business sites of CJ CheilJedang, except for the logistics Included in the DJSI Asia Pacific for Four SUSTAINABILITY business. The economic performance category includes data for all 24. Identifying Key Issues in Sustainability Consecutive Years domestic and overseas business sites, while the category of social 26. Issue 1. Promote a safe and healthy and environmental performance is focused on domestic business sites For the first time as Korean food industry, CJ CheilJedang dietary culture that is verifiable by an external agency. Data including overseas was included for four consecutive years in the DJSI(Dow 31. Issue 2. Lead the global market with performance is specified in footnotes or with additional description. Jones Sustainability Indices) Asia-Pacific Index, which eco-friendly bio-based was created jointly by the international sustainability strategies Reporting Principles index provider, S&P Dow Jones Indices and the Swiss36. Issue 3. Drive responsible production This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI(Global Reporting based RobecoSAM. Overall, the company was highly for sustainable life and Initiative) Standards’ Core option. r ec o g n i z e d i n 2 7 e v a l u a t i on c a t e g o r i e s i n t h e environment 36_Drive Responsible Production for economic, environmental and social criteria. In particular, Sustainable Life and Environment 42. Issue 4. Create an industrial ecosystem External Assurance CJ CheilJedang earned even greater appreciation than for inclusive growth This report underwent a third-party verification process by the the previous year for our performance in the sectors of 49. Issue 5. Realize a harmonious local independent agency, DNV GL, to improve the accuracy and credibility customer relationship management and supply chain community of the contents herein. Please refer to pages 80-81 for details and the management(economy), occupational health and safety assurance provider’s feedback. and social reporting(society), environmental policy, climate strategy, and packaging(environment). Contact STRUCTURE OF 56. Governance Received ‘The Best’ grade in the Shared 58. Integrity Management For further information or inquiries regarding this report, please contact SUSTAINABILITY us using the following information. Growth Index 60. Risk Management For the first time in the food industry, we earned ‘The 62. Customer Satisfaction Honorary Company for Shared Growth’ in the Shared 64. Human Resources Management Growth Index for three consecutive years. This Index was 42_Create an Industrial Ecosystem for Inclusive Growth designed by the Fair Trade Commission and the Korea Commission for Corporate Partnership to establish APPENDIX 69. Financial Information Address CJ CheilJedang. 330, Dongho-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul 70. Sustainability Management Data fai r t rade practices between large co mpanies and SMEs and facilitate mutual growth through evaluations. 76. Awards and Certification Phone +82-2-6740-1114 CJ CheilJedang will steadily expand our support for 77. GRI Content Index Email sustainability@cj.net SME suppliers and their mutual growth based on our 80. Independent Assurance Statement Published Date April 2019 management philosophy, leading the creation of an industrial ecosystem for shared growth with stakeholders. Interactive PDF This report was published as an Interactive PDF including hyperlinks External Evaluation to relevant web pages. 49_Realize Harmonious Local Community Direct to web page 04 05 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 LETTER FROM CEO Greetings to our respected stakeholders, Looking back on the global business environment in 2018, there were growing uncertainties in the worldwide economy triggered by the China-U.S trade war and U.S’ exclusive economic growth. South Korea experienced continued increase in exports, but most business sectors other than the semiconductor industry faced difficulties. The domestic market also suffered due to slow employment growth and investment. During such a difficult time, CJ CheilJedang has consolidated a strong presence in the market with our major businesses and core products. The company has also continued to make headway based on our founding philosophy, ‘Contributing to the national economy’. We have also maintained responsible supply and production based on ‘Happy Companion’, a platform for shared growth with SMEs to promote a balanced growth in the food industry. Following the development and production of fermentation-based amino acid, we have also carried out eco-friendly projects on the global stage with our ambition to set foot into the Green Bio market. The year 2019 will be another rough year with prolonged global trade war and the possibility of financial instability in emerging countries due to tightened monetary policies in developed countries. Nevertheless, CJ CheilJedang’s management and employees will endeavor to set goals two levels ahead to overcome limitations, following our slogan of ‘Challenge Beyond Possibility’. In order to achieve the best possible outcome, our 2019 business strategy is as below. First, we will take a huge leap forward for our global business. Global business represents the future of CJ CheilJedang. We will mobilize all of our resources to accomplish groundbreaking growth in our global business. Second, we will become an unrivaled company. We will simultaneously achieve world-class competitiveness for our products and pursue more efficient business management, strengthening our leading position in various categories in the market. For these goals, we will complete the following tasks in each business sector. Processed Food business will focus on superb flavors, manufacturing competitiveness, and global infrastructure, Bio business will focus on new technologies, distinctive approaches, and R&D capacity, with these infrastructure and R&D capacity we will develop into an innovative global lifestyle company. In addition, we will identify social and environmental issues throughout our value chain, create shared values with our business capacity, and build a sustainable business ecosystem for shared growth. CJ CheilJedang pledges to actively communicate with our stakeholders, fulfill our social responsibility, implement our sustainability management to create both financial and social values. We hope you will continue to show support for our growth and advancement. CJ Cheiljedang will communicate with Stakeholders, Thank you. fulfill social responsibilities, and implement a sustainable management that creates financial Hyun-Jae Shin CEO of CJ CheilJedang performance and social value 06 07 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW 08 OnlyOne CJ 10 GLOBAL CJ 12 OUR BUSINESS 16 PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW * Credit to 2016 Tim Griffith CJ Blossom Park 08 09 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OnlyOne CJ Global CJ OnlyOne CJ Our Business Performance Overview INTRODUCTION OF CJ BLOSSOM PARK (R&D Center) CJ MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY CJ pursues a unique lifestyle that invigorates our customer’s day-to-day. CJ has taken the initiative in spreading our R&D Vision culture across a wider world. We present new values to help them lead a healthier, more pleasant, and convenient CJ Blossom Park places a priority on R&D investment and performance to achieve the company’s goal to become life style. We act based on code of behavior of integrity, passion, creativity, and respect on top of our core values of the World Best CJ. To this end, we keep up with market trends, analyze social and environmental impacts, and design 1) Only One , human talent and shared growth. With theses behavior and core values CJ has contributed to develop our R&D strategies based on the results. With the efforts made by R&D groups in Food, Biotech and Integrated as a global lifestyle company and create shared values in areas where social interest is needed, thereby contributing Technology as well as the company-wide future technology research group, we will achieve significant growth in our to the growth of our society. business and explore new and promising businesses for the future. 1) OnlyOne: One of the most important value pursued by CJ that aims to become the first, best, and most differentiated company from every aspect. R&D Infrastructure Mission and Vision In 2015, an R&D complex called CJ Blossom Park was established to integrate multiple research centers for our Food and Bio business. The Park is now gaining momentum through comprehensive research projects among differMISSION OnlyOne ent divisions in addition to the R&D efforts of each business sector. In 2016, we established the CJ Research Center Provide the best value America in the U.S. to build infrastructure for the global growth of the company. to our customers with OnlyOne products and services, while contributing to CJ CheilJedang Open Innovation the growth of our CJ CheilJedang is planning to invest KRW 20 billion for three years to foster startups through partnerships with society promising Korean venture enterprises and launch an idea incubation program with academic institutions as part of the Open Innovation initiative. We will continue to conduct such projects to lead R&D innovation. R&D Human Resources Unit: Person R&D Investment Unit: KRW 100 million A global lifestyle company creating healthy, Category 2016 2017 2018 Category 2016 2017 2018 VISION happy and convenient Food 293 280 326 Food 507 564 537 lifestyles Biotech 261 260 238 Biotech 466 477 525 Integrated Technology 66 81 110 Integrated Technology 90 96 103 Future Technology* 9 33 Future Technology* 33 Human Shared R&D Planning 48 46 60 Total 1,063 1,137 1,198 CORE Talent OnlyOne Growth Total 668 676 767 VALUES Exceptional talents, First, Creation of * Newly established in Dec. 2017 Exceptional Best, the ecosystem, corporate Differentiated Shared values * Newly established in Dec. 2017 culture INTRODUCTION OF CJ BLOSSOM CAMPUS CODE OF BEHAVIOR integrity passion creativity respect (Integrated Food Production Complex) Business Overview INTRODUCTION OF CJ CHEILJEDANG CJ Blossom Campus is a smart factory that turns the results of CJ Blossom Park’s R&D efforts into For the past six decades, CJ CheilJedang CJ CheilJedang was established in 1953 as a sugar manufacturer based on the founding philosophy of ‘Contributing has led the advancement of the Korean innovative products. It produces home meal replacement products loved by consumers all around the to the national economy’, the belief that a company should contribute to national economic growth and the food industry and contributed to the overworld, such as ‘Hetbahn’ and ‘Bibigo’. Products that lead the trend of K-Food are developed at CJ improvement of people’s lives and ultimately to society. As a leading general food company in Korea, we are all growth of the biotech industry. operating our businesses to enrich the health and well-being of our customers. We will expand the scope of our Blossom Park and produced at CJ Blossom Campus. Food Business business to the global stage through revolutionary growth. Also, CJ CheilJedang will endeavor to overcome We are leading ‘K-Food’ our limitations under the slogan of ‘Challenge Beyond Possibility’ to build our global competitiveness and fulfill Spirit Aerial view of CJ Blossom Campus culture to create a founding philosophy. CJ CheilJedang’s OnlyOne Spirit lies in the largest integrated food production complex in Korea healthy and convenient with the first, best and differentiated features—approximately 165,000 m 2 of space utilizing lifestyle with distinctive Company Profile eco-friendly cutting edge technologies. Korean food. Company Name CJ CheilJedang Co., Ltd. Employees 6,550 persons Bio Business Type of Business Food, Bio Total Assets(Consolidated) KRW 19.5 trillion Advanced Eco-friendly Technology We provide a wide range of products and Address CJ CheilJedang. 330, Dongho-ro, Total Equities(Consolidated) KRW 7.3 trillion CJ Blossom Campus covers a wide range of production and logistics activities using cutting-edge solutions in the nutrition Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea Sales(Consolidated) KRW 18.7 trillion digital technologies. It will become a base camp for CJ CheilJedang’s future business and for expanding and health sectors with Foundation Date Nov. 5, 1953 Operating Profit(Consolidated) KRW 823.7 billion into the global market. our latest technologies in microorganism CEO Hyun Jae Shin Credit Rating Commercial paper: A1, Corporate bonds: AA fermentation and refining. 10 11 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OnlyOne CJ GLOBAL CJ Global CJ Our Business Performance Overview CJ CheilJedang produces and sells products in markets beyond the borders of Korea. We have business and human resources offices for global competitiveness not only in Asian markets such as China and Vietnam, but also in other countries, including the U.S. and Brazil. Russia Germany Detailed Global Network United States China Food Business Korea Bio Business Japan Mexico Cambodia Myanmar Thailand Philippines Malaysia Brazil Vietnam Indonesia Australia Regional Sales in 2018 Unit: KRW 100 million Overseas Business Locations in 2018 Unit: Number of locations Employees in Overseas Operations in 2018 Unit: Person 2016 1 Food Business 59 2016 ,086 6,70 19 18 50 88 ,3 2017 77 2 Bio Business 17 2017 16 ,5 17 4, 31 16 ,3 2018 2018 15 77 27 ,4 11 0 ,4 13 Total 11 4, 3 12 90 42 5, 10 23 ,413 89 22 81 ,5 0 ,4 22 ,037 23 53 49 10 ,739 44 9 49 43,7 7 7 03 4 ,917 2, 25 89 ,431 3 54 4 22,2 18 ,8 71 5 1, 9 10 809 7 1 6 99 44 0 4 6, 3, 79 32 5 6 9 1, 1 63 5 5 21 5 3, 22 9 5 47 6, 3, 24 23 36 61 2 3 3 48 3, 254 3 0 Domestic Asia America Europe Others Total Korea China United Japan South Others Total Asia America Europe Others Total (Germany, Russia, Brazil, Mexico, Australia, etc.) States East Asia 12 13 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OnlyOne CJ OUR BUSINESS Global CJ Our Business Performance Overview FOOD CJ CheilJedang’s Food business actively takes into account the social trend of pursuing health, convenience and other customer needs to provide products of excellent flavor and distinctive quality. Our Food business Head of CJ CheilJedang Food Business Division keeps growing with our premium brand power of 'bibigo', 'Hetbahn', ‘Gourmet’, ‘TheHealthy’, and ‘Beksul’. Sin Ho Kang We are also leading the globalization of Korean food by developing ‘Bibigo’ into a global brand. “CJ CheilJedang will become a global No.1 food company leading the K-Food culture by spreading the excellence of Korean food around the world.” food store Home Meal Replacement(HMR) Fresh Food Focusing on the brand ‘Bibigo’, we keep up with the CJ CheilJedang takes the initiative of spreading ‘K-Food’ rapidly-changing modern lifestyles by developing culture by providing Kimchi an iconic traditional Korean HMR products with which people around the world food. We are leading the growth of the domestic Kimchi can easily experience Korean food at home. ‘Hetbahn’, market with ‘Bibigo’ Kimchi products made with quality which maintains the freshness of products through ingredients, and enhancing our consumers’ convenience the daily rice polishing system, is a dominant OnlyOne in using our products by applying our distinctive packaging brand that opened up the cooked rice product market method to new products. in Korea. With the launch of ‘Hetbahn Cupbahn’, it is growing into an unparalleled brand that represents Seasoning substitute food products for the future. ‘DASIDA’, which represents the flavor of homemade Sweeteners Edible Oil Korean meals, is a unique brand that has been embraced CJ CheilJedang also leads the sweetener market by going In the Korean cooking cooking oil market that was mostly by Korean consumers for over forty years since 1975 as beyond our reputation as the first sugar manufacturing focused on soybean oil, CJ CheilJedang is acting as a it helps consumers easily enrich the flavor of food and company and constantly conducts R&D of products, such game-changer by launching trendy products, including top off their favorite dishes. ‘Haechandle’ is a leading as ‘Oligosaccharide’, a fiber-rich sweetener, ‘Xylose Sugar’, premium oil products using olive, grape seed and canola, and Processed Meat & Frozen Food traditional paste brand, which boasts our authentic a sweetener that reduces the sugar level in our bodies, flavored oil products using green onion and garlic. In the B2B fermentation technology to achieve the flavor of and ‘Allulose’, a sweetener with zero calories. We are also market, we are receiving positive feedback by introducing ‘TheHealthy’ is a brand that offers tasty and healthy traditional paste, the basis of Korean dishes. expanding our portfolio of specialty ingredients, such as differentiated oil products are specific to the characteristics processed meat products made of quality ingredients flavored syrup, based on our competitiveness with sugar of customers. without the use of food additives that may raise ingredients. consumers’ concerns. ‘SPAMⓡ’ products are produced Seaweed, Dessert, Snack & in Korea through a technical partnership agreed in 1987 between CJ CheilJedang and an American food Health-functional Food company, HORMEL. ‘Bibigo’ seaweed products, which are enjoyed by many Flour Starch In the Frozen Food business, we aim to achieve the people around the world, are made with the effort to best quality products so that consumers can feel preserve the unique flavor of seaweed and heighten the We have pioneered a new category of business by paying Our Starch business is focused on corn starch and fruit as if they are dining out. We have also organized appeal of TheHealthy and clean ingredient. Also, a variety attention to the trend of convenient food, including ‘Cup sugar. but, we are expanding the business with functional our line-up consisting of various products including of ready-to-eat dessert products of the brand ‘Petitzel’, Jeon(traditional Korean pancake)’ using organic natural products including ‘Tagatose’, attracting high expectations dumplings, frozen rice, Korean and Western side dishes, including jelly, puddings and cakes, are also loved by our ingredients and other pancake products with home baking for growth and increased market share in the functional pizza and other snacks with our brands ‘Bibigo’ and consumers. In the health-functional food business, we mixes. In the B2B market, we are providing distinctive ingredient industry. chef-made quality ‘Gourmet’ evolving the domestic have launched ‘BYO’, a brand featuring plant-based solutions with high-value-added products that meet the and overseas’ frozen food market. lactobacillius found in fermented Korean food, and needs of customers and are steadily expanding the scope of functional ingredients including ginseng. These represent our markets. continued efforts to help consumers lead a healthier life. 14 15 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OnlyOne CJ OUR BUSINESS Global CJ Our Business Performance Overview BIO CJ CheilJedang’s Bio business safely provides a wide range of R&D-based products of the highest quality, including amino acids and feed, helping people all around the world live healthier, better lives. In our Bio CEO, Head of CJ CheilJedang Bio Business Division business, the company has continuously invested in R&D to bring out innovative technologies such as Hyun Jae Shin L-Methionine. In the Feed & Livestock business, CJ CheilJedang has strengthened our business capacity to expand overseas production bases and marketing networks, helping us grow into one of the world’s “Our Bio business provides the highest quality products and top bio companies. Now we are stepping into new Bio areas, including amino acids for food and medicine, solutions for customers, utilizing the world’s best eco-friendly eco-friendly biomaterials, inedible biomass, functional feed with alternative antibiotics, and high-growth, bio technologies and global production bases.” high-efficient feed, to become an established leader in the global Bio industry. Human Nutrition & Health We have the largest share in the global market for nucleotides, a type of flavor enhancer. Through steady development of future-oriented products, animal nutrition & health Tryptophan Valine we are expanding our product portfolio with the natural food ingredients and flavoring and amino By developing new technologies and methods through R&D, In the tryptophan market, we achieved We recorded KRW 79 billion in sales and acids for food(including arginine, citrulline and CJ CheilJedang maintains an unrivaled position in the global KRW 226.8 billion in sales and 54% of 65% of market share in the 2018 valine naturally-fermented ‘cysteine’). market. We have developed five major amino acids(lysine, market share in 2018. Tryptophan is market. Along with leucine and isoleucine, threonine, tryptophan, valine, and methionine) using our one of five essential amino acids, and it valine is utilized for the muscular world’s first eco-friendly bio fermentation methods, as well is generally used to reduce the stress development of livestock. In the past, as new products such as feed amino (arginine, histidine et al.). of pigs and improve their potential for valine was mostly used for hog farming, growth. but we pioneered a new market in the poultry industry through technical Nucleotides marketing. Now we are focusing on In the nucleotide market, CJ CheilJedang expanding demand and sales. reached KRW 328.9 billion in sales and 56% of market share in 2018. We aim to maintain our unequaled, position in the premium flavor enhancer market through continuous efforts to develop and launch natural food ingredients and flavorings. Feed for Domestic Dairy Farming Through upgraded products and field consulting, we achieved market share of 9.2% in 2018, seeing KRW 49.4 billion in sales. For 2019, we are planning to increase productivity to create value for farmers, reinforcing our superior capability over other companies. 16 17 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OnlyOne CJ PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW Global CJ Our Business Performance Overview CJ CheilJedang pursues sustainable growth based on economic reliability, environmental soundness and social responsibility. We practice corporate sustainability to fulfill our responsibility for all stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers, and local communities. We also publish a sustainability report, which discloses the results of our efforts in the previous year. Economy Supply Chain Financial Support Sales(Consolidated) Operating Profit(Consolidated) for SME Suppliers(Win-Win Fund) Farming Area under Contract Cultivation 18.7 512 827 16.4 482 482 14.6 8,436 8,327 18.7 8,327 51.2 827 7,766 390 381 KRW trillion KRW million KRW billion 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Customers Local Communities Consumer Centered Customer Satisfaction Index Management Certification Corporate Citizenship and Philanthropy Number of Volunteers 5,521 92.3 93.9 92.1 216 Maintained Obtained Maintained 4,763 Certification Recertification Certification 152 149.2 92.1 points RE KRW 14.92 billion 5,521 persons 3,919 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Employees Environment Proportion of Female Executives/ Reduction in GHG(Greenhouse Gas) Education Hours Managers(Manager level or above) Emissions(Accumulated) Use of Recycled Packaging Materials 90.6 75,428 72.3 46,973 69,431 56.4 15.8 15.6 63,037 40,420 90.6 15.6 75,428 46,973 13.7 37,150 hours/person % tCO2e tons 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 18 19 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OnlyOne CJ global CJ our business performance overview MATERIAL ISSUES IN SUSTAINABILITY 20 CJ CheilJedang CSV 22 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 23 SDGS COMPASS 24 KEY ISSUES IN SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 26 Issue 1. Promote a safe and healthy dietary culture 31 Issue 2. Lead the global market with eco-friendly bio-based strategies 36 Issue 3. Drive responsible production for sustainable life and environment 42 Issue 4. Create an industrial ecosystem for inclusive growth 49 Issue 5. Realize a harmonious local community 20 21 MATERIAL ISSUES IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CJ CheilJedang CSV CREATING CSV CORE SHARED VALUE SUSTAINABILITY CJ CheilJedang CSV Stakeholder Engagement CJ CheilJedang operates our business by placing top priority on shared growth with local communities and SDGs COMPASS Key Issues in Sustainability Management creating social value. Key values are selected with consideration for environmental and social impacts both Issue 1. Promote a safe and healthy dietary culture inside and outside the company. Issue 2. Lead the global market with CSV(CREATING SHARED VALUE) MANAGEMENT SYSTEM eco-friendly bio-based Process to Creating CSV Core Shared Value strategies Issue 3. Drive responsible production for sustainable life and CJ CheilJedang strives to strengthen the long-term competitiveness of our business with our management 01. Social and Environmental Values 02. Relevance to Business 03. READINESS 04. Social Impact environment Issue 4. Create an industrial ecosystem philosphy and create a sustainable industrial ecosystem to become a global company respected by the · SDGs(Sustainable Development ·R  eviewing midto long-term · R  etaining competence · Considering the potential for inclusive growth country and society. Our CSV management that our entire value chain follows, is based on three principles Goals) business strategy by business ·Evaluating the viability of impact of social value we Issue 5. Realize a harmonious local community of: legal compliance, ethical management, and safety management. We wish to become a global lifestyle · Assessing local and global Social sector projects create and Environmental issues company that creates health, happiness and convenience for all. Furthermore, the company pursues sustainable growth based on our founding philosophy, ‘Contributing to the national economy,’ in order to contribute to an enhanced social economy and healthier lives for people. CREATING CSV CORE SHARED VALUE CSV ORGANIZATIONS CJ Cheiljedang CSV core shared value and major agenda Focusing on the three CSVs of ‘health and well-being’, ‘sustainable environment’, and ‘shared growth with society’, we manage measures to create value with a detailed major agenda. CJ CheilJedang announced ‘The Implementation of CSV’ in 2013 as ‘Contributing to the national economy’ to respond to the changing social demands. Using CJ’s newly-defined core capabilities, we have constructed VISION ‘A respected global company’ that builds a sustainable responsible CSV organizations to pursue the execution of distinctive social contribution businesses that business ecosystem for shared growth provide social value. Management Creative Contributing to the national economy = CSV(Creating Shared Values) philosophy CEO Business Management Human Administration Social Contribution Public Relations Division Shared Planning Group Growth Health and Sustainable CSV Team with the Well-being Environment Society JOINT DISCUSSION FOR SOCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS Animals Ecosystem CJ Group operates the Social Contribution Council to secure transparency in the process of donation for every corner of society that is in need of financial support. CJ Group aims to keep the donations transparent and reasonable by establishing the donation process on the group level. CJ CheilJedang also has our own Areas of HEALTH AND SUSTAINABLE WIN-WIN WITH Social Contribution Committee, which consists of the CEO, CFO(Business Management Administration, Head Commitment WELL-BEING ENVIRONMENT THE SOCIETY of the Finance Unit), the heads of compliance support and CSR departments. A meeting of the Committee We create a healthy society by We minimize the environmental impact We improve the capacity of the Measures is called when between KRW 100 million and KRW 1 billion of funds are available for donation. For a larger to create providing OnlyOne products and of all production activities, contributing domestic and overseas supply chain and values services. to the sustainable environment. create an industrial ecosystem to fulfill donation, we call a BOD meeting to make decisions. The Social Contribution Committee strictly examines the harmony with local community. purpose and details of any donation to make sure the funds go to the right place. Major ·Develop new products to consider ·Develop eco-friendly processes and new ·Support our partners in the supply agenda the health of customers, including energy sources chain to enhance their capacity low-protein rice and functional ·Develop eco-friendly products ·Provide SME suppliers with sweeteners Organizational Chart of CJ CheilJedang’s Social Contribution Committee ·Protect resources of local communities opportunities for growth and carry ·Secure food safety to build trust by increasing energy efficiency, managing out ‘Happy Companion’ activities to with our customers water resources, and reducing GHGs reinforce our business portfolio ·Reduce dietary imbalance ·Facilitate shared growth with farmers CEO ·Developing recyclable packaging by developing differentiated and solutions and nature-based raw materials specialized seeds and stabilizing contract cultivation ·Provide educational opportunities and emotional support to teenagers CFO Head of Compliance Support Division Head of CSR Division Social Contribution Planning Group ·Business Management Administration ·Head of the Finance Unit Legal Affairs Division Process Internalize sustainability management throughout the entire value chain CSV Team Compliance Legal compliance, ethical management, and safety management 22 23 MATERIAL ISSUES IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT SDGs COMPASS SUSTAINABILITY CJ CheilJedang CSV Stakeholder Engagement SDGs COMPASS Key Issues in Sustainability Management Issue 1. Promote a safe and healthy CJ CheilJedang strives to achieve the 17 SDGs(Sustainable Development Goals) through systematic social STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION SYSTEM dietary culture Issue 2. Lead the global market with value-based management with our intrinsic business management activities. SDGs are the sustainable eco-friendly bio-based strategies development goals outlined by the UN for the sustainable growth of the international community to Issue 3. Drive responsible production deal with universal issues of humanity, environment, economic and social. We will integrate CSV projects for sustainable life and CJ CheilJedang defines major stakeholder groups as customers, supply chains, shareholders and investors, environment based on the SDGs into our key business strategies throughout the value chain to explore new growth and communities in promoting sustainable management. We encourage stakeholders’ participation through Issue 4. Create an industrial ecosystem opportunities and contribute to resolving social issues. CJ CheilJedang will make continuous efforts to fulfill for inclusive growth various communication channels in and outside of the company and provide feedback by establishing Issue 5. Realize a harmonious local the SDGs and cooperate with global partners to address challenges in the world. community response plans for identified opinions and issues. Afterwards, the issues are continuously monitored and analyzed, and the results are reflected in CSV change management and risk management. Through these Statement of Support activities, we intend to reduce possible risks, including our financial, operational, and reputation, and CJ CSV-SDGs Linkage for the UN SDGs sustainable management. Afterwards, the improvement activities are implemented and are disclosed to stakeholders through sustainability reports and the website. • CSV project for rural • CSV project for rural • CSV project for rural •C SV project for rural •C  J-UNESCO Girl’s Education • Minewater Barcordrop Stakeholder Participation system development in Vietnam development in Vietnam development in Vietnam development in Vietnam • C J CheilJedang’s Declaration Campaign • Food Bank • Food Bank • Food Bank • CJ-UNESCO Girl’s Education of Human Rights • Development of low-carbon, • CJ Breeding Corp. • CJ Breeding Corp. • CJ Breeding Corp. • CJ Donors Camp •F  amily-friendly company highly-efficient feed • CJ Donors Camp • CJ Donors Camp • Development of products •C han Chan Chan Project certification • CJ Breeding Corp. Planning for Participation of Mapping of Building participation • Chan Chan Chan Project • Chan Chan Chan Project for good health(‘Hetbahn’ (food support for single-parent stakeholder Defining risks stakeholders and stakeholders capacity and resource (food support for single-parent (food support for single-parent low-protein rice, BYO) family) participation collection of opinions family) family) • Sponsorship for Good-bye Atopy Camp • Mutual Cooperation Center Applying changes to for Food Safety Reporting on Implementing CSV management Monitoring and Establishing measures stakeholder activities for Applying to risk analyzing and feedback process participation improvement management • Use of new and renewable • CSV project for rural • CSV project for rural • Employment of socially • Cultural Heritage Custodian •C  SV project for rural energy resources(fermented development in Vietnam development in Vietnam disadvantaged people activities development in Vietnam soybean meal, woodchips, etc.) • Naeil Chaeum Deduction • Win-Win Academy • CJ CheilJedang’s Declaration of • Social contribution for •M  utual Cooperation Center • Operation of the energy System •C  J Breeding Corp. Human Rights resource circulation(Recycling for Food Safety COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS committee • Increase in energy efficiency • Happy Companion • Increase in R&D human • Development of halal food of ‘hetbahn’ containers and used crayons) •D  evelopment of eco-friendly fermentation methods • Win-Win Academy resources and investment through process improvement • Sustainable packaging •S  ustainable packaging • Mutual Cooperation Center • CJ new material open innovation for Food Safety • Management of disposal pro•U  se of manufacturing cess for waste and pollutants CJ CheilJedang listens to the opinions of various stakeholders and seeks to reflect them in our CSV • CJ new material open innovation by-products as resources • Tree planting activities using • Increase in energy efficiency • Joint agreement on reducing management and creation of shared value. We collect feedback through the communication channel of each the wage gap through coopernew bio materials through process improvement stakeholder group, and review it on a regular basis to reflect their opinions in our business management. ation between large companies •M  anagement of disposal proand SMEs for shared growth cess for waste and pollutants Category Major Issues CJ CheilJedang’s Activities Communication Channels Customer •Managing relationships with •Developing health-conscious products •CJ CheilJedang website customers •Receiving ISMS •Product Label Inspection Group •Protecting the personal •(Information Security Management System) •Customer Relations Center • Sustainable packaging •D  evelopment of low-carbon, •D  evelopment of low-carbon, • Sustainability management • CSV project for rural information of customers Certification Improving products by reflecting •T.O.P(Trend Opinion Panel) •D  evelopment of low-carbon, highly-efficient feed highly-efficient feed education for employees and development in Vietnam VOC(Voice of Customer) highly-efficient feed • Minewater Barcordrop • Minewater Barcordrop suppliers • CJ-UNESCO Girl’s Education •U  se of new and renewable Campaign Campaign • Joining the UNGC • Joining the UNGC Supply Chain •Addressing supplier grievances •Selecting suppliers with fair practices who •Shared Growth Portal energy resources(fermented • CJ Breeding Corp. •C  J CheilJedang’s Declaration of • UN SDGs fulfillment •Selecting and managing suppliers comply with purchasing ethics •CJ Partners Club soybean meal, woodchips, etc.) Human Rights •U  se of manufacturing •Supporting SME suppliers and •Operating programs to support SME suppliers •Mutual Cooperation Center for Food Safety •O  peration of the energy by-products as resources farms •Conducting support activities to strengthen the •CJ Partners Meeting committee •P  urchase of sustainable food competitiveness of farms •VOC for shared growth •Reinforcing communication with suppliers •CJ Breeding Corp. • I ncrease in energy efficiency ingredients(RSPO palm oil, etc.) through process improvement •E  stablishment of animal Shareholders •Economic performance including •Maintaining stable governance and transparency •General shareholders meeting welfare policies and Investors stock price •Initiating business that can increase corporate •Quarterly and annual IR activities •Stability and transparency of values and boost growth •Disclosure governance Case Study Some domestic studies and research showed that single parents struggle to manage child-rearing and work due Local •The economically and socially •Encouraging employees to participate in •Donors Camp to lack of income and the negative perception of them in society. In 2018, CJ Cultural Foundation launched CJ Community disadvantaged volunteering activities •CJ Welfare Foundation, CJ Culture Foundation Case Fulfilling the SDGs •Fulfilling corporate social •Carrying out social contribution activities •Food Bank Hello Dream, a program to support single-parent families to help their children grow healthily. With the participaresponsibility •Fair and transparent process for donations •Community Chest of Korea 'Chan Chan Chan Project' •Local welfare institutions tion of our employees, we designed and conducted the ‘Chan Chan Chan Project’, which is based on the social contribution principles of the company. In this project, our employees cooked side dishes using CJ CheilJedang Employees •Securing and developing human •Operating a fair recruitment process without •Online recruitment fair resources discrimination •Open Council food products and delivered them to single-parent households. We made the most of the company’s capacity •Managing relations between labor •Operating a labor-management communication •Channel CJ CheilJedang and management channel •Café La Mer(Psychological counseling) as our chefs organized the menu with ease of storage and nutrition in mind. We conducted this event six times •Resolving employee grievances •Securing a communication channel for employees •Group newsletter ‘ni:m’ in 2018, and provided two types of side dishes to each household. In order to maintain this project as a true •Managing safety and security •Supporting welfare and health management of •Intranet discussion room 100 X 2 X 6 social contribution activity, not simply a one-time event, CJ CheilJedang will diversify the types of side •Maintaining work-life balance employees •Whistleblowing system persons types of times •Fair performance and evaluation •Creating a family-friendly corporate culture •Newsletter side dishes dishes and expand the scope of coverage to support as many single-parent households as possible. 24 25 MATERIAL ISSUES IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 KEY ISSUES IN SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY CJ CheilJedang CSV Stakeholder Engagement SDGs COMPASS MANAGEMENT Key Issues in Sustainability Management Issue 1. Promote a safe and healthy IDENTIFYING KEY ISSUE PROCESS dietary culture Issue 2. Lead the global market with eco-friendly bio-based strategies Issue 3. Drive responsible production for sustainable life and CJ CheilJedang established the key issues in sustainability management by considering the internal Through materiality assessment, CJ CheilJedang selected 12 important sustainability management issues and environment Issue 4. Create an industrial ecosystem management environment, major issues within the industry, and the opinions of internal and external constructed reports based on important issues. for inclusive growth stakeholders. We conducted an online survey to collect feedback of stakeholders. Issue 5. Realize a harmonious local community STEP1. Develop a list of sustainability STEP2. Conduct a survey of stakeholders STEP3. Materiality Assessment management issues and perform an analysis We comprehensively examined industrial characWe identified significant issues related to internal Based on the results of the survey analysis, we calculated the impact of each issue on the operation and perforteristics, changes in the business environment, and and external stakeholders regarding the 36 sustainmance of the company(business impact) and the concerns and expectations of external stakeholders(social interest), internal issues related to CJ CheilJedang, and made a ability management issues. For selected issues we and finally selected 12 key issues. list of 36 sustainability management issues(7 for the examined how such issues affect the financial pereconomy and overall business management; 9 for formance, operation, strategies and reputation of 1 the environment; 6 for employees; 5 for customers; the company. Key Issues 5 2 Potential Issues 4 4 for the local community; 5 for the supply chain). 3 Respondents to the survey 8 Analysis of internal issues CJ CheilJedang employees, suppliers, NGOs, NPOs, cus7 •Business management goals and sustainability tomers, government institutions, sustainability management 9 management challenges experts and research institutes, enterprises, the staff in charge of sustainability management, shareholders and in6 Social Interest •The list of sustainability management issues from 11 vestors, etc. the previous year 12 10 Survey period Analysis of international standards December 17 to 28, 2018 •International standards, initiatives and evaluation indices for sustainability management(GRI Standards, ISO 26000, SASB, DJSI, UN SDGs) •Media research(articles about CJ CheilJedang released between January 1 and December 31, 2018) •B enchm arking of leading co mpanies(Sustainabi l ity management issues reported) Business Impact SELECTION OF AGENDAS TO BE REPORTED The final 12 key issues were reorganized into five themes for CJ CheilJedang to focus on from the perspective management, economy, customers, local community, supply chain and environment. Each of the 12 key of sustainability management. This report contains relevant information on the key issues, which are generally issues was analyzed for its impact on the financial performance, operation, strategies and reputation of the based on the GRI Standards. The key issues were chosen from various categories, including business company from a business perspective through an additional impact evaluation. No. Category Issue Impact Agenda to be Reported GRI standards 1 Customer Development of products and services Finance Operation Strategy Reputation 416-1 considering the health of customers 2 Local community Contribution to boosting the local economy Finance Operation Strategy Reputation 203-1 3 Customer Efforts to enhance the safety of products Finance Operation Strategy Reputation 416-1 4 Local community Social contribution activities using the Finance Operation Strategy Reputation 203-1 characteristics of the business 5 Supply chain Shared growth throughout the supply chain Finance Operation Strategy Reputation 203-1 6 Environment Development of eco-friendly products and Finance Operation Strategy Reputation non-GRI services Promote a safe and healthy dietary culture 7 Business management Diversified generation of economic value Finance Operation Strategy Reputation 201-1 & economy Lead the global market with eco-friendly bio-based strategies 8 Supply chain Evaluation and management of supplier Finance Operation Strategy Reputation 414-1, 2 sustainability Drive responsible production for 9 Local community Investment support for social infrastructure Finance Operation Strategy Reputation 203-1 sustainable life and environment 10 Business management Improvement of R&D Finance Operation Strategy Reputation non-GRI Create an industrial ecosystem for & economy inclusive growth 11 Business management Expansion into the global market Finance Operation Strategy Reputation non-GRI & economy Realize a harmonious local community 12 Environment Climate change measures Finance Operation Strategy Reputation 305-1, 2, 4 O1 26 27 MATERIAL ISSUES IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY DOMESTIC QUALITY AND SAFETY CAPACITY TO OVERSEAS BUSINESS SITES CJ제일제당 CSV SDGs COMPASS 이해관계자 참여 중대성 평가 CJ CheilJedang prevents risks in advance and ensures the quality and safety of all products and business Issue 1. 식품 sites through the systematic management of raw materials to consumer products. As a leader of the Issue 2. 바이오 Issue 3. 환경 globalization of K-Food, CJ CheilJedang will expand our domestic quality and safety capacity to overseas Issue 4. 동반성장 business sites to secure our principle of ‘Global No.1 Food Safety Management’. Issue 5. 지역사회 Quality and Safety Division CJ CheilJedang organized a food safety division for the first time in Korea in 1997. Now, our Quality and Safety Division is comprised of four teams(Global Prevention Team, Quality & Safety Prevention Team, Quality Management Team, Food Safety Team) alongside the Quality & Safety Center. The division complies with domestic laws and regulations and deals with global food quality and safety issues according to the company’s internal management rules, which are even stricter than relevant laws. Quality and Safety Division Quality & Safety Division As product safety is the basic principle of CJ CheilJedans Food Business Division, we contribute to promoting the health of the people by developing products considering the health and nutrition for customers. Global Food Safety Center (China, Vietnam, U.S.) PROMOTE A SAFE AND Quality & Safety HEALTHY DIETARY CULTURE Global Prevention Team Quality Management Team Food Safety Team Quality & Safety Center Prevention Team Establishment and Operation of CJQMS* ICT, an Integrated Food Safety HOW WE CJ CheilJedang’s food business, one of our major business divisions, pursues sustainable growth and fulfills its social System for Domestic and Overseas Business Sites responsibility by constantly exploring product safety, the health of consumers and making efforts on their behalf. This CJ CheilJedang built an integrated food-safety ICT system, CJQMS, in 2017 and now operates the system MANAGE chapter describes the company’s infrastructure for improving the quality and safety of food products, and introduces in Korea and three other countries. This unified system works throughout the whole value chain from R&D the development, release and outcome of products made with the health of consumers in mind. to purchasing, production and sales. It helps the company efficiently operate a preemptive management Food safety issues can be detected throughout the whole value chain, from plant design to R&D, supply chain, system regarding the inspection of business sites, defect detection, regulations and labeling, quality standards, production and distribution. If relevant issues are not properly managed, penalties and other financial damages may incur selection of suppliers, and quality and evaluation. This ICT system is now in operation in Korea, China, the and there could be an adverse impact on our reputation. But the disclosure of food safety information can be a way of U.S. and Vietnam. managing food safety risks and inform potential impacts to investors. It can also build a reliable image of the company in terms of product safety. In addition, we disclose information on products manufactured focusing on consumer health, **CJQMS(CJ Quality Management System) and shows the results of our efforts to fulfill our social responsibility as a food company. International Food Safety Certification of Our Business Sites In order to examine the safety of our whole value chain and improve reliability, we received several international 2018 KEY FACTS & FIGURES KRW 2 trillion Nutritional FSSC22000 FSSC22000 food safety certifications. In particular, all of our domestic business sites have obtained FSSC22000(Food 2018 HMR * balance Certified Safety System Certification), a certification system designed by the GFSI(Global Food Safety Initiative) for food manufacturers operating a food safety management system. We are planning to receive certification Accumulated sales Launch of HMR All domestic business sites products for all overseas business sites by 2020. Care Food Operation of the Product Quality Improvement Group Our ‘HMR Quality Improvement Group’ was organized to produce HMR products, which have been highly Nutrition CJQMS** * Based on ‘hetbahn’, ‘hetbahn cupbahn’, one-dish meals, ‘Bibigo’, porridge, soup, praised by consumers for their safer production methods. The group consists of experts for each product and (ICT) stew, dumplings, cooked frozen food, category, and is dedicated to improving and managing production sites to provide consumers with safe health established Kimchi, frozen/refrigerated noodles, and frozen convenience food products. Hosting a meeting Domestic and overseas business sites ** CJ Quality Management System with experts 28 29 MATERIAL ISSUES IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY Food Safety Evaluation throughout All Processes DEVELOPMENT OF PRODUCTS TO IMPROVE In order to provide safe products to consumers, CJ CheilJedang gives top priority to food safety in the entire process from the construction of food manufacturing plants to R&D, purchasing of raw materials and THE HEALTH AND NUTRITION OF CONSUMERS CJ CheilJedang CSV Stakeholder Engagement distribution. SDGs COMPASS In the construction stage for food manufacturing plants in Korea and other countries, we use QDR(Quality Key Issues in Sustainability Management CJ CheilJedang prioritizes the health and nutrition of consumers alongside the flavor of our food products. We Issue 1. Promote a safe and healthy Design Review) to prevent potential food safety risks in the production process. dietary culture undertake steady efforts to develop and launch low-sugar, low-salt, and nutritionally balanced products for In the product development stage, we examine and verify the safety of product designs through the DR Issue 2. Lead the global market with the health of consumers, as well as products for patients with specific diseases. Our Institute of Food R&D is eco-friendly bio-based process. When in need of a supplier for a new type of raw material, we conduct an audit to check that they planning to develop and integrate nutrition plans and trial strategies to provide a nutritional solution by 2020. strategies can provide safe raw materials. Before regular production begins, we first carry out a trial production(DR2) Issue 3. Drive responsible production for sustainable life and and then go on to the mass production verification stage(DR3), only selecting products that have been environment Issue 4. Create an industrial ecosystem passed the new product safety verification. Those that have not passed the test cannot be produced. Healthy Sweet Flavor for inclusive growth Only products that have passed all test procedures can be mass-produced in the regular production stage. CJ CheilJedang was the first company in Korea to produce sugar in 1953. We have since evolved to produce a Issue 5. Realize a harmonious local community After the regular production stage, we focus on managing risks that may occur in the early stages of mass healthy sweet flavor. In 2011, we launched ‘Xylose Sugar,’ which reduces the absorption of sugar in the body, production of new products. We check the capacity of each manufacturing plant with a regular food safety and ‘Tagatose,’ a functional sweetener that controls blood sugar levels. We also released ‘Allulose’, a super inspection and conduct monitoring to ensure that safe products are provided to consumers. low-calorie sweetener. Since these products help consumers reduce blood sugar levels and consume fewer calories compared to previous sugar products, they have been applied to a wide range of our food products. Product Safety Verification Process In 2018, we launched zero-calorie, zero-sugar desserts ‘Petitzel Water Jelly Zero’ and ‘Hanppuri Kikemon Red Ginseng’ using ‘Allulose’, a low-calorie product for children. Quality & Safety Development R&D Purchasing Center 01 QDR Development 01 QDR •E  stablishment of a preventive Examination food safety infrastructure for hygiene management and insect control during construction of food manufacturing plants Approval for product development 02 DR1(Development examination) •E  xamination during the product Beksul Allulose Hanppuri Kikemon Red Ginseng – 3 types Petitzel Water Jelly Zero – 2 types Examination of development stage 02 DR1 plant to produce •R  eview of design before DR2 new raw materials 03 DR2(Design verification) Low-protein Rice for Patients with a Congenital Metabolic Disease Audit for supplier selection •E  xamination of quality risks that may In 2009, we released ‘Hetbahn Low-protein Rice’ for patients who need to control their consumption of occur in the mass production stage •D  etermining whether to apply protein due to phenylketonuria, a rare disease. Sales of this product are slightly lower than investment due Product Supplier selection improved features to products to the small number of patients in Korea who need to control their protein consumption. However, we development Design believe that, regardless of profit we have an obligation to the people who helped us put this product on the Verification 04 New product safety verification market in the first place. Since 2010, we have hosted PKU(Phenylketonuria) Camp every year to provide Hetbahn Low-Protein Rice 03 • Safety Check regarding harmful elements, ‘Hetbahn Low-protein Rice’ to participants and to offer additional donations to fulfill our social responsibility. DR2 Trial production including chemicals(pesticides, heavy metals) and microorganism Research on Lactobacillus in Korean Food New product 05 DR3(Mass production verification) 04 safety – Healthy Intestines and Better Immunity verification • Final check of quality issues that may occur in the mass production stage Lactobacillus brand ‘BYO’ commenced its lactobacillus research on fermented Korean food in 2007. As a during the industrialization process of product manufacturing result, the brand has developed and launched ‘BYO CJLP243 with 2-billion Live Lactobacillus’ for healthy 05 DR3 Mass production verification intestines and ‘BYO Expert Care Plant Skin Lactobacillus’, a functional product for skin immunity. ‘CJLP243,’ a type of lactobacillus found in Kimchi that can withstand harsh environments, received a patent 06 Early management of new products after nine years of research. It has the effect of alleviating stress-induced intestinal troubles, helping all age • Focused management of quality risks that may occur in the early mass groups improve their intestinal health. Left: B YO CJLP243 with 2-billion production stage Live Lactobacillus Regular production ‘CJLP133’ is another lactobacillus that we launched after it was first recognized by the Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety for its function of improving skin immunity. It has also received approval from the U.S. Right: BYO Expert Care Plant Skin 07  egular food safety & hygiene R Lactobacillus inspection of business sites and OEMs FDA for the safety of its ingredients. ‘CJLP133’ is a healthy, functional product with a proven effect of improving 06 Early management of new products results on the skin irritation index and SCORAD(SCORing Atopic Dermatitis). • Verification of each manufacturing Mass Production plant’s capacity for implementing Verification a regular food safety and hygiene 07  Regular food safety & hygiene inspection inspection of business sites and OEMs Case Study We are operating an external consultation committee to set a fair standard of nutrition and relevant policies. We organized the committee with specialized con08 Safety monitoring of Health and Nutrition: sultants as the core with Korean Nutrition Society, and the committee officially distributed products launched in April of 2019. We are planning to conduct regular meetings twice a 08 Safety monitoring of distributed products Conducting • Identification of harmful elements year and hold additional meetings when necessary. We plan to secure the objecto ensure product safety during the Meetings with tivity of our company’s nutritional policies by receiving consultation from experts distribution process External Experts according to their expertise. ※ According to policy, the next step is not permitted if the conditions are not met. External Consultation Committee O2 30 31 MATERIAL ISSUES IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY Healthy and Tasty ‘TheHealthy’ ‘TheHealthy’ proposes a new lifestyle with the tasty and healthy dishes that CJ CheilJedang CSV retain the original taste and texture of the ingredients. A good dish contains Stakeholder Engagement the original taste and flavor of the ingredients. So ‘TheHealthy’ always starts SDGs COMPASS with the ingredients and enhances the original taste by adding time to the Key Issues in Sustainability Management Issue 1. Promote a safe and healthy ingredients. ‘TheHealthy’, which embodies the original taste and health of dietary culture Issue 2. Lead the global market with the ingredients, helps you to share happy meals every day with people you eco-friendly bio-based strategies TheHealthy love. Issue 3. Drive responsible production for sustainable life and environment Issue 4. Create an industrial ecosystem for inclusive growth Issue 5. Realize a harmonious local community LAUNCH OF PRODUCTS THAT REFLECT GLOBAL POPULATION TRENDS CJ CheilJedang launches products that reflect recent population trends. Considering the increase in the number of single-person households, we strive to achieve qualitative advancement beyond the quantitative growth of HMR products by diversifying the menu and upgrading our offerings. We recently introduced ‘Care Food’ as the newest HMR product line, targeting those who need dietary help with regard to health issues. In addition, we launched halal-certified products that conform to strict ingredient handling criteria as part of our efforts to improve the available options for religious consumers. * In 2018, CJ CheilJedang’s Bio business division celebrated the 30th anniversary of the foundation of its first overseas subsidiary in Pasuruan, Indonesia. Diversification and Upgrading of HMR Products For HMR products, which have been widely embraced CJ CheilJedang is making efforts to create substantial meals, that people can enjoy at home. In 2018, we launched ‘Bibigo Porridge’ using our outstanding knowhow and recorded high sales in a short period of time. We are planning to increase the demand for porridge by LEADING THE GLOBAL MARKET WITH ECO-FRIENDLY BIO-BASED STRATEGIES releasing high-quality products that we usually have when dining out. Our new products include ‘Bibigo Frozen Noodles’ and ‘Gourmet Frozen Noodles’, so that consumers can easily have restaurant-quality noodles at home without the need to defrost. We will make more products to provide a substantial meal that is both healthy and delicious. Bibigo Porridge Gourmet Frozen Noodles Companies need to strengthen their global competitiveness to create economic value and secure market status. Pioneering the Care Food Market HOW WE Furthermore, sustainable management should be implemented by minimizing social and environmental impact in corporate HMR’s trend of focusing on convenience has accelerated with the changing social structure, as consumer MANAGE operations such as research, development and production. demand for tasty functional products with higher nutrition and reduced sodium is on the rise. Considering this CJ CheilJedang's bio business unit leads the global bio market based on our unique technology and global foothold. The year 2018 marked the 30th anniversary of overseas expansion and maintained the world's largest market share for feed trend, CJ CheilJedang has defined Care Food as the next HMR product. We are planning to start in the B2B amino acid products, a feed additive. In addition, we maintain and improve the quality of our products by developing market by focusing on ordinary diets for patients in a pilot project and later expand the scope of our Care testing methods and standards in the bio sector, including the recognition of the quality test method(KOLAS, the Food business to the general consumer market. We have reduced the content of sodium by 25% compared Bibigo Kimchi international authorized testing agency). Also, we are actualizing the ideology of ‘sustainable bio-cycle’ which allows us to existing products by utilizing our sodium reduction technology. We will continue to add more products by to return to nature what we gain from it. We strive to create a healthy livestock industry by launching related products constantly investing in R&D. through constant research and development for improved livestock health and nutritional balance. Halal K-FOOD CJ CheilJedang sells halal-certified products to encompass all religions in the course of globalizing K-Food. 2018 KEY Category for Overseas Business Global market share 30 1st We currently export 45 types of JAKIM-certified products(24 ‘Hetbahn’ products, 10 ‘Bibigo Kimchi’ products, KOLAS Quality Testing FACTS & FIGURES TH 11 seaweed and seaweed snack products) to Singapore, Malaysia and other Muslim countries. We also have KOLAS* anniversary an ongoing development project for halal-certified traditional pastes, expecting to push toward the wider Amino acid(7 cases) Lysine, tryptophan, Halal globalization of traditional Korean pastes. Halal products are now highlighted as clean and safe food, and are in-house method nucleotides, valine Certification accreditation well-received even by general consumers. K-FOOD Oriented Global Food Company Development of Development of Expanded CJ CheilJedang have been raising the pride of Korean cuisine with dumplings, Kimchi, seaweed, and gochujang natural Ecoportfolio of through the global brand ‘Bibigo’. In particular, Bibigo products maintains its position as the market leader in flavor friendly fermented 비비고 김밥김 Bibigo Gimbap 비비고 맛김치 Bibigo the US aiming to become a world leader by building factories in Europe, Russia, China and Vietnam. In addition, Cysteine, HG20 materials amino acids Seaweed Kimchi we acquired Schwan’s Company in 2018, a big US frozen company and became the global No. 1 leader in Biodegradable adhesives Isoleucine, leucine, tyrosine and plastics K-Food company. * KOLAS(Korea Laboratory Accreditation Scheme): Under the Korean Agency for Technology and Standards of the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy 32 33 MATERIAL ISSUES IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY EXPANSION OF GLOBAL BIO BUSINESS INITIATION OF SUSTAINABLE BIO CJ CheilJedang CSV Stakeholder Engagement SDGs COMPASS CJ CheilJedang leads the global bio market with our advanced technologies. Our portfolio is diversified through CJ CheilJedang’s Bio business performs a sustainable bio cycle, using technology to obtain materials from Key Issues in Sustainability Management distinctive R&D competitiveness, going beyond a mere expansion of productivity. Since we stepped into the nature and then return them. Products that utilize natural materials are made, while aiming to reduce the Issue 1. Promote a safe and healthy dietary culture global market, we have consistently achieved qualitative and quantitative growth for the past three decades. environmental impact from consumption and disposal and pursue a model for discovering social value. Issue 2. Lead the global market with eco-friendly bio-based CJ CheilJedang will continue to secure our local and global growth engines using our glocalization strategies. strategies Issue 3. Drive responsible production Sustainable Bio Cycle for sustainable life and environment Global Production Bases CJ CheilJedang’s amino acid products for feed alleviate financial burdens on farms and contribute to reducing Issue 4. Create an industrial ecosystem Starting with the construction of a plant in Pasuruan for the Bio business, our first overseas production base, environmental impact. Including lysine, which lean mass up, our various amino acid additives enhance the imfor inclusive growth Issue 5. Realize a harmonious local we invested in making global competitiveness by establishing new production bases, expanding the scale of munity and health of animals and improve the efficiency of feed, helping farms reduce management expenses. community existing bases, and taking over global companies. As a result, we have production plants all over the U.S, Increased efficiency of feed means decreased overuse of protein in feed, reducing nitrogen pollution in aniBrazil, China and Southeast Asia. mal waste and the resulting environmental impact. Global Production Bases for CJ CheilJedang’s Bio Business 11 production bases in 6 countries, including China, Brazil, Indonesia, Malaysia, the U.S. and Vietnam China Shenyang U.S. Lysine, tryptophan, valine Iowa Liaocheng Lysine Environment Lysine, nucleotides Vietnam Haide in Ningbo ① Reduced ammonia ② Natural Vung Tau Fermented Functional amino acids discharged to the air fertilizer soybean meal Foshan Malaysia Fermented soybean meal Kerteh Brazil L-Methionine Indonesia Selecta in Goiás Soy Pasuruan Protein concentrate Lysine Reduction in nitrogenous excreta by 8-9% Jombang Piracicaba Nucleotides, MSG Lysine Livestock ② Reduction in ① Increase in business nitrogenous the efficiency excreta of protein Consolidated Position in the Global Market For our Bio business, CJ CheilJedang utilizes our world-class fermentation and refining technologies for food additives including MSG, nucleotides and arginine and for amino acid such as lysine, threonine, tryptophan, valine, methionine, and soy protein. In terms of amino acids for feed, our four product categories—lysine, tryptophan, nucleotides and valine—maintain the largest share in the global market. In 2017, CJ CheilJedang ① Carbon cycle the top position in the soy protein concentrate market by acquiring Selecta, a producer of soy protein or Carbon concentrate. Grain business fixation Fermented methods Global Certification for Quality Test Methods of Institute of Biotechnology ② Use as sustainable In 2017, Bio Research Center received accreditation from the governmental accreditation body, KOresources Sustainable LAS(Korea Laboratory Accreditation Scheme), under the Korean Agency for Technology and Standards(KATS) products of the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, for testing method of nucleotides and amino acids which are eco-friendly, green bio materials. It was the world’s first accreditation in the field of nucleotides and an ③ Organic L-Met L-Met opportunity for us to win public confidence regarding testing. In 2018, Bio Research Center obtained additional fertilizer recognition for our proprietary testing methods used in our research centers and business sites with seven amino acid products. This was the first case of a Korean company being accredited for its own testing L-Met L-Met L-Met methods. In 2019, are planning to receive additional accreditation for eight testing methods, including three products with specifically low contents (composite seasoning and granule products). Based on the distinctive start technologies of our Bio Research Center, CJ CheilJedang will continue developing and exploring systematic testing methods and standards to enhance our quality competitiveness. Biomass CJ CheilJedang Bio Plant Amino acid for feed 34 35 MATERIAL ISSUES IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY Eco-friendly fermentation process RESEARCH INTO LIVESTOCK HEALTH CJ CheilJedang applies an eco-fermentation process method in producing amino acid products for feed such CJ CheilJedang CSV as lysine, methionine, threonine, tryptophan, valine and cysteine. Rather than the conventional method Stakeholder Engagement of hydrolyzing duck down, hog hair and human hair using acid, we complete our eco-friendly fermentation process SDGs COMPASS In the product development stage, CJ CheilJedang continues to conduct research on enhancing the health of for mass production using corn. With this method, we can reduce the amount of discharged wastewater and Key Issues in Sustainability Management livestock and increasing customer satisfaction, and applies this research to the development of feed and feed Issue 1. Promote a safe and healthy waste gas, while addressing issues of air and soil pollution. dietary culture additives that prevent animal diseases and increase immunity. Issue 2. Lead the global market with eco-friendly bio-based strategies Development of New Eco-friendly Bio Materials Issue 3. Drive responsible production CJ CheilJedang is developing new bio materials to meet future standard. By improving our Bio R&D capability Feed/Food Additives for sustainable life and environment and developing technology we are planning to make specialized products ranging from new ingredients for BIOTECTOR®, a bacteriophage* used as feed/food additive, is harmless to the human body and livestock, Issue 4. Create an industrial ecosystem for inclusive growth feed to those for food and plants. and has strong bactericidal effect against Salmonella, pathogenic E.coli and Clostridium perfringens **. Issue 5. Realize a harmonious local Through the development of phage cocktails, we would more efficiently prevent the bacterial diseases such community as fowl typhoid, pullorum disease, Salmonellosis originated from food animals, avian colibacillosis, enterotoxiDevelopment of indigestible Biomass genic colibacillosis, and poultry necrotic enteritis. CJ CheilJedang successfully produced glucose with a quality equal to that of existing edible biomass-based * Bacteriophages: Since they are naturally designed to target specific bacteria, they selectively destroy harmful pathogens while leaving useful glucose using indigestible biomass, one of the raw materials abundant in Southeast Asia(especially in Indobacteria behind. It can also be used as an alternative to antibiotics, reducing the incidence of antibiotic resistance and super bacteria. nesia). We are also conducting research on eco-friendly, high-value-added outcomes from by-products of ** Clostridium perfringens: This is an anaerobic and intrinsic bacterium in intestines. It can cause necrotic enteritis when immunity decreases, leading to issues in the poultry and hog farming industries. indigestible biomass. Development of functional feed additives Development of Eco-friendly Feed without Fish Meal CJ CheilJedang launched a new feed product for the poultry industry that controls microorganisms and CJ CheilJedang developed eco-friendly shrimp feed and fishmeal-free feed, by remarkably reducing the improves immunity. This product enhances the gastrointestinal functionality in livestock, resulting content of fishmeal. The demand for fishmeal is rapidly growing with the steady rise in farmed fish production, in controlling pathogens and increasing digestibility. It also improves the productivity of livestock farming by which has the potential to destroy marine ecosystems by decimating fish stocks. Some alternatives are increasing immunity with toxin extinguisher. This product has been satisfied with customers since 2018 and currently being developed with salmon and trout. By developing this eco-friendly feed for shrimp with signifiachieved 185,000 tons of sales. cantly lowering fish meal content, we are protecting the environment and marine ecosystems. Renewal of Feed Product with High-quality Functional Protein Meeting SMART criteria as a Case Study In 2016, CJ Cheiljedang's R&D and amino acid products have been recognized CJ CheilJedang carried forward the business for renewal of feed for swine to enhance performance in Good Development Cooperation by UN SDGs(Sustainablity Development Goals) and have satisfied the SMART Vietnamese farms. To help growth of piglets and their immunity, our development has been focused on Recognition for Model for UN SDGs criteria. Our efforts to reduce nitrogen emissions using amino acids for feed, such decreasing & preventing diarrhea by functional & balanced proteins. As for growers and finisher pigs, we Sustainability of as lysine, improved the livestock business environment. Another notable result designed the product with a balance between energy and lysine, boosting the growth rate of pigs and the efBio Business was the company’s contribution to anti-poverty and food security in reducing ficiency of the feed. Moreover, we also used economical raw materials in view of product pricing. grain resources required for livestock farming. This achievement is meaningful in that our ongoing sustainability management was recognized by the international community. We will continue to uncover more opportunities for sustainability ICT Business for the Health of Milk Cows L-Lysine management in various business sectors of the company. CJ CheilJedang has been engaged in increasing the productivity of farms by utilizing ICT equipment as part of our project for healthy milk cows and healthy farms. We chose to use a device that can be inserted through the mouth of a cow to its stomach to easily check its health. This method increases the productivity of farms that use CJ CheilJedang’s feed and helps cows healthy by preventing diseases in advance and clearly identifying the current farm conditions. We are currently planning to distribute this ICT equipment to more farms. O3 36 37 MATERIAL ISSUES IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY PROMOTE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CJ제일제당 CSV SDGs COMPASS CJ Group presents the vision of becoming ‘a world-class green company’ to establish a sustainable 이해관계자 참여 environmental management system for the future, on which CJ CheilJedang operates on. In particular, 중대성 평가 our sustainability management in the environmental sector(reduction of GHG emissions, management Issue 1. 식품 of resource recirculation and water usage) is based on environmental management goals, such as Issue 2. 바이오 increasing target GHG emissions and strengthening environmental competence. We preemptively prevent Issue 3. 환경 Issue 4. 동반성장 environmental risks, including the leakage of chemical substances, odor and other issues. We also carry Issue 5. 지역사회 out the standardization of the local environmental management system and comply with the international environmental certification system(ISO 14001) to apply the same environmental management criteria to all our business sites. Environmental Management Organization CJ CheilJedang’s environmental management is handled by the Environmental Safety Team of the Global ProEnvironmental Safety Policy duction Support Team at the headquarters. The company has also organized an Environmental Safety Team at each business site in 2017, which cooperates with the team at the headquarters to reinforce the capacity to deal with environmental safety affairs. Engagement in Environmental Management Certification and Evaluation CJ CheilJedang obtained Green Company certification for three domestic business sites—Incheon Plant 1, Busan Plant, and Incheon Freezing Plant. Incheon Plant 1 passed re-designation evaluation in 2018 and will maintain the Green Company certification until 2021. We also prepare for the CDP and CDP Water Evaluation—the Carbon Disclosure Project and Water Management Information Disclosure Project—on a regular CDP and CDP Water basis. This demonstrates that we have been recognized objectively for our environmental management performance by adopting rapidly changing global environmental policies. In preparation for the establishment and implementation of the integrated instructions of the Environmental Footprint for the food sector in 2020, we are carrying out a research project of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs in cooperation with an LCI(Life Cycle Inventory) Database company. This research began in 2016 and is supposed to span three years. With this project, CJ CheilJedang will improve its competitiveness in the European food market and DRIVE RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION FOR pave the way to become a global food company that can actively cope with the environmental regulations. Environmental Safety Diagnosis SUSTAINABLE LIFE AND ENVIRONMENT CJ CheilJedang conducts environmental safety diagnosis of its domestic business sites on a regular basis to check compliance with environmental safety regulations and relevant company rules. Our headquarters takes charge of diagnosis in the fields of environment, safety, electric safety and health. Aspects found to be inadequate are managed by proper actions to prevent legal issues. In 2018, we ran a safety diagnosis CJ Group, HOW WE A manufacturing industry uses a great deal of energy during manufacturing to distribution of products. Given the with which we upgraded based on tightened internal standards of the company. characteristics of the food industry, an immense amount of water is used for cooking, processing and cleaning finished MANAGE products, while large quantities of raw materials are utilized to produce packaging materials. Energy production and consumption have an impact on the environment including climate change, and the discharge of wastewater causes STRENGTHEN CLIMATE CHANGE MEASURES additional risks, directly and indirectly affecting the management of a company. Under the leadership of the department in charge, CJ CheilJedang endeavors to minimize its environmental impact by analyzing environmental risks of its domestic business sites, including its headquarters, while carrying out activities to The Environmental Safety Team manages GHG emissions and energy consumption to reinforce the manage environmental data and reduce emissions. In particular, the Energy Committee takes charge of managing energy company’s competence in climate change. By designating the employee(s) in charge of GHG affairs at each business site including the headquarters, we strive to properly react with swift actions, report when efficiency, improving the processes to increase the efficiency of energy and expanding the introduction of renewable controlling GHG emissions and address other climate change issues. energy. Moreover, we strictly manage waste and wastewater to discharge them according to legal procedures, and exert efforts to reduce waste intensity. As a global company, CJ CheilJedang recognizes that strict management of Performance Evaluation of Climate Change Management environmental impact should not be limited to its domestic business sites. and will expand the environmental management To manage and reduce climate change risks, we consider the climate change management outcome in the framework and infrastructure horizontally to overseas business sites. We are planning to provide more information on performance evaluation of the employee(s) in charge. The result is used in the promotion and incentive decirelevant performance in the sustainability report. sion process. In particular, the management performance of GHG emissions and energy consumption takes up a significant share of the evaluation of the employee(s) at the headquarters. Since it is also associated with the evaluation of the relevant employees at each business site, climate change management performance is 2018 KEY Environmental GHG emission Water usage directly linked to the evaluation. Merit Award intensity intensity FACTS & FIGURES Commendation 0.108 1.44 Climate Change Risk Management from Minister tCO2e/product-ton Ton/product-ton CJ CheilJedang has defined and managed risks associated with climate change as follows to alleviate the of Environment impact of climate change risks on business management conditions and the environment. Category Definition of Risks Activities and Performance Waste discharge intensity Green Domestic GHG Need to manage GHG emissions as the government legislated the •Estimated and reported GHG emissions and the expected reduction in Korea 0.015 Company emissions risk management of emissions credits Need to alleviate damage to crops caused by El Niño, cold waves, storms •Traded GHG emissions credit and generated financial outcome •Conducted an impact evaluation of heat waves and heavy rain Designation Storm and flood risk and floods to stabilize the demand and supply of raw materials •Achieved a zero-accident rate of storms and floods and reduced the insurance premium rate Ton/product-ton maintained GHG emissions risk Need to manage GHG emissions of suppliers as the emissions trading •Estimated the emissions of over 30 SME suppliers and conducted monitoring 3 business sites of SME suppliers system has been implemented •Identified the emission sources of suppliers 38 39 MATERIAL ISSUES IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTION WATER RESOURCE CONSUMPTION MANAGEMENT CJ CheilJedang CSV Stakeholder Engagement SDGs COMPASS CJ CheilJedang sets an annual target to manage GHG emissions at its domestic business sites. We actively CJ CheilJedang’s Environmental Safety Team manages water resources and prevents relevant risks. Our Key Issues in Sustainability Management take actions in preparation for the GHG emissions trading system, and have generated financial outcome Energy Committee deals with water resource management issues and takes proper actions. We conduct Issue 1. Promote a safe and healthy by trading emissions credit. the water resource management examination throughout every scope of the production process, and dietary culture report and share the result in the regular management meeting. Issue 2. Lead the global market with eco-friendly bio-based GHG Emissions Management strategies Issue 3. Drive responsible production Our GHG emissions in 2018 were 396,205 tCO2e(intensity: 0.108 tCO2e/product-ton), an increase from Water Usage and Wastewater Discharge Management for sustainable life and 363,942 tCO2e(intensity: 0.102 tCO2e/ton) in 2017. This figure is attributed to the changes in production due environment Our water consumption in 2018 was 5,296,319 tons(intensity: 1.448 ton/product-ton), increased from Issue 4. Create an industrial ecosystem to the M&A of Young-woo frozen food and the construction of Jincheon BC(Blossom Campus) as well as the for inclusive growth 4,866,925 tons(intensity: 1.359 ton/product-ton) in 2017. This was because the production of ‘Hetbahn’, expansion of facilities at Busan Plant. Also, In 2018, 21 internal projects will be implemented to reduce GHG Issue 5. Realize a harmonious local community dumplings and Kimchi products soared, while that of sugar and cooking oil that use less water in the manemissions and reduce 5,997 tCO2e. In addition, CJ Cheiljedang reduced 11,554tCO2e over three years from ufacturing process dropped. In particular, the operation of the newly constructed ‘Hetbahn’ line at Busan June 2015 to April 2018 through the “GHG Reduction Project through Unused Energy Reclamation by installPlant was one of the main causes of increased water usage. ing Young-woo frozen food economizer”. The amount of discharged wastewater in 2018 was 3,791,837 tons(intensity: 1.036 ton/product-ton), an increase from 3,092,809 tons(intensity: 0.864 ton/product-ton) in 2017. The main causes of such an increase Response to the GHG Emissions Trading System were the M&A of Young-woo frozen food, the construction of Jincheon BC, and the increased water conIn 2018, in response to the government’s policy of facilitating the trade of GHG emissions credits, we sold sumption in the ‘Hetbahn’ manufacturing process. Wastewater from our business sites is processed at our 2,500 tons plus 56,500 tons carried forward from the previous year, achieving KRW 1.36 billion of financial wastewater disposal facilities first and then discharged, not directly to nearby rivers or streams but to local performance. sewage treatment plants. It needs to be additionally treated to maintain the level of discharged wastewater within 30% compared to the legal criteria. Treated wastewater directly discharged to nearby rivers or streams is also managed to be within 30% of the legal criteria, not having a major impact on the environment. ENERGY CONSUMPTION REDUCTION Water Resource Risks CJ CheilJedang has an Energy Committee that oversees the management of energy efficiency. The committee Considering the characteristics of our food and beverage manufacturing business, we utilize water in the disseminates the energy-saving target set by the headquarters and the direction of relevant activities to cleaning and sterilization process, and thus thoroughly manage water resource risks. We strictly follow the the committee members at each business site. The committee members report about whether the goals are source water management regulations and various relevant regulations and rules regarding wastewater. achieved, promoting energy innovation. We also designed the energy efficiency management roadmap for Wastewater issues are likely to have a bigger negative impact on local communities, so we are well aware of advanced management. We use the internal process and KPIs to successfully stabilize the energy efficiency the need to apply more stringent standards. Since the introduction of the green management system in 2011, management system. we have set the internal management criteria to be stricter than the relevant law and regulations, thereby systematizing the water resource management system. In case the upstream area of the region where the Energy Consumption Management company wants to construct production facilities is designated as a water resource protection zone, we In 2018, our energy consumption was 9,102 TJ(intensity: 0.002 TJ/product-ton), an increase from 8,383 TJ(inreselect another safe region that is free from water pollution risk, even bearing the increase in cost and tensity: 0.002 TJ/ product-ton) in 2017. Energy consumption inclined due to the M&A of Young-woo frozen difficulties in the logistics system. We also expand investment in the wastewater reutilization system in food and the construction of Jincheon BC, along with the increase in the production of major products, such preparation for an increase in water costs and restrictions on the water supply as a government policy. as ‘Hetbahn’ and dumplings. Energy Consumption Reduction Through Process Improvement Expansion of Water Resource Management Activities in the Supply Chain CJ CheilJedang focuses on reducing energy by upgrading the manufacturing process of food ingredients. The CJ CheilJedang has employed and operates an internal risk assessment method to evaluate water quality production of food ingredients such as sugar and starch requires more energy than processed food. We thus risk factors within the supply chain. We also collect data about the use, discharge and collection of water try to improve the manufacturing process of food ingredients to use less energy. In 2018, we carried out an resources and evaluate the impact of water-quality risk factors following each step. In preparation for the integrated operation of enrichment facilities for making starch syrup, saving natural gas usage by roughly implementation of the EU ‘Environmental Footprint Certification System’, we are building the LCI(Life Cycle 600,000 N㎥. We also optimized the input of steam in the sugar crystal process to reduce natural gas conInventory) DB for raw and subsidiary materials of SME suppliers, focusing on products to be exported to sumption by 300,000 N㎥. Europe. In 2018, we installed and commenced the operation of the solar cell system at case. CJ Blossom Campus(R&D) Center while also installing and operating the solar cell Increased Use of system at newly built CJ Blossom Campus(Intergrated Food Production Base). As Renewable Energy a result, we increased the production of renewable energy and used 1,108 TJ of renewable energy. Even in overseas business sites, we increased the utilization of renewable energy, reducing our impact on the local environment. At our business site of Selecta, we generated electricity and heat by operating a highly-efficient combined heat and power plant that uses eco-friendly woodchips as fuel. Produced energy is utilized throughout all processes, while surplus power is shared with neighboring regions, maximizing energy efficiency. We are also considering the construction of a combined heat and power plant using woodchips that replaces existing LNG fuel at our business site in Piracicaba. 40 41 MATERIAL ISSUES IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY WASTE REDUCTION Air Pollutant Management at Overseas Business Sites The Ministry of Environmental Protection of the People’s Republic of China announced ultra-low-emissions CJ CheilJedang CSV standards regarding air pollution. Considering this change, we invested in environmental facilities at our Bio Stakeholder Engagement business sites in Shenyang and Liaocheng, China. As a result, we could significantly reduce the discharge of SDGs COMPASS Our Environmental Safety Team is committed to minimizing waste generated in the production process and air pollutants, such as nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide and dust. Key Issues in Sustainability Management increasing the recycling rate. As part of such efforts, we set the goal of reducing the waste intensity by 30% Issue 1. Promote a safe and healthy dietary culture from 2015. To achieve this we are conducting the training program for relevant departments, improving the Air Pollutant Emissions at the Business Sites in China(Shenyang, Liaocheng) unit: ton Issue 2. Lead the global market with eco-friendly bio-based quality of packaging materials and turning by-products into resources. strategies Category 2016 2017 2018 Issue 3. Drive responsible production NOx 809.2 412.9 218.6 for sustainable life and environment Waste Management SOx 416.8 263.1 72.0 Issue 4. Create an industrial ecosystem for inclusive growth The amount of waste discharged in 2018 was 57,592 tons(intensity: 0.0157 ton/product-ton), up from 54,342 Dust 991.7 259.5 17.2 Issue 5. Realize a harmonious local tons(intensity: 0.0152 ton/product-ton) in 2017. The main cause of the amount of discharged waste and the community increased waste intensity was the launch of new products and expanded product portfolio. Total 2,217.7 935.5 307.8 Use of By-products as Resources SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING CJ CheilJedang recycles by-products from the manufacturing process to improve the environment. We have continued to invest in facilities that enhance the recovery rate of dark oil, a by-product from our cooking oil manufacturing plant, reducing the amount of wastewater to be treated. We also sell recovered dark oil as raw CJ CheilJedang set the ‘Sustainable Packaging 3R Policy’ as the basic direction for a sustainable materials for eco-friendly ink and biodiesel. environment, reducing waste caused by packaging materials and caring for nature and society. Based on this We participated in signing the voluntary agreement for the improvement of packaging materials and structure, principle, we increased the use of eco-friendly packaging materials, while reducing the use of unrecyclable led by the Ministry of Environment, which is aimed at actively improving hard-to-recycle packaging materials. ones to prevent the waste of resources and contributing to the expansion of eco-friendly economy for With this effort, we will come up with plans to improve packaging materials and structure, contributing to shared growth. creating a nationwide trend of resource circulation. Our Bio business site in Kerteh, Malaysia, makes use of by-products generated in the fermentation process, 3R Policy for Sustainable Packaging such as spent carbon and wastewater sludge, to sell them as fertilizers and fuels. Spent carbon from the CJ CheilJedang develops more eco-friendly and sustainable packaging methods based on the 3R Policy, which refining process is used as a material for land improvement, and wastewater sludge as a raw material for are using recyclable materials(Recycle), reducing the use of plastics(Redesign), and utilizing nature-based raw Eco-friendly Packaging Policy organic fertilizer. The use of these two types of by-products was approved by the Malaysian Department of materials(Recover). Environment. recycle redesign recover MANAGEMENT OF OTHER POLLUTANTS 3R Policy for Sustainable Packaging Use of recyclable materials Redesign packaging materials Utilize bioplastic from renewable CJ CheilJedang monitors pollutants that may be generated in the production process to minimize its impact · Use of commodity materials that are · Reduce the use of plastics resources commonly recycled · Optimize footprint on local communities, while exploring measures to prevent pollutants. We have staff that oversee the handling  · Use of biomass sources · Make it easy to separate packaging · Extend the period of use · Use of biodegradable and compostable of harmful chemical substances, and have strengthened the chemical substance management system by materials in recycling stream · Design sustainable package from materials diagnosing relevant facilities. · Simplify recycling by designing the the beginning · Use of eco-friendly certified materials package from a single or similar materials Water Quality, Atmosphere and Stench Management Application of 3R Policy for Sustainable Packaging CJ CheilJedang established the central environmental management system to control pollutants and foul odors from the production processes. This system monitors, in real time, water pollution indicators such as Category Product Description COD(chemical oxygen demand), air pollutants such as nitrogen oxide, and odors that may affect nearby REDESIGN All ‘Hetbahn’ products Reduce the weight of containers and functional films areas, preventing environmental accidents. We have also built an information sharing and cooperation Three products including ‘Beksul Beef Bulgogi Marinade’ Reduce the weight of containers network with relevant organizations to minimize the impact of environmental accidents on local communities. Three products including ‘Gourmet Hamburger Steak’ Reduce the weight of containers Oligosaccharide products including ‘Beksul Organic Sugar’ Apply reasonable corrugated cardboard boxes(reducing the consumption of materials) Harmful Chemical Substance Management CJ CheilJedang controls harmful chemical substances through its strict management system, including the Sustainable Packaging harmful chemical substance treatment facilities handled by the designated management staff. The company Our brand ‘Hetbahn’ has seen continued sales growth since its launch in 1997, selling over 400 million products established and has operated a database system to manage harmful chemical substances within the EHS(Eneach year. This made the brand use about 4,000 tons of plastic materials annually. To cut back on the growing vironment, Health and Safety) system, reinforcing its management capacity. use of plastics, we have reduced the thickness of containers. We have also improved the structure of containers and developed special materials to prevent any damage to containers that may be caused by reduced materials, maintaining the quality of packaging and reducing the consumption of plastic materials at the same time. As a result, we could reduce the consumption of plastics annually by about 300 tons, and now conduct R&D for continuous reduction in the use of plastics. O4 42 43 MATERIAL ISSUES IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY OF CJ CheilJedang’s EFFORTS FOR CJ제일제당 CSV WIN-WIN GROWTH SDGs COMPASS 이해관계자 참여 중대성 평가 On the basis of CJ Group’s philosophy of mutual growth, CJ CheilJedang seeks to turn social issues related to Issue 1. 식품 shared and mutual growth into opportunities for CSV projects. We are constantly paving the way to shared Issue 2. 바이오 Issue 3. 환경 growth with SME suppliers and farmers, including the introduction of ‘Happy Companion’ in 2011 and the Issue 4. 동반성장 establishment of CJ Breeding Corp. in 2015. The result of CJ Breeding Corp. and ‘Happy Companion’ is Issue 5. 지역사회 managed as KPI of CEO, and our goal is to maximize growth opportunities and shared values of our business through distinctive management of the supply chain. In 2018, we conducted the eco-friendly new material open innovation contest to support the development of new business by SMEs, taking the initiative in creating an industrial ecosystem for shared growth. History of CJ CheilJedang’s Efforts for Win-win Growth 2014 2015 • Established the Mutual Cooperation •Supported fund to suppliers •Operated Win-win VOC • Conducted the new product development support Center for Food Safety • Supported the operation of •Introduced sustainable palm oil(RSPO) project • Launched ‘Happy Companion’ CJ Partners Club •Operated the performance sharing • Established CJ Breeding Corp.(agricultural CSV model) Brand • Operated the purchasing system • Conducted the regular meeting of the Shared • Created the Win-win Fund(KRW strategy committee • Prepared the financial sources for Growth Committee(monthly)investment for mutual 45.2 billion in total) investment for mutual growth growth 2016 2017 2018 • Supported the HACCP certification • Supported the Naeil Chaeum Deduction • Achieved the Best Honored Company for Shared • Attained ‘The Best’ in the Win-win Index(first in the System(supported stable employment of Growth(first in the food industry) food industry) suppliers) • Operated KRW 3 billion of additional fund for the Win* The picture shows ‘Cheonjihyang I’, produced by CJ Breeding Corp., established by CJ CheilJedang to enhance its competitiveness in the agricultural, fishery and food sectors. • Operated KRW 3 billion of additional fund for the • Published the Code of Conduct guidelines for win Fund(KRW 51.2 billion in total) Win-win Fund(KRW 48.2 billion in total) suppliers • Conducted the eco-friendly new material open • Supported the CCM certification innovation contest STRENGTHENED COMMUNICATION WITH SUPPLIERS CREATE AN INDUSTRIAL ECOSYSTEM FOR INCLUSIVE GROWTH CJ CheilJedang established various communication channels with suppliers under the leadership of the committee handling mutual-growth-related agendas, listening to supplier’s grievances and addressing problems. We also have regular opportunities for communicating with suppliers, seek to motivate them and build mutual trust. HOW WE Given the characteristics of CJ CheilJedang’s business, the company procures an immense amount of raw materials. If any problems occur in the supply and demand of raw materials, it may cause price fluctuations and affect the profitability of MANAGE Shared Growth Committee a company. Responsible sourcing of raw materials and fair trade may lead to an opportunity for a company to harness the growing demand of consumers who are interested in social responsibility. Moreover, the management of social and CJ CheilJedang organized and have been operating the Shared Growth Committee with the participation of environmental risks in the supply chain may affect the reputation of the company, which is eventually linked to enhanced CEO and directors in charge of purchasing, finance, legal affairs and quality and safety. The committee handles values of the company for shareholders. major agendas related to mutual growth, addresses Win-win VOCs, and hosts the CJ Partners Club meetings. CJ CheilJedang always makes efforts to alleviate social and environmental risks in its supply chain, while coming up with measures to grow together with SME suppliers and farms. Fair trade is our basic principle, and sustainability is strictly Organizational Chart of the Shared Growth Committee controlled throughout our supply chain. As part of our efforts to fulfill our social responsibility, we strive to create shared values by providing financial and non-financial support to SME suppliers and farms. In particular, we established CEO CJ Breeding Corp. to address farming issues and increase the income of farms. CJ Breeding Corp., a subsidiary of Shared Growth Committee CJ CheilJedang, is managed as KPI of the CEO along with ‘Happy Companion’, our leading brand for mutual growth. We CHAIR ·Head of Food Management also share the mindset for creating an industrial ecosystem for shared growth throughout the company. Support Unit Supervision & Operation & Support Planning Implementation STEERING ·Head of Finance Unit MEMBERS 2018 KEY Support Naeil Chaeum Deduction Exemplary Commercialization •Legal Affairs Division •Food Production & •Food Management ·Legal Affairs Division ·Food Management Division FACTS & FIGURES System for SME Suppliers Cases from Open Innovation •Compliance Team Manufacturing Department Division ·Quality & Safety Division 26 persons 6 companies •Food Procurement Division •CSV Team ·Food Procurement Division •Finance Unit ·CSV Management Head of Team GHG emission intensity CJ Partners Club 0.108 Contract Cultivation Area of Farms Win-win Fund Operation CJ Partners Club is a committee comprised of CJ CheilJedang’s purchasing executives and employees and its 51.2 billion SME suppliers, which is aimed at building cooperative relationships in the supply chain and jointly developing 827.4 ha tCO2e/product-ton KRW new technologies. In 2018, a total of 65 companies participated in the regular meetings to share performances and opinions regarding food raw materials, packaging and equipment. The Club hosts the CEO seminar and supports the year-end party in June and December, respectively, facilitating mutual communication. 44 45 MATERIAL ISSUES IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY Win-win VOC(Voice of Customer) Win-win VOC is a channel aimed at addressing grievances and requests of suppliers. VOCs can be reported EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT OF SUSTAINABILITY CJ CheilJedang CSV on the CJ Shared Growth Portal. Registered VOCs are shared in the Task Force Team meeting of the Shared OF SUPPLIERS Stakeholder Engagement Growth Committee and resolved swiftly through proper procedures by designated departments based on SDGs COMPASS analysis. Key Issues in Sustainability Management CJ CheilJedang considers ESG(Environment, Social, Governance) elements from the supplier selection stage, Issue 1. Promote a safe and healthy dietary culture and evaluates the sustainability of suppliers even after the contract conclusion stage. We recommend them Issue 2. Lead the global market with eco-friendly bio-based FAIR TRADE PRACTICES to observe the Suppliers Code of Conduct, constantly carrying out activities to manage risks of suppliers strategies related to human rights, ethics, safety and environment. Issue 3. Drive responsible production for sustainable life and environment CJ CheilJedang upholds the philosophy of CJ Group for mutual growth to establish fair trade practices with Issue 4. Create an industrial ecosystem for inclusive growth SME suppliers. We strive to create an industrial ecosystem where we can pursue shared growth. Supplier Selection and Critical Supplier Management Issue 5. Realize a harmonious local community CJ CheilJedang apply the fair and transparent evaluation criteria in selecting suppliers, which include Fair Trade Philosophy financial stability as well as ESG elements such as ethical business management, collusion and corruption. On the basis of CJ Group’s philosophy of mutual growth, we set the purchasing philosophy to establish fair In particular, the result of field inspection conducted by our Food Safety Center is considered to be trade practices with SME suppliers. We essentially require our executives and employees to have the mindset significant when selecting suppliers related to the purchase of raw materials. Suppliers evaluated to be for fair trade. We make purchasing-related decisions in accordance with the Purchasing Ethics Charter and the Purchasing Code of Conduct. Employees who violate the fair trade practices are penalized with disadinadequate are given penalties depending on the results. vantages in HR affairs. The degree of shared growth with suppliers is included in the performance evaluation Also, critical suppliers are separated and managed based on annual transaction size of suppliers, of purchasing employees, encouraging them to observe fair trade rules. procurement items, and irreplaceability of suppliers. As of 2018, there are about 700 suppliers, and 200 of them are critical suppliers. And more than 90% of the total purchase are procured from critical suppliers. Purchasing Deliberation Committee CJ CheilJedang holds a monthly meeting of the Purchasing Deliberation Committee to handle and report major agendas and activities regarding suppliers. Under the leadership of the purchasing executive director, Verification and Diagnosis of Suppliers’ Sustainability the committee is comprised of employees from the divisions of finance, legal affairs, and food SCM and CSV CJ CheilJedang visit suppliers under contract on a regular basis to verify and diagnose their sustainability. We Team. In 2018, the scope of the committee’s deliberation contents was expanded, including the examination verify consumer safety elements throughout the whole production process, from the input of raw materials of the current status of financial support for suppliers and the request for dispute arbitration. to processing, packaging, storage and inspection. Exemplary cases identified in the verification and diagnosis are shared with other suppliers. We select and grant awards to exemplary suppliers by evaluating the annual PROCUREMENT OF SUSTAINABLE RAW MATERIAL goal achievement rate. Raw material safety verification: All raw material supply contracts are signed based on the stipulated criteria of quality and safety. In terms of domestic agricultural products, we engaged in contracts with companies CJ CheilJedang strives to fulfill its role as a corporate citizen in the procurement of raw materials for its with safety certification as registered to associations of each type of raw material, such as milling, sugar products. We have established a sustainable procurement policy for raw materials to reduce environmental manufacturing and feed. For imported agricultural products, we trade with companies that have passed the pollution and improve animal welfare, and we will strictly comply with them and expand the scope of the policy safety verification of the government. in the future. Product safety verification: All products should be primarily inspected by each supplier and pass the second safety verification of CJ CheilJedang to be released. Purchase of Eco-friendly Raw Materials In the production process, we buy certified organic products to meet the needs of customers that put a Sustainable Raw Material Sourcing Policy priority on safety and health. Strengthened Supplier Safety Management Group CJ CheilJedang commenced the recruitment of employees to oversee safety as part of our efforts to Raw Material Unit 2016 2017 2018 strengthen the safety control group of each supplier. Out of 19 target suppliers, safety staff were hired at 18 Sugar Ton 220 274 174 companies in 2017 and one company in 2018. We operate the network for hired safety management staff to Flour Ton 245 250 185 enable them to share information with each other. Soy bean Ton 158,000 66,000 183,000 Rice Ton 21,284 24,255 40,000 Support for CCM(Consumer Centered Management) Purchase of Sustainable Palm Oil Certification of Suppliers CJ CheilJedang joined RSPO* as a regular member to purchase palm oil produced through legal means and In order to enhance the customer-centered management of suppliers, we support them in receiving the CCM use it in our production process. In 2018, we bought 1,256 tons of sustainable palm oil, and are planning to certification. Based on our CCM know-how throughout the entire value chain, we examine and diagnose the increase the ratio of palm oil in the total raw materials we purchase. suppliers’ CCM system, while providing CCM training programs and assistance for preparation for the Animal Welfare Five * RSPO(Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil) certification: Certification of palm oil produced through legal procedures. evaluation. In 2018, we supported the re-certification of Novarex. Principles Animal Welfare Suppliers Code of Conduct ① Freedom of hunger and thirst CJ CheilJedang has set the animal welfare policy to enhance the welfare of animals as part of its efforts to To spread the culture of sustainability management to suppliers and prevent relevant risks, we enacted the Code of Conduct for Suppliers ② Freedom of environmental or ensure the sustainability of raw materials. We also conform to the five major principles of animal welfare. Now Suppliers Code of Conduct and published the guidelines(Ethics, Human Rights). The code of conduct is physical discomfort we apply the animal welfare policy to part of our egg products, including ‘Animal Welfare Fertile Egg’(a set of comprised of categories of ethics, human rights, safety and environment, which is always available on our CJ ③ Freedom of pain, injury, or disease 10 and 15 eggs). These boxes of eggs are fertile ones produced by hens that are grown in a healthy environment Shared Growth Portal and our official website. In 2018, we conducted the training program for the code of ④ Freedom to express normal without stress, and are high-quality eggs procured from animal-welfare-certified farms. We obtained external conduct targeting suppliers that attended the CJ Partners Club, helping them understand sustainability manbehavior certification as well for the sustainability of our products, including the non-antibiotic certification, HACagement and forming a bond with them. ⑤ Freedom of fear and distress CP(Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point System) and LOHAS(Lifestyles of Health and Sustainability). 46 47 MATERIAL ISSUES IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPORT FOR MUTUAL GROWTH case. CJ CheilJedang developed plant-based eco-friendly materials utilizing our R&D WITH SME SUPPLIERS AND FARMS capacity accumulated for six decades. In 2018, we conducted the Open Innovation CJ CheilJedang CSV CJ New Material Contest to provide capable SMEs with opportunities for commercialization using Stakeholder Engagement SDGs COMPASS Open Innovation such new materials. We evaluated distinctiveness, specificity, marketability and Key Issues in Sustainability Management We create shared values by exploring opportunities for the g rowth of SME suppliers, farms and social contribution level of 65 teams from 45 companies in the contest, and finally Issue 1. Promote a safe and healthy selected six companies that were awarded KRW 30 million. By sharing advanced dietary culture CJ CheilJedang altogether, and commercializing the result of such opportunities. Beyond simple financial materials as well as supporting R&D with SMEs, startups and social enterprises Issue 2. Lead the global market with eco-friendly bio-based and technical support, we will contribute to the country and society by establishing a model that pursues who has distinctive technologies and manufacturing capacity, we expect to strategies mutual growth of the company and supply chain. address fine dust, odor, recycling and other environmental issues in an ecoIssue 3. Drive responsible production for sustainable life and friendly method, while creating new jobs. environment Issue 4. Create an industrial ecosystem for inclusive growth Operational Support for the Mutual Cooperation Center for Food Safety Issue 5. Realize a harmonious local CJ CheilJedang provides operational support to the Mutual Cooperation Center for Food Safety, an organization community CJ new material open innovation Awarding that enhances the food safety management capacity of domestic SMEs in the food industry. For SMEs, the Center provides educational programs about food safety regulations and conducts on-site diagnosis, while Company Prize Proposed Ideas offering customized consulting service for receipt and renewal of the HACCP(Hazard Analysis Critical Control E.G Pick Grand Prize Thin coating materials and release agent for improving freshness Point System) certification. The Center also carries out new product development support(fund, technology, We Lab Best Eco-friendly, non-toxic slime human resources) project for ‘Happy Companion’ with CJ CheilJedang. Jungang Plant Co., Ltd. Excellent Complex odor treatment system In Eco Excellent High-functional, eco-friendly interior finishing materials Mutual Growth Support Program Cosmetic Ventures Encouragement Prize Fine dust cleanser for children CJ CheilJedang operate a variety of mutual growth programs that are practically helpful for SME suppliers. We Secret Garden Encouragement Prize Orchid flowerpot for decorative purposes provide support for quality and hygiene management as well as education, training, and fund and technical support. We introduced the Naeil Chaeum Deduction System in 2017 for the first time as a private enterprise, contributing to stabilizing the employment of SME suppliers and narrowing the wage gap. Mutual Growth Support Program Program Description Unit 2016 2017 2018 Training & Provide basic theoretical education related to production cost, quality, food Company 330 443 417 Education safety, the environment, general management affairs, and laws and regulations Finance Operate the Win-win Fund by providing loans at an interest rate of 1-1.5%, KRW 100 482 482 512 much lower than the general interest rate million Quality & Visit SME suppliers on a regular basis and conduct on-site audit to support Hour 9,600 6,416 3,560 Hygiene their capacity building for quality and hygiene management, receipt and renewal of HACCP certification, and on-site management ‘Happy Companion’ – Brand of Shared Growth with SME Suppliers ‘Happy Companion’ is one of CJ CheilJedang’s key CSV activities. We find SME suppliers with strong competHappy Employment Introduce the Naeil Chaeum(Brighter Future) Mutual Aid Program for the first Company 5(10) 15(26) Stabilization time as a private enterprise, to address issues regarding stable employment at itiveness and support them with core competencies, helping them achieve sustainable growth. In cooperation Companion SME suppliers and the income gap(for 10% of SME suppliers in the CJ Partners with the Mutual Cooperation Center for Food Safety, we support selected companies to build food safety Club, providing KRW 100 million in support for five years) capacity, and use the CJ Group’s distribution channels to assist their commercialization and sales. case. We signed a joint agreement on the campaign for a reduction in the wage gap case. With the new product development support from the Mutual Cooperation Center through cooperation between large companies and SMEs for shared growth, as for Food Safety, we released three frozen snack products under the brand ‘Happy Support for Reducing Happy Companion Companion’. We reviewed the new product development plans submitted by decided in the Korea Commission for Corporate Partnership. This campaign is the Wage Gap For carried out with a joint agreement among eight large companies, SMEs and the New Product Launch SMEs, finally chose Chunbon as the supplier for frozen snack products, and Shared Growth Commission to comply with three principles for proper payment(the correct supported them in pioneering sales channels. The brand identity represents hands held together, visualizing and Cooperation with amount of payment at the right timing through shared growth payment method). the concept of mutual growth with Suppliers It is based on voluntary implementation of shared growth programs that conform Chunbon Frozen Snack – Three Products stakeholders. to the characteristics of each company and business type. Eight large companies We applied a container specific to the use of microwave and top-seal facilities in planned to support KRW 6.2 trillion for this campaign for three years from 2018. manufacturing this HMR product, providing convenience for cooking. CJ CheilJedang will support low-interest loans, expand the number of beneficiaries of the Naeil Chaeum Deduction System, and provide welfare benefits to the employees of its suppliers. Bibigo Gochujang Roasted Bibigo Stir-fried Spicy Bibigo Hanyang-style Bulgogi Pork Belly Webfoot Octopus & Pork O5 48 49 MATERIAL ISSUES IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY CJ Breeding Corp. – Reinforcement of Competitiveness of Farms CJ Breeding Corp. is a professional seed company established by CJ CheilJedang to help farms address their CJ CheilJedang CSV issues regarding the low growth rate and aging population. Through cooperation with government, compaStakeholder Engagement nies, and the agricultural industry, we hope to develop high-quality seeds, implement contract cultivation, SDGs COMPASS develop global agri-food, and increase farm household income, thereby creating an industrial ecosystem for Key Issues in Sustainability Management Issue 1. Promote a safe and healthy shared growth. We support the development and commercialization of seeds, and provide farmers with dietary culture Issue 2. Lead the global market with production training programs. We also conduct contract cultivation to allow farmers to have stable clients eco-friendly bio-based strategies and enable companies to secure stable suppliers. Issue 3. Drive responsible production for sustainable life and environment Competitiveness Reinforcement Programs for Farms Issue 4. Create an industrial ecosystem for inclusive growth Program Description Unit 2016 2017 2018 Issue 5. Realize a harmonious local community Seed Contribute to increasing the potential of developing high-quality products Type of 3 3 2 development in the future and creating social values through seed development seed On-site Visit farms to provide collective and individual training programs annually or Hour 960 1,920 2,540 training half-yearly in each region Contract Secure the market for farms and stabilize sales ha 390 381 827 cultivation Agricultural Production Training CJ CheilJedang runs the production training program for farmers aimed at sharing practical and professional information for crop cultivation and increasing farming efficiency. In this program, we visit farms to check the * In 2018, we initiated the ‘Chan Chan Chan Project’ to help single-parent families stand on their own feet and promote the Healthy growth of children, where government growing state of crops, listen to grievances of farmers, and provide support is insufficient. networking opportunities. In 2018, four employees of our production team implemented 2,540 hours of the training program for 10 months. REALIZE A HARMONIOUS LOCAL COMMUNITY case. ‘Cheonjihyang I’ → ‘Hetbahn Roasted-Flavor Rice’ This product is made of ‘Cheonjihyang’ rice, a specialized Outcome of variety of rice with excellent flavor. We launched this Commercialization product with a strategy to provide a distinctive flavor of of High-Quality Seed homemade, beyond the newly-cooked-rice-like quality. through Contract HOW WE For fulfilling corporate social responsibility, a company should contribute to the local community, accompanied by the participation of the local community. Social responsibility should be performed not by charity donations, but by support Cultivation ‘Hanareum Glutinous Rice’ → ‘Taeyangcho Gochujang’ MANAGE for those who need help in society with the participation of members of the company. And shared values should be Hanareum Glutinous Rice boasts 20% higher yield comcreated through activities using the characteristic of business. pared to other varieties, an economical crop that enables CJ CheilJedang hopes to achieve a harmonious society by supporting the fields where attention are needed. Following farmers under cultivation contracts to achieve higher this direction, we conduct a wide range of social contribution activities, promoting a healthy dietary culture of the people, income premix. etc. protecting the environment and ecosystem of the local community, and assisting teenagers to realize their dreams. We We use this variety of rice in making ‘Taeyangcho Gochujang’. also run the Social Contribution Committee to make quick and accurate decisions regarding issues in all fields of social contribution. interview. Part of our fields were flooded due to a typhoon in late June last year, and we were 2018 KEY Rate of employee Food Sharing 20 participation in on the verge of zero cultivation of the year due to the rotten roots of bean sprouts FACTS & FIGURES volunteer activities th anniversary Donghun Kim, if we do not sow seeds. Luckily, CJ Breeding Corp. swiftly provided additional seeds a Farmer Who Cultivated CJ and we were able to save crops of the year. As a farmer, I have encountered many difficulties regarding fair trade, including the clients’ abuse of power and existing 86 % farms being neglectful to new farmers. But we were able to keep a reliable and fair Happy Bean No. 1 business relationship with CJ Breeding Corp. We appreciate various activities of the company for shared growth, including distinctive seed distribution, the agreement Amount of donation Republic of Korea Sharing on and fulfillment of initial cultivation contract areas, continued crop checking, and for social contribution People Award emergency support. We would like to contribute to the advancement of Korean agriculture together. KRW 14.92billion Presidential Citation Material sharing category 50 51 MATERIAL ISSUES IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION STRATEGY ENHANCE PEOPLE’S HEALTH AND DIETARY LIFE CJ CheilJedang CSV Stakeholder Engagement SDGs COMPASS CJ CheilJedang hopes to share a culture on the founding philosophy ‘Contributing to the national economy’. CJ CheilJedang utilizes its core capacity in food safety and nutrition, helping the underprivileged improve Key Issues in Sustainability Management Since the company organized the social contribution department for the first time in the industry, their dietary life and health. Issue 1. Promote a safe and healthy dietary culture CJ CheilJedang has constantly carried out social contribution activities. We have shared food by participating Products to Promote the Healthy Dietary Life Issue 2. Lead the global market with eco-friendly bio-based in the Food Bank project utilizing the characteristics of our business for 21 years. We also founded CJ Welfare strategies Foundation and CJ Cultural Foundation to support teenagers achieve their dreams and to develop cultural CJ CheilJedang focuses on the R&D of products that can improve the health of the people to make various Issue 3. Drive responsible production for sustainable life and human resources. products for specific purposes. We launched ‘Allulose’ for low calorie and low blood sugar level and ‘BYO’ environment Issue 4. Create an industrial ecosystem for alleviating atopic allergy and improving the health of intestines, striving to enhance people’s health and for inclusive growth nutritional balance. We also released ‘Hetbahn Low-protein Rice’ for patients with rare diseases, fulfilling our Issue 5. Realize a harmonious local Social Contribution Areas corporate social responsibility based on the characteristics of business. community Based on its core shared values—health and well-being, sustainable environment, and shared growth with society, CJ CheilJedang carries out social contribution activities to vulnerable areas to enhance people’s health and dietary lives, preserve the environment and ecosystem of local communities, and help teenagers to Food Support for Single-parent Families – Chan Chan Chan Project Comment from a In 2018, we initiated the ‘Chan Chan Chan Project’ to help single-parent families stand on their own feet and Beneficiary of Chan achieve their dreams, in order to create a harmonious society. promote the Healthy growth of children, where government support is insufficient. Our employees cooked Chan Chan Project 100 portions of side dishes using our food products, and delivered them to single-parent families in the Seoul Metropolitan area. “Regardless of the number or amount Social Contribution Areas of side dishes, I was very touched because I could feel kindness and support for single mothers. I MANAGEMENT Ho-am's Founding Contributing to the Coexistence and sometimes feel frustrated thinking PHILOSOPHY Management Philosophy national economy Co-prosperity Principle of the future with my 19-monthold daughter, but I am encouraged thanks to your wholehearted support. Thank you very much.” HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Shared growth AREAS OF with the COMMITMENT society Food Sharing Activities for 20 Years SUSTAINABLE Considering the characteristics of the food business, CJ CheilJedang utilizes its core competencies in the field ENVIRONMENT of food safety and nutrition to prevent meal skipping and the lack of nutrition among the disadvantaged. For example, we have participated in food sharing activities through Food Bank since 1998 to provide meals to the underprivileged. Our employees, consumers and other stakeholders also participate in various campaigns to make changes in society. We help consumers participate in donation activities, including ‘Heartfelt Project’ where consumers can donate through social media, ‘One Meal Resonance Project’ where consumers can donate using CJ ONE points, and ‘Minewater Barcordrop Campaign’ where consumers can donate to a drinking MAJOR Enhance people’s health Preserve the environment and CHALLENGES water filtering project in Africa by purchasing a certain product. Moreover, we are conducting sharing camand dietary life ecosystem of local communities ·nutritious products ·Protection of resources paigns using our products for the health of the people, including ‘Chan Chan Chan Project’ for providing side ·Prevention of meal-skipping ·Prevention of environmental dishes to single-parent households, the development of low-protein rice and camp support for rare disease among children diseases patients, the development of products and sponsorship for patients with atopic dermatitis, and the donation ·Food safety ·Environmental cleanup of emergency kits using our products to be used in the case of disasters. activities Food Sharing Accumulated Donation case. as a Converted Amount, Employee Participating in Volunteer Activities Food Bank, 20 years about ‘CJ CheilJedang Volunteer Week’ is operated twice a year to encourage employees to participate in volunteer 20 Years of Food Since 1998 KRW 200 billion activities. We plan and conduct various volunteer programs connected to our social contribution areas, Sharing History Received Received including food sharing, environmental cleanup, upcycling, and education programs for teenagers. In 2018, a Presidential Citation from Mayor total of 5,521 employees spent 40,501 hours in volunteer programs, making both big and small changes. Citation at Republic of Seoul Corporate of Korea Sharing Social Contribution People Award Award 52 53 MATERIAL ISSUES IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY Interaction between Employees and Children Mental Support for Children and Teenagers – Mural Painting – Kimchi and Holiday Food Making Volunteer Program Based on our belief on helping teenagers achieve their dreams, we selected some old walls around facilities for CJ CheilJedang CSV Under the slogan of ‘Equal opportunity and Healthy growth’, we run community children welfare centers. Our children and areas with low safety, and conducted mural painting activities to improve the environment. We Stakeholder Engagement employees make Kimchi in person and provide it to the centers in winter Kimchi-making season, while making filled outer walls with pleasant images from fairy tales for the stable mental health of children and teenagers. SDGs COMPASS traditional food with children at the centers in holiday season. In 2018, our employees participated in sharing This program is annually carried out as talent donation of employees, which started as one of their club acKey Issues in Sustainability Management Issue 1. Promote a safe and healthy activities at 120 community children welfare centers, making holiday food together and having some recreation tivities and now settled as a leading program of employee volunteer activities. dietary culture Issue 2. Lead the global market with time. Through Kimchi-making volunteer activities that began in 2007, employees from all our business sites eco-friendly bio-based strategies visit nearby study rooms and welfare facilities to provide Kimchi they make directly. Issue 3. Drive responsible production for sustainable life and environment Issue 4. Create an industrial ecosystem for inclusive growth Issue 5. Realize a harmonious local community Support for Children with Skin Disease – Goodbye Atopy Campaign CJ CheilJedang provides products that help patients with atopic dermatitis improve their skin, and conduct sponsorship activities for children with the disease. We celebrated the 4th anniversary of ‘Goodbye Atopy Healing Camp’ in 2018. A total of 40 families participated in this event, spending time in nature for two days and one night and as well as having animal therapy time where they could interact with animals. We prepared a variety of recreation programs where participants could enhance physical and mental immunity and communicate with each other. In addition, we conducted the atopy-specific class ‘Atopy Cooking Class’ for families with children suffering from atopic dermatitis, in which they used food ingredients useful for treating PRESERVE THE ENVIRONMENT AND the disease and immunity enhancement. ECOSYSTEM OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES CJ CheilJedang conserves the environment and ecosystem of local communities through activities to protect and recycle resources and prevent environmental diseases. Eco-friendly Use of Waste – Recycling of ‘Hetbahn’ Containers Since our products are generally provided in disposable containers, we recognized the need to reduce waste in an eco-friendly method. As our first step, we planned activities for upcycling ‘Hetbahn’ containers to raise the awareness of waste issues among employees and promote resource recirculation. We could increase the awareness and participation of employees by collecting the containers of ‘Hetbahn’ products and adding fun aspects to the eco-friendliness of the program, such as flowerpot making with used containers and wood. Tree Planting for Fine Dust Reduction Considering a growing number of environmental issues such as fine dust, we conducted tree planting activities. In particular, we used our new Bio materials with functions of controlling dust scattering and stabilizing soil, while contributing to the environment by providing nutrition to trees. A total of 227 employees participated in tree planting activities for 696 hours in 2018. 54 55 STRUCTURE OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 지배구조 정도경영 리스크 관리 고객만족 인재경영 STRUCTURE OF SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 56 GOVERNANCE 58 INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT 60 RISK MANAGEMENT 62 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 64 HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT 56 57 STRUCTURE OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY Name Career Field of Expertise Contribution MANAGEMENT Tae •2006~present •Professor, Department of Public Administration of Hanyang University Policy and Public Contribute to our innovative growth with experience Yun •2014~2016 •Member of the Regulatory Reform Committee as a presidential adviadministration in consulting, including the establishment of regulatory Kim •2010~2012 sory body policies that kept up with the trend of the 4th Indus•2006~2008 •Member of Korea Society for Regulatory Studies trialization and the presentation of national innovative Governance •Head of the project assessment department at the National Assembly growth challenges Budget Office Integrity Management Si •2018~present •Professor, KDI School of Public Policy and Management International Trade, Contribute to our global business with global sense Risk Management wook •2015~2016 •Head of the Korea International Development Cooperation Center Economic develand expertise in economy and policy. He has been Customer Satisfaction Lee •2014 •Head of the KDI Regulation Support opment, Internaactive in the economy and policy regarding the global CJ CheilJedang has established a sound governance structure for generating profits •2011~2014 •Professor, Department of Econoic of Myung ji University tional development market, including international trade cooperation Human Resources Management cooperation and knowledge sharing projects and promoting sustainable growth. We disclose information about our governance in the sustainability reports in a transparent way. You can find further information on our website and business reports. BOD OPERATION STATUS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS(BOD) BOD Decision Making System BOD is chaired by the CEO for efficient operation, but independent directors(the majority) have the rights BOD Committees Composition of BOD and Appointment of Directors to make decisions under the Commercial Act. Any member with a special interest has no right to make deciCJ CheilJedang’s BOD is comprised of three internal directors and four independent directors, in which sions. Before the meeting, the directors share the agendas in advance, review them thoroughly and begin the ·Audit Committee: Ensures the legitimacy and independent directors should fill the majority of the total number of directors. The directors are selected meeting. Fair opportunities to present opinions are given to prevent any director from monopolizing changes transparency of accounting and independence from the management and work audits, in the general meeting. For this appointment, the board considers diversity and expertise to make strategic to express his/her opinions, enhancing the objectivity of the decision-making process. BOD actively commuasset investigation, and the appointment/ decisions from a comprehensive viewpoint. CJ CheilJedang especially considers diversity in gender, race, nicates with stakeholders through internal and external channels, identifies major issues, and sincerely serves replacement of independent auditor(s) religion, nationality, and cultural background. The directors are guaranteed a 3-year term so that they their role of assistance for the company’s business management. ·Independent Director Candidate can make decisions considering the long-term management performance of the company. Whether they Recommendation Committee: Recommends retain their position after the initial term will be decided by an performance evaluation. qualified candidates for the position of new independent directors in accordance with laws, BOD Activities the Articles of Association, and the rules of the As of April 2019, ● : Chair, : Member The BOD meeting is held on a regular basis according to the annual operation plan, while temporary meetings BOD and ensures independence by organizing Category Name Position GenInitial Committee can be conducted if necessary. In 2018, a total of 11 BOD meetings were carried out to discuss 34 agendas, the committee with only independent directors der Appointment Audit Independent Director Internal RemuDate Committee Candidate RecomTransaction neration including the approval for additional investment in the integrated food production base. The BOD achieved ·Internal Transaction Committee: Conducts deliberation of transactions of subsidiaries and mendation Committee Committee Committee the attendance rate of independent directors reaching 94.4% in this period. Further details are disclosed in affiliate persons that are decided as affairs Internal Kyung Shik Sohn Chairman, CJ Corp Male SEP 2007 ● our business reports and on the official website. Director to be approved by BOD in accordance with Hyun Jae Shin CEO, CJ CheilJedang Bio Business Male MAR 2017 the Fair Trade Act and the Commercial Act, improving transparency of transactions of Sin Ho Kang President, CJ CheilJedang Food Business Male MAR 2018 BOD Operation in Detail IndeYung Jue Bang Professor, College of Medicine of Seoul National University Male MAR 2014 ● subsidiaries and affiliate persons pendent Director* Jong Chang Kim Professor, College of Business at KAIST Male MAR 2019 ● Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 ·Remuneration Committee: Ensures fairness in the performance index assessment for the Tae Yun Kim Professor, Department of Public Administration of Male MAR 2019 ● Total BOD meetings Number 8 9 11 Hanyang University adequate remuneration system for executives Si Wook Lee Professor, KDI School of Public Policy and Management Male MAR 2019 and the payment of long-term incentives Discussed agendas Case 18 27 34 * Details of careers of independent directors are available in the section of Expertise of Independent Directors. Internal director attendance % 70.8 85.2 87.9 Independent director attendance % 96.9 94.5 100 Organization of the Internal Transaction Committee In 2019, we newly organized the Internal Transaction Committee to enhance the transparency of business (Allowable minimum attendance rate of BOD: 51.0%) management and strengthen corporate social responsibility. We enacted relevant regulations, and the organization of the committee and the enactment of regulations were decided in the temporary BOD meeting Independence Criteria for Independent Directors on December 17, 2018. BOD EVALUATION AND REMUNERATION Independence of Independent Directors Article 382, Commercial Act BOD Evaluation Only candidate(s) recommended by the Independent Director Candidate Recommendation Committee ·A person who has not been engaged in BOD Evaluation Activities of independent directors are evaluated by a fair method based on individual perconsisting only of independent directors can be considered in the general meeting as an agenda to be employment relations with CJ CheilJedang formance, and the result is used to decide the remuneration level and reappointment. The BOD designs the and its subsidiaries as an executive or an discussed. Appointed independent directors take charge of monitoring and checking major issues related to employee for the past five years the business management of the company. Also, independent of directors can hold the office of a director at remuneration policy for the management to conform to the long-term interests of shareholders, and discloses ·A person who is not the spouse, lineal only one other company except for CJ CheilJedang, and follow the criteria of independence of independent the policy to the public. The assessment of the management and executive directors is conducted in accorascendant or lineal descendant of the largest directors in accordance with the Commercial Act. dance with the objective and comprehensive criteria based on the quantitative measurement(sales, business shareholders profits, etc.) and qualitative measurement(leadership, core competency level, CSV activities, other contribu·A person who is not engaged in employment relations with any entity related to the Expertise of Independent Directors tions to the company, etc.). largest shareholders an executive or an employee CJ CheilJedang appoints experts in business management, economy, law and medicine with a wealth of Shares owned by the ·A person who is not the spouse, lineal experience and knowledge as independent directors, considering expertise related to our business sectors. BOD Remuneration Management in 2018 ascendant or lineal descendant of an The following data illustrats the remuneration for the BOD of CJ CheilJedang in 2018, decided based executive or an employee of CJ CheilJedang Expertise of Independent Directors on the evaluation of the BOD. ·A person who is not an executive or an Name Career Field of Expertise Expectation from CJ CheilJedang ·Management(Internal directors) employee of a subsidiary of CJ CheilJedang Remuneration for the BOD in 2018 AS OF DECEMBER, 2018 who own the shares of the ·A person who is not an executive or an Jong •2013~present •Professor, College of Business at KAIST Head of the clinical trial Business Contribute to uncertain economic conditions with employee of any entity with a major interest Chang •2008~2011 center at Seoul National University Hospital Management emergency response capacity and financial expertise. company Kim •2004~2006 •7th Governor of the Financial Supervisory Service He is recognized for overcoming global financial Internal External in CJ CheilJedang including business relations Category Unit Total : Kyung Shik Sohn, Hyun Jae Shin, •2001~2004 •Member of the Monetary Policy Board crisis successfully and addressing uncertainties in the •President of IBK market earlier than expected as the governor of the Directors Directors* Sin Ho Kang ·A person who is not an executive or an Financial Supervisory Service employee of any entity where Number of directors Person 3 3 6 CJ CheilJedang’s executive or employee Yung •2013~present •Head of the clinical trial center at Seoul National University Hospital Medicine Contribute to present professional and new ·Multiple proportion of the basic Jue, •2018 •Received the 11th Asan Award in Medicine in the category of clinical perspective with experience in the field of biomedical Total remuneration KRW million 12,566 168 12,734 serves as an executive or an employee Bang •2012~2014 medicine science and biotechnology R&D salary of the management •Chief Director of Korean Cancer Association : 0.50times * The total amount of directors’ remuneration includes resigned Jeong Pyo Choi. 58 59 STRUCTURE OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT Integrity Management Checklist SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT CJ CheilJedang has prepared an integrity management checklist to prevent any unfair trade practices with agencies and partners. As any items equivalent to unfair trade behaviors in transactions with agencies and Governance partners are listed, employees in charge can check potential unfair behaviors in advance. Integrity Management Risk Management Customer Satisfaction CJ CheilJedang has established and implemented the Integrity Management System, Human Resources Management highlighting integrity, one of the shared values of the management philosophy of CJ Group, and put a top priority on integrity management for corporate competitiveness. ESTABLISHMENT OF INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT INTEGRITY-BASED MANAGEMENT CULTURE Integrity Management System Integrity Management CommunicatioN All employees realize the principle of integrity management by complying with the Fair Trade Act and the CJ CheilJedang operates communication channels to establish integrity management culture to all internal Code of Conduct. We regard integrity management as the standard for judgment in performing work and and external stakeholders such as employees of the company and suppliers and customers. By operating a make management environment transparent and sound by practicing integrity. reporting channel, we receive cases on unfair requests and corruption due to unfair work processes or positions; with guaranteed anonymity. We send the Integrity Letter once or twice a month to all employees so Integrity Management Implementation System that integrity management culture can be established by sharing a guide for unfair cases and guideline for employees. In addition, we deliver the Compliance News & Issue for the major management in the food and bio business divisions and Compliance Coordinators to enhance the understanding of compliance and regulaExternal reporting: Reporting channel for violations of the Fair Trade Act tory environment and ensure intensive communication on integrity management. Cyber Audit Center Integrity management Internal reporting: Integrity Management Communication Channels Whistle System Code of Conduct for Employees Code of Ethics ·Report unfair work processes, unjust requests abusing authority, and corruption Cyber Audit Center cases With the recognition of Group’s Exemplary Code of Conduct for the rapidly-changing regulatory environReporting ·Anonymity strictly protected ment and increased needs for corporate social responsibility, CJ Group has enacted the Code of Conduct to Channel ·Available in eight languages and operated for domestic and overseas business Global Whistle present solutions for concrete behavioral principles for employees in dealing with potential ethical issues in sites System ·Anonymity strictly protected performing work. Considering the unique characteristics of four different business groups which can only be found in CJ Group, it suggests rules based on common factors in consideration of the meaning as an exemplary code of conduct and acceptability of each affiliate. As a survey for 40 employees of CJ CheilJedang was Integrity Letter ·Share unfair cases and behavioral guidelines for employees once or twice a month conducted in the process of enacting the Code of Conduct, we formed a bond of sympathy for the need of Sharing Channel ‘Creating a ·Issue the newsletter to domestic and overseas business sites(Korea, China, amending the Code of Conduct by listening to various opinions. CJ CheilJedang is amending the existing Healthy CJ’ Indonesia, Vietnam, Philippines, U.S., Europe, etc.) CJ CheilJedang Code of Ethics suitable for the direction of the Group’s Exemplary Code of Conduct. The company’s regulations on ethical behavior define both subsidiaries and overseas branches as the target of compliance. Translated into eight languages, the Code of Ethics helps employees around the world and the entire supply chain to understand ethical management. Integrity Management Education CJ Cheiljedang conducting diverse education programs to internalize integrity management. Especially, to Appointment of Compliance Coordinator prevent the corruption, specialized education for each job is carried out to enhance the effectiveness of To reinforce social responsibility through legal compliance, CJ CheilJedang appoints the Compliance education. Also, continuing to expand the scope of education by establishing a Compliance Coordinator Coordinator under the responsible department and provides separate education for fostering these course to strengthen compliance management by 2018. coordinators to establish an autonomous compliance culture. Based on the compliance guideline, we will spread a compliance culture to our employees on the business site and operate the system to improve Integrity Management Education for 2018 activities through self-diagnosis. Category Description No. of attendants(person) Education regarding the Fair Trade Act Education on the overall information of fair trade for experienced employees 190 INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT EVALUATION Education on fair trade for staff members in charge of procurement Regulations and cases of unfair support practices Education regarding the Fair Agency Transactions Act Regulations and cautions for the Fair Agency Transactions Act 110 Management Diagnosis of Business Sites Education regarding the Improper Solicitation Understanding of major information on the Improper Solicitation and Graft 120 CJ CheilJedang conducts on-site management diagnosis for domestic and overseas business sites on a regular and Graft Act Act basis to check the current conditions of integrity management and carry out improvement activities for major Regarding the Fair Transactions in SubcontractProhibition of request for management information such as cost information 50 issues. For overseas business sites, we use the essential diagnosis list with 494 items to check the manageing Act System for request to provide technical materials and related cautions ment level of the relevant business site and give marks to come up with improvement measures. In 2018, we Compliance Coordinator Cultivation Course Basic understanding of compliance 36 conducted a diagnosis for 16 domestic and overseas groups and improved the process for major issues. In Change in domestic and overseas regulatory environment 2019, the company will strengthen diagnosis activities such as removal of business risk elements and review of strategic business implementation to maximize business performance. 60 61 STRUCTURE OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 RISK MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Governance Information Security Management System Integrity Management CJ CheilJedang protects customer information and the company’s vital information assets under the inforRisk Management mation security management system to enhance our global competitiveness and secure reliability among Customer Satisfaction CJ CheilJedang recognizes and manages risks that may arise in the overall process of customers. We also secure staff members in charge of security by dividing staff members into company-wide Human Resources Management management. We operate a systemic risk response process to take prompt action and and business division members to ensure robust information security. The company prevents information responses to risks. security risk by organizing the information protection committee and Task Force Team meetings. Information Security Management System COMPANY-WIDE RISK PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT ACHIEVING Protect the vital informational assets OUR VISION Ensure the efficiency, of the company Risk Management System FOR GREAT CJ effectiveness, safety and Secure global competitiveness and 2020 reliability of information security All risks are examined from three aspects—damage to human resources and property, violation of regulations, build trust with customers and damage to reputation—and are shared and reported to the management and relevant departments. Each risk is identified as one of three levels from R1(Required level for Company-Wide Risk Response Division operation) to R3(Required level for Risk Division operation); in case of R1(The Highest level), we operate the company-wide risk response division and take swift action by reporting the case within 24 hours. Information Protection Management System Certification CJ ON Mart is subject to receive ISMS(Information Security Management System) Certification since its sales Company-wide Risk Response Division exceeded KRW 10 billion in 2016. We obtained initial certification in 2016 and retained it in 2017 and 2018 with our own information security capacity. We will reinforce the ISMS certification and information security On-site ·Head of risk business site ·Head of business unit system through the post-screening process. Response Team Company-wide Risk Response Head of Company-wide Risk Operating Committee Response Department External ·Legal Affairs Division ·Public Relations Division CEO, Division Head, Business Management Administration Business Management Administration Response Team ·Strategy Support Unit responsible executives TAX RISK MANAGEMENT Internal ·Manager in charge of safety management Operating Support Team ·BIO/Food: Head of Management Support Unit ·BIO/Food: Head of HR Department and manager in charge Tax Risk Management System Situation Supervision ·Food: Head of Production & Manufacturing Department Team ·BIO/Feed & Livestock: Head of Business Department CJ CheilJedang has established tax policy to manage risk related to transparent tax payment. With the Head of Strategic ·IT Strategy Division Support Unit ·Management‌& Diagnosis Division principle of tax management, we have the basis for strict compliance and enhance the expertise of managers Tax Policy by recruiting nationally accredited experts. For any important case, we access tax risk carefully by receiving advice from external experts and make a final decision. Risk Response Process Company-wide Risk Management and Response Tax Risk Management Process Tax Risk Management 01. Initially recognize the occurrence of risk CJ CheilJedang defines department-specific risks associated with management activities, products and serCJ CheilJedang has an internal assessment process to deal with tax risks in advance and closely communicates Process vices in accordance with company-wide risk management rules. We also have an integrated risk management 02. Share information about the risk and process to prevent any confusion and delay in the reporting system upon the occurrence of risk. Through an with tax authorities to forecast risks. swiftly report on it 01. Risk occurrence and initial recognition efficient response made by the relevant department, we minimize damage caused by risks. After risk occurs, Fulfillment of Tax Obligations 03. Identify the risk and analyze the we conduct follow-up evaluation and manage the history to prevent recurrence. With such activities, the Explore and recognize risks information company not only prevents potential risks, but also reorganizes the process of risk response. CJ CheilJedang conducts its business in many countries including Korea, the U.S., China, Vietnam and Indonesia, and sincerely fulfills the duty of tax payment, including corporate tax, in accordance with local tax laws. Set the scenario by risk: 04. Decide whether the risk is a major or minor issue Definition and Management of Emerging Risks Corporate Tax in Each Country in 2018*(based on consolidated) Unit: KRW 100 million CJ CheilJedang identifies and manages potential financial and non-financial risks in current management ac05. Organize the response team and find a 02. Risk sharing and swift solution tivities and manages their impact on the company. We also identify emerging risks that are expected to have Category Sales Operating Profit Pre-tax profit After-tax profit report the most important influence on our future business and aim to minimize their impact as our management 2017 2018 gap 2017 2018 gap 2017 2018 gap 2017 2018 gap Impact analysis 06. Take measures and check progress organization analyzes them thoroughly. Korea 57,487 57,687 3,603 6,404 2,801 4,059 14,376 10,317 951 2,914 1,963 1,950 Finalize the response process Countermeasure Emerging risk Definition and impact Management organization Management policy Indonesia 11,841 8,355 -1,517 -4,543 -3,026 -1,636 -4,876 -3,240 172 191 19 19 Risk for rapid Identify supply and cost risk based on rapid change in the price Food Procurement Division ·Establishing a monitoring system for raw U.S. 5,489 6,997 1,227 1,786 559 1,126 1,657 531 57 5 -52 -54 change in the price of major raw materials on a real-time basis, establish a monitoring Material Grain Purchasing materials Monitoring of raw materials on system for immediate response in case of risk, and monitor the Strategy Division BIO ·Conduct monitoring for quantitative indicators China 9,647 10,196 189 -371 -560 111 -631 -742 74 120 46 45 a real-time basis conditions in the MI Room, quantitative data through real-time Procurement Division ·Conduct monitoring for qualitative dashboard in the team and qualitative news data real-timenews Vietnam 4,680 6,398 -304 555 859 -391 392 783 36 32 -4 -5 Foreign exchange Exchange rate fluctuation may result in increased uncertainty and Financial Operation Division ·Reduction of foreign exchange risk by first reducing risk management changes in profit or loss exchange rate exposure through matching Others 9,708 13,120 2,365 2,341 -24 1,931 1,881 -50 56 114 58 60 ·Residual exposure is hedged through derivatives such as forward exchange in accordance with Total 98,852 102,753 5,563 6,172 609 5,200 12,799 7,599 1,346 3,376 2,030 2,015 internal foreign exchange control regulations. ·Speculative Purpose Foreign exchange * The figure indicates the aggregate data of pre-tax profit and corporate tax provided in the individual report of each local subsidiary; accordingly, it is different from the premanagement strictly prohibited tax profit and corporate tax in CJ CheilJedang’s business report. Business site Large-scale fire risk on the business site is defined as a potential Food Production & ·Phased improvement for vulnerable elements * Korea: The corporate tax of headquarters was KRW 240.3 billion due to the sale of CJ HealthCare in 2018, leading to an increase in the effective tax rate by 6%(the tax effect safety risk risk in the production process; in case of such risk, it can have an Manufacturing Division for fire risk of the profit from the sale of CJ HealthCare: KRW 278.3 billion). impact on the financial and operational aspects Environmental Safety Division ·Implement SDR reinforcement ·Secure emergency response capability * U.S.: The effective tax rate fell due to a decrease in the amount of tax payment and deferred corporate tax as the corporate tax rate was reduced from 34% to 21%. ·Conduct fire prevention campaign * Vietnam: The effective tax rate was(-) due to a large deficit(△ KRW 59.3 billion) of a livestock-related subsidiary in 2017. But in 2018, the effective tax rate went up due to Demographic Changes in population structure, such as an increase in Brand Strategy Division ·New HMR Product Development reflecting the decrease in the pre-tax loss(△ KRW 1 billion). Change single-person households and female workers, affect the overall health and convenience * Others: The effective tax rate went up due to a large amount of deficit realized in a Bio business subsidiary in Malaysia(△ KRW 18.6 billion) and a food business subsidiary in food business and require the introduction of products that •Driving the strategy of premiumizing HMR Russia(△ KRW 7.8 billion). reflect customer needs based on changing trends product 62 63 STRUCTURE OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Customer Satisfaction Management SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT CJ CheilJedang conducts Customer Satisfaction Index(CSI) assessment on a regular basis to improve the quality of customer service. We analyze any customer complaints through internal evaluation(CJ Telenix) and Governance external consulting(KMAC), make improvements, and manage service quality. Integrity Management Risk Management Results of Customer Satisfaction Survey Unit: point Customer Satisfaction CJ CheilJedang puts a top priority on enhancing customer value in management. We Human Resources Management pursue customer-centered management and strive to improve customer satisfaction Category 2016 2017 2018 and develop customer service by bilateral communication with customers. Customer satisfaction survey by KMAC 92.3 93.9 92.1 Customer satisfaction survey by CJ Telenix 89.6 92.9 91.9 IMPLEMENTATION OF CONSUMER-CENTERED MANAGEMENT Communication at the Level of Consumers’ Satisfaction CJ CheilJedang provides optimal feedback for customer inquiries by operating a counseling group with experRecertification of Consumer-Centered Management(CCM) tise related to each business section. The counseling group operates trips to manufacturing plants, cooking Since 2015 when we acquired the certification of CCM, CJ CheilJedang has ensured recertification. In 2017, training and knowledge forum for communication with customers beyond a phone call. In the cooking training, we were selected as one of the best practices. In addition, the company supports suppliers to acquire CCM the group selects a new product or product with many cases of VOC and directly cooks the menu item. With with the aim of solidifying and spreading CCM to the supply chain. We will continuously implement CCM and this process, we can relate to any potential complaints of customers, identify improvement ideas and make provide our suppliers with support to acquire CCM. practical improvements. With the knowledge forum, the company learns about consumer issues and information with a high level of consumer interest, form a bond of sympathy, and cultivate knowledge for sufficient Consumer VOC Experience for Employees communication with consumers. Since 2015, CJ CheilJedang has carried out the VOC experience activities to provide employees, including the CEO, with the opportunity to listen to the voices of customers and participate in customer counseling in person. The employees of non-CS departments directly listen to the voices of customers, provide counseling service to identify customer needs, and are motivated to meet the needs in their own field of work. We also distribute and display CCM contents on a monthly basis to continue and cultivate a customer-centered ENCOURAGEMENT OF CUSTOMER mindset among employees. On December 3rd, Consumer Rights Day, we conduct an online quiz event for ENGAGEMENT consumers and the Remind Training for our employees so that they can experience CJ CheilJedang’s consumer-centered management activities. Home Visit Activities CJ CheilJedang implements home-visit activities for consumer panels or customers who have experienced any inconvenience when using its products and services. We visit customers using products and services in REINFORCEMENT OF COMMUNICATION person and aim to address their inconveniences that we missed in the manufacturing process. WITH CUSTOMERS Consumer Panel Activities Online and Offline Counseling Service As a consumer panel with an abbreviation of Trend Opinion Panel, the T.O.P Panel has been organized by CJ CheilJedang to reflect consumers’ opinions from the stage of searching product idea seeds to the stage CJ CheilJedang Customer Contact Center listens to the opinions from customers through various channels. of verifying a new product concept and performance monitoring after the launch. The panel is composed of The center provides phone call and text message service, bulletin board on the website, social media, and sign people of various ages in their 20s to 50s. In 2018, the panel verified a product concept by identifying the language counseling service for customers with hearing impairment. In addition, the company listens to the preference and acceptance of product concept and carried out trend and idea screening activities by underopinions of customers in stores through sales promotion staff and sales representatives at large supermarkets standing consumers. The company will create CJ FAN, which reviews not only the stage of seeking ideas but and stores handling our products. also monitoring after launch, by reflecting consumer opinions before the launch, checking consumer responses, and product performance monitoring. Voice of Customers(VOC) Management CJ CheilJedang operates the Customer Suggestions Responsibility System that provides feedback on customers’ suggestions beyond typical customer management of collecting opinions from customers. We identify improvement tasks by analyzing customers’ suggestions received by VOC, reflect improvement ideas, and give feedback on the opinions. case. CJ CheilJedang collects and reflects customers’ suggestions for the improvement of products. Product Cases Grill Frank Jalapenos Bibigo Dumplings Reflecting Customers’ Suggestions Difficult to identify information in purchasing the Risk of injury due to the sharp edge of packaging product because the level of spiciness is not indicated • Applying a rounded edge • Providing information for customer selection • Adding items for improving customer by indicating ‘HOT’ on the package satisfaction such as rounding of the packaging checklist for launching a new product 64 65 STRUCTURE OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 HUMAN RESOURCES SUSTAINABILITY Global Talent Cultivation Programs MANAGEMENT Program Description Governance Integrity Management MANAGEMENT Global Voyage Global Knock Overseas training for new group leaders in major countries where our business sites are located Support for employees who design and put into practice their own overseas training plans and global Risk Management job training/experience plans Customer Satisfaction Global Expert Program for research into untapped strategic countries and regions The realize the company’s founding philosophy of ‘top priority on human resources’, Human Resources Management Global Vision Trip Program for nurturing a global mindset and enhancing the understanding of overseas business among CJ CheilJedang focuses on cultivating securing outstanding and future human core junior employees resources and makes the protection of human rights and safety of each individual Global Key Talent Conference Program for inviting core human resources from each country to Korea and developing management employee a priority. capabilities and presenting a vision for growth Declaration of Human Rights Others Intensive language course for dispatching employees to foreign countries, course for employees HUMAN RIGHTS AND DIVERSITY dispatched overseas, etc. case. Protection of Human Rights CJ CheilJedang proclaims our support for the Human Rights through the ‘CJ CheilJedang Declaration of ADVANCED ORGANIZATIONAL CULTURE Female Leadership Reinforcement in Human Rights’. We encourage our employees to join efforts to protect human rights across the company through essential education programs on integrity as well as sexual violence prevention and safety. In addition Advanced Working Culture Based on IT 2018 to the establishment of the Code of Conduct for Suppliers, we published guidelines(for ethical and humanCJ CheilJedang has adopted the RPA(Robotic Process) to spread the working culture based on IT(Information rights-based management), while providing training programs and carrying out self-diagnosis for suppliers, Technology)/DT(Digital Transform). The RPA helps employees concentrate on core tasks through the autoFemale Leaders Meeting by Food Section thereby protecting human rights even in the supply chain. The company will further strive to spread the culmation of repetitive work, which used to be conducted manually. With this system, we improve work produc(November 2018, March 2019) ture of respect, which is the core value of our group, by developing relevant guidelines along with government tivity and shorten working hours to promote work-and-life balance. In 2018, the company identified about Selected 33 on-duty female expolicies such as the legislation of ‘prohibition of in-company harassment’ and advancing human rights-related 100 work efficiency tasks and realized automation and efficiency through the RPA. As a result, we have found ecutives and off-duty excellent policies. various positive effects, including improvement of concentration and enhancement of work convenience and employees to emphasize the role of female leaders and present a vision accuracy such as enhancing the utilization of on-desk jobs, securing the access of external data, and simplifor growth with the continuous expansion of the percentage of female Respect for Diversity fying tasks. human resources in the organization CJ CheilJedang ensures no discrimination in recruiting employees for nationality, ethnicity, gender and acCreation of Flexible Working Environment Satisfaction Level ademic background and recruits people with disabilities, veterans, high school graduates and people with Support for Attending NextCJ CheilJedang enhances work efficiency and satisfaction among employees by creating a flexible working of Employees Generation Female Leaders diverse nationalities. Moreover, the ratio of female managers and executives is gradually growing, and we will Unit: point Conference by WIN take the initiative in developing outstanding female human resources. In terms of production worker positions environment. We provide employees with the opportunity to relax and engage in self-development by op(May and November of each year) where the number of male applicants is high due to physical labor, we assign female applicants to technical erating various flexible working systems and creativity leave for every five years. We also strive to make an Category 2016 2017 2018 Supported activities for expanding and analysis teams. We recognize that we need to present female leadership to set a role model, so we run the atmosphere for vitalizing the use of leave through the Golden Bridge(leave with holidays). With a counseling Results of 78.4 79.5 81.8 the external network by holding a female leadership reinforcement program that helps female employees to grow into competent human reservice center for employees to ease stress and fatigue from work-related and personal reasons, we check corporate lecture to cultivate female leaders the physical status of employees and present solutions. Based on such efforts to create a flexible working culture and conducting small-group mensources by performing to their capacity. We will create an open corporate culture without discrimination by toring at a conference based on the diagnosis cultivating female managers and allocating core tasks and positions to female employees beyond simply hiring environment and vitalize the organization, the results of annual corporate culture diagnosis show a continuous female leaders of foreign enterprises and large domestic companies more female applicants. increase in the satisfaction level of employees. Movie Talk with Global Female Program Description Leader Helen Clark Flexible Working System • Flexible Time System: Adjust the time to come to work and leave the office individually to efficiently focus on (February 2019) TALENT DEVELOPMENT AND CULTIVATION work Invited Helen Clark, a global female • Selective and Flexible Working System: Flexibly deal with change in the amount of work for a certain period leader, with the intent of increasing • Discretionary Working System: Operate working hours autonomously based on job characteristics female human resources in the group and held a talk concert to present a role model and female leadership for Talent Recruitment Creativity Leave • Give two-week mandatory leave for all employees every five years; advise them to use this opportunity to develop their talent and refresh themselves female employees CJ CheilJedang puts individual capacity first in the recruitment process, selecting talent through fair and equal opportunities. We provide customized information by holding recruitment fairs through online and offline channels. In particular, we utilize various online channels such as YouTube, MCN(Multi-Channel Network) Family-Friendly Management channel and Facebook Live and engage in interactive communication with applicants in a variety of ways, inCJ CheilJedang operates welfare and benefit programs as part of family-friendly management. We run childcluding CJ Culture Recipe, Outdoor Mentoring, and Job Gourmet. care centers at work for employees’ children and hold invitational events. We also issue an ID card for pregnant employees and operate the Mom-Cheil Program providing pregnant employees with electromagnetic Talent Cultivation wave shielding blankets and nutritional supplements to take care of pregnant employees from the early stage CJ CheilJedang provides customized programs for each position, including a basic training program for new of pregnancy to childbirth. In 2017, we strengthened childcare support and expanded assistance to alleviate employees and leadership training programs for group leaders, to help them to upgrade their practical job skills our employees’ burden of pregnancy and child-rearing and to create an environment for them to focus on and enable them to gain expert knowledge through exemplary cases. In particular, we proactively hire and work through leave for taking care of children to enter a school, paternity leave for a spouse, leave for emercultivate employees with high goals, vision and global capacity to achieve our vision for the Great CJ 2020 gency childcare and shortened working hours during a risky period of pregnancy. and World Best CJ 2030. Communication and Grievance Handling CJ CheilJedang operates the Open Council, a labor-management council, to listen to the voices of employees. As members are elected by all assistant managers and staff members in attendance, the council has a quarterly meeting with the management to discuss enhancement of employees’ welfare and benefit, improvement of productivity, vitalization of the organization, and enhancement of communication. In addition, the company operates various grievance handling channels and provides support for dealing with grievances among employees more promptly. Members for grievance handling are selected among Open Council members, and the identity of a person reporting a case is thoroughly confidential. 66 67 STRUCTURE OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT Core Risk Improvement Activity FOR EMPLOYEES Core risk Inflammability construction materials Installation of automatic fire extinguishing facilities Safety devices for heating facilities Removal of asbestos-containing sites Governance Target Improved ImproveTarget Improved ImproveTarget Improved ImproveTarget Improved ImproveIntegrity Management ment rate ment rate ment rate ment rate Risk Management Safety Management System Performance in 2018 70 26 37% 131 52 40% 19 17 89% 27,714 19,218 69% Customer Satisfaction CJ CheilJedang has established the CJ CheilJedang Safety Management Policy under the safety management Target for 2019 70 39 56% 131 67 51% 19 18 95% 27,714 24,218 87% Human Resources Management policy of CJ Group and identified the safety of employees and local communities as a top priority in management. To maintain a safe environment for local communities and employees, we organize an environmental CJ Group’s Safety Day safety group and establish a systemic with specialized employees in each sector. When it is difficult to make an investment decision for safety risks at a business site, CJ CheilJedang ensures Headquarters Organization smooth investment by acquiring a decision-making process from executives for investment through the CJ Group’s Safety Day. On the CJ Group’s Safety Day, responsible executives including the heads of food and Top manager in safety and health management(CEO) BIO business divisions visit a business site and check the current status of safety. In 2018, decisions by the CEO were made for 14 cases, and the amount worth of KRW 10 billion and 840 million were invested for imExecutive director in charge of safety and proving related risks. Meeting group health management Department in charge of safety •Management meeting(monthly) and health management •CJ Group’s safety management (Headquarters: Environmental Safety Team) Investment for Safety Risk Investment Determined through CJ Group’s Safety Day committee(annual) (Safety, environment, electric system, health) Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Amount of Safe Risk Investment KRW 100 million 168.3 142.1 145.5 Business sites Employee in charge of safety and health Company-wide management of safety, management(Head of each plant) the environment, Amount of Safety Risk Investment Determined KRW 100 million 56.0 34.9 108.4 the electric system and health Meeting group consisting of employees in charge(quarterly) through CJ Group’s Safety Day Meeting group Decisions Made case 6 9 14 Industrial safety and health management Environmental Safety Team in each plant committee(quarterly) (Safety, the environment, the electric system, health) CJ Group’s Safety Day Supervisor(Head of each team, part and workplace) Systemization of Safety Management Operation Stage 1: Risk Recognition CJ CheilJedang autonomously manages all activities related to health and safety management at business Identify and select core risk elements. sites by proclaiming the health and safety policy based on the management policies of the CEO, and introducing our own safety management process for five stages. The company performs work based on the deStage 2: Risk Improvement termined process with the response system to prevent risks for environmental safety and minimize any damHyun Jae Shin(Head of Bio Business Sin Ho Kang(Head of Food Business Geun Yong Kim(Head of Food Production age and conducts management and response through the PDCA(Plan-Do-Check-Action) cycle. Division) Division) & Manufacturing Department) Make practical improvements through the Environmental Safety Day and risk investment. Safety Management PCDA Process Education and Training for Safety and Health Management Stage 3: Risk Prevention Each business site of CJ CheilJedang conducts emergency drills(fire, emergency evacuation, leakage, and Existing risk Future risk Prevent potential future risks in rescue training) and provides specialized training for the process of Product Safety Management(PSM). In establishment, expansion and renovation by STEP1 STEP2 STEP3 STEP4 STEP5 addition, we provide education in various types such as regular safety education, safety education prior to advancing the pre-safety evaluation(SDR) system. Risk recognition Risk improvement Risk prevention Risk response Risk diagnosis work, safety education for new and transferred employees and safety education for supervisors to enhance employees’ mindset for safety and prevent any potential risks. Stage 4: Risk Response •AMS(Accident •Environmental Safety •Conduct business •Safety audit and •Top 10 risks Management System) Strive to prevent the accidents of the same industry in business sites by operating •Check current status Day •Decision-making safety •Operate check and and emergency evaluation •Systematize index Health Management Programs for Employees and accidents response the accident prevention management system(AMS) and sustain the capability to •Detect fundamental process •Manage history of risks diagnosis system •Establish expert •Provide accident management •Quantify target CJ CheilJedang provides various programs to promote employees’ physical and mental health. causes prevention education response through various education and •Connect with the network management •Conduct risk and training training sessions. long-term investment •Enhance technical •Apply the result to assessment •Emergency scenario plan capacity •Response and management plans Health Management Programs for Employees preparation capability Stage 5: Risk Diagnosis Category Description pdca cycle Health checkup Conduct an annual health checkup(general, regular) Reflect results in an annual safety management plan by continuously reviewing the operational system from stage 1 to 4. Medical expense support Provide medical expense support for any disease and injury among employees Safe Risk Investment and Improvement of Infrastructure Gym Operate a gym within the company building and provide exercise programs and trainers for the health management of employees CJ CheilJedang selects top risks based on five major stages(recognition, improvement, prevention, response Psychological counseling Support employees to get psychological counseling about their work-related or personal affairs at counseling cenand diagnosis) for a safety management system. For selected risks, we establish a plan for phased improvecenter ters across the nation ment and implement systemic investment and improvement activities. In 2018, the company expanded the application of automatic fire extinguishing facilities and removal of combustible building materials to reinforce Cardiovascular/cerebroConduct regular blood tests for those in the intermediate and high-risk groups of cardiovascular/cerebrovascular vascular disease managediseases, and provide education and counseling service safety for fire accidents. As part of the improvement of the working environment, we also improved the proment Operate programs for blood pressure management, diet control, exercise, and quitting smoking cess of high-level noise of 85dP or over and carried out risk prevention management for musculoskeletal system damage at each business site and removal of building materials containing asbestos. Management of stress Conduct a regular heavy workload stress assessment targeting all employees every other year from heavy workloads Provide intensive counseling services to those in the intermediate and high-risk groups and carry out additional depression tests 68 69 STRUCTURE OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL INFORMATION SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 지배구조 정도경영 리스크 관리 고객만족 인재경영 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Subject Unit 2016 2017 2018 Revenue(Sales) KRW 1,000 14,563,257,246 16,477,174,023 18,670,059,989 Cost of sales KRW 1,000 11,275,152,096 12,922,488,246 15,126,473,806 Gross profit KRW 1,000 3,288,105,150 3,554,685,777 3,543,586,183 Selling general administrative expenses KRW 1,000 2,444,466,966 2,778,110,536 2,710,876,503 Operating profit(loss) KRW 1,000 843,638,184 776,575,241 832,709,680 Other income KRW 1,000 (104,071,591) (254,398,401) 719,523,533 Other loss KRW 1,000 212,719,961 535,861,443 240,115,302 Finance income KRW 1,000 424,861,509 469,101,848 492,701,318 Finance cost KRW 1,000 957,357 (4,607,686) (5,461,144) Income of associates and jointly controlled entities KRW 1,000 528,382,402 584,328,749 1,294,186,053 Profit(loss) before tax KRW 1,000 174,833,653 171,531,006 368,797,428 Income tax expense KRW 1,000 353,548,750 412,797,743 925,388,625 Profit(loss) KRW 1,000 30,217,195 (465,141,292) (36,329,758) Other comprehensive income KRW 1,000 383,765,945 (52,343,549) 889,058,867 Total comprehensive income KRW 1,000 Consolidated Balance Sheet Subject Unit 2016 2017 2018 Subject KRW 1,000 4,874,197,575 4,959,963,993 5,520,191,585 APPENDIX Current assets KRW 1,000 6,495,431 3,504,356 2,245,917 Assets of disposal group held for sale KRW 1,000 10,885,545,533 11,904,655,546 13,974,585,382 Non-current assets KRW 1,000 15,766,238,539 16,868,123,895 19,497,022,884 Total assets KRW 1,000 4,699,232,648 5,496,914,149 6,680,407,860 Current liabilities KRW 1,000 5,006,529,025 5,227,356,411 5,508,402,934 Non-current liabilities KRW 1,000 9,705,761,673 10,724,270,560 12,188,810,794 69 FINANCIAL INFORMATION Total liabilities KRW 1,000 3,409,365,139 3,374,920,309 4,782,822,965 70 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT DATA Equity attributable to owners of the parent entity KRW 1,000 72,446,655 72,520,905 81,908,095 76 AWARDS AND CERTIFICATION Current capital KRW 1,000 919,853,765 925,143,916 1,540,987,319 77 GRI CONTENT INDEX Capital surplus KRW 1,000 (149,455,249) (526,166,831) (534,397,639) 80 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Other reserves KRW 1,000 2,566,519,968 2,903,422,319 3,694,325,190 Retained earnings KRW 1,000 2,651,111,727 2,768,933,026 2,525,389,125 Non-controlling interests KRW 1,000 6,060,476,866 6,143,853,335 7,308,212,090 Total equity KRW 1,000 70 71 APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Financial Information SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT DATA Sustainability Management Data Awards and Certification GRI Content Index Independent Assurance Statement Economy Environment Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Remark Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Remark Retirement Pension Defined benefit(DB) KRW 100M 2,174 2,507 3,196 Denominator for Amount of products produced Ton 3,523,522 3,581,051 3,656,701 Including the figures from Namwon Plant System calculating intensity which was acquired in 2018 Subscription Person 5,568 5,390 6,066 Remuneration of Legal Minimum Wage KRW 6,030 6,470 8,350 Hourly wage employees Raw material Food Ton 5,844,720 6,389,105 4,409,757 Entry-Level Wage Male KRW 7,854 8,175 9,756 Hourly wage consumption(overseas Female KRW 7,854 8,175 9,756 Hourly wage business sites included) Bio Ton 6,529,288 7,138,317 7,698,000 Ratio Male % 130 126 117 Legal Minimum Wage Total Ton 12,374,008 13,527,422 12,107,757 Female % 130 126 117 Legal Minimum Wage Average Wage of per employee KRW 10,000 5,700 Annual income Recycled material Amount used Ton 37,150 40,420 46,973 Food business(FI excluded) consumption for Ratio of remuneration by Domestic Male % 100 100 100 packaging gender Female % 93 84 97 Overseas Male % 100 100 100 Energy consumption Fuel TJ 3,003 3,436 3,670 Female % 77 86 86 Electricity TJ 3,604 3,802 4,184 Local employment at Local employment Overseas workers Person 13,399 17,350 19,086 Total number of employees dispatched overseas and Steam TJ 994 1,165 1,267 local native employees major overseas business sites Local recruits Person 13,168 17,065 18,764 Total TJ 7,601 8,383 9,102 Total consumption may differ from actual consumption since the figure is the sum of Local employment rate % 98.3 98.4 98.3 the rounded-off figures of consumption at Local native Administrators at overseas Person 472 947 1,064 Total number of administrators(manager each business site(Target in 2018: 9,130 TJ). level or above) dispatched overseas and hired at administrators business sites overseas business sites Intensity TJ 0.002 0.002 0.002 Local native Person 390 800 857 /Product-ton administrators * Calculation of energy consumption after application of the guidelines for reporting and certification of GHG emission trading system complying Emissions Trading Act Ratio of local native % 82.6 84.5 80.5 administrators Renewable energy Amount of renewable energy consumption TJ 1,038 1,075 1,134 consumption Intellectual Property New applications Number of applications Case 551(59) 527(171) 752(168) The figures in brackets indicate the patents Ratio of renewable energy consumption % 13.66 12.83 12.5 in Korea. submitted to KIPO in that Accumulated number of business sites that Number of 3 3 5 Inchen Plant 2, Busan Plant, Jincheon Plant, year introduced renewable energy locations Jincheon Blossom Campus, Blossom Park(lab) Patents owned Number of valid patents Case 2,079(676) 2,448(666) 3,149(747) The figures in brackets indicate the patents in Korea. owned and those newly registered in that year GHG emissions Direct GHG Emissions(Scope 1) tCO2e 153,177 171,734 185,463 Target in 2018: 187,407 tCO2e Indirect GHG Emissions(Scope 2) tCO2e 183,285 192,225 210,758 Target in 2018: 210,480 tCO2e Spending on local Total spending amount KRW 100M 41,831 448,673 45,729 suppliers Total tCO2e 336,462 363,943 396,205 Total consumption may differ from actual Amount of spending on local suppliers KRW 100M 31,106 134,576 27,842 consumption since the figure is the sum of Proportion of spending on local suppliers % 74.4 30.0 60.9 the rounded-off figures of consumption at each business site. Spending on suppliers Proportion of spending on suppliers compliant % 100 100 100 Intensity tCO2e 0.095 0.102 0.108 compliant with with company’s purchasing policy /Product-ton company’s purchasing policy *Calculation of energy consumption after application of the guidelines for reporting and certification of GHG emission trading system complying Emissions Trading Act Actions Taken against Actions Taken against Unfair Transactions Case 0 1 0 Constrained conditional transaction Unfair Transactions (2017.1) GHG emissions reduction Reduction of GHG Emissions tCO2e 63,037 69,431 75,428 Number of GHG emissions reduction activities Case 45 90 111 Category Unit Distribution outcome Remark External reduction(Cumulative) tCO2e 3,753 7,702 11,554 Reducing GHG by recovering Unutilized Energy according to the economizer instalin 2018 lation of Young-woo frozen foods Economic value Shareholder(dividend) KRW 1M 56,147 Dividend of CJ CheilJedang distribution in 2018 Employee(wage and welfare) KRW 1M 904,154 Sum of wages included in the cost of sales and selling general Water intake and Water supply Ton 4,308,345 4,396,495 5,170,195 administrative expenses, severance payment and welfare expense(CJ Logistics excluded) consumption Groundwater Ton 85,750 45,155 63,062 Used only in Nonsan Plant; Namwon Plant Government(tax) KRW 1M 402,433 Corporate tax, taxes and dues(CJ Logistics excluded) not included Local community(donation) KRW 1M 83,094 Social contribution investment(CJ Logistics excluded) Total Ton 4,394,095 4,866,925 5,296,319 Target in 2018: 5,110,271 tons Supplier(spending) KRW 1M 5,034,833 Total spending for purchasing contract(raw material and consignment expenses; CJ Logistics excluded) Intensity Ton 1.247 1.359 1,448 /Product-ton 72 73 APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Financial Information Sustainability Management Data Awards and Certification GRI Content Index Independent Assurance Statement Environment Society Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Remark Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Remark Reuse and recycling of Total amount of reused and recycled water Ton 274,501 297,506 397,591 Employees Regular Male Person 3,963 4,381 4,999 water Ratio of reused and recycled water % 6.2 6.1 7.5 Female Person 1,018 1,080 1,452 Subtotal Person 4,981 5,461 6,451 Wastewater discharge Total amount of discharged wastewater Ton 3,047,383 3,092,809 3,791,837 Short-term & Male Person 78 48 46 temporary Intensity Ton 0.865 0.864 1.036 Female Person 39 84 53 /Product-ton Subtotal Person 117 132 99 Total Male Person 4,041 4,429 5,045 Waste Designated waste Recycled Ton 97 100 109 Female Person 1,057 1,164 1,505 Incinerated Ton 48 25 31 Subtotal Person 5,098 5,593 6,550 Buried Ton 13 20 20 Others Ton 4 8 4 Ratio of female Executives Total Person 71 80 86 CEO and the second/third highest Subtotal Ton 161 153 163 executives/managers positions Female Person 3 11 14 General waste Recycled Ton 50,324 48,161 50,399 Ratio of female executives % 4.2 13.8 16.3 Incinerated Ton 4,718 5,800 6,751 Managers or above Total Person 1,238 1,195 1,369 G5 or above Buried Ton 241 229 278 Female Person 121 159 214 Others Ton 0 0 0 Ratio of female executives % 9.8 13.3 15.6 Subtotal Ton 55,282 54,189 57,428 Administrators Total Person 767 773 867 Production, sales and marketing departments Total Ton 55,443 54,342 57,592 in the sales department Female Person 51 78 76 Intensity Ton 0.0157 0.0152 0.0157 Target in 2018: 0.0148 tons/product-ton /Product-ton Ratio of female executives % 6.6 10.1 8.8 Air pollutant discharge NOx Ton 94 228 66 New Total Person 717 942 1,559 SOx Ton 3 3 2 employees(domestic) Gender Male Person 547 707 1,204 Dust Ton 55 59 48 Female Person 170 235 355 Total Ton 152 290 116 Age Under 30 Person 570 751 1,147 30-49 Person 143 188 403 Category Unit Short-term(2019) Long-term 50 or over Person 4 3 9 Environment KPI Waste discharge intensity Ton 0.0151 /Product-ton New employees(overseas) Total Person 1,880 3,817 2,396 GHG emissions 1,000 tCO2e 475 Target in 2022: 585 / Target in 2025: 570 Renewable energy consumption TJ 1,160 Target in 2022: 1,350 / Target in 2025: 1,800 Employees from Socially Disabled Person 78 61 77 Disadvantaged Groups Veterans Person 21 42 66 Turnover and retirement Total Person 413 445 662 rate Gender Male Person 304 318 482 Female Person 109 127 180 Age Under 30 Person 212 196 392 30-49 Person 180 220 228 50 or over Person 21 29 42 74 75 APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Financial Information Sustainability Management Data Awards and Certification GRI Content Index Independent Assurance Statement Society Society Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Remark Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Remark Parental Leave Number of target Male Person 174 198 238 Based on the number of employees who applied for Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction level survey conducted Point 92.3 93.9 92.1 Target in 2018: 90 employees of parental leave maternity leave in that year by the Korea Management Association Female Person 66 82 96 Consulting(KMAC) Total Person 240 280 334 Customer satisfaction level survey conducted by Point 89.6 92.9 91.9 Target in 2018: 90.6 Number of employees on Male Person 10 16 21 Based on the number of employees who took parental CJ Telenix parental leave leave in that year Female Person 61 68 71 Ratio of customers who selected ‘Satisfied’ or % 96 97 94 Target in 2018: 90 persons Total Person 71 84 92 more positive responses Number of employees who Male Person 2 9 16 Based on the number of employees who completed returned from parental parental leave in the previous year; the total number of Female Person 67 55 60 returned employees Employees engagement Hours of volunteer activities Hour 35,435 38,824 40,501 leave Total Person 69 64 76 in social contribution Number of employees who participated in Person 3,919 4,763 5,521 Ratio of the employees who Male % 100 90 100 Ratio of the employees who returned from parental volunteer activities returned from parental leave leave in that year to the total number of employees Female % 87 90 88 who took parental leave in the previous year Hours of volunteer activities per person Hour/Person 9.0 8.2 7.3 Employees who worked for Male Person 1 7 16 Based on the number of employees who completed Participation rate % 82 85 86 more than 12 months after parental leave in the previous year; the total number Female Person 62 53 58 of returned employees except for those who quit the returning from parental leave Total Person 63 60 74 company in a year after returning from parental leave Charity activities as a Charity donation KRW 100M 9.1 48.7 7.6 Ratio of the employees Male % 50 77 100 Ratio of the employees who returned from parental corporate citizen who worked for more than leave and worked for more than 12 months to the total Investment in local communities KRW 100M 129.1 151.4 136.1 % 93 96 97 number of employees who returned from parental leave 12 months after returning in that year Commercial investment KRW 100M 13.6 16.0 5.5 from parental leave Total KRW 100M 151.8 216.1 149.2 Employee training Training hours Total training hours Hour 294,023 394,867 622,289 Training hours per Hour/Person 56 72 90.6 person Industrial disasters Employees Number of work-related Person 6 3 7 Figures soared as the number of employees Training expenses Total training KRW 1M 6,781 5,836 11,150 injuries increased due to the enforcement of 52expenses hour work week and the expansion of Jincheon BC. Training expenses KRW 1.0 1.0 1.6 per person 1M/Person ate of work-related injuries % 0.323 0.141 0.193 Rate of occupational % 0 0 0 Human rights education Sexual harassment Number of Number of 1 1 1 diseases prevention education sessions sessions Ratio of lost days % 0.106 0.060 0.095 Number of target Person 5,047 5,705 6,726 employees Total number of workPerson 0 0 0 related fatalities Number of Person 5,046 5,695 6,649 employees who Suppliers Number of work-related Person 1 2 1 completed the injuries education course Rate of work-related % 0.062 0.115 0.049 Improvement of awareness Number of Number of 1 injuries of the disabled education sessions sessions Number of target Person 6,591 employees Supplier transactions Food Case 1,090 1,100 815 Number of Person 6,532 Bio Case 1,909 2,578 3,249 employees who completed the Total 2,999 3,678 4,064 education course Performance evaluation Ratio of employees who Male % 100 100 100 Category Unit Shor-term(2019) Long-term underwent the regular performance evaluation Female % 100 100 100 Social KPI Supply chain management in connection with a Number of 789 Target in 2022: 100% credit-rating agency locations Employees satisfaction Employees satisfaction Point 78.4 79.5 81.8 Result of corporate culture diagnosis Support for the Naeil Chaeum Deduction System Person 54 Target in 2022: 108 persons and engagement Technical support for SME suppliers KRW 100M 220 Target in 2022: KRW 22 billion Joint agreement Number of employees who can join the laPerson 5,098 5,593 6,550 Contract cultivation area of farms ha 1,345 bor-management council Number of employees who joined the laCase 3,814 3,859 4,788 bor-management council Ratio of employees who joined the labor-man% 74.8 69.0 73.2 agement council 76 77 APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Financial Information AWARDS AND CERTIFICATION GRI CONTENT INDEX Sustainability Management Data Awards and Certification GRI Content Index Independent Assurance Statement Awards Awarding agency Universal Standards(GRI 100) Feb and May 2018 Citation from Minister of Food and Drug Safety at Food Safety Merit Awards Citation from Minister of Food and Drug Safety May 2018 Prize for Excellent Safety Management of Overseas Employees from ISOS ISOS Foundation Jun 2018 Citation from Minister of Environment at Environment Merit Awards(Food Production& Manufacturing Department) Ministry of Environment GRI Standards Disclosure Page Note Jun 2018 Citation from Minister of Environment at Environment Merit Awards(Food Production& Manufacturing Department) Ministry of Environment Organizational 102-1 Name of the organization 9 Jul 2018 Best at Korea Digital Management Innovation Awards Ministry of Science and ICT Profile 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 9, 12~15 Jul 2018 Citation from Minister of Employment and Labor Ministry of Employment and Labor. 102-3 Location of headquarters 9 Jul 2018 UN SDG Action Awards Association for Supporting the SDGs for the UN 102-4 Location of operations 10~11 Sep 2018 Presidential prize for Excellent Business Site for Waste Reduction(Incheon Plant 3) Ministry of Environment 102-5 Ownership and legal form 9 Oct 2018 Korea IR Awards Excellent Enterprise Prize Korea IR Committee 102-6 Markets served 10~11 Oct 2018 Presidential Prize at Republic of Korea Sharing People Awards Ministry of Health and Welfare Nov 2018 Disaster Relief Merits Awards Citation from the Ministry of Interior and Safety 102-7 Scale of the organization 9 Nov 2018 67th Seoul Culture Awards in the category of cultural and art sponsorship Seoul Metropolitan Government 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 9, 73 Nov 2018 Prize from Mayor of Seoul in the category of social contribution with Food Bank Seoul Metropolitan Government Seoul Council on 102-9 Supply chain 17, 42-28 Social Welfare 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 42~48 Nov 2018 2018 Ewha-MK(Maeil Business News Korea) Excellent Enterprise Awards for Considerate Management Prize EWHA Womans University, Maeil Buesiness News 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 60~61 Dec 2018 Presidential Prize at Corporate Innovation Awards Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy 102-12 External initiatives 23, 76 Dec 2018 Prize on Consumer Rights Day Citation from Prime Minister Korea Consumer Agency 102-13 Membership of associations 76 Index Evaluation Evaluation agency Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4~5 Apr 2018 Korea Purchase Ease Index(KPEI) of Korea Marketing Association, First in the cooking oil category(Incheon Plant 2) Korea Marketing Association 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 4~5 Jun 2018 Win-win Index, Best Fir Trade Commission, Win-Win Growth Committee Ethics and 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 8, 20~21 Oct 2018 DJSI Sustainability Index, Included in the Asia-Pacific Index Robeco SAM Integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 58~59 Oct 2018 UN SDGBI, Best UN SDGs Governance 102-18 Governance structure 20, 44, 56 Nov 2018 ESG Evaluation of Korea Corporate Governance Service, Selected as Integrated Level A(Excellent) KCGS 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 56~57 Certification Certification agency 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 56~57 Aug 2016 Re-certification of KS(Incheon Plant 2 for soybean oil) Korea Agency of HACCP Accreditation & Services 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 56~57 DEC 2016 HACCP Certification(Yeongdeungpo Plant for flour and premix) Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 56~57 May 2016 to May 2019 Food Safety System Certification(FSSC22000) Certification(Yeongdeungpo Plant for flour and premix) Lloyd’s Register Korea 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 20 Dec 2016 to Dec 2019 Information Security Management System(ISMS) Certification Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 56~57 Jan 2017 to Jan 2020 Food Safety System Certification(FSSC22000) Certification(Yangsan Plant for flour and premix) Lloyd’s Register Korea 102-35 Remuneration policies 56~57 Apr 2017 Re-certification of KS(Incheon Plant 2 for sesame oil) Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 56~57 Apr 2017 to Apr 2020 Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency(KOSHA 18001) Certification(Yeongdeungpo Plant) Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency Stakeholder 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 22 May 2017 to May 2020 HACCP Certification(Yangsan Plant for flour and premix) Korea Agency of HACCP Accreditation & Services Engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 65, 74 Sep 2017 First recognition by the Korea Laboratory Accreditation Scheme(KOLAS, ISO 17025) ILAC(International Laboratory Accreditation 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 22 Cooperation): A recognized international testing agency partner 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 22 Oct 2017 to Mar 2019 HACCP Certification(Incheon Plant 1) Korea Agency of HACCP Accreditation & Services 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 24~25 Nov 2017 to Nov 2019 Business Site with Excellent Health Improvement Activities(Yangsan Plant) Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency Reporting 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Annual report Recertification in 2017 Customer Centered Management(CCM) Certification Fair Trade Commission Practice 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 24 Recertification in 2017 Family-friendly Certification Ministry of Gender Equality and Family 102-47 List of material topics 24~25 Feb 2018 to Feb 2019 Halal Certificate Korea Muslim Federation 102-48 Restatements of information None Apr 2018 Low-carbon Certification(Incheon Plant 2) Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute 102-49 Changes in reporting 2 Separate marking of Low Carbon Product Certification(Incheon Plant 1) changes compared Jun 2018 to Jun 2020 Food Safety System Certification(FSSC22000) Certification(Yangsan Plant for flour and premix) Lloyd’s Register Korea to previous reporting periods Jul 2018 Green Management System(GMS) Certification(Busan Plant) Korean Foundation for Quality 102-50 Reporting period 2 Jul 2018 Certification of Environmental Management System ISO 14001(Busan plant)(2011 first certification) Korean Foundation for Quality Sep 2018 Green Company Certification(Incheon Plant 1) Ministry of Environment 102-51 Date of most recent report 2 Sep 2018 Expanded recognition of the internal test methods by the Korea Laboratory Accreditation Scheme(KOLAS, ISO ILAC(International Laboratory Accreditation 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 17025) Cooperation): A recognized international testing 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 agency partner 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 2 Sep 2018 Certification of Environmental Management System ISO 14001(Incheon plant 1)(2011 first certification) Korean Foundation for Quality 102-55 GRI content index 77~79 Nov 2018 World-class Product Certification(Incheon Plant 2 for sesame oil and perilla oil) Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy 102-56 External assurance 80~81 Aug 2019 to Aug 2021 Food Safety System Certification(FSSC22000) Certification(Incheon Plant 1) Lloyd’s Register Korea 78 79 APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Financial Information Sustainability Management Data Awards and Certification GRI Content Index Independent Assurance Statement Topic-Specific Standards GRI Standards Disclosure Page Note GRI Standards Disclosure Page Note economic Performance(GRI 200) social performance(GRI 400) Economic Performance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 26, 31, 42, 49 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 73 103-2 The management approach and its components 26, 31, 42, 49 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 65 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 26, 31, 42, 49 401-3 Parental leave 74 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 10, 70 Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes None 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 37, 38 Occupational Health and Safety 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 66~67 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 70 403-4 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 66~67 Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 10, 11 403-5 Occupational health services 66~67 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 70 403-6 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety 67 Indirect Economic Impacts 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 42, 49 403-9 Worker training on occupational health and safety 75 103-2 The management approach and its components 42, 49 403-10 Promotion of worker health 75 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 46~53 Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 74 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 46~53 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 64~65 Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 70 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 74 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 58~59 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 73 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 70 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 58~59 Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor None Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices None Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor None Rights of Indigenous Peoples 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples None Environmental Performance(GRI 300) Human Rights Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 74 CJ CheilJedang’s Declaration Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 71 of Human Rights 301-2 Recycled input materials used 41 Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 49~53 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 41 Supplier Social Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 42 103-2 The management approach and its components 42 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 71 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42 302-3 Energy intensity 71 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria None Water 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 39 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken None 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 39 Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions None 303-3 Water withdrawal 71 Customer Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 26 303-4 Water discharge 72 103-2 The management approach and its components 26 303-5 Water consumption 71~72 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 28 100% Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 36 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services None 103-2 The management approach and its components 36 Marketing and Labeling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 29~31, CJ CheilJedang’s Homepage 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 36 41, 44 305-1 Direct(Scope 1) GHG emissions 71 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling None 305-2 Energy indirect(Scope 2) GHG emissions 71 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications None 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 71 Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data None 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 71 Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area None 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances(ODS) None G4 Sector Disclosure(Food Processing) 305-7 Nitrogen oxides(NOx), sulfur oxides(SOx), and other significant air emissions 72 Procurement/Sourcing Practices FP1 Percentage of purchased volume from suppliers compliant with company's sourcing policy 45 Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 39 Animal Welfare FP10 Policies and practices, by species and breed type, related to physical alterations and the use of anaesthetic 44 CJ CheilJedang’s Homepage 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 72 FP12 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or processed, by species and breed type, per housing type 44 CJ CheilJedang’s Homepage 306-3 Significant spills None Customer Health and Safety FP5 Percentage of production volume manufactured in sites certified by an independent third party according to 27 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste None internationally recognized food safety management system standards 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff 39 FP6 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, that are lowered in saturated 29 Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 45 None fat, trans fats, sodium and added sugars 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken None FP7 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, that contain increased nutritions 29~30 ingredients like fiber, vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals or functional food additives 80 81 APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Financial Information INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Sustainability Management Data Awards and Certification GRI Content Index Independent Assurance Statement Introduction Conclusion CJ Cheiljedang Corporation(CJ CheilJedang”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd.(“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to undertake indeOn the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the reported data and information disclosed in the Report do not give a fair pendent assurance of the Sustainability Report 2018(the “Report”). The directors of CJ CheilJedang have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. representation of CJ Cheiljedang’s sustainability performance. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the Principles are made below; The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of CJ CheilJedang in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s The Principle of Inclusivity assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in CJ CheilJedang has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Customers, Local Communities, Shareholders and Investors, Suppliers and good faith. Employees. CJ CheilJedang engages with the stakeholders at the company and business unit levels through various channels. The examples of approaches to engage with selected stakeholders and relevant organizations are described in the Report. CJ CheilJedang has formed a dedicated organization to facilScope of assurance itate CSV(Creating Shared Value) creation through the whole value chain, and engages with stakeholders. In addition, CJ CheilJedang has identified three We have evaluated the adherence to AA1000 Accountability Principles(AP) 2018 and assessed the quality of sustainability performance information with core CSV values –‘health and wellbeing’, ‘sustainable environment’, and ‘shared growth with the society’, and establishes and manages value-creation non-financial and sustainability data generated in 2018 by CJ Cheiljedang. The data scope doesn’t include logistics business in CJ Cheiljedang. We have strategies and implements key tasks. reviewed that the Topic-specific disclosures of GRI Standards which are identified in the materiality determination process; The Principle of Materiality No Material topic GRI Disclosure No Material topic GRI Disclosure CJ CheilJedang has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. 36 various issues have been derived by analysing the topics covered in various Development of health supplementary foods global initiatives and standards, industry peer review and media. The issue pools were used on internal and external stakeholder survey to rate the material top1 416-1 7 Diversification of economic value creation 201-1 for customers ics. 12 material topics are prioritized accordingly. CJ CheilJedang has divided material topics identified in the materiality assessment into five stakeholder issues Evaluation and management of supplier and presented the management approach and major performances for each stakeholder issue in the Report. CJ CheilJedang discloses comprehensive and bal2 Efforts to improve the product safety 416-1 8 414-1, 414-2 sustainability anced understanding and prioritisation of material sustainability topics for the organisation and its stakeholders. 3 Contribution to boosting the local economy 203-1 9 Response to Climate change 305-1, 305-2, 305-4 The Principle of Responsiveness Philanthropic activities utilizing business Development of eco-friendly products and The Report presents CJ CheilJedang's CSV management system and core shared values associated with CSV, which helps stakeholders understand 4 203-1 10 characteristics services CJ CHEILJEDANG's sustainability management. In addition, the Report discloses the key performance and the business results in 2018. It is addressed as well 5 Business growth with suppliers 203-1 11 Improvement of R&D how the company manages sustainability issues during the reporting period. The Report is prepared in a comparable, comprehensive, and accurate way using the reporting principles. 6 Investment support for social infrastructure 203-1 12 Expansion of business to the global market The Principle of Impact * '-' indicates relevant GRI disclosure doesn’t exist The Report presents the direct and indirect impacts of material topics identified materiality assessment. CJ CheilJedang identifies, monitors and assess the TM 1) We performed our work using AA1000AP(2018) and DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustain (Version 5.0) which is based on our professional impacts of material topics to stakeholders. The impacts could be quantified and disclosed in the future reporting. experience, international assurance best practices. DNV GL provides Type and the moderate level of assurance. Type 2 method was applied to specific performance data. The assurance was carried out from March and till June 2019. The site visit was made to CJ Cheiljedang’s Headquarters in Seoul, Korea. We Quality on sustainability performance information undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: DNV GL has evaluated the adherence to the AA1000 AP(2018) as described above by applying Type 1 methodology. The reliability of the selected data • challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data including water consumption, waste volume, and accident frequency rate are tested with Type 2 methodology. DNV GL has interviewed the data owners in management system, information flow and controls; order to figure out the data control process and verified the selected data against the relevant documents and records. The intentional error or misstatement is • interviewed representatives from the various departments; not noted from the data and information disclosed in the Report. Data owners were able to demonstrate the origin and interpretation of the data in a reliable • conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting system as they relate to manner. The data was identifiable and traceable. selected content and performance data; • reviewed the materiality assessment report. Competence and Independence 1) DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17021:2011 Conformity AssessThe VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL Website(www.dnvgl.com) ment Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control, including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory reLimitations quirements. We have complied with the DNV GL Code of Conduct2) during the assurance engagement and maintain independence where required by relevant The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of CJ Cheiljedang’ subsidiaries, associated companies, suppliers, ethical requirements. This engagement work was carried out by an independent team of sustainability assurance professionals. DNV GL was not involved in the contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic preparation of statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality toward stakeholders performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and the announcement disinterviewed during the assurance process. DNV GL have no other contract with CJ CheilJedang and did not provide any services to CJ CheilJedang in 2018 that closed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service(http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as CJ Cheiljedang’s website(www.cj.co.kr). These documents, financial could compromise the independence or impartiality of our work. statements and the announcements are not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical proce2) DNV GL Code of Conduct is available from DNV GL website(www.dnvgl.com) dures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person Jang Sup Lee or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. May 2019 Country Representative Seoul, Korea DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Introduction CJ Cheiljedang Corporation (“CJ CHEILJEDANG”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of the Sustainability Report 2018 This report is printed on FSC™(Forest Stewardship Council) Certified paper with soy ink. CJ CheilJedang. 330, Dongho-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul +82-2-6740-1114
