CSR Report 2018 United Nations Global Compact Contents We enable a Wind Powered Future Introduction..................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 UN Sustainable Development Goals................................................................................................................................... 2 Principles of UN Global Compact.......................................................................................................................................... 4 CSR framework.............................................................................................................................................................................. 6 Human rights (Code of Conduct)......................................................................................................................................... 8 KK Wind Solutions is a dedicated wind company Environment Creating social impact through collaboration.....................................................................................................10 in the renewable energy industry – and as such, To further reduce the environmental impact of sustainability is the core of our company. our operations and support the wind industry, we are currently restructuring our power supply Employees......................................................................................................................................................................................12 This Progress Report gives you an overview of to ensure that our global electricity consumption our efforts, including overall focus areas and is covered by wind power or other renewable concrete activities as well as our results for the energy sources. Environment..................................................................................................................................................................................14 past year and goals for the coming period. At the same time, we are continuously assessing Anti-corruption.............................................................................................................................................................................16 and improving the environmental impacts of our Wind Power Impact operations. We do this through a product lifetime With a strong company vision of ‘Enable a Wind approach to development, continuous waste Powered Future’, sustainability and dedication reduction in our supply chain and innovative towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals logistics solutions that are both better for the is fundamental in the way we operate and govern environment and for our customers. our company. We remain committed to and focused on our Developing and manufacturing solutions for the corporate social responsibility – both when it wind industry, the most positive impact we have comes to human rights, employees, environment, on sustainability is obtained through our own and anti-corruption and society in general. our customers’ solutions. Our core competencies, technology and solutions contribute to sustainable energy production, and together with the rest of the wind industry, we are continuously innovating to lower the cost of wind energy making it even more competitive compared to fossil fuels. Part of this work involve close cooperation with universities and industry partners. Furthermore, we aim to be an Industry 4.0 Kind regards, frontrunner introducing automation and Chlinton A. Nielsen This report also serves as our annual communication on progress in sustainability, as required by the United Nations Global Compact. intelligent manufacturing in our production. Chief Executive Officer 3 HUMAN RIGHTS Sustainable development powered by wind In KK Wind Solutions, we support and recognise that all the UN Sustainable Development goals are important. However, we focus our efforts on those that are within our sphere of influence and where we can make the largest impact and most positive effect. In 2018, we conducted a principled prioritisation We leverage our customers’ strengths to of SDG targets and committed ourselves to fully achieve the greatest possible impacts: a more contribute to the targets in SDG 7 and 13. competitive and profitable wind industry and a meaningful contribution to global sustainability. We defined a unique purpose for our company, explaining the core reason for us going to work Going forward, we will continue to improve by every day and why we do what we do. We want to setting ambitious targets and implementing make Wind Power Impact which directly support processes that sup­port sustainability and by the realisation of SDG 7 and 13. influencing our stakehold­ers and suppliers. Being a responsible and sustainable company in all matters is part of our DNA. We constantly challenge and break the boundaries of wind system solutions to make wind energy the most cost-effective energy source. 2 UN SDG Principles of the UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact (UNGC) outlines ten principles that companies should engage in in order to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Human rights 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 4 UNGC Corporate Social Responsibility framework Our ambition is to continuously develop and enhance our sustainability actions. To ensure our corporate social responsibility efforts are captured and well explained, we have concentrated our communication on progress around the following four themes. Human rights Employees Environment Anti-corruption We are committed to the protection of It is our goal to remain a company that As part of the renewable energy industry, we We are committed never to engage in any form human rights and support the United Nations encourages and supports the development aim at maximising our positive impact on the of bribery, corruption, extortion, embezzlement universal declaration of human rights and the of our employees and creates attractive jobs. environment, not only through the products we or any illegal method to influence public officials, International Labour Organization’s declaration Furthermore, we are dedicated to ensuring a develop, but also through our actions aimed at the judiciary or any other private parties. on fundamental principles and rights at work. safe and healthy working environment that managing the business in an ever more meet the highest standards. responsible manner. Focus areas Focus areas We direct our attention to securing that all By regularly conducting risk assessments of Focus areas Focus areas employees fully understand the importance in our suppliers in compliance with our Code We aim to develop a highly skilled workforce We direct our attention to improving our following company ethical guidelines despite of Conduct, we have ensured an effective whose contribution is meaningful and products and operations across the entire local culture and practices. In order to ensure integration with the CSR policies. appreciated. Our approach includes structured product lifecycle and the supply chain. This commitment from our employees, we will have introduction schemes, extensive training and includes taking appropriate actions to reduce all new employees sign our Code of Conduct. Also, we have integrated appropriate consistent follow-up on performance. energy consumption, minimise waste, and sustainability measures and our Code of increase the share of waste that is recycled. New contracts with agents, intermediaries Conduct in screening and assessing new Moreover, we are committed to build a unique and consultants include a section on antisuppliers and in finding accessible areas of global leadership paradigm, which will improve During 2018, we succeeded in increasing our corruption. The contract holder must comply improvement. the organisation’s ability to execute the growth recycled share of waste to 81.8%. Unfortunately, with all applicable laws and regulations along strategy effectively. our electricity consumption increased by 4% with our Code of Conduct. During 2019, a digital As we experience and expect future growth and and our heating consumption increased by 2% confirmation from suppliers to comply with our globalisation we persistently focus on safety We have already come a long way, but we due to increase in activity levels across facilities. CSR rules during RFQ and quoting process will and human rights, both in regards to our own strongly believe that by focusing even more on be implemented. and collaboration partners’ employees. leadership, we will be able to tap on a significant Going forward we aim at keeping this high level pool of so far unutilised and hidden resources. of recycled waste along with maintaining a low Entering new markets and regions, we will seek level of energy consumption. to create an organisational setup that ensure In addition, we will continuously improve our CSR compliance. health and safety culture and new initiatives In addition, we remain committed to further to stimulate stronger preventative safety reducing the environmental impact by ensuring awareness in all employees. that all electricity consumption across our facilities will be covered by wind energy or other renewable energy sources. 6 CSR FRAMEWORK Reinforcing our Code of Conduct We are committed to the protection of human rights and support the United Nations universal declaration of human rights and the International Labour Organization’s declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work. High risk Medium risk Low risk Very low risk Status Out of current scope Signature of Signature of Signature of We continuously work to ensure that we have the KK Wind Solutions KK Wind Solutions KK Wind Solutions right measures and assessment in place when Our Code of Conduct includes: No action this year Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct it comes to ensuring respect for human rights in our operations. We realise that it requires • Human and labour rights Further investigation Self-assessment continuous training and integration of our • Health and safety processes to achieve this implementation. For • Environment Supplier visit that reason, we focus first of all on our employees • Business ethics and our suppliers. • Legal compliance Figure illustrating four different supplier categories that require different actions and levels of attention. We expect our suppliers to respect their employees’ rights and provide them with decent working conditions. Therefore, we require that our suppliers sign our Code of Conduct. To ensure our standards will be met, we have A significant part of our CSR footprint comes During 2018, we have ensured that all suppliers New objectives made a risk assessment of our suppliers in from our supply chain, and we are committed in the medium or high risk categories sign our In 2019, we will increase focus on sustainability regards to compliance with the Code of Conduct to ensure that our suppliers uphold the same Code of Conduct or prove that they live up to the and continue to focus on labour rights, health, and integrated CSR-measures. standards as we put forward. Consequently, all same high standards. safety and environmental impact at suppliers expectations towards suppliers within this area and their subsuppliers. If we discover or suspect are covered by our Code of Conduct, which are Furthermore, we have assessed suppliers in the any non-compliances with our Code of Conduct Progress included in all contracts with new suppliers. high and medium risk category. New suppliers or insufficient focus on health and safety, we will In 2018, all employees in our Indian facility and delivering components in the low to high risk block the approval and use of that supplier. Global strategic sourcing signed our Code of We will continue to secure commitment from category have also signed our Code of Conduct Conduct. Furthermore, we have implemented a suppliers to our Code of Conduct in which we or proven similar standards during own programs, In order to ensure the commitment from our sexual harassment policy in India and established recognise the importance of clear communication audits or self-assessments. suppliers, we will initiate a new procedure a sexual harassment committee. of expectations and cooperation with suppliers. for signing the Code of Conduct. In 2019, all All medium to high risk suppliers will suppliers will sign the Code of Conduct during As part of the continued efforts we have All existing suppliers are continuously being automatically be assessed and prioritized on our quoting process, ensuring that all suppliers evaluated and revised our Code of Conduct to rated through a number of risk parameters. These ethical matters in the same way as quality is have understood and accepted the requirements. further emphasize the importance of safe parameters have helped to prioritize the efforts in assessed and prioritized. working conditions and sound processes in our screening our supplier base. The parameters are Going forward, we will initiate a new global HR operations. We also expect our suppliers and based on the 10 principles from process to ensure that all employees understand their sub-suppliers to follow and ensure UN Global Compact. and sign our Code of Conduct. the standards. 8 HUMAN RIGHTS Creating social impact through collaboration As a social responsible company, we are committed to support the local communities and regions in which we operate. In 2018, we decided to contribute and help local Sustainable IT disposal communities on a number of areas. In 2018, we made an agreement with FAIR Denmark to handle all our old IT equipment. Universities FAIR Denmark is a non-profit organisation who In 2018, we three doubled the number of converts used IT-equipment into ITand resource interns as part of our global cooperation with centres / digital libraries in secondary schools, in universities. one of the poorest countries in the world, Malawi. We entered the ‘Energy Sponsor Programme’ Sponsorships at Aalborg University which will enable KK Wind We are proud to support local sport activites in Solutions to strengthen technology cooperation the vicinity of our headquarters by sponsoring while supporting the next generation of Wind FC Midtjylland Football, a soccer club playing in Power Wizards. Aalborg University is amongst the top Danish league. the best and most acknowledged international engineering universities in the world. In 2018, Charity Aalborg University was ranked best engineering We have provided financial support for the university in Europe and number four worldwide national Danish fundraiser “Knæk Cancer” to help by Best Global Universities. beat cancer. Furthermore, we sponsored the annual event Among others, we support a Children’s home in ‘Innovation Days’ and graduation price ‘Best Poland and SOS Children on a continuous basis. Engineering Thesis’ at Aarhus University. We are proud to support the local communities and regions in which we operate through various good causes and strong partnerships. Chlinton A. Nielsen, CEO, KK Wind Solutions 10 HUMAN RIGHTS Continued focus on health and safety It is our goal to maintain a culture that encourages and supports the development of our employees. Furthermore, we are dedicated to ensuring a safe and healthy working environment that meets high ethical standards. Status New objectives In the past year, we have sustained the In the coming year, we will continue our effort to OHSAS18001 certification. This certification embed a strong safety awareness mindset, with ensures our commitment to continuous the aim of achieving zero accidents throughout implementation and improvement of the way we the company and a 2019 target of less than manage our health and safety systems. Moreover, 3 accidents per 1 million work hours. safety awareness has become deeply embedded in our corporate culture and behaviours. As a concrete action, each manager must conduct safety walks and immediate corrective actions for any near-miss must be performed Progress within one day. Also, we are taking new Our target was to have a maximum absence of technologies in use to make it easier to stay safe 4.5% for blue collars and 2.5% for white collars. and to share knowledge with colleagues. Aiming at achieving zero working accidents, our short term target was to have less than Hence, we continue to focus on both health and 4 accidents per 1 million work hours. safety issues across all departments. In 2018, employee absence was reported at 8.46% for blue collars and 2.54% for white collars, while unfortunately 3.6 working accidents per 1 million work hours were registered. We continuously use risk analysis to prevent further accidents. During 2018, we launched an internal global ‘Safety First’ campaign for all employees, to Safety principles further increase safety awareness and behaviour. • All accidents can be avoided The campaign included: • All dangerous situations can • Safety seminars be controlled • Safety walk training • Management is accountable • Digital mobile solutions for safety registrations for safety • Safety principles and guidelines • People are the determining factor when it comes to safety • Working safely is a pre-requisite for employment 12 EMPLOYEES Sustainable electricity consumption and increased recycling As part of the renewable energy industry, we aim at maximising our positive impact on the environment, not only through the products we develop but also through our actions aimed at managing the business in an ever more responsible manner. Status New objectives Our production facilities are certified according to KK Wind Solutions remains committed to the international environmental standard further reduce the environmental impact of the ISO14001, which ensures a systematic company’s operations. organisation and documentation of internal environmental procedures. In 2019, we will restructure our power supply to ensure that our global electricity demand For wind to be a viable alternative to traditional is covered by wind power or other renewable fossil fuels, it has to be competitive. At KK Wind energy sources. By entering wind electricity Solutions, we contribute to advancing the wind purchase agreements directly with local utilities, industry by continuously improving our products we aim to take local climate action. In areas and developing new innovative solutions that where local utilities cannot enter these contracts, contributes to the optimisation of wind energy. we will purchase certificates to ensure that our Furthermore, we are working in partnership to consumption is covered by sustainable energy. extend lifetime and reduce cost of wind turbines. New products are expected to be added to the portfolio, however, the target for recyclable waste Progress remains at the current high level. In the past year, our focus has been reducing the environmental impact of our operations and Furthermore, we are currently developing increasing the share of recycled waste to 81,8%. localised supply chain solutions to support our Moreover, we have recycled and partially recycled customers locally in a more sustainable manner. 95.7% of our waste. 100% To further raise the awareness of environmental issues, more information about environmental practices and behaviours has been added to the introduction process for new employees. of our global electricity consumption will be covered by wind power or other renewable energy sources in 2019. 14 ENVIRONMENT A strong stand against corruption We are committed never to engage in any form of bribery, corruption, extortion or embezzlement, or any illegal method to influence public officials, the judiciary or private parties. Status Progress Our Code of Conduct ensures our commitment to In the past year, our target was to have zero continuously focus on running our business in an corruption incidents. We have not registered ethical and responsible manner. any form of breach on our Code of Conduct in connection with corruption, extortion or bribery. However, we see a need for increasing our focus on keeping a very high ethical level as we To ensure that all employees fully understand the become an increasingly globalised company. importance of following our Code of Conduct this Excellent standards is an essential part of our has special attention when onboarding corporate culture and behaviour. new employees. New objectives KK Wind Solutions remains committed never to engage in any form of corruption, extortion or bribery. We will continue to investigate best possible ways of keeping a culture with very high ethical standards and zero tolerance towards corruption. 16 ANTI-CORRUPTION About KK Wind Solutions Building on more than 35 years of experience in electrical systems for wind, KK Wind Solutions’ capabilities span development of state-of-the-art technologies, high quality lean manufacturing, cost-efficient supply chain solutions and flexible service of turbines. 02/2019-EN ©2019 KK WIND SOLUTIONS A/S. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. CONTENT MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED WITHOUT WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM KK WIND SOLUTIONS A/S.
