Communication on Progress For Year 2018 PT. SINGALAND ASETAMA 2019 STATEMENT OF CONTINOUS SUPPORT Jakarta, 29 January, 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that PT. Singaland Asetama reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Henderi Djunaidi Director COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Scope of Policies and UNGC Principles Business Actions Taken SDGs Governance Influence Human Rights Principle 1 Business should Employees, Internal  Implement any support and Investors, policies (core Government regurespect the Contractors values, vision lation regarding protection of and mission), Human Rights internationally Code of proclaimed human Conducts and  It is clearly stated rights Company’s in the company’s Regulations regulation that any human rights abuses will not be tolerated and there will be law implication for any human rights issues  Training and awareness for staff and stakeholders on human rights aspects Principle 2 Business should Employees, Internal  To make sure that make sure they are Investors, policies (core no complicit in not complicit in Contractors values, vision human right human rights and mission), abuses within all abuses Code of activities Conducts and Company  Give more Regulations opportunities to local community and other potential worker to joint with the company aligned with company’s labour needs fulfillment and their skill/knowledge  Continuing to socialize and implement the company’s regulation regarding the Human Rights, Labour and Environmental Policies to the employee Labour Principle 3 Business should Employees, Internal  Facilitating the uphold the freedom Investors, policies (core establishment of of association and Contractors values, vision worker’s the effective and mission), association recognition to Code of collective Conducts and  Supported the bargaining Company labour activities Regulations such as custom ceremony Principle 4 The elimination of Employees, Internal  No case of forced all form of forced Investors, policies (core and compulsory and compulsory Contractors values, vision labour in PT. TSP labour and mission), Code of  To ensure fair Conducts and payment for wages Company based on Regional Regulations Minimum Wage  Conducting the Training program for local labour  Implementing Performance Development Review Principle 5 The effective Employees, Internal  Whereby we abolition of child Investors, policies (core committed to labour Contractors values, vision support the and mission), abolition of child Code of labour by ensuring Conducts and that there are no Company children in the Regulations working areas  To ensure that there are no children in the working areas which will potentially lead to child labour, some actions have been taken: 1. Put more Sign Board/Warning Signs on the sites 2. Clearly stated in our company regulations the minimum age for workers 3. Intensively communication to local workers not to bring their children to work sites Principle 6 The elimination of Employees, Internal  Give more discrimination in Investors, policies (core opportunities to respect of Contractors values, vision local community employment and and mission), and other potential occupation Code of worker to joint Conducts and with the company Company aligned with Regulations company’s labour needs fulfillment and their skill/knowledge  New job position/required published on Newspaper/Job Consultant  Continuous New Trainee Assistant Program  Cleary declared with updated agreement with recruitment agencies Environment Principle 7 Business should Employees, Internal  It is clearly stated support a Investors, policies (core in the company’s precautionary Contractors values, vision vision: “to be a approach to and mission), dynamic plantation environmental Code of company of choice challenge Conducts and reputed for its Company distinct socioRegulations economic and sustainability values”.  Continuous socialization of the company's regulation regarding Environment Policies to all employee  Fulfilled the Indonesia Sustainable Palm Oil (ISPO) and Roundtable of Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) requirements Principle 8 Undertake Employees, Internal  Socialized & initiatives to Investors, policies (core implemented the promote greater Contractors values, vision company’s environmental and mission), regulation responsibility Code of regarding Conducts and Environmental Company Policies to the Regulations employee  Fulfilled the ISPO and RSPO requirements regarding the environment issues  Conservation Area/preservation on High Conservation Value (HCV) area, Water Way Buffer Zone already identified  Implementation of plantation best practice management Principle 9 Encourage the Employees, Internal  Implementing development and Investors, policies (core minimum tillage diffusion of Contractors values, vision environmentally and mission),  Implementing the friendly Code of use of beneficial technologies Conducts and plant and barn owl Company Regulations  Implementing Reuse and Recycle policies  Utilized POME for Biogas Anti-corruption Principle 10 Business should Employees, Internal  Give training on work against Investors, policies (core ethical behaviors to corruption in all Contractors values, vision its stakeholders form its forms, and mission), and promoting the including extortion Code of importance of and bribery Conducts and integrity Company Regulations  Implementing open tender  Internal Audit PT. SGA Corporate Social Initiatives In Year 2018, PT Singaland Asetama carried out various Corporate Social Initiatives Programs such as education, health, animal husbandry and fishery program. The activities has already done during year 2018, are as follows: 1. Education Program PT. Singaland Asetama provided teacher allowance, school books, school bus facility and other school facilities. PT. SGA also supported the construction of school buildings, for example donating the building materials for the construction of TKA/TPA Al-Ittihad School’s building in Karangrejo Village and SDS Rajawali elementary school. SDGs Cover by the program: 2. Improving Quality of Health In Year 2018, some health initiatives were implemented to improve the health of community members, especially infants, children and mothers. Health initiatives carried out such as medical treatment, nutrition and immunization for children and fogging for eradicating mosquitoes. SDGs Cover by the program: 3. Community Empowerment and Development In year 2018, PT SGA carried out some initiatives such as duck farming and fish farming program. PT Singaland Asetama (South Kalimantan) conducted Alabio duck rearing program in Tibarau Panjang Village. Fish farming program carried out in several villages, as follows: a. Nila Tilapia fish farming program Wonorejo Village b. Fresh water eel fish farming program in Rejowinangun Village c. Nile Tilapia fish farming program in Tibarau Panjang Villages SDGs Cover by the program: 4. Culture Preservation and Religious Activities PT. SGA also facilitated the constructions of religious buildings such as the construction of Mosque Al-Ikhas (Karangsari Village) and Miftahul Jannah (Guntung Village). Religious activities supported by PT SGA, such as MTQ (Al Qur'an recital) in Guntung Village and Christmas celebrations in several churches such as GPDI Pematang Ulin and GPDI Rejowinangun. PT SGA supported the Festival Budaya Borneo the 2nd held in Banjar Baru city, South Kalimantan Province in August 2018. SDGs Cover by the program: GALLERY
