beyond tomorrow Sterlite Technologies Limited Annual Report 2018-19 www.sterlitetech.com Forward-looking and Cautionary Statement Certain words and statements in this report concerning Sterlite Technologies Limited (STL) and its prospects, and other statements relating to STL’s expected financial position, business strategy, the future development of STL’s operations and the general economy in India, are forward-looking statements. Such statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements of STL, or industry results, to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions regarding STL’s present and future business strategies and the environment in which STL will operate in the future. The important factors that could cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from such forward-looking statements include, among others, changes in government policies or regulations of India and, in particular, changes relating to the administration of STL’s industry, and changes in general economic, business and credit conditions in India. Additional factors that could cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from such forward-looking statements, many of which are not in STL’s control, include, but are not limited to, those risk factors discussed in STL’s various filings with the National Stock Exchange, India and the Bombay Stock Exchange, India. The Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements that may be made from time to time by or on behalf of the Company unless it is required by law. These filings are available at: www.nseindia.com and www.bseindia.com In this Report Corporate Overview 03 04 06 08 Chairman’s Letter to the Customer Impact Technology Innovation Message Shareholders Stories Stories 10 12 14 16 Human Impact Executive Board of Advisory Board Stories Leadership Directors 18 20 22 32 Financial Financial Management Risk Highlights Discussion and Discussion and Management Analysis Analysis 38 Responsible Corporate Citizenship Governance Reports 58 88 104 Directors’ Corporate Business Report Governance Responsibility Report Report Financial Statements 114 192 Standalone Consolidated Financials Financials beyond tomorrow a world of abundant opportunities STL’s data network solutions bring tomorrow today Mobility Access Connectivity Mobile Backhaul | Private Networks FTTx | Fixed Wireless Core Connectivity Network Modernisation Rural Connectivity | Long-Distance Connectivity Enterprise IoT | Network Security A CORPORATE Chairman’s Message OVERVIEW Defining the Future of Data Networks Anil Agarwal Chairman and Board of Director Dear Shareholders It is with great pleasure that I present to you the Annual Modernising data networks of Report of Sterlite Technologies Limited (STL). I am delighted large enterprises to see how your Company has rapidly grown to be amongst the global leaders in data networks solutions. The Defence, Railways and Oil and Gas companies are making significant investments to build and modernise their Today, STL is setting the industry’s strategic direction for data networks. These networks are both mission critical the design and deployment of high-capacity networks. and extremely large and complex. STL has been partnering Leading with technology innovation and deep customer with such customers for several years, and in FY19 it engagement, STL understands service providers’ partnered with the Indian Navy to design and build their networking needs beyond the traditional models. Today, next-gen digital network. This is the first time an integrated STL works with global citizen networks, Cloud companies, end-to-end digital network at such a scale is being built in large enterprises and digital/telecom service providers to India. It will enable the Indian Navy to ride new age design and deploy data network solutions for super-fast applications with advanced security solutions while connectivity and enhanced end-user experience. bringing real-time situational awareness and faster decision-making. As you and I consume data at unprecedented levels, these networks of the future will impact our everyday lives – they will make remote surgery a reality, bring e-education to millions in under-privileged areas, power self-driving cars Getting telcos 5G-ready and drones, enable next-gen entertainment and As end users, we demand more and more bandwidth, much more. seamless connectivity, great content and applications, all at competitive pricing. For telcos to offer us this experience, Impacting citizens’ lives world over, they are investing in 5G, FTTx and other solutions. STL has been partnering with telcos for backhaul STL is driving rural digital inclusion by building fibre-based and deep fiberisation for a while. In FY19, it also developed networks in previously unconnected areas of the world. In capability for converged wired and wireless solutions. India, it has partnered with leading telcos and BharatNet to bring high-speed internet and utility based applications to I am extremely excited for STL to play a role in building this remote areas. It is also pioneering to bring apps, content future! I look forward to our continued partnership as we go and services to ride these networks, with STL Garv, beyond tomorrow. a multi-application data centre. In Europe, it has partnered with several Tier-1 telcos to fiberise millions of urban and rural homes in France and the UK, among other regions. Powering connectivity for THE DATA NETWORKS INDUSTRY IS IN ITS INFANCY. tomorrow’s Cloud applications DATA EXPLOSION HAS ONLY JUST BEGUN, AND THE Some of the world’s biggest Cloud companies, such as INDUSTRY WILL SEE EXPONENTIAL GROWTH. WITH Amazon, Google and Microsoft, are investing in building NEW MARKETS AND CUSTOMER SEGMENTS, STL HAS hyper-scale data centres so that we can have a seamless A TREMENDOUS GLOBAL OPPORTUNITY AND A CLEAR connectivity experience across super-high bandwidth STRATEGY ROADMAP TO ACHIEVE IT. applications of tomorrow. In this context, STL is building its suite of connectivity solutions for various data-centre needs. In FY19, the Company pioneered in this space, and won contracts with two leading global Cloud companies. Annual Report 2018-19 03 Letter to the Shareholders Massive Network-creation Opportunity Ahead Dear Shareholders The future is even more exciting I am delighted to let you know that FY19 was a with a massive network-creation transformative year for your company. STL ended the year with a significant ~60% growth in revenues, and an opportunity order book exceeding H 10,000 crores – both at an Today, over 55% of the 7.6 billion people in the world use all-time high. FY19 was another year of solid growth, with the Internet. As they use more and more devices, content our five-year CAGR for revenues at a healthy and apps, the global annual IP traffic is growing 33%. exponentially, and is expected to reach 7 Zettabyte (one Zettabyte is a trillion Gigabytes) by next year – a seven-fold This year we also embarked on our journey to become increase from 2015! an end-to-end global data network solutions provider. This is built on our portfolio of connectivity solution This always-connected world requires hyper-scale offerings, expanded market presence and new customer networks, placing STL at an inflection point of a huge segments. data-network creation opportunity. Several mega trends are impacting this opportunity – hyper-scale networks, new customer segments and the need for a FY19 was a transformative year solutions-based approach. FY19 was a year of growth covering all dimensions, as we saw wins across customers, solutions and technology Hyper-scale networks innovation. Some key highlights of the year were: The networks of tomorrow are unlike the traditional ones. These hyper-scale networks are denser, deeply fiberised 35 new customers, including two of the top five global and software-defined with computing at the edge. They are dense, with more access points such as small cells; more cloud companies, a tier one telco for network creation for one of the world’s largest 4G rollouts, and the Indian Navy fiberised for tower and end-point communication; for modernising their digital communications network programmable with decoupled hardware and software; and at the edge, or closer to the point of consumption. 6 new solutions, including FTTx Mantra® (fully integrated, With our unique silicon to software capability, STL is extremely well positioned to design, build, manage and ready to implement FTTx solution) and TruRibbon® (high-density optical fibre cable for high-capacity networks) help monetise such hyper-scale networks! New customer segments 271 patents in all, and filing of highest-ever patents in These new-age networks are being created by several new a single year customer segments, expanding the opportunity for STL 1 acquisition of an optical fibre cable manufacturer in even further. Telcos are becoming digital service providers. They are Italy, for new customers and product portfolios in Europe investing for 5G and FTTx, large-scale roll outs, and full 50 on track million fkm fibre capacity with new industry 4.0 plant suite of network solutions and management software. Verizon, Vodafone Qatar and others in South Korea have begun commercial rollouts of 5G in select areas. Moreover, telcos are evolving towards open-sourced 33 million fkm doubled optical fibre cable capacity on and software-defined programmable networks , faster time to market and enhanced customer experience with track for June 2020 deep content partnerships This steady growth over the last several quarters is a result Cloud companies such as Google, Amazon and of our strategic focus on offering data-network solutions to Facebook are building extremely large data centres an expanding global market of telcos, cloud companies, across the world, and are deeply investing in interand citizen networks and large enterprises. intra-data centre hyper-speed connectivity 04 Sterlite Technologies Limited CORPORATE OVERVIEW IN FY19 WE EVOLVED OUR OFFERINGS AND EXPANDED OUR MARKET COVERAGE. WE BECAME A LEADING SOLUTIONS PROVIDER FOR END-TO-END DATA-NETWORK SOLUTIONS. Dr. Anand Agarwal Group CEO and Whole-time Director Large enterprises such as the defence and railways are Four-pronged strategy modernising and upgrading their networks. These are Innovate – With new value-added portfolio of next-gen mission-critical networks, and need deep expertise in solution offerings design and deployment Scale – To new customer segments and geographies Citizen networks such as Digital India initiatives are investing in urban and rural broadband delivered by a Integrate – Across our silicon to software capability to fibre backbone, with services at the end point offer integrated solutions Expand – In to new portfolios and applications Solutions-based approach Another dimension to this changing ecosystem is that Capability pillars customers are moving towards an application-centric approach over a product and services approach. These are Our key capability pillars of deep technology innovation, solutions for varied needs such as mobility, last-mile customer engagement, digital transformation and access, long-haul connectivity, network modernisation and best-in-class talent and culture ensure world-class data centres. execution excellence. The solutions-based approach has a unique advantage. It integrates design across all layers – physical, network An enormous opportunity, and software layers – to address scale, latency, agility, uptime, cost and experience, while speeding delivery. With ambitious plans and a refreshed expertise across all these layers, STL is uniquely positioned identity take us beyond tomorrow to provide end-to-end data network solutions. As we stand at the inflection point of this journey of Together, these global megatrends present an enormous ‘beyond tomorrow’, we see ourselves generating opportunity that can be sized to a total addressable market immense value for our customers, partners, employees of $75 BN by FY23 for STL. and shareholders. We start this journey with a new and refreshed STL. Our strategy and capability STL reflects a simplified, transformed company that is leading the future of networks. The fresh look symbolises pillars power us for this future our transformation as a new age data network solution provider in the hyper-connected world. We are geared with a full capability suite to meet this significant opportunity. Our four-pronged strategy ensures Thank you, shareholders, for your ongoing support. ongoing innovation to design an expanding portfolio of Together we will lead in this journey towards beyond network solutions and to enter newer markets and tomorrow. Together we will continue to transform customer segments. everyday living by delivering smarter networks. Annual Report 2018-19 05 Customer Partnerships On cloud 9 with hyper-scale data networks STL partners with two of the largest global Cloud companies for massive-connectivity solutions As the data ecosystem expands across the value chain, Cloud and OTT players are heavily investing in network creation for massive connectivity. With expertise in design and deployment of high-capacity networks, STL is now a technology partner to two trillion-dollar global At the helm of the Cloud companies, for their hyper-scale data networks. 4G revolution in Through deep customer engagement and a consultative co-creation model, STL has developed bespoke solutions for Cloud companies. TruRibbon®, our ultra-high fibre India count rollable ribbon cable, is designed for massive data centre connectivity, while our cutting-edge cable STL partners with one of India’s assemblies cater to the emerging free space fibre optics fastest-growing telcos to create a (FSOC) technology deployment. 4G (and beyond) ecosystem These solutions not only address a new customer segment, but also represent an approach of engaging Disruption happens when someone re-imagines and partnering with our customers. the future. India’s transition from a voice-dominant to a data-dominant market is an example of just that. With its expertise in fibre optics and converged optical networks, STL has been at the forefront of creating a deep fiberised infrastructure in India. As a ‘disruption partner’ to one of the most innovative telecom providers in the country, STL has enabled • One of the fastest subscriber acquisitions in the world • World’s first Exabyte (Billion GB) network With our eyes set beyond tomorrow, we continue to deepen this partnership with hyper-scale network rollouts across multiple states in India. 06 Sterlite Technologies Limited Leveraging the power of ‘One STL’ STL becomes a valuable digital partner for top telcos with its all-stack capabilities We are at the centre of our customers’ digital journey. With our silicon-to-software capability and our end-to-end solutions, we bring the ‘power of one’ to each of our customers. FY19 saw us developing long-term partnerships with top telecom companies in India, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and South East Asia, basis our all-stack capabilities. We started our engagement with the largest communication provider in France with application-led optical solutions and expanded the engagement to software solutions. While with the top telco in India, we deepened our partnership across the value chain across connectivity solutions and network services. One team, One goal, With changing industry dynamics, a ‘power of one’ play with end-to-end solutions, is the way forward for STL. One Varun STL flags off Project Varun with Indian Navy, BSNL, DoT and 42 partners STL's Project Varun for the Navy Communication Network (NCN) aims at building digital supremacy for the Indian Navy through a next-gen communications network. The project includes the creation of an independent high-capacity end-to-end communications network, linking multiple Indian naval sites and India-administered islands, along with setting up of a highly secure data centre ecosystem. This intrinsically complex project requires multi-stakeholder collaboration across diverse entities from technology partners to deployment specialists, government bodies and defence. Launched by the Chief of Naval Staff, STL took the lead to get all the stakeholders together at this mega event held in Gurugram in January 2019. With a theme of ONE TEAM, ONE GOAL, ONE VARUN, this was the beginning of a uniquely collaborative journey. Annual Report 2018-19 07 Technology Innovation The grey matter behind future networks STL’s cutting-edge innovation centres are the think tanks for next-gen networks Abraham Lincoln said, “The best way to predict the future is to create it.” STL is creating the future of data networks through its ground-breaking research, development and innovation across optical technologies, structured cabling solutions, and converged and programmable networks. Riding high on Our three cutting-edge research units are a confluence of some of the best minds in the world, innovating and patented innovation prototyping future technologies. • Our marquee Centre for Smarter Networks (CSN) at STL files the highest number of Gurugram is a state-of-the-art experience centre, patents in a single year in FY19 for the best in hyper-scale, converged and programmable networks Deep technology innovation is at the core of • Our Centre of Excellence (CoE) in Aurangabad is the everything STL does. Be it the 5G imperative, epicentre for advanced research in photonics and connectivity solutions or programmable networks, glass science we are continuously innovating to develop next-gen • Our Specialty Products Experience lab (SPEL) in data networks. STL has the highest number of Silvassa is a test-bed for disruptive structured cabling granted patents for optical fibre in India, and is solutions among the top filers in optical fibre technologies. It also has the largest patent portfolio for network architecture when compared to global optical fibre and optical fibre cable players. Some highlights: • #1 Largest optical fibre and optical fibre cable patent portfolio count in India • 90% Y-o-Y patent filing growth in FY19 • 103% 5-year CAGR for optical fibre cable patent portfolio growth • 271 Patent portfolio count at the end of FY19 One highlighted patented product of FY19 is TruRibbon® a unique technology that enables backward compatibility with deployed networks, extreme compactness and ease of field use. 08 Sterlite Technologies Limited FTTx Mantra® – taking fibre places This industry-first FTTx solution converges the best of softwaredefined networks, optical communication products and hyper-scale rollout practices STL’s FTTx Mantra®—Massive Agile Network Transformation—is an access connectivity solution. It enables massive fiberisation, catering to millions of end points in the most agile, scalable and cost-effective manner. Designed for a world where providers need to solve for scale, latency, agility, uptime and cost while ensuring the best customer experience, the solution combines the best of STL’s technology capability: • Programmable network design • Connectivity solutions Bend insensitive fibre technology, high-fibre count micro module cables, and pre-connectorised FTTx kits • Hyper-scale network roll out STL’s unique Lead360™ approach STL PODS – FTTx Mantra® was successfully launched at India Mobile Congress and at FTTH Conference in Amsterdam in FY19, programming the and is since taking fibre places. future STL is all set to offer solutions for software-defined networks, with its signature PODS portfolio In FY19, STL built significant capability in programmable networks and intelligence. It acquired key talent and entered partnerships with RedHat, ORAN, Telecom Infra Project and others to develop open and agile solutions that help accelerate telcos’ digital reinvention. STL is developing PODS—Programmable, Open, Disaggregated Solutions—to power next-gen networks. By enabling programmability at the core of the network, PODS bring more flexibility, cost efficiency and service excellence to data networks. STL is pioneering these programmable solutions with fibre and radio technology PODS. Annual Report 2018-19 09 Transforming Lives STL Academy – skilling at the speed of light STL Academy is ‘skilling it’ like never before. 1,500 youth certified, 15,000 in the works With the largest youth population in the world, India’s focus on human capital is immense. STL Academy is an endeavour to create an ecosystem of highly skilled professionals in deploying and maintaining complex optical-fibre networks. In the last 10 months alone, STL Get set green – our Academy has trained and certified 1,500 people, and is all set to blaze a trail of 15,000 skilled, certified and commitment to employable professionals in the coming year. sustainability These programmes are held all over the country, the most prominent one this year being the training of over 400 STL is home to India’s first zero Army personnel in remote-border and sub-zero areas of Ladakh to maintain the Network for Spectrum Fibre waste to landfill optical fibre cable network in Jammu & Kashmir. plant, diverting almost 100% waste This initiative is not only impacting the lives of these young from landfill people by generating skilled employment, but also creating a connected India. STL is committed to sustainable manufacturing excellence and reducing environmental impact. With this passion and a relentless focus on process improvement and innovation, we have achieved size zero! STL’s optical fibre cable manufacturing plant in Silvassa is the first such facility in India to win Intertek’s Zero Waste to landfill certification. This world-class manufacturing facility diverts almost 100% of waste away from landfill and reiterates the trust that our customers and partners have on us. Earlier, STL’s glass and optical fibre manufacturing plant at Aurangabad and its specialty cable manufacturing plant at Dadra, were granted near zero waste to landfill Intertek certifications for diverting more than 95% waste away from landfill. 10 Sterlite Technologies Limited STL GARV – making rural India digital-ready Rural-connectivity platform launched in three villages across Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Telangana, bringing innovation where it matters GARV, meaning ‘pride’, is an initiative by STL to take the power of digital to millions of rural citizens, bridging the rural-urban digital divide in the country. This solution leverages BharatNet’s rural broadband connectivity and the power of future technologies such as Artificial Intelligence and Internet of Things (IoT) to provide a multitude of community-centred services. Garv’s key services include: Digital meetings, speech-to-email conversion, e-education and agri services. This state-of-the-art system is enabling truly smart villages. Imagine a village where the sarpanch controls All women team at the village operations through an app, holds digital meetings and acts on data from IoT-driven civic Silvassa – breaking infrastructure. Or a young girl who has access to e-coaching, where earlier she would have had to walk 10 km to reach a coaching centre. This world is now a gender stereotypes reality with STL GARV! STL’s colouring team is an all-women team. These 103 women are creating history by bridging the gender gap in manufacturing At STL, diversity and inclusion is not just a policy pillar, but a way of working. At STL, a team of highly competent women employees, is now operating the entire colouring division at our state-of-the-art cable manufacturing facility in Silvassa. From operating the cutting-edge colouring line, to running stringent quality controls, our ‘all-women team’ does it all. Historically, manufacturing jobs in India have been dominated by men. These 103 women are creating history at STL and in the world of Indian manufacturing industry, bridging the gender gap in what was an all-male bastion, is a feat worthy of celebration! This 100% women team is indeed setting global standards in gender diversity in manufacturing. Annual Report 2018-19 11 Executive Leadership Our leadership team is world-class. It brings immense global functional and management expertise and steers from the front. ADr. Anand Agarwal Group CEO and Whole-time Director At a time when technological advancement is transforming everyday living, STL is fortunate to have a passionate technocrat like Anand at the helm. Since he became CEO A in 2003, Anand has led the organisation’s transformation from a leading provider of optical fibre to making digital inclusion possible through designing and deploying high-capacity converged fibre and wireless networks. Anand is a BTech from IIT Kanpur and an MS and PhD in Materials Engineering from the Rensselaer Polytechnic A Institute, USA. He joined STL in 1995. Anupam Jindal Group Chief Finance Officer A chartered accountant from ICAI, Anupam began his professional journey with the Vedanta Group in 1998. After working in the aluminium foil and copper-cable businesses, he went on to head the finance division of the group’s mining operations in Australia. Moving back Ankit Agarwal to India, he joined STL in 2006 as CFO, and has since CEO, Connectivity Solutions Business been instrumental in driving the Company’s sustained Ankit has been instrumental in leading the Company’s and robust financial performance. entry into new markets and customer segments, such as Cloud companies. Under his leadership, STL has established its presence in 100 countries. As a young K leader, Ankit is also a champion of internal culture change, from driving a flat organisation to leading community efforts. He joined STL in 2007 after completing his Bachelor’s from the University of Southern California and A MBA from London Business School. KS Rao CEO, Network Services Business KS joined STL in 1993 to set up the Company’s opticalfibre cable plant in Aurangabad and soon became instrumental in growing its fibre, cables and services business in India, China and Brazil. Today, he leads the Anshoo Gaur CEO, Network Software Business Company’s Network Services business, by building robust network infrastructures for Defence, BharatNet, Anshoo is the force behind STL’s network software and Smart Cities and Telcos. KS is also actively involved in programmable networks business. Under his leadership, community initiatives in Marathwada, such as water STL has launched a disruptive portfolio of software conservation and women empowerment. products and set up world-class capability for open and software-defined networks. Anshoo holds a postgraduate degree in Industrial and Systems Engineering from the University of Arizona, Tucson. 12 B Dr. Badri Gomatam Group Chief Technology Officer A photonics expert, Badri leads core research in optical communications products and network solutions. With a view on emerging network technologies, Badri guides G Gaurav Basra Chief Strategy Officer With significant international consulting experience, the Company’s technology vision. Under his Gaurav works closely with the leadership team to develop leadership, the Company today has over 270 patents to long-term strategies for growth. He has 20 years’ its credit. Badri has an MS and Ph.D. from the University experience in corporate strategy development and of Massachusetts, Amherst, and a BS from the Birla transformation, innovation management and investment A M Institute of Technology. He joined STL in 2011. portfolio management at Booz & Company, Lucent Technologies, Nokia, Siemens and Mobily. He has an engineering degree from the University of Pune and an MBA from Imperial College, London. Anjali Byce Chief Human Resources Officer As STL grows exponentially, Anjali and her team are building an agile and culturally strong organisation by Manish Sinha running strong programmes on talent, culture, values and Chief Marketing Officer diversity. Anjali has extensive experience in Manish has donned many hats – from consultant at organisational development, learning and development McKinsey & Co. and Infosys and leading operations at and industrial relations. She has also worked at SKF, WNS and Capital One to being a ‘start-up guy’ at Quikr Tata Motors, Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance, Cummins and Homes and Common Floor. He is an engineering Thermax. She has a Master’s in Human Resources from graduate from IIT Delhi and MBA from IIM Calcutta. the Symbiosis Centre for Management and HRD, and in Manish leads customer engagement at a time when the N Applied Psychology from the University of Delhi. Company is growing exponentially. An enthusiastic culture champion, he joined STL in 2017, and soon became the face of change internally. Nischal Gupta Chief Transformation Officer STL is one of few companies to have the role of Chief Transformation Officer. Nischal leads this very critical role to drive internal process excellence, technology integration, programme management and data science. He joined STL in A Akanksha Head CSR and Sustainability Sharma STL is committed to the community, and Akanksha spearheads the company’s vision for CSR and Sustainability. 2017 from Flipkart, and has vast international experience at She drives a portfolio of community projects aligned to the Fujitsu, IBM, Lenovo and HP in USA, Europe, China and UN Sustainable Development Goals. Akanksha brings in Slovakia. He has a BE in Industrial Engineering, MS in IT experience from organisations such as UNICEF, Jubilant Services from SUNY, Buffalo and an MBA from Food Works and Vedanta. Post her MBA, she has done an IIM, Bangalore. advanced program from Harvard Business School. 13 Board of Directors A P Anil Agarwal Non-executive Chairman Pravin Agarwal Vice Chairman and Whole-time Director Anil Agarwal is the Executive Chairman of Vedanta Pravin Agarwal is the Vice Chairman and Whole-time Resources Plc and the Chairman Emeritus of Vedanta Director of STL, and the Non-Executive Chairman of Sterlite Limited. He founded the Sterlite Group in 1979 and grew it Power Transmission. He has been closely involved with the into a pioneering conglomerate. Among India’s leading Group’s operations in India since inception and has been entrepreneurs, he has made positive contributions to instrumental in the growth of its telecom and power community life and generated jobs by building and businesses. He has rich experience in general fostering successful businesses across multiple management and administration that spans almost industries. He has over 40 years of experience across three decades. various industries. A A Dr. Anand Agarwal Group CEO and Whole-time Director A.R. Narayanaswamy Non-executive and Independent Director Dr. Anand Agarwal has been the CEO of STL since 2003. A. R. Narayanaswamy is a commerce graduate from Under his leadership, the Company has grown Sydenham College, Mumbai and a Fellow Member of the exponentially, from a leading provider of optical fibre to Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). He joined making digital inclusion possible through designing and the Board of STL in 2007. He is inter alia an Independent deploying high-capacity converged fibre and wireless Director at Hindustan Zinc Limited and Sterlite Power Grid networks. He serves as a Whole-time Director on the Ventures Limited. He brings extensive financial, strategic, Board of STL and its joint ventures in Brazil and China. and Boardroom experience to STL. He is also a He is also Director at AvanStrate Inc., an LCD substrate management consultant with over four decades of glass-manufacturing company headquartered in Japan. consulting experience across accounting, financial Anand is a BTech from IIT Kanpur and an MS and PhD in management and information technology. materials engineering from the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, USA. He joined STL in 1995. 14 STL has an illustrious Board, with significant global experience across cutting-edge technology, telecom, finance and large-scale entrepreneurship. S Sandip Das Non-executive and Independent Director A Arun Todarwal Non-executive and Independent Director Sandip Das is one of Asia’s most respected Arun Todarwal is a partner at M/s Arun Todarwal & Co LLP, telecommunications professionals and an acclaimed Chief a Mumbai-based firm of Chartered Accountants, and a Executive. He is on the Advisory Board of a UK-based member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India investment company, reputation-management firm Astrum (ICAI). He has rich and varied experience in management and Exhibitions India, besides consulting for international consulting, finance and audit, spanning over four decades. banks and investment companies. He was formerly the MD He is an Independent Director in several listed companies. & CEO of Reliance Jio, Group CEO and Executive Director of Maxis Communications Berhad, Malaysia and CEO and Board Director of Hutchison Essar Telecom, India. He holds BE and MBA degrees, and is an alumnus of Advanced Management Program from Harvard Business School, Boston. K P Kumud Srinivasan Non-executive and Independent Director Kumud Srinivasan is Vice President and Director of Non-Volatile Pratik Agarwal Non-executive Director Pratik Agarwal is a Non-executive Director of the Company Memory Fab Manufacturing and Automation Systems at Intel and is the CEO of Sterlite Power Transmission Limited. Corporation. She has spent 30+ years at Intel USA, leading A Wharton graduate and an MBA from London Business multiple global functions, prominent being digital School, he has over 10 years of experience in building core transformation and industrial automation. She is a seasoned infrastructure assets in India. He founded the Group’s leader, skilled at mobilising resources across organisation infrastructure business in 2009 and built it up to levels levels. Her management experience includes leading large where it now has significant investments in ports, power teams in matrix, geo-dispersed organisations in the US, transmission and broadband networks. He is also the China and India. From 2012 to 2016, she served as President Chairman of the Electric Power Transmission Association for Intel India. Kumud joined the STL Board in 2018, and her and Transmission Task Force of FICCI. experience in key industry domains such as Internet of Things, R&D, manufacturing and semi-conductors is invaluable to the Company and its global customers. 15 Advisory Board STL’s Advisory Board has eminent industry leaders from the global telecom and data networking industry. S B Sandip Das Sandip Das is one of Asia’s most respected telecommunications BS Shantharaju BS Shantharaju has over 15 years of experience as CEO across professionals and an acclaimed Chief Executive. He is on the four large enterprises. He retired as CEO of Indus Towers, the Advisory Board of a UK-based investment company, world’s largest telecom tower company valued at around $15 reputation-management firm Astrum and Exhibitions India, besides billion. He was also the CEO of New Delhi International Airports, consulting for international banks and investment companies. where he led the organisation’s transformation post privatisation. He was formerly the MD & CEO of Reliance Jio, Group CEO and As Managing Director of Gujarat Gas Company (then subsidiary of Executive Director of Maxis Communications Berhad, Malaysia and British Gas), he led it to a major growth trajectory. He has also CEO and Board Director of Hutchison Essar Telecom (later been the Chief Financial Officer and Country Managing Director of Vodafone), India. He holds BE (Mechanical Engineering) and MBA SmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited for Bangladesh. He is a degrees, and is an alumnus of Advanced Management Program qualified accountant, has an MBA degree from the International (AMP 188) from Harvard Business School, Boston. For four years, Management Institute, New Delhi and is an alumnus of London he appeared on the Global List of Most Powerful People in Business School. He was among the final shortlisted candidates Telecom published by Global Telecoms magazine. He has been for the CNBC Asia Business Leader Award in 2005. He has also awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award for his contribution been a speaker at various leadership forums, including at Harvard to Indian Telecom by Voice & Data magazine, Business School. Cyber Media Publications. 16 Sterlite Technologies Limited Solving complex problems and having fun while doing so I enjoy applying my experience My journey with STL started in fibre optics, connectivity and with driving multiple bids distributed sensing to realise to leading execution for smart new opportunities at STL. cities and MPLS projects. Seldon Benjamin Shikha Jain Partnering with customers for Pioneering in building application engineering smarter cities in India I work from Mexico for Inside I joined STL after graduating Sales Support. My co-workers from IIT Kanpur. I am working are professional and respectful. on several high-value projects I look forward to growing and learning a lot. I am proud with STL. to be a STLer! Maria Mora Shivi Dixit Developing business for Designing optical North America fibre networks Financial Highlights Delivering shareholder value consistently 59% 48% REVENUE EBITDA ` crores ` crores Y-o-Y Y-o-Y 33% 36% CAGR 5,087 CAGR 1,164 789 3,205 2,594 2,275 542 475 1,619 345 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 60% EBIT ROCE ` crores % Y-o-Y 17% 40% 969 CAGR 34 CAGR 30 606 20 21 18 383 350 249 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 18 Sterlite Technologies Limited CORPORATE OVERVIEW STL saw a robust ~60% growth in FY19, as revenues grew from ` 3,205 crores in FY18 to an all-time high of ` 5,087 crores. Unit FY15* FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Consolidated numbers Gross Revenues ` crores 3,270 2,275 2,594 3,205 5,087 Growth % 22% NA 14% 24% 59% EBITDA ` crores 512 475 542 789 1,164 EBIT ` crores 327 350 383 606 969 PBDT ` crores 185 357 419 685 1,058 PAT (After minority interest) ` crores (3) 154 201 334 563 Capital Employed ` crores 7,270 1,791 1,844 1,993 2,845 Diluted EPS (0.07) 3.82 4.98 8.25 13.83 Net Revenues $ Million 473.9 329.7 375.9 464.5 737.3 EBITDA $ Million 74.2 68.9 78.6 114.3 168.7 EBIT $ Million 47.4 50.7 55.5 87.9 140.4 PBDT $ Million 26.8 51.7 60.8 99.2 153.4 PAT (After minority interest) $ Million (0.4) 22.3 29.2 48.5 81.6 Ratios Return on capital employed % 4.5% 19.5% 20.8% 30.4% 34.1% EBITDA Margin % 15.7% 20.9% 20.9% 24.6% 22.9% EBIT Margin % 10.0% 15.4% 14.8% 18.9% 19.0% PBDT Margin % 5.7% 15.7% 16.2% 21.4% 20.8% PAT Margin % (0.1%) 6.8% 7.8% 10.4% 11.1% Effective Tax Rate % NA 29.0% 15.4% 26.5% 32.2% Conversion Rate 1 US $ = 69 * Consolidated financials for 2015 are for Telecom + Power business (STL and Sterlite Power business demerged effective 1st April 2015) Annual Report 2018-19 19 Financial Discussion and Analysis STL delivers superlative growth in FY19 Driven by focused strategy of offering data network solutions Mega trends across the world are Below is a deep dive into STL’s financial performance in FY19. creating opportunities for network (` in crores) creation. An exponential increase in Particulars 2018-19 2017-18 Growth Y-o-Y data usage has presented the need Gross revenue 5,087 3,205 59% for new age hyper-scale networks EBITDA 1,164 789 48% for new customer segments such as Net profit after minority interest 563 334 68% Cloud companies, citizen networks EBITDA margin (%) 23 25 and large enterprises like the EPS (Diluted) (`) 13.83 8.25 68% defence. At the same time, traditional Net profit margin (%) 11 11 telecommunication companies are ROCE (%) 34 30 transforming their networks to be programmable and software defined. These trends present a significant Gross revenues Continuous efforts to generate cash from core business, along with optimal opportunity to STL to offer solutions STL recorded its highest-ever utilisation of low-cost funding helped for varied customer applications, such revenues of ` 5,087 crores during the Company’s interest cost for FY19 as mobility, last-mile access, long-haul the year under review, registering a to remain at ` 105 crores, which connectivity, network modernisation 59% year-on-year improvement. The improved the interest coverage ratio and data centres. revenue growth was secular, driven by by 340 basis points from 7.6 to 11, all business units. Export revenue for Given this ecosystem, Sterlite indicating robust financial health and the year was at ` 1,806 crores. India, Technologies Limited (STL) delivered governance. Europe and Latin America (LATAM) superlative growth in FY19, with 68% now account for more than 90% of The depreciation for FY19 was boost in PAT, 59% rise in revenue, STL’s revenues. ` 195 crores vis-à-vis ` 182 crores 48% increase in EBITDA (y-o-y) and in the previous year. The increase 34% uptick in ROCE. The Company in depreciation was primarily due to also demonstrated an excellent start Profitability capitalisation of expansion projects to FY20 with an all-time high order FY19 was a transformative year for executed during the year. book of ` 10,516 crores, 2.1 times STL’s STL. The Company acquired new annual revenue. Tax expenses for the year were ` 278 customers and launched end-to-end crores, implying tax rate of 32% India, Europe and Latin America solutions, resulting in robust growth compared to ` 133 crores in FY18 with (LATAM) accounted for more than 90% of 48% in earnings before interest, a tax rate of 26%. Effective tax rate of the Company’s revenues, while tax, depreciation and amortisation was higher on account of change in China clocked less than 5%. (EBITDA) from ` 789 crores in FY18 profit mix. to ` 1,164 crores in FY19. In terms of STL’s growth is a result of its focussed percentage, this translated into an The net profit after tax after minority strategy of offering data network EBITDA margin of 23% in FY19, which interest for the year thus was ` 563 solutions to new customer segments is 170 basis points lower than FY18, crores, as against ` 334 crores for in expanding markets. At the same primarily on account of business last year showing growth of 68% time, its focus on the key pillars mix and shift from manufacturing year-on-year. of technology innovation, deep to delivery of end-to-end network customer engagement, ongoing digital solutions. transformation and best-in-class talent and culture ensured world-class execution excellence. 20 Sterlite Technologies Limited CORPORATE OVERVIEW Dividend In continuation of the progressive dividend policy, the Board of Directors has recommended final dividend of 175%, ` 3.5 per equity share subject to the approval of shareholders. Balance sheet Working capital (in times) (` in crores) Particulars 2018-19 2017-18 Particulars March 2019 March 2018 Net debt (` in crores) 1,733 884 Inventories 590 338 Debt equity ratio 1.0 0.7 Trade receivables 1,357 871 Debtors turnover ratio 3.7 3.7 Current investment 100 155 Inventory turnover ratio 8.6 9.5 Cash and bank balances 234 138 Interest coverage ratio 11 7.6 Others, including 1,653 447 Current ratio 1.2 1.6 loans and advances Return on net worth (%) 32 29 (A) Total current assets 3,934 1,949 (B) Total current liabilities 3,185 1,264 Working capital (A-B) 749 685 Gross block and capital STL’s current ratio stood at 1.2 times in FY19 as against 1.6 at the end of FY18. work-in-progress STL has been expanding its facilities Return on capital employed to 50 million fkm for optical fibre and 33 million fkm for cable to cater to and capital structure the increasing demand in the telecom The ROCE in current financial year sector. Consequently, gross block improved to 34% as against 30% a year increased from ` 2,392 crores as on ago and the Company employed ` 3,548 March 31, 2018 to ` 3,809 crores as on crores in business as on March 31, 2019 March 31, 2019. vis-à-vis ` 2,141 crores as on March 31, 2018. The capital work-in-progress stood at ` 419 crores at the end of FY19 vis-àSTL’s total equity as on March 31, 2019 vis ` 357 crores at the end of FY18. stood at ` 1,815 crores compared to ` 1,257 crores as on March 31, 2018. Borrowings, cash and bank balance The gross debt of STL increased from ` 1,093 crores as on March 31, 2018 to ` 1,918 crores as on March 31, 2019. The total cash and bank balance coupled with current investments at the end of FY19 was ` 334 crores as against ` 293 crores at the end of FY18. The net debt increased from ` 884 crores as on March 31, 2018 to ` 1,733 crores as on March 31, 2019, mainly due to acquisition of Metallurgica Bresciana S.p.A and capacity expansion projects. Hence, STL’s Net Debt-Equity ratio stood at 0.96 as at the end of FY19 compared to 0.70 year ago. Annual Report 2018-19 21 Management Discussion and Analysis Unprecedented Opportunity for Network Creation Exponential data growth is leading to unprecedented network-creation opportunity The world we live in is undeniably digital. The way we work, live and interact has changed dramatically because of the confluence and wider availability of technologies such as mobile, artificial intelligence, cloud and analytics. This is evident for both consumers, who are enjoying the benefits of a digital life, and enterprises that now have unique business opportunities driven by data and insights. This unabated growth in data is only set to multiply with the key drivers of growth being: Connected everything, Virtual Reality (VR) and Augmented Reality (AR) and Internet penetration. 22 Sterlite Technologies Limited CORPORATE OVERVIEW Connected everything Virtual Reality (VR) and Internet penetration Today, more than 5 billion users Augmented Reality (AR) Today, almost 4.4 billion people are interact with data every day. By 2025, active internet users (~58% of the With new hardware and growing that number will be 6 billion or 75% global population). This number is set content, VR and AR are expected to of the world’s population, according to multiply, with populous countries continue to grow. Cisco VNI predicts to IDC. By 2025, each connected such as India deeply investing in that traffic associated with VR and AR person will have at least one data connecting the rural unconnected. applications will grow 12-fold over the interaction every 18 seconds. Many next five years. of these interactions will be driven by the billions of Internet of Things (IoT) devices, which are expected to create over 90 ZB of data by 2025. A Day in the Life of Data Data explosion leading to unprecedented The exponential growth of data is network creation by new customer segments undisputed. But when the numbers are Exponential growth in data is resulting in massive looked at in the context of a day, they network creation by a multitude of service providers: are hard to believe. Traditional telcos; newer players such as cloud Today in a day companies; large enterprises such as the Defence, Railways; and citizen networks. 500 million tweets are sent 294 billion Data Network Creators emails are sent 4 PB of data is created on Facebook Cloud 4 TB Telecom Companies of data is created from each Operators & OTTs connected car 65 billion messages are sent on WhatsApp 5 billion searches are made Source: Visual Capitalist Large Citizen Enterprises Networks Annual Report 2018-19 23 Management Discussion and Analysis contd. FTTx Networks Operators are accelerating their efforts to bring fibre close to the end user to Telecom Operators Large Enterprises deliver gigabit speeds. A massive growth in subscribers Significant network building and • Orange aims for 20 million FTTH and connected devices has led modernisation is being undertaken by households in high-and mediumto operators both upgrading their defence forces, globally. density areas of France by 2021 existing networks, as well as creating • Telefónica has set a record by • In India, the Navy, Army, Air Force infrastructure for ultra-low latency and passing 20 million homes with FTTH and Border Security Forces are high throughput for 5G, Fibre to the X (70% of all households in Spain) building secure digital networks. (FTTx) and other applications. Telecom • Reliance Jio has plans to roll out Last year, the Government of operators are also rapidly shifting a broadband service optical fibre India nearly doubled its budget towards becoming digital service network to 50 million homes across to ` 24,664 crores (~$3.5 billion) providers through integrated revenue 1,100 Indian cities for the Network for Spectrum platforms, network analytics, IoT project, which entails rolling out an and virtualisation. These shifts need advanced communications network partners such as Sterlite Technologies for defence services Limited (STL) for data network • The US Army plans to spend creation. Cloud Companies $3 billion on network 5G Networks Cloud companies such as Facebook, modernisation, which includes Other than having a whopping Google and Amazon are investing army command, control and 100x the bandwidth of 4G, 5G will heavily in network creation in the form communications networks also have extremely low latency (1 of hyper-scale data centres and subms – 50x lower than 4G), enabling sea cable networks. mission critical applications such as • Amazon Web Services (AWS) VR healthcare. They will also be able opened data centres in Sweden in to handle enormous scale (up to 100x 2018, its first in the Nordics Citizen Networks the human population), giving rise to • Google is building its own sub-sea Globally, governments are investing sensor networks such as precision cable from the US to France (the in rural broadband and smart cities to agriculture (Goldman Sachs). first private transatlantic cable built enable high-speed connectivity to all. by a non-telecom company) These require substantial investment While full 5G mobile services are not • Facebook has data centres in the in data networks. expected until 2020, pre-standard 5G US, Sweden and Ireland, and a commercial deployments have • The American Broadband Initiative Danish hub is scheduled to open in already begun. aims to bring faster, reliable internet 2020, followed by one in Singapore • Verizon launched the world’s access to tens of millions of US in 2022 first commercial 5G smartphone residents who don’t yet have it service in areas of Chicago and Hyper-scale data centres will grow • In the UK, rural businesses and Minneapolis from 338 at the end of 2016 to 628 by communities are set to benefit from • SK Telecom, KT and LG Uplus—top 2021, representing 53% of all installed improved broadband access as South Korean telecos launched data-centre servers and 55% of total part of a £45 million boost by the national 5G networks traffic within all data centres, according government. The new funding for • Vodafone Qatar launched a 5G to Cisco. the Rural Broadband Infrastructure home internet service, Scheme adds to the £30 million Vodafone GigaHome investment announced in 2017, increasing the funding to £75 million DATA-NETWORKS INDUSTRY – STILL IN INFANCY IT TOOK ~140 YEARS FOR 90% OF THE GLOBAL POPULATION TO GAIN ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY AND THE DEMAND FOR ELECTRICITY IS FURTHER EXPECTED TO INCREASE 57% BY 2050. IN COMPARISON, THE DATA-NETWORKS INDUSTRY IS ONLY 40 YEARS OLD. WITH THE EMERGENCE OF DATA-HUNGRY APPLICATIONS, THE GROWTH IS EXPECTED TO CONTINUE FOR SEVERAL YEARS IN FUTURE. 24 Sterlite Technologies Limited CORPORATE OVERVIEW The hyper-scale networks of future will be different from legacy ones The networks needed to support these burgeoning data requirements will be Characteristics of hyperscale new age networks fundamentally different from legacy networks. The hyper-scale networks of tomorrow will be denser, deeply Vendor Compute and fiberised and software-defined with Denser Deep neutral and storage at the computing at the edge. Networks Fiberisation disaggregated edge Multiplied Fibre-intensive Programmable Data centres at access-layer networks to and intelligent the edge end points support latency networks and capacity These hyper-scale networks are fundamentally different from current networks Network Densification Network Fiberisation 5G networks will generate an As demand for 4G and then 5G grows, Trends confirm a link between unprecedented amount of data. To networks will become denser and technology evolution and fibre serve this with ultra-low latency, deeper, making fiberisation imperative. consumption. A study by EY operators will need to add more The fact that 5G networks will have and CII suggests that during the capacity to their networks; and this to support data from emerging transition from 3G to 4G the capital capacity will be closer to the users. applications like video on demand, expenditure for top 20 telcos Network densification with more IoT and smart cities makes backhaul a grew 1.6x and the fibre cable access points, such as more cell concern. With 5G, microwave-based consumption grew 3x. sites and small cells, will be key to backhaul will become less relevant successful 5G implementation. For and there will be need for more fibre. each 1 km coverage of 4G with a single tower, 5G networks will require up to 25x cell sites. Today’s 4G network Top 20 Global Telco Cumulative Capex Global OFC Consumption ($ Bn) (Mn fkm) 1 km 1.6X 3.0X 1,342 2,345 1.4X 1.9X Future 5G network 20-25X cell sites 822 602 426 790 2G 3G 4G 2G 3G 4G CY 1999CY 2005CY 2011CY 1999CY 2005CY 20112004 2010 2017 2004 2010 2017 100-200m Annual Report 2018-19 25 Management Discussion and Analysis contd. Fibre consumption is also highly correlated with data growth. As global IP traffic Software-defined Networks reaches 4.8 ZB per year by 2022 (Source: Cisco VNI), fibre consumption is (SDN) expected to reach 3x its levels. The new network architecture will embrace a software-centric approach, and these networks will promote more Fibre consumption is highly correlated with data growth virtualisation and versatility. They Global fibre consumpiton (Mn fkm ) will support an unprecedented level Global IP traffic (Exabyte per year) of vendor neutrality, allowing telcos Regression Statistics to combine superior functions from On throttled/legacy tech networks: 1,400 Multiple R=0.99 multiple vendors. SDN marks the end Data growth CAGR ~40% R square = 0.98 of hardware reign in the networking 1,200 industry. It holds the key to future 5G 1,000 networks, as it reduces the complexity of static networks, automates network 800 functions and reduces the total cost of 600 ownership for networks by eliminating hardware proprietorship, allowing 400 multiple vendors. 200 Edge Computing 0 With IoT becoming our new reality, end CY05 CY06 CY07 CY08 CY09 CY10 CY11 CY12 CY13 CY14 CY15 CY16 CY17 users of data will shift from users to machines. Millions of IoT-connected devices will require real-time processing of data closer to where the data is generated – at the edge. Selfdriving cars and drones will evolve into mini data centres, and will source real-time information such as traffic updates and weather conditions at mission-critical low latency. Softwaredefined functions will occur in virtualised environments at or near the edge of networks. With 5G Edge, nextgen data centres will not be central hyper-scale data centres, but small units at the base of the antennas. 26 Sterlite Technologies Limited CORPORATE OVERVIEW STL is uniquely placed to leverage this massive opportunity: The future is exciting! STL is uniquely placed to address this massive opportunity presented by new customer segments and their needs for hyper-scale networks. It has full capability to address the end-to-end needs of networks across the physical, network and software layers. Physical Layer Network Layer Software Layer • This layer is the backbone of data The layer determines the quality of This layer brings agility into the networks and brings scale through the network through overall design network through software solutions. physical connectivity and wireless architecture. Our expertise here is: Our solutions include: access. Some solutions that STL • Algorithmic Network Design: • Network Virtualisation and has in this area include: Creating optimal networks, suited Orchestration: With centralised • Bend Insensitive Optical Fibre: to the most granular requirements control plane, virtualised network Designed to reduce bend losses of providers. Our flattened network functions and small hardware by up to 12x, these add 10-12 years architecture takes access to the footprint, the access network to network lifetime. They deliver edge and delivers near zero latency delivers superior control, high better performance at higher agility and cost effectiveness • Innovative Approach to Hyperwavelengths and cater to dense scale Deployment: Delivering fast, • Intelligent Software Solutions: deployment in the same power cost-optimised and high-quality Leveraging the power of analytics budget fibre rollouts and big data to unearth powerful • Ultra-high Fibre Count and consumer insights, these solutions Micro-module Cables: Enable can change the way companies easy identification, stripping and do business cleaving to deliver cable solutions for hyper-scale networks, with 30% faster installation and 5x more storage • TruRibbon® for Data Centres: Built for high-capacity networks, this solution enables optimisation for first-time splicing, bringing tremendous time and cost savings, while enabling massive connectivity • Compact Kits: Plug-and-play solutions that can reach highrises and standalone houses, with amazing speed and simple on-field deployment Annual Report 2018-19 27 Management Discussion and Analysis contd. End-to-end Data-network Solutions With expertise over all the layers of the network, we are now providing end-to-end data network solutions to our growing customer base. We bring together best-in-class connectivity solutions, and design and build the network for next-gen OSS/BSS and open-sourced virtualised access. This end-to-end data network solutions capability makes us unique in the world. Some solutions that we offer are in the areas of mobility, last-mile access, long-haul connectivity, network modernisation and data centres. Mobility Access Core Network Data Centre Connectivity Modernisation Mobile backhaul FTTx Data centre Rural connectivity Enterprise connectivity Private networks Fixed wireless communication Long distance network connectivity Network TELCOS TELCOS connectivity CLOUD AND Enterprise IoT CONTENT CITIZEN NETWORKS, PROVIDERS TELCOS LARGE ENTERPRISES 28 Sterlite Technologies Limited CORPORATE OVERVIEW By expanding our offerings to solutions and engaging with customers in a more consultative manner, our addressable market is expected to reach $75 billion by FY23! Journey towards expanding addressable market $20 Bn $75 Bn FY17 FY23 Innovate Scale Integrate Expand With new value-added To new customer Across our silicon to In to new portfolios and portfolio of next-gen segments and software capability, to offer applications solution offerings geographies integrated solutions Partnering with Customers • Partnering to disrupt Indian telecom: As a partner to a • Bringing digital supremacy to Indian defence Tier-1 telco that is making India one of the largest digital forces: Through network augmentation and markets in the world, STL is helping build its network, modernisation, and physical security through including connectivity solutions, fibre deployment and fibre-sensing solutions network software • For the Indian Army, STL has created the • Helping a Tier-1 European telco create ‘one network’: world’s largest intrusion-proof smarter network With the convergence of fibre, 5G and Wi-Fi, STL has infrastructure in Jammu & Kashmir, covering been designing innovative products for its application ~10,000 kms through the Network for needs for over 10 years, and currently serves ~50% of Spectrum project their fibre cable requirements • STL is helping the Indian Navy with the creation of an independent high-capacity end-to-end • Enabling France to achieve 100% high-speed communications network, linking multiple Indian broadband coverage: STL is providing network naval sites and India-administered islands. solutions to enable fast installation and significant cost It is also setting-up highly secured data centres reduction to solve for: and Big Data content delivery networks that are • High duct rental cost: 20% slimmer cable to reduce software-defined. This network will give the Indian duct rental cost Navy digital defence supremacy at par with the • Increased loss when transitioning to future best naval forces in the world applications: Products with lower attenuation at • Partnering with two of the world’s largest Cloud higher wavelengths companies: STL is enabling high-capacity data• Increased signal loss due to fibre bends: Bend centre connectivity for two global giants. It partnered insensitive fibre with them to innovate on a TruRibbon® and • High installation and labour cost: First-time right structured cabling solution for data centres installation and deskilling of field termination Annual Report 2018-19 29 Key pillars driving growth Technology, Customer Experience, Transformation, Talent Our key pillars that drive growth and ensure world-class execution excellence. Technology Innovation Technology is at the heart of everything we do. Our commitment to the future can be seen in our Centre for Excellence where, in collaboration with the Indian Institutes of Technology and global research institutions, some of the best scientific minds innovate on the networks of tomorrow. Our Centre for Smarter Networks is an experience lab that focusses on innovation on broadband networks. Our growing patent portfolio now stands at 271, which includes product and process patents. A J Ayush Sharma Jitendra Balakrishnan R P Rajesh Gangadhar Phill Coppin Programmable Networking Connectivity Solutions Wireless Broadband Application Engineering & Intelligence Converged Platforms Literally a rocket scientist, A long timer at STL, Phill is a Ayush leads open, Jitendra is a Doctorate in Rajesh drives disruptive wireless renowned optical fibre expert, programmable network Mechanical and Aerospace technologies for last-mile and leads new product solutions at STL. A founding Engineering from Cornell connectivity at STL. An M.S. development, quality and member of open SDN, he is a University. At STL, he drives from Villanova University, process improvement. He Master’s in Data R&D for connectivity solutions, Pennsylvania, Rajesh has has also worked at British Communications from Brunel and his previous experience worked at Sprint, Nextel, Cable Telecom and Corning. University, London. He has also includes several years in R&D at Labs and Clearwire. worked at Reliance Jio, Huawei Corning. and Ericsson. Digital Transformation and Global Supply Chain With customers spanning 100 countries, manufacturing facilities in three continents, and a diverse data-network solutions set, we have a complex demand-supply chain. Last year, we acquired Metallurgica Bresciana, an optical fibre cable manufacturer in Italy for access to new customers and product portfolios in Europe. Our industry 4.0 glass plant is almost ready, and our planned capacity expansions of 50 million fkm for fibre and 33 million fkm for fibre cable are on track. To orchestrate this global network, STL has invested in digital transformation for predictive modelling, deep planning and decision-making. PPankaj Priyadarshi V Venkatesh Murthy A A Aldo Santus Ambica Rajagopal Optical Fibre Operations Optical Fibre Cable Connectivity Solutions Data Science Operations Pankaj leads STL’s optical fibre Founder of Metallurgic A PhD from Purdue University operations across India and Venkatesh has been associated Bresciana, Aldo joined the STL and a Master’s in Math from China. In his career across with STL for several years, and family with the former’s BITS, Pilani, Ambica heads automotive and telecom now leads the Company’s integration in FY19. He is a data science and predictive industries, he has worked at optical fibre cable operations mechanical engineer from the analytics at STL. She has led Bharti Infratel and Eicher. He is across India, Italy and Brazil. University of Milan. data science at Cummins, an alumnus of BITS Pilani and KPMG, RMS and Fidelity INSEAD, Singapore. Investments. 30 Deep Customer Engagement Our relationships with our customers are deep-rooted as we partner with them to develop solutions for enhanced user experience. Our operating model, with significant focus on key accounts, ensures we cater to the evolving needs of some of our largest and oldest customers. While our revenues have consistently grown at a CAGR of ~30%, our key accounts contributed more than 50% to our top line in FY19. R Richard Eichhorn Global Business Development R Rahul Puri India Business Development T Thomas Yang China Business Development S Swati Rangachari Corporate Affairs Richard leads the Company’s Rahul recently joined STL from Thomas is among the oldest Swati is an active contributor to presence in EMEA, Americas Apple. Here he heads sales for members of STL, and is India’s telecom policy shaping and SE Asia. With vast India for the connectivity responsible for the Company’s initiatives, and leads government experience in sales and solutions business. He has connectivity solutions business relations for STL. She has worked marketing, he has worked at spent his 20 year career in in China. He holds a Bachelor’s at Boeing, Ericsson and VISA, and Reichle & De-Massari, Nexans technology and telecom, and Degree in Science from is an alumna of Fore School of Cabling, Anixter, Alcatel has worked at Samsung, LG and Shanghai Jiaotong University. Management, ICHEC Brussels Connect and Wesco. Airtel. and Boston University. S Saurabh Kumar G N J Girish Gupta Nikhil Jain Juhi Hajela Key Accounts, Large Key Accounts, Private Key Accounts, Network Corporate Communications Enterprises & Citizen Networks Networks Software With experience across digital, Saurabh leads STL’s Girish has been with STL for A founding member of STL’s marketing and customer growth public-sector business, including almost 20 years, and has been software business, Nikhil has at Google, McKinsey & Co. and large enterprises such as associated with multiple built the Company’s software MakeMyTrip, at STL Juhi leads Defence and citizen networks. functions. He now leads the products and operations media strategy and content. She An industry veteran, Saurabh India private networks business, grounds up. He is a posthas studied at the University of has also worked at HFCL and and is the face of the Company graduate in Computer Oxford and the London School Tejas Networks. for Tier-1 telcos. Applications from LD College of of Economics. Engineering, Ahmedabad. Best-in-class Talent B and Culture Our world-class talent and culture underpin our success. At STL, we invest in building a culture that attracts the best talent in the world. Our core values of hunger to learn, promises delivered, keep it simple, and respect and empathise help Balram Sharma us create a vibrant and equal workplace. Supply Chain During last year, several global industry leaders joined our team, bringing with Balram heads partnerships and them capabilities across software-defined supply chain for the network services business. An alumnus networks, converged networks, of Indian Institute of connectivity solutions, data science, Management, Kozhikode, he OSS/BSS and several other brings expertise from functional expertise. organisations such as Bharti Infratel and Larsen & Toubro. 31 Risk Management Robust strategies for safer business 32 Sterlite Technologies Limited CORPORATE OVERVIEW At Sterlite Technologies Limited (STL), enterprise risk management (ERM) is a critical function that helps the Company to protect and enhance value for its customers, investors, employees, partners and other stakeholders. STL proactively identifies and monitors its principle risks through an ERM process. The procedure seeks to minimise surprises and improve decision-making for STL to achieve its strategic, financial, compliance and operational objectives and actively work to reduce the impact and likelihood of identified risks. Risk-management Organisation Structure STL has a multi-layered risk-management framework aimed at effectively mitigating various risks to which the Company’s businesses are exposed. The ERM policy defines the key roles and responsibilities of various divisions below: Board of Directors Chief Risk Officer Ensuring that the risk-management Developing and ensuring framework is contributing to achieving implementation of the ERM policy business objectives, safeguarding assets and enhancing shareholder Risk Champions value Considering the identified risks in all decision-making activities and Risk Management Committee adhering to mitigation plans developed Overseeing risks and their for each risk management; and reporting to the Board on the status of the riskmanagement initiatives and their effectiveness ERM Governance Framework Risk Management Activities Governance Framework Connectivity Solutions Risk Risk identification assessment BOD Network Services Risk Network Software Committee Chief Risk Officer Strategic Risk Risk Champions monitoring Risk Operational and mitigation reporting Financial Functional Unit Compliance Annual Report 2018-19 33 Risk Management contd. ERM Risk Management Activities Risk management encompasses initiatives regarding risk identification, risk assessment, risk mitigation, and risk monitoring and reporting. Risk Identification This involves identifying those events, occurring internally or externally that could affect strategy and achievement of objectives. Events identified are further categorised into: Strategic Risks Operations Risks Geo-Political and Economic, Technology, Supply Chain, Market, Competition and Capacity, Service & Product Pricing, Disruption Delivery, HR, Cyber Security Risks Financial Risks Compliance Risks Currency Fluctuation, Code of Business Conduct, Internal Control, Bribery & Corruption, Financial Reporting, Credit Environment, Tax & Liquidity, (GST, Income Tax) Interest Rate 34 Sterlite Technologies Limited CORPORATE OVERVIEW Strategic Risks Strategic risks are those which threaten the Company’s ability to achieve its strategic objective. Strategic risks are analysed and mitigated through actions on markets and customer offerings, investment in R&D and product innovation. STL periodically assesses strategic risks to successfully execute its growth blueprint and impact on financial performance, effectiveness of organisational structure and processes, retention and development of high-performing talent and leadership. Geo-political and Economic Risks Market, Competition and Pricing Risks Disruption Risks STL operates in a global environment The market is extremely competitive In an evolving business landscape, and can be affected by the general therefore pricing is a key factor in a new technically improved product economic atmosphere, political customers’ choice of supplier. could jeopardise the Company’s uncertainties, local business risks, as The Company continues to focus prospects. To reduce the impact well as laws, rules and regulations in on increasing its market share of these risks and pursue new individual countries, thereby influencing through access to new markets, opportunities, the Company continues demand for its offerings. The Company new product development, capacity to invest in new technologies. STL has closely monitors the development on expansion and enhancing its client 271 global patents, which has increased world events and undertakes proactive footprint. The Company closely three times in the last four years. With actions to minimise any potential monitors technological advances and its unique silicon-to-software capability, negative impact. competitive market changes to adapt the Company designed and launched the Company’s strategies to be able to several network solutions during the benefit from these opportunities and year. Some notable offerings include safeguard against potential threats. FTTx Mantra (fully integrated, readyThe Company continues to position to-implement FTTx solution) and itself with customers as a ‘Partner of TruRibbon® (high-density optical fibre Choice’ to design, build and manage cable for high-capacity networks). smarter networks. STL strives to introduce future-proof products and solutions to exceed stringent global standards and specifications. Operations Risks Operations risks negatively impact the Company’s operations and are related to people, policies, procedures and IT systems that impact the product and service delivery to customers. STL aims to transform its business through processes, platforms and analytics. The Company has a robust mechanism in place to review its operations, including business processes and procedures to minimise the risk relating to product and service delivery to customers. Commodity Risks Human Resource Risks The Company is exposed to the risk STL’s ability to deliver value is for future. In addition, it continuously of price fluctuation on raw materials shaped by its capability to attract, benchmarks HR policies and practices and energy resources. As an industry train, engage, motivate, empower with the best in the industry and carries leader, it has strong policies and and retain the best professional out necessary improvements to attract systems in place that diminish the raw talent. These competencies must be and retain the finest talent. material price risk to a large extent. developed across the Company’s The Company is vertically integrated rapidly expanding operations. STL globally, and any movement in a single has undertaken significant steps in raw material does not impact its cost building capabilities and talent pipeline structure significantly. Annual Report 2018-19 35 Risk Management contd. Financial Risks Financial risks include exposure to various concerns such as currency fluctuation, interest rate, credit and liquidity, tax and ability to manage financial cost and optimise returns on investment. Besides, there is also a risk of errors in the Company’s financial reporting when accounting principles are not correctly applied, resulting in misrepresentation of its financial position. Liquidity Risks interest rate risk. This also helps to proven policy to manage both kinds have a lower blended interest rate. The of risk, and this is reviewed frequently STL requires funds both for short-term interest rate for Rupee borrowing is in the light of major developments in operational needs as well as for longlargely linked to MIBOR and the rate is economic and global scenarios. term investment programmes, primarily linked to prevailing US Dollar LIBOR for in growth projects. It aims to minimise Counterparty Risks foreign currency borrowings. these risks by generating sufficient The Company is exposed to cash flows from its current operations, Foreign Currency Risks counterparty risks on its receivables which—in addition to the available STL’s policy is to hedge all longand investments. It has clearly defined cash and cash equivalents, liquid term foreign-exchange risks, as well policies to mitigate these risks. Limits investments and sufficient committed as short-term exposures within the are defined for exposure to individual fund facilities—will provide liquidity defined parameters. The long-term customers and the exposure is strictly both in the short term and long term. foreign-exchange liability is fully monitored on an ongoing basis. The Company works with a healthy mix hedged, and hedges are on held-toMoreover, given the diverse nature of of long-term and short-term debt. maturity basis. Within foreign currency, its businesses, trade receivables are there are two major risk categories: spread over several customers with no Interest Risks Risk associated with the operations of significant concentration of the credit The Company is exposed to interest the Company, such as purchase or sale risk. Cash and liquid investments are rate fluctuations in both domestic in foreign currency; and risk associated held primarily in debt mutual funds and and foreign-currency borrowings. It with the borrowings of the Company banks with high credit ratings, issued uses a judicious mix of Rupee and denominated in the foreign currency. by CRISIL and ICRA. Emphasis is given foreign currency borrowing within the The Company has a defined and to the security of investments. stipulated parameters to mitigate the Compliance Risks Compliance risks result from violations or non-compliance with laws and regulations, Code of Business Conduct and contractual compliance having material impact on the Company’s financial, organisational and reputational standings. STL has strong compliance management framework. Risks related to various compliances are identified, assigned to owners and monitored on periodic basis. Further, a strong whistleblower mechanism has been in place for reporting of non-compliances (the whistleblower policy is available on the Company’s website). In addition, external independent internal audit reviews the compliance management framework, including its operating effectiveness and submits its findings to the Audit Committee. 36 Sterlite Technologies Limited CORPORATE OVERVIEW Risk Assessment Risk assessment includes evaluating risks on the likelihood of occurrence and their potential impact. Risks are assessed at inherent (gross risk without Strategic, Process controls, IT Policies and considering controls) and residual Operations, generalcontrols, MIS Procedure, Financial & reviews SOPs, basis (for example, Net Risk). Residual Compliance IT Tools risks are considered for response and risks monitoring. Code of CONTROL Internal Control Business, ACTIVITIES INF OR Conduct, Defined CO STL’s system for internal control SK ENT MM MA role of BoD and RI UN TIO MM IC N and risk management is based on management SS AT SE & Leadership an integrated framework issued by AS IO N review, COSO, which outlines the components, Internal CON G ORIN principles, and factors necessary for TRO audits NIT ENVIR L MO an organisation to effectively manage ON Internal ME its risks through the implementation of NT internal control framework. Control In addition, the Company has also Regular internal audits and checks Risk Monitoring and implemented The Three Lines of ensure that responsibilities are Defence model, which defines duties executed effectively. The Audit Reporting and responsibilities in addressing risks. Committee of the Board of Directors The Risk Committee reviews the (BoD) periodically reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk adequacy and effectiveness of mitigation plans and reports it to the internal control systems and suggests Board. The Committee also monitors 1ST LINE Management Controls improvement for strengthening these. and reports factors affecting identified Internal Control Measures risks, such as changes in external OF DEFENCE Risk Mitigation environment, business processes and operating model and future trends. This process identifies and evaluates These reviews are aimed at continual possible risk mitigation plan or risk improvements in the organisation’s risk responses against identified risks, Financial Control management culture. which includes appraising options Security OF DEFENCE in relations to risk appetite (avoid, 2ND LINE Risk Management accept, mitigate or transfer the risks) Quality and cost versus benefit of potential Inspection risk mitigation plans and degrees to Compliance which mitigation plan will reduce impact and/or likelihood. In this procedure, mitigation plans are finalised and owners are identified and assigned the 3RD LINE OF tasks to implement the plans. Internal Audit DEFENCE Annual Report 2018-19 37 Responsible Corporate Citizenship Creating value for communities and the environment At STL, we are committed to conducting our business responsibly and sustainably, through engagement and dialogue with all key stakeholders. 38 Sterlite Technologies Limited CORPORATE OVERVIEW Sterlite Technologies Limited (STL) believes that Using this approach, STL delivers ‘shared value’ for a business to truly be successful, it needs by optimising its core competencies to address to establish a robust foundation of corporate operational challenges in the environmental, citizenship where every interaction is guided social, and governance (ESG) aspects of the by strong moral and ethical standards. There business. This allows us to create both business also needs to be a balance between the and social value in countless ways, from requirements of shareholders, the community establishing innovative community involvement and the environment surrounding the business’ partnerships to engaging with stakeholders and operations. A robust social and environmental assess ESG impacts and opportunities. performance is no longer simply a ‘nice to have’ element, but a business imperative. Carbon Water Zero neutrality positivity waste Better planet Women Better empowerment workplace Helping Better education collaboration Better Better communities business Access to Better supply healthcare chain Transforming Everyday Living through Value Creation From a fiscal viewpoint, value is in, but also deliver enormous benefits created for stakeholders when the to stakeholders across the value chain revenue a business earns surpasses as well as the business. its expenditure. However, at STL, we Sustainability and corporate social place emphasis on much more than responsibility are thus at the forefront simply fiscal value creation. We aim of how we drive our purpose of to ‘create shared value’ for all our Transforming Everyday Living by stakeholders by continually ensuring Delivering Smarter Networks. In responsible corporate citizenship. FY19, it has not only enabled us to We ensure all our operations deliver on the triple bottom line and are consistently driven through contribute to building a connected unrelenting focus on technology, nation, but also map our transition into innovation and sustainability. an organisation with minimal impact on The combination of these not only help the environment. develop the communities we operate Annual Report 2018-19 39 Responsible Corporate Citizenship contd. Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Assessment Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engaging with our esteemed Mode of Engagement Topics of Engagement Groups stakeholders meaningfully and forging long-lasting relationships has been Employees Townhalls, all hands Professional growth, skill and continues to be integral to the way meeting, leadership shop development, increasing we conduct our business. Proactive floor visits, performance diversity, competency engagement helps us anticipate management systems, enhancement potential risks and opportunities. one-to-one interactions, These can significantly impact the trainings, induction business and affect our ability to workshops achieve strategic goals. Communities Community visits, social Development projects We aspire to create long-term value needs and impact according to the identified for our stakeholders and recognise assessment, philanthropic needs, support to social that regularly engaging with them engagement, employee causes is essential to achieve sustainable volunteering activities success. Through our robust stakeholder identification, prioritisation Shareholders Annual general meeting, Economic value creation, and engagement approach we are performance calls, disclosure on Environment, able to understand their needs and interaction with investors Social and Governance expectations, and subsequently (ESG) performance address them through our business strategies. Customers Plant visits, customer New product development, satisfaction survey, key research and innovation, account management, delivery compliance, conferences and events customer satisfaction Suppliers Supplier meets, supplier Supplier satisfaction, plant visits, relationship material compliance, joint management development, mutual value creation 40 Sterlite Technologies Limited CORPORATE OVERVIEW Materiality Assessment Sustainability topics identified In FY19, we conducted a through our exhaustive stakeholder comprehensive and detailed exercise engagement process are classified with business leadership to understand and prioritised through a rigorous the impact and significance of each framework. This helps us decide sustainability topic on our business which topics are material, i.e., critical activities. Further, through regular to the business and at the same time engagement with stakeholders, we important to our stakeholders. prioritised topics that were most important for the organisation. These act as vital elements in shaping our strategy and long-term We have established a sustainability vision. They are derived from ESG roadmap complete with targets and frameworks such the Global Reporting performance indicators to monitor our Initiative (GRI), global initiatives such progress towards addressing these United Nations Global Compact identified material topics. and United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Materiality Matrix Extremely • Research • Economic value optimisation creation High • Energy conservation • Research and • Waste diversion from development landfill and recycling • Water management • Community • Occupational health development and and safety CSR • Employee satisfaction • Training and Stakeholder Concern professional development • Upholding human rights and ethical behavior • Customer satisfaction High High Business Priority Extremely High Annual Report 2018-19 41 Responsible Corporate Citizenship contd. Focus on Environment Excellence Being a responsible corporate citizen with responsible sourcing. We thus packaging material that will have is about taking complete responsibility ensure all our suppliers are complaint minimal influence on the environment for operations across our entire value to stringent human rights practices, is important. Concurrently, ensuring chain right from sourcing to designing, source the raw material sustainably transportation of by-products and manufacturing, transportation to our and conduct their operations in an waste from the manufacturing customers and ultimately the user. eco-friendly manner. location in a way that does not affect What we take in the form of natural the environment is equally crucial. The next step is ensuring we design resources, our raw materials; how We thus use technology—our core products that are best-in-class and and what we make in terms of the expertise—to ensure our products highly durable while utilising minimum quality and durability of our products; and by-products both safely reach our resources. While manufacturing these and what we waste, are in fact all a customers and recycler, respectively. products, we utilise natural resources, question of ethics. Thus, as a global which increases our environmental Lastly, we strive to ensure that the business, it is vital that we not only footprint. We have hence invested waste we generate through our ensure sustainable and responsible in conducting our operations in an manufacturing processes does not go sourcing and manufacturing, but also environmentally sound manner and to landfill. We have hence worked on work towards mitigating global issues have proactively adopted technologies ensuring and identifying partnerships and conserving the environment we that reduce our impact on nature. with industries where they can be operate in. reused, thereby increasing their Once products are manufactured, The journey towards being a lifecycle and diverting them away from transporting them safely and using responsible corporate citizen begins landfill. The following sustainability-related data covers our optical fibre operations in Aurangabad and cable manufacturing units in Silvassa. The reporting boundary does not include operations outside India as well as non-manufacturing facilities such as offices in India. To summarise, our sustainability mission is to be a responsible leader in ensuring India’s connected future benefits for Our Communities Our Environment Our People Our Conduct By delivering life-changing By developing system-wise By ensuring that they are By creating sustainable services and technologies, approaches that will reduce healthy, safe, engaged and practices, policies and thereby enabling a brighter our environmental footprint inspired to drive inclusive, business models that will future with economic returns in the equitable growth support the growth of our long run business and communities Creating Shared Value Sustainable sourcing Connected, transparent and Proactively understanding Integrating business traceable supply chains and addressing risks, going with environment beyond compliance Drivers for business Growth of CSR and Delivering business for the Propelling local cluster change sustainability reporting benefit of all development We are determined to set a benchmark for what it means to be a responsible corporate citizen in India. FY19 was the year, we achieved several milestones in this regard. 42 Sterlite Technologies Limited CORPORATE OVERVIEW The UN Global Compact The trust of our stakeholders has During FY19, we became a signatory While our operations have always always been a priority for us. to the UN Global Compact (UNGC), the been aligned to the UN Sustainable world’s largest corporate sustainability Development Goals (SDGs), during Transparency, regulatory compliance initiative. This alliance solidified our FY18 we formally mapped our activities and a robust code of conduct and pledge towards responsible business with the UN SDGs. In ethics policy guide our processes, practices in the areas of human FY20, we will begin communicating operations and culture. We have rights, anti-corruption, fair labour our progress on each of the 10 always endeavored to positively and conserving the environment. It principles of the UNGC. contribute towards the protection reinforced our commitment to ethics, and fulfilment of human and labour diversity, non-discrimination and rights whether through our core transparency in operations. business, strategic social investments or collective action. The safety and wellbeing of our people and the communities surrounding our operations is paramount. Sustainability across the Supply Chain Sustainability is not just about responsible Developing Smarter Networks manufacturing operations. The way Owing to the nature of our products, raw materials and finished products are regulations and specific customer 34% managed, used and transported, all play needs, our choice of suppliers includes a vital role in determining the extent to a mix of national and international which sustainability is embedded into dealers. However, realising the risk an organisation’s processes and values. to maintaining such a mix, we have, Our partners also play a critical role in our over the last few years, intensified our We have continued to commitment to operate responsibly. commitment to develop and partner localise sourcing thus being with promising suppliers around our able to procure 34% of raw Chemical Management manufacturing facilities for continued materials and packaging At STL, we critically evaluate each improvement. Through our capacity requirements by value from of our suppliers to ensure they building programmes, we have India operate sustainably even outside our engaged and developed local partners manufacturing facilities. This involves to produce and supply superior quality adherence to robust procurement policies, Fibre Reinforced Plastic (FRP) and wood which guarantees full compliance from our Hence, as a part of our drums. Simultaneously at Aurangabad, suppliers on set regulations. Checks such commitment to responsible we share inputs on enhancement in as lab test reports and declarations among corporate citizenship, we procure quality, competence augmentation others form part of the procurement all non-critical materials such as and other factors through partner audit process. These stringent mechanisms packaging, machine spares and programmes. have enabled us to meet with rigorous job work, among others from local international requirements such as the We have developed a vendor vendors. We collaborate with these Restriction of Hazardous Substances selection process, which prioritises vendors to improve their skills and (RoHS) and Registration, Evaluation, environmental and societal aspects ensure that they meet the quality Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals and regularly monitors each of our requirements. (REACH) regulations for our products. This suppliers. This ensures that each of This collaboration allows us to is despite our products requiring the use our partners operate according to share the financial value created of several chemicals such as resins, inks, the UNGC Network principles, which with our partners as well as coatings and jelly, along with polymers we abide by. We have been working contributes to the economic such as polyethylene, nylon and polyester, with them to develop similar quality development of the region. among others. materials, thus creating alternative sourcing, as well as reducing the procurement distance. Annual Report 2018-19 43 Responsible Corporate Citizenship contd. Quality products that are good for the customer and the environment STL is a customer-focussed approaches, we have incorporated emissions as well as avert or reduce organisation. Our objective is to lifecycle thinking into our products impact on people; thus creating further provide high-quality products and right at the development phase. value for our customers. services that do not just meet but This has substantially improved Quality products coupled with exceed our clients’ expectations as the sustainability credentials of the knowledge on how to use and well as the experience of the end products we manufacture, such as maintain them enhances their user. This is our way of showing them reducing our carbon footprint, among durability. Increased durability is part we are committed to our purpose others. It has also simplified enabling of our commitment to the greater of ‘Transforming Everyday Living by a sustainable and connected future good. It means we use less and waste Delivering Smarter Networks’. globally. This is also driven through less through reduced replacement and a robust Quality, Environment Health However, while doing so, equal repairs. We have hence integrated our and Safety (QEHS) policy. The importance is given to reducing the offerings with certified trainings by policy aims at enhancing customer environmental impact the product will experts on how not just our products, satisfaction through proactive have at every stage, right from raw but the entire lines we lay should be engagement to understand their material extraction, to manufacturing, used and maintained to lower the wear changing requirements. It also use and its eventual end-of-life. By and tear or prevent downtime. This details our assurance to persistently substituting the materials we use for improves our customers’ efficiency advance quality parameters, recycle our products, using innovative designs and effectiveness and the end users and decrease waste, discharge and and light weighting among other experience when using their products. MobiLite & MultiLite Work Safe Lightweight Overhead Micro Bullet Series – up to 288F A future-proof, green and unique Cable Re-engineered buffer tube material for one-step solution for underground This fibre drop cable meets the optimum cable packing efficiency. deployment for fibre backhaul, breaking load requirement of 2X network building and FTTx 1350-1800 N in the interests of safety for overhead applications Additionally, we have a team devoted to ensure manufacturing excellence. Together with the procurement management team they work to identify suppliers of cables which are more resistant to breakage. This not only results in significant process Olympus Lite Cable Indicium Lite Cable waste reduction, better finished Withstands extremely high This solution helps in efficient products and customer satisfaction, temperatures and fire conditions. deployment with zero fibre cuts. but also helps conserve resources and reduce emissions. 44 Sterlite Technologies Limited CORPORATE OVERVIEW Zero Water Discharge The optic fibre and cables Water usage by source Our approach to decrease our manufacturing processes are not (kilo litre) freshwater intake water intensive. Water is primarily used 412,812 387,444 for industrial cooling, in boilers and for domestic use. However, we still 354,516 attempt to keep our consumption of 344,156 Reuse Recycle this precious resource at a minimum considering the scarcity across the country. With advanced water treatment facilities, we are able to continually increase the reuse potential of waste water, thereby limiting our intake of fresh water. We 58,296 43,288 also treat and reuse domestic effluent, which is channeled back for use in gardening and horticulture. Replenish Reduce FY18 FY19 Purchased Water Ground water Aside from the efforts at our manufacturing facilities, we strive to impart sustainable water usage practices even among our employees. We observe events like ‘World Water Day’ where we conduct organisation-wide awareness campaigns on how employees can reduce, recycle and reuse water at the workplace and their homes. 78,620 m 3 During FY19, our manufacturing facilities in India have used 3,87,444 m3 of water. 78,620 m3 of water was recycled and reused at our manufacturing facilities in India. Annual Report 2018-19 45 Responsible Corporate Citizenship contd. Zero Waste to Landfill Any process waste is viewed as a lost is: To achieve Zero Waste to Landfill The waste management journey has prospect to convert raw materials into certification for all manufacturing allowed us to continually enhance our finished products. Hence, we survey units in India by 2020 processes. It has enabled us set a new every level of waste management to baseline on waste grading, driving Zero waste to landfill is a specific create opportunities for generating implementation of data collection and goal to divert at least 99% of waste value. This comprises waste produced internal processes that is ultimately generated through business activities at source, primary waste collection, helping us move towards a more away from landfill. This means that storing and subsequent disposal. circular use of resources. This entire all waste produced is either reused, progression has not only aided us in One of the most significant recycled, composted or sent to achieving waste reduction and thus achievements in FY19 was our energy recovery. The audit process cost savings, but also unlocked several endeavour to divert waste from and certification was conducted efficiencies in manufacturing. packaging and operations away by Intertek, a global Total Quality from landfills and our ultimate goal Assurance provider. Total waste break-up by disposal method (%) FY18 FY19 1 76 4 20 15 3 26 0.5 0.5 80 17 Incineration Landfill Recycling Reuse Co-processing Total waste break-up by type (%) FY18 FY19 4 1.5 1 95 98.5 Other Waste Hazardous Waste Used lead and batteries 46 Sterlite Technologies Limited CORPORATE OVERVIEW Achievements Our Dadra and Waluj manufacturing units diverted 96% of Approach waste away from landfills earning them a ‘Near Zero Waste to 1. Reducing waste generation Landfill’ certification. at source, complemented with However, our manufacturing facility at Rakholi achieved the rigorous tracking, monitoring & ‘Zero Waste to Landfill’ certification by diverting 99% of waste corrective actions where needed making it the first Optical Fibre Cables manufacturing unit in 2. Segregation, classification and India to receive this certification. categorisation of waste to avoid Salient facts contamination and maintain All waste buyers now must For transportation of hazardous recyclability provide a declaration on the waste and by-products such 3. Priority to reuse and recycle waste end-use of waste and an as hydrochloric acid (HCl), over landfills and incineration undertaking that any waste silica and hypochlorite, a GPS generated while recycling at monitoring device is installed on 4. Ensuring legal compliance of waste their end will not be sent to the vehicles to ensure that there management rules in accordance to landfill. is no detour. Additionally, these both Indian and global regulations. vehicles are accompanied by an These efforts further increase the STL associate to ensure safe and lifecycle of products through reuse, secured delivery. recycling or redesign, thereby promoting a cradle-to-cradle approach for use of natural resources and raw materials. These initiatives have helped us in diverting over 36,300 MT of waste across all our manufacturing units in total from landfill. Annual Report 2018-19 47 Responsible Corporate Citizenship contd. Co-processing Case Study Our Waste Management Strategy Involves Disposing optical fibre (OF) and cables waste as well as Low Smoke Zero Halogen (LSZH) is a major Reduce Prioritise Segregation, challenge globally. While common Ensuring Waste Reusing and Classification understanding is that OF waste Legal Generation Recycling and Compliance is glass waste, it actually consists at Source Waste Categorisation majorly of coating material which cannot be recycled as glass. Owing to this complexity, landfilling has traditionally been the only viable In another significant effort to packaging making the cleaning and disposal mode. However, neither decrease waste, we have reduced recycling process simpler. We have of these were an option due to the the use of overall packaging material also replaced packaging material serious adverse impact they would for our products. We do this by using such as wood with plastic and metal have on the environment. recyclable materials and reusing the substitutes, which can be reused We finally achieved a breakthrough packaging material multiple times and have a longer lifespan, thereby by successfully sending OF and before discarding it. In some cases, reducing the need for fresh material. LSZH waste to cement plants for we have done away with packaging We also rigorously monitor hazardous co-processing where the waste altogether. The 500 meter coils and even non-hazardous waste is burnt substituting fuel. Due to of cable we dispatch for last-mile monthly. the high temperature in the kiln connectivity is such an example, While we ensure our processes comply used at cement plants, the waste where the use of wooden drums has with the stringent waste management burns completely with no adverse completely been eliminated. This rules in the country, we also verify the environmental impacts. This simple approach reduces the weight and approaches our recyclers adopt. This but effective solution comes with an makes the coils easy to transport and assures us that they are operating enormous advantage of reducing use since they can be carried over the according to the prescribed laws and the negative impact LSZH and OF shoulder. our by-products or waste are further waste has on environment, as well Packaging material accounts for a reused promoting a circular economy. as diverting it away from landfill. sizeable fraction of the total resource Co-processing this waste has led to consumption for our products. tremendous cost savings as well as We have thus tried to ensure that diverted about 120 MT of LSZH and we source raw materials in larger of waste from landfills. 36,300+ MT Waste has been diverted away from landfills in FY19 48 Sterlite Technologies Limited CORPORATE OVERVIEW Reducing our Carbon Footprint and Energy Consumption Energy conservation and greenhouse We are continuously exploring ways gas management are important to diminish our carbon footprint by Energy Mix aspects of our sustainability practices meticulously tracing our emissions (in GJ) at STL. performance. We have extended the scope of our inventory to comprise While optical fibre and cables 520,393 scope 3 GHG emissions apart from manufacturing are not energy the scope 1 and 2 emissions, which we intensive, the quantum of energy that 592,626 monitor currently. Maintaining highwe use and the greenhouse gases power factor while using electricity, that result from this usage makes it using daylight by fitting transparent a material issue for us. Apart from FRP sheets on shop floor roofs and electricity and fuel use, greenhouse adopting non-conventional and gases result from activities such as renewable sources of energy wherever travel and certain refrigerants and possible are some of the efforts we 193,394 cause global level issues such as have made in this direction climate variations. 21,410 FY18 FY19 Energy from Energy from fuels purchased electricity Greenhouse gas emissions from manufacturing facilities in India 1,636 tCO 158,034 tCO Total Scope 1 (FY19) 2 Total Scope 2 (FY19) 2 15,435 tCO 2 1,18,534 tCO 2 Total Scope 1 (FY18) Total Scope 2 (FY18) Annual Report 2018-19 49 Responsible Corporate Citizenship contd. Leveraging technology and knowledge for the benefit of society Part of being a corporate citizen We have leveraged our expertise in This partnership enabled us reach out involves being responsible to society technology and connectivity to ensure to over 205,200+ lives in FY19 alone. at large; not only through eco-friendly location is no longer a constraint It took us a step closer to achieving operations, but also by mitigating the for our beneficiaries. They can now our goal of reaching 1 million lives issues in areas we operate. It involves access national markets and quality by FY20. having a business model where education, avail services essential for financial returns coexist with corporate a healthy life as well as be surrounded Material Topic conscience. It is about being socially by a green and safe environment Local Communities and ethically concerned. Thus, in to live in. The emphasis has always addition to ensuring sustainability is been on contributing to the protection Goal embedded in our operations, we work and fulfilment of basic human rights To impact 1 million lives by 2020 on causes from conservational issues through strategic social investments. to community concerns in the areas we During FY19, we transitioned into Lives Impacted operate focussing on the environment, making this a collaborative goal, one (Mn) healthcare, women empowerment where together with our employees, and education. we could collectively help those less privileged to grow and ensure equal 0.83 access to a better future for all. 0.63 0.43 205,200+ FY17 FY18 FY19 Lives impacted in FY19 Education Health Environment 186,400+ children benefitted 14,500+ lives impacted 10,500+ trees grown Women Empowerment Employee Volunteering 2,100+ lives improved 2,200+ beneficiaries 50 Sterlite Technologies Limited CORPORATE OVERVIEW Highlights of our CSR and Employee Volunteering programmes in FY19 Education It continued to be the largest virtual Lives Impacted STL continued focussing on education classroom programme in the country, (nos) during FY19; it being the main driver to reaching out to students from lower the country’s progress. In addition to income families through sessions 186,400 the flagship programme, several other conducted by qualified experts. It is technology-related investments were one of the few ed-tech initiatives in made to ensure quality education is the country offering quality English 121,500 accessible to the masses in rural and education at par with private schools, semi-urban areas. to students of grades 5, 6, 7 and 10. 72,500 The Virtual Classrooms project has These include: been implemented in 480 Municipal • Virtual Classrooms Corporation of Greater Mumbai schools under Sterlite School Tech FY17 FY18 FY19 • Pragyan (SST). • Smart Nandghars known concept in rural areas and Pragyan, another ed-tech initiative children are normally put into school • Laptop donations and scholarships was implemented by SST in Jaipur much later, thereby making learning were other smaller programmes with the sole aim of introducing quality difficult for them. Through ed-tech education in rural and semi-urban The Virtual Classrooms project, facilities, vibrant infra and interiors, we municipal schools. Started in FY19, since its launch in FY13 has ensured are working on inculcating a love for the programme has reached over that reading, writing and speaking learning among the children right from 2,000 students and made learning in English are no longer restricted a young age of 2-3 years. Through the interesting and enjoyable for them. to the privileged few. In FY19, over Nandghars, we aim to make schooling 182,000 students were covered under Another of our ed-tech initiatives, the fun for these children. Colourful and the project across Marathi, Hindi, Smart Nandghars focus on pre-school vibrant visual aids and learning charts Urdu and English medium schools. teaching. Pre-schooling is not a widely and play-kits help these children develop their cognitive skills as well as learn nursery rhymes, numbers and 4,53,700+ alphabets better. Lives impacted till date through educational initiatives Annual Report 2018-19 51 Responsible Corporate Citizenship contd. Healthcare Lives Impacted We believe it is essential to work The 24 villages the MMU services (nos) at the community level to provide do not have basic medical facilities access to quality healthcare as it helps even within a radius of 10 kms. This 44,400 reduce gaps caused by differences leads to huge healthcare costs for the in earnings, education, ethnicity, residents as their community primarily location and other factors. A healthy comprises daily wage earners. The community is capable of mutually health of the elderly and children were 21,800 supporting each other in regular often neglected due to work shifts and 15,700 activities, but most importantly allows the remoteness of the villages. them to focus on aspects such as Through weekly visits at their education and work among other doorsteps, the MMU has minimised things. Members of such healthy FY17 FY18 FY19 these issues. It not only provides free communities can thus reach their health check-ups, but also distributes maximum potential, which brings in free medicines to the villagers. In a mindset change and eventually emergencies, it helps them by serving development. as an ambulance to take critical Our main healthcare initiative in FY19 patients to the city hospital free of has been cost. The tribals today diligently follow the advice of the doctor and • The Mobile Medical Unit come in for follow-up medication and Started in 2006, in partnership with check-ups. These communities are the Indian Red Cross at Silvassa, the now healthier with the incidence of Mobile Medical Unit (MMU) in FY19 diseases reduced by 34%. They are completed 12 years of untiringly aware of precautionary measures to providing primary healthcare facilities be taken as well as how to identify to tribals in the region. certain symptoms, which can be treated early to avoid outbreaks. 298,000+ Lives impacted till date through healthcare interventions 52 Sterlite Technologies Limited CORPORATE OVERVIEW Women Empowerment Lives Impacted Our flagship programme for women the change they can make to the (nos) empowerment is communities they live in. They are made to understand the importance of • Jeewan Jyoti Women 2,300 education and gender equality. Empowerment Programme After five years in the region, there Setup in 2014 at Ambavane, Velhe, the is a visible difference in the sociopurpose of the Jeewan Jyoti Women 1,400 economic condition of these women. 1,300 Empowerment Programme (JJWEP) is The marriageable age for women has to equip rural women with vocational increased from around 16 years to over skills in computers, tailoring, nursing 20 years. They partake in decisionand beauty culture that will propel making and even contribute to their them towards financial independence. family’s income. Today families in the However, empowerment is not FY17 FY18 FY19 region are supportive of educating possible just through financial their daughters. Women now follow independence. The programme their ambitions and some of them therefore encompasses various other During FY19, the JJWEP had the like Rupali Dimle, Vandana Sanas facets such as confidence building, highest number of admissions, and Shashikala Wagh, among others public speaking, knowledge of 421 students. The programme is one have setup their own businesses. To health and nutrition, life skills and of the few in the country to provide promote excellence and increase the even provides necessary help for the students with transport facilities in exposure students receive, we have entrepreneurship and employment. view of the lack of public conveyance introduced an internship for the top It works to create self-reliant, confident in the region. This has helped women three students of the computer batch and financially independent women even in remote villages to avail of the at our Pune Head Office. who are aware of their potential and programme’s benefits. 7,500+ Lives impacted till date Annual Report 2018-19 53 Responsible Corporate Citizenship contd. Environment While we ensure sustainability is at Hence, we developed 700 meters the core of how we function, we also of the MIDC road and transformed take cognisance of the environmental it into a green belt. During FY19, issues the communities surrounding we developed another 700 meters our operations face. Afforestation and covering both sides of the road. Trees Water Conservation are thus two of with air filtration features were mainly STL’s main environment-related focus planted through active participation areas which are implemented through: by our employees. The entire 1.4 kms road consists of over 10,000 trees and • Project Green Belt plants all helping to facilitate a cleaner • Jaldoot and green environment. Project Green Belt was initiated in Jaldoot, a watershed development 2016 in an endeavour to alter the programme helped farmers in droughtMIDC stretch of land outside our affected Aurangabad to reap a Waluj manufacturing unit, which plentiful harvest. While the rains in the was being used as a garbage dump region were absent, the groundwater by the public. Several power lines percolation facilitated through Jaldoot and open sewage drains made it helped these marginal farmers earn dangerous for pedestrians. Besides, a livelihood. with Aurangabad being an industrial area, increasing the green cover in the region was essential. 67,900+ Lives Impacted through environment interventions 54 Sterlite Technologies Limited CORPORATE OVERVIEW Fostering a Conscientious Work Culture to Increase Inclusivity At STL, our transformation enablers Daan Utsav celebrated during October Through regular tree plantations by are our employees. Together with witnessed over 110 employees employees on days like Earth Day, them, we aim to exponentially enhance volunteer to #GiftAWish to needy World Environment Day, over 140 our community outreach programmes children. They fulfilled wishes of more trees have been grown. Additionally, while simultaneously building a culture than 700 children. While the children the #GreenAurangabad Challenge with a conscience. A culture where were ecstatic visiting manufacturing conducted as part of Project Green we use less, waste less and reuse plants and offices for the first time, Belt, witnessed 470 employees plant more; not just at our manufacturing employees actively participated and over 1,400 trees and plants in less than facilities, but also at our offices and enjoyed their interactions with the two hours. project sites. A culture where together children. Employees even visited the Blood donations are another regular with our employees – the smarter NGOs to distribute gifts to the children activity we conduct across locations network we leverage; we transform and celebrate Diwali with them. at STL. Till date over 4,200 lives everyday living for our beneficiaries Saksham, a mentoring initiative was have been saved through the blood through shared knowledge, care and started in FY19 to equip the JJWEP donated by our employees. During responsible behaviour. students with essential soft skills they FY19, over 400 units of blood FY19 was a year where our need when interacting socially or at were donated. volunteering and awareness interviews, etiquette, digital awareness Apart from these regular volunteering interventions stood testament to and even basic spoken English; all activities, employees visit NGOs this commitment. of which we believe will help them on days like Women’s Day and develop themselves to reach their true • Daan Utsav Children’s Day, among others to create potential. Till date 15 employees have awareness among the women and • Saksham volunteered to mentor the students. children on their rights, the necessity The format of the programme • Tree Plantations for education and even to simply ensures personal attention to every spend time with them and show them • Blood Donations beneficiary, which enhances the the world still cares. learnings the students take back. • Waste Reduction and other Over 160 students have benefitted Overall, in FY19 employees clocked awareness campaigns through Saksham. over 2,100 volunteering hours reaching more than 2,200 beneficiaries. 2,500+ Employee volunteers till date 4,100+ Volunteering hours clocked Annual Report 2018-19 55 Responsible Corporate Citizenship contd. Recognition for the Work Done We are grateful to the various industry bodies that have recognised our CSR and sustainability efforts. The awards won in FY19 include: India International CSR India CSR Network Project Grow Care India Conclave Project of the Year of the Year Award for Sustainability & Water Award for Education Women Empowerment Management Awards – (Virtual Classrooms) (Jeewan Jyoti Women Platinum for Rakholi Empowerment Programme) manufacturing facility Grow Care India FSC Quality Excellence Sustainability & Water Awards for Environment Management Awards – Sustainability Gold for Dadra manufacturing unit Next Steps In view of the progress made in FY19, we are even more determined to scale our impact using technology, innovation and the collaboration with our transformation enablers. In FY20, we not only look forward to reaching our goals for 2020, but framing more ambitious ones for the years to come – goals that will truly transform everyday living for our beneficiaries through digitally enhanced networks and interventions. 56 Sterlite Technologies Limited In it together to bring you super-fast connectivity Cloud companies Telcos Large enterprises Citizen networks Directors’ Report To the Members, Your Directors are pleased to present the Annual Report for the Financial Year 2018-19 together with the audited financial statements of the Company for the year ended March 31, 2019. Financial Summary/Highlights (` in crores) Standalone Consolidated Particulars 2018-19 2017-18 2018-19 2017-18 Net Revenue from Operations 4,862.63 2,893.57 5,087.26 3,205 .49 Profit / (Loss) before Interest, Depreciation & Tax 1,053.84 625.22 1,147.08 774.97 Add: Finance Income 20.52 14.84 16.93 13.65 Less: Finance cost 95.25 102.68 105.49 103.83 Less: Depreciation and amortisation expense 167.79 170.14 194.98 182.21 Net Profit/(Loss) before taxation 811.32 367.24 863.54 502.58 Total Tax Expenses 276.09 112.56 278.16 133.15 Net Profit /(Loss) for the year after tax 535.23 254.68 585.38 369.43 Share of profit/(loss) of Joint venture (0.92) Net Profit for the year after tax & share in profit/(loss) of joint venture 535.23 254.68 585.38 368.51 Loss from Discontinued Operations (7.59) -4.38 Profit for the year 535.23 254.68 577.79 364.13 Share of profit of minority interest 15.04 29.80 Net Profit attributable to owners of the Company 535.23 254.68 562.75 334.33 Balance carried forward from previous year 804.45 626.48 875.61 620.15 Amount available for appropriation 1,339.68 881.16 1,438.36 954.48 APPROPRIATIONS Equity dividend and tax thereon (96.80) (36.08) (96.80) (36.08) Transfer to debenture redemption reserve (37.50) (37.50) Others (17.83) (3.13) (17.83) (5.29) Balance carried forward to the next year 1,225.05 804.45 1,323.73 875.61 Performance tax) on dividend. The dividend payout is subject to approval Standalone of shareholders at the ensuing Annual General Meeting FY19 closed with Revenues of ` 4,862.63 crores, EBITDA (‘AGM’). The Company proposes not to carry any amount to of ` 1,053.84 crores, PAT of ` 535.22 crores and EBITDA reserves for the FY 19. margins of 22%. In accordance with the Regulation 43A of the SEBI Consolidated (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements), FY19 closed with Revenues of ` 5,087.26 crores, EBITDA Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’), the Board of of ` 1,147.08 crores, Net Profit attributable to owners of the Directors approved the Dividend Distribution Policy Company ` 562.75 crores and EBITDA margins of 23%. of the Company on October 27, 2016. The Dividend Distribution Policy is attached as Annexure I to this Report Operations and is also available on the website of the Company at Highlights of your Company’s operations and state of https://www.sterlitetech.com/Code-of-Conduct-and-Policies. affairs for the Financial Year 2018-19 are included in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report which forms Acquisition of Metallurgica part of this Annual Report. Sterlite Tech, through its wholly owned Italian subsidiary Sterlite Technologies S.p.A, acquired 100% stake Dividend in Metallurgica Bresciana S.p.A (Metallurgica), Italy. The Board of Directors (‘the Board’) is pleased to Metallurgica designs and manufactures special precision recommend a final dividend of ` 3.50/per Equity Share (i.e. optical fiber cables and specialised copper cables for various 175%) of ` 2/each for the FY19. The distribution of dividend communication applications. The acquisition will significantly will result in payout of around ` 140.89 crores (excluding expand Sterlite Tech’s market presence in Europe. It will 58 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS bring new tier-1 customers, augment product portfolio, Directors and Key Manangerial Personnel and enhance flexibility and ability to better serve the During the year under review, Ms. Avaantika Kakkar European market. resigned as an Independent Director of the Company effective May 22, 2018 due to other pre-occupations. Your Corporate Governance Directors place on record their appreciation for the valuable A Report on Corporate Governance, in terms of Regulation contribution made by Ms. Avaantika Kakkar during her tenure 34 of the Listing Regulations, along with a Certificate from as director of the Company. Practising Company Secretary, certifying compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance enumerated in the Upon the recommendation of the Nomination and Listing Regulations, is presented in a separate section Remuneration Committee, Ms. Kumud Srinivasan was forming part of this Annual Report. appointed as Additional Director (Non-Executive, Independent) effective May 22, 2018 and her appointment Management Discussion and Analysis as Independent Director was also approved by the Members Report in Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on June 26, 2018. Management Discussion and Analysis Report for the year under review, giving detailed analysis of Company’s Mr. Arun Todarwal & Mr. A.R. Narayanaswamy were operations, as stipulated under Regulation 34 of the Listing appointed as Independent Directors of the Company for a Regulations, is presented in a separate section forming part period of 5 years from April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2019 by of this Annual Report. the Members in AGM held on August 19, 2014. Upon the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Business Responsibility Report Committee, Board of Directors through its circular resolution As stipulated under Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, dated March 28, 2019 approved the re-appointment the Company has included a separate section on Business of Mr. Arun Todarwal and Mr. A.R. Narayanaswamy, as Responsibility as a part of this Annual Report. Additional Directors (Independent) of the Company for a second term of two years with effect from April 1, 2019 to Material changes and commitments affecting March 31, 2021 based on the skills, experience, knowledge financial position between the end of the and report of their performance evaluation and their financial year and date of the report independence from management. The re-appointment is There are no adverse material changes or commitments subject to the approval of the shareholders at the ensuing occurred between end of the financial year and date of the Annual General Meeting by way of a Special Resolution. report which may affect the financial position of the Company or may require disclosure. Pursuant to Section 149 read with Section 152 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’), Mr. Pravin Agarwal, Vice Board Meetings Chairman & Whole-time Director will retire by rotation at During FY19, six meetings of the Board of Directors were the ensuing AGM and being eligible, offers himself for held. The said meetings were held on April 25, 2018; re-appointment. The Board recommends his appointment. July 19, 2018; September 14, 2018; October 24, 2018; December 19, 2018 and January 24, 2019. The maximum Details of the aforesaid proposals for appointment time-gap between any two consecutive meetings of Mr. Arun Todarwal, Mr. A. R. Narayanaswamy and did not exceed one hundred and twenty days. Mr. Pravin Agarwal, are provided in the Annexure to the Video/Tele-conferencing facilities are made available to Notice of the AGM. facilitate Directors travelling abroad, or present at other locations, to participate in the meetings. The Company has received necessary declarations from all the Independent Directors confirming that they meet the Composition of Audit Committee criteria of independence as prescribed under the Act and the The Board has constituted the Audit Committee which Listing Regulations. comprises of Mr. A. R. Narayanaswamy as the Chairman; Mr. Arun Todarwal, Mr. Sandip Das and Mr. Pravin Agarwal Pursuant to provisions of Section 203 of the Act, and the as the Members. All recommendations given by Audit Rules made thereunder, following are the Key Managerial Committee during FY19 were accepted by the Board. Personnel (KMP) of the Company: Further details on the Audit Committee and other Committees of the Board are given in the Corporate 1. Dr. Anand Agarwal – Chief Executive Officer Governance Report, which forms a part of this Annual Report. 2. Mr. Anupam Jindal – Chief Financial Officer 3. Mr. Amit Deshpande – Company Secretary There has been no change in the KMP during FY19. Annual Report 2018-19 59 Directors’ Report contd. Performance Evaluation of the Board, its financial controls are adequate and are operating Committees and Individual Directors effectively; and The Board of Directors of the Company is committed to assessing its own performance as a Board in order to f) they have devised proper systems to ensure identify its strengths and areas in which it may improve its compliance with the provisions of all applicable functioning. To that end, the Nomination and Remuneration laws and that such systems are adequate and Committee has established processes for performance operating effectively. evaluation of Independent Directors, the Board and Committees of the Board. Pursuant to the provisions of the Compliance with Secretarial Standards Act and the Listing Regulations, the Board has carried out an Your Directors confirm that the Secretarial Standard 1 on annual evaluation of its own performance, performance of its Meetings of Board of Directors and Secretarial Standard 2 Committees as well as the directors individually. Details of on General Meetings, issued by The Institute of Company the evaluation mechanism are provided in the Corporate Secretaries of India, have been duly complied with. Governance Report. Contracts or Arrangements with Related Parties The Board has, on the recommendation of the Nomination All contracts and arrangements with related parties, entered & Remuneration Committee framed a policy for selection by the Company during the financial year, were in the and appointment of Directors, Senior Management and ordinary course of business and on an arm’s length basis. their remuneration (‘NRC Policy’). The NRC Policy of the Company includes criteria for determining qualifications, During the year, the Company had not entered into any positive attributes and independence of a director and policy contract or arrangement with related parties which could relating to the remuneration of Directors, Key Managerial be considered ‘material’ in terms of the Company’s Related Personnel and other employees and is framed with the Party Transactions Policy. Accordingly, there are no object of attracting, retaining and motivating talent which transactions that are required to be reported in Form AOC-2. is required to run the Company successfully. The Policy can also be accessed on Company’s website at the link: Details regarding the policy, approval and review of https://www.sterlitetech.com/Code-of-Conduct-and-Policies Related Party Transactions are provided in the Corporate Governance Report. Directors’ Responsibility Statement Pursuant to provisions of Section 134(3)(c) and Section Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures 134(5) of the Act, your Directors state that: In accordance with Section 129(3) of the Act, a statement containing salient features of the financial statements of the a) in the preparation of the annual accounts for the subsidiary companies in Form AOC-1 is provided as part financial year ended March 31, 2019, the applicable of the consolidated financial statement. Hence, a separate accounting standards read with requirements set out report on the performance and financial position of each of under Schedule III to the Act, have been followed and the subsidiaries and joint venture companies is not repeated there are no material departures from the same; here for the sake of brevity. This also includes highlights of performance of Jiangsu Sterlite Tongguang Fibre Co. b) they have selected such accounting policies and Ltd. and Metallurgica Bresciana S.p.A., material subsidiaries applied them consistently and made judgements and of the Company. estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the During the year under review, Sterlite Technologies S.p.A., Company as at March 31, 2019 and of the profit of the Italy Metallurgica Bresciana S.p.A., Sterlite Innovative Company for the year April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019; Solutions Limited and Sterlite Tech Connectivity Solutions Limited have become subsidiaries of the Company. c) they have taken proper and sufficient care for Sterlite Technologies Europe Ventures Limited, Cyprus the maintenance of adequate accounting records was struck off in FY19. Other than above, no company has in accordance with the provisions of the Act for ceased to be subsidiary/joint venture or associate of the safeguarding the assets of the Company and for Company in FY19. preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities; Policy on material subsidiaries, as approved by the Board of d) they have prepared the annual accounts on a ‘going Directors, may be accessed on the Company’s website at concern’ basis; https://www.sterlitetech.com/Code-of-Conduct-and-Policies e) they have laid down internal financial controls to The Audited Financial Statements of the Subsidiary be followed by the Company and that such internal Companies have not been included in the Annual Report. 60 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS The financial statements of the Subsidiary Companies dismissed by the Hon’ble High Court on the grounds that and the related information will be made available, upon appeal is not maintainable in High Court, however without request, to the members seeking such information at any prejudice to the rights of the Company. Subsequently, the point of time. These financial statements will also be kept for Company had filed a Special Leave Petition (SLP) and appeal inspection by any member at the Registered Office of the before the Supreme Court of India which was admitted by Company and that of the respective Subsidiary Companies the Court. Hon’ble Supreme Court has also maintained the and are also available on the Website of the Company stay granted by Hon’ble High Court. The Hon’ble Supreme https://www.sterlitetech.com/downloads.html Court, considering that the departmental appeal against the CESTAT order was still pending before the High Court, Financial Statements disposed of the Special Leave Petition of the Company and The physical copies of the statement containing the salient directed that the records of the departmental appeal be features of all the documents, as prescribed in Section transferred to the Supreme Court and both the Appeals i.e. 136(1) of the Act, read with Regulation 36 of the Listing Departmental Appeal as well as Civil Appeal of the Company Regulations, is being sent to all the shareholders/debenture be heard together by the Supreme Court. The Company holders of the Company who have not registered their email has obtained legal opinion from a leading Law firm in address(es). Any shareholder interested in obtaining the India having expertise on Indirect tax matters which states physical copies of the complete Annual Report may write that the Company has a strong case in its favour and the to the “Company Secretary” at the Corporate Office of the provision made in respect of the above matter is adequate. Company at Pune or to the Registrar & Transfer Agent on its Given the complexity of the matter and considering the views address as appearing in Corporate Governance Report of expressed by the law firm, the Audit Committee considers this Annual Report. that the current provisioning in the books is adequate based on the best possible estimate. The consolidated financial statements of the Company prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards Secretarial Auditor (Ind AS) notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting Pursuant to Section 204 of the Act, Dr. K.R. Chandratre, Standards) Rules, 2015, duly audited by Statutory Auditors, Practising Company Secretary, was appointed to conduct also forms part of this Annual Report. the Secretarial Audit of the Company, for the financial year ended March 31, 2019. The Report of the Secretarial Auditor Statutory Auditors is annexed as Annexure II to this Report. The Secretarial M/s. Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP (Firm Audit Report does not contain any qualification, reservation Registration No. 012754N/N500016) (‘PWC’) were or adverse remark. appointed as the Statutory Auditors for a period of 5 years from the conclusion of the AGM of the Company held on Cost Auditor July 4, 2017. The requirement of seeking ratification of the Pursuant to Section 148 of the Act, read with The Companies members for continuance of their appointment has been (Cost Records and Audit) Amendment Rules, 2014, the cost withdrawn consequent upon the changes made by the audit records maintained by the Company in respect of its Companies (Amendment) Act, 2017 with effect from May 07, telecom products are required to be audited. Mr. Kiran Naik, 2018.Hence the resolution seeking ratification of the Cost Accountant, has conducted audit of the cost accounts members for appointment of PWC is not being placed at the of the Company for said products for FY19. Mr. Kiran Naik ensuing Annual General Meeting. has also been appointed as the Cost Auditor for FY20 and he has confirmed that his appointment is within the Explanation on Statutory Auditor’s Qualification prescribed limits. As required by the provisions of the Act, a The remark of Auditors at basis for Qualified Opinion resolution seeking Members’ approval for the remuneration paragraph of the Auditor’s Report over Note No. 44 in Notes payable to Mr. Kiran Naik, Cost Auditor is included in the to Accounts to the Standalone Ind AS financial statements of Notice convening the ensuing AGM. the Company regarding demand of excise and customs duty and penalty amounting to ` 188 crores is self-explanatory Cost Audit Report for FY18 was filed with the Registrar of and does not require further comment. Companies within the prescribed timelines. In the year 2004-05 CESTAT upheld the demand of ` 188 Internal Financial Controls crores and interest thereon for alleged breach of norms The Company has in place adequate internal financial pertaining to Export Oriented Unit (EOU). The Company had controls commensurate with the size, scale and complexity filed an appeal before the Hon’ble High Court of Bombay of its operations. During the year, such controls were tested against this order. The Department had also made an appeal and the Company has, in all material respects, maintained against the same CESTAT order before the High Court of adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting Bombay. The Company’s appeal against this order was as of March 31, 2019 and are operating effectively, except Annual Report 2018-19 61 Directors’ Report contd. for the possible effects of the material weakness as qualified auditors’ recommendations of internal auditors. The internal by the auditors in their independent report on Internal auditors make periodic presentations on audit observations, Financial Controls. including the status of follow-up to the Audit Committee. In relation to the material weakness as mentioned above During the year under review, neither the Statutory Auditors with regard to sufficiency of Provision relating to CESTAT nor the Secretarial Auditor has reported to the Audit order for breach of EOU norms, the Management believes Committee, under Section 143 (12) of the Companies that the Company has a strong case and does not require Act, 2013, any instances of fraud committed against the any further provisioning, based on the merits of the case and Company by its officers or employees, the details of which the legal opinion obtained. would need to be mentioned in the Boards' report. The Board of Directors has devised systems, policies and Legal Compliances Management procedures / frameworks, which are currently operational The Company mitigates its legal and regulatory compliance within the Company for ensuring the orderly and efficient risks with the help of an online compliance management conduct of its business, which includes adherence to tool. It is a well-defined system for storing, monitoring Company’s policies, safeguarding assets of the Company, and ensuring compliances under various legislations. prevention and detection of frauds and errors, accuracy Non-compliances, if any, are reported and corrective and completeness of the accounting records and timely actions are taken within a reasonable time. Any regulatory preparation of reliable financial information. In line with best amendment is updated periodically in the system. Based on practices, the Audit Committee and the Board reviews these reports from the system and certificates from functional internal control systems to ensure they remain effective heads, the CEO presents the quarterly compliance certificate and are designed to achieve their intended purpose. to the Board at the Board meetings. Where weaknesses, if any, are identified as a result of the reviews, corrective actions are then put in place to Business Risk Management strengthen controls. The Company has formally implemented Enterprise Risk Management framework and have policy to identify and The systems/frameworks include proper delegation of assess the risk events, monitor and report on action taken authority, operating philosophies, policies and procedures, to mitigate identified risks. A detailed exercise is carried effective IT systems aligned to business requirements, out periodically to identify, evaluate, manage and monitor an internal audit framework, an ethics framework, a risk both business and non-business risk. The Audit Committee management framework and adequate segregation of duties and the Board of Directors periodically review the risk to ensure an acceptable level of risk. and suggest steps to be taken to control and mitigate the same through a properly defined framework. Details of Risk The Company has documented Standard Operating Management are presented in a separate section forming Procedures (SOP) for key functions such as for procurement, part of this Annual Report. project / expansion management, capital expenditure, human resources, sales and marketing, finance, treasury, The Board has constituted Risk Management Committee compliance management, safety, health, and environment effective January 24, 2019. The Committee comprises (SHE), and manufacturing. The Company’s internal audit of Mr. Sandip Das; Mr. Pravin Agarwal, Dr. Anand Agarwal, activity is managed through the Management Assurance Directors and Mr. Anupam Jindal, Chief Financial Officer Services (‘MAS’) function. It is an important element of the as the Members. overall process by which the Audit Committee and the Board obtains assurance on the effectiveness of relevant Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower Policy internal controls. The Company has established a vigil mechanism and formulated the Whistle Blower Policy (WB) to deal with The scope of work including annual internal audit plan, instances of fraud and mismanagement, if any. The details authority, and resources of MAS are regularly reviewed and of the WB Policy are explained in the Corporate Governance approved by the Audit Committee. Annual internal audit Report and also posted on the website of the Company. plan is aligned with ERM to ensure that all critical risks are covered in the audit plan. Besides, its work is supported by Disclosure regarding Prevention of Sexual the services of leading international audit firms. The annual Harassment internal audit includes: monthly physical verification of The Company is committed to maintain a productive inventory and review of accounts/MIS and a quarterly review environment for all its employees at various levels in the of critical business processes. To enhance internal controls, organisation, free of sexual harassment and discrimination the internal audit follows a stringent grading mechanism, on the basis of gender. The Company has framed a monitoring and reporting of the implementation of internal policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment in line with 62 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS the requirements of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Non-Convertible Debentures Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) Act, 2013 As on March 31, 2019, the Company has outstanding (“POSH Act”). The Company has also set up “Prevention Secured, Rated, Redeemable, Non-Convertible Debentures of Sexual Harassment Committee, which is in compliance (NCDs) of ` 300 crores. The Company has maintained asset with the requirement of the POSH Act, to redress the cover sufficient to discharge the principal amount along Complaints received regarding sexual harassment which has with outstanding Interest at all times for its NCDs. NCDs are formalised a free and fair enquiry process with clear timeline. listed on the debt segment of BSE Limited, as per the SEBI During FY19, 1 pending complaint from last financial year Guidelines and Listing Regulations. was resolved. No other complaint was pending as on March 31, 2019. The details of debenture trustee are as below– Axis Trustee Services Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme The Ruby, 2nd Floor, SW The Company’s Employee Stock Option Schemes are 29 Senapati Bapat Marg, Dadar West in line with Company’s philosophy of sharing benefits of Mumbai400 028 growth with the growth drivers and are in compliance with Contact No.: +91022-6230 0438 the applicable SEBI Regulations. The Company allotted 15,51,502 shares during the year to various employees who Credit Rating exercised their options. The Certificate from the Statutory The Company’s financial discipline is reflected in the strong Auditors confirming that the Scheme has been implemented credit rating ascribed by ICRA/CRISIL: in accordance with the SEBI Regulations and the resolution ICRA CRISIL passed by the shareholders would be placed at the AGM for Debt instrument Rating Outlook Rating Outlook inspection by members. Non-Convertible Debentures AA Stable AA Stable Commercial Papers A1+ NA A1+ NA Disclosures with respect to Stock Options, as required Line of credit AA Stable AA Stable under Regulation 14 of the Regulations, are available in the Annexure III to this Report, Notes to the Financial Statements Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or Investments and can also be accessed on the Company’s website at Details of Loans, Guarantees and Investments covered under https://www.sterlitetech.com/downloads.html. the provisions of Section 186 of the Act are given in the notes to the Financial Statements. Particulars of Employees and Related Disclosures Particulars of Conservation of Energy, Disclosures pertaining to remuneration and other details as Technology Absorption and Foreign Exchange required under Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule Earnings and Outgo 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration The particulars of conservation of energy, technology of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 are provided as absorption and foreign exchange earnings and outgo as Annexure IV to this Report. prescribed under Section 134(3)(m) of the Act read with Rule 8 of The Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, are given as A statement containing particulars of employees as required Annexure VI to this Report. under Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rules 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, is provided as a separate Pursuant to the provisions of Section 124 of the Act, relevant annexure forming part of this Report. However, the Annual amounts which remained unpaid or unclaimed for a period Report is being sent to the members excluding the aforesaid of seven years have been transferred by the Company to annexure. The said information is available for inspection at the Investor Education and Protection Fund established the registered office of the Company during working hours by Central Government. Details of unpaid and unclaimed and any member interested in obtaining such information amounts lying with the Company as on June 26, 2018 (date may write to the Company Secretary or Registrar and of last AGM) have been uploaded on the Company’s website Transfer Agent and the same will be furnished on request. at https://www.sterlitetech.com/latest_disclosure Extract of Annual Return Transfer of ‘Underlying Shares’ to IEPF Pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Act and Rule 12(1) of the In terms of Section 124(6) of the Act, read with IEPF Authority Companies Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016, the an extract of the Annual Return in Form MGT-9, is annexed Company has transferred the equity shares in respect of herewith as Annexure V. Annual Report 2018-19 63 Directors’ Report contd. which dividends have remained unclaimed for a period of interest on deposits from public was outstanding as on seven consecutive years to the IEPF Account established by the date of the Balance Sheet. the Central Government. Details of shares transferred have b) Issue of equity shares with differential rights as to been uploaded on the website of the Company. dividend, voting or otherwise. Corporate Social Responsibility c) The Whole-time Directors of the Company do not The Board has constituted Sustainability and Corporate receive any remuneration or commission from any of Social Responsibility Committee (‘CSR Committee’) its subsidiaries. which comprises Mr. Arun Todarwal, Chairman, d) No significant or material orders were passed by the Mr. A.R. Narayanaswamy, Mr. Pravin Agarwal and Regulators, Courts or Tribunals which impact the going Dr. Anand Agarwal, Members. The Board has also approved concern status and Company’s operations in future. a CSR policy based on recommendations of CSR Committee, which is available on the website of the Company at e) The Auditors have not reported any matter under https://www.sterlitetech.com/Code-of-Conduct-and-Policies Section 143 (12) of the Act, therefore no details are required to be disclosed under Section 134 As part of its initiatives under Corporate Social Responsibility, (3)(ca) of the Act. the Company has undertaken projects in the areas of Education, Health, Women Empowerment and Community Acknowledgement Development during FY19. Your Directors would like to express their appreciation for the assistance and co-operation received from the During the year, the Company has spent ` 5.48 crores financial institutions, banks, Government authorities, on CSR activities. The Annual Report on CSR activities, customers, vendors and members during the year under in accordance with Section 135 of the Act, read with review. Your Directors take on record their deep sense of Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, appreciation to the contributions made by the employees 2014 is annexed as Annexure VII to this Report. through their hard work, dedication, competence, support and co-operation towards the progress of your Company. General Your Directors state that no disclosure or reporting is required in respect of the following items as there were no transactions on these items during the year under review: For and on behalf of the Board of Directors a) The Company has not accepted any deposits from the Place: Pune Pravin Agarwal Anand Agarwal public or otherwise in terms of Section 73 of the Act Date: April 23, 2019 Vice Chairman & CEO & read with Companies (Acceptance of Deposit) Rules, Whole-time Director Whole-time Director 2014 and as such, no amount on account of principal or 64 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS Annexure I Dividend Distribution Policy act, rules or regulations which provides for the The Board of Directors (the “Board”) of Sterlite distribution of Dividend. Technologies Limited (the “Company” or “Sterlite”), has adopted the following policy on Dividend 4.3 “Company or Sterlite Tech” shall mean Sterlite Distribution as required by Regulation 43A of Technologies Limited. the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 4.4 “Board” or “Board of Directors” shall mean Board Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as `Listing of Directors of the Company. Regulations’) at its meeting held on October 27, 2016. 4.5 “Dividend” shall mean Dividend as defined under Companies Act, 2013. 1. Objective The objective of this Policy is to ensure the right 4.6 “Policy or this Policy” shall mean the Dividend balance between the quantum of Dividend paid Distribution Policy. and amount of profits retained in the business for various purposes. Towards this end, the Policy lays 4.7 “SEBI Regulations” shall mean the Securities and down parameters to be considered by the Board of Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Directors of the Company for declaration of Dividend Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 from time to time. together with the circulars issued thereunder, including any statutory modification(s) or 2. Philosophy re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force. The philosophy of the Company is to maximise the shareholders’ wealth in the Company through various 4.8 Interpretation Words and expressions used means. The Company believes that driving growth and not defined in this Policy but defined in creates maximum shareholder value. The Company Companies Act, 2013 or rules made thereunder will endeavour to maintain a Dividend Pay-Out of or Securities and Exchange Board of India around 30% of profits after tax (PAT) on Consolidated Act, 1992 or regulations made thereunder or Financials basis. Depositories Act, 1996 shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in those Acts, Rules 3. Regulatory Framework and Regulations. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) on July 8, 2016 inserted Regulation 43A in SEBI (Listing 5. Parameters for declaration of Dividend Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 5.1 In line with the philosophy stated above in 2015, which requires top five hundred listed companies Clause 2, the Board of Directors of the Company, (based on market capitalisation of every financial year) shall consider the following parameters for to formulate a Dividend Distribution Policy. declaration of Dividend: Sterlite Technologies Limited being one of the top 5.1.1 Financial Parameters / Internal Factors / five hundred listed companies as per the market External Factors: capitalisation as on the last day of the immediately preceding financial year, frames this policy to comply The Board of Directors of the Company would with the requirements of the SEBI (Listing Obligations consider the following financial parameters and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. before declaring or recommending dividend to shareholders: 4. Definitions Unless repugnant to the context: A) Consolidated net operating profit after tax; B) Working capital requirements; 4.1. “Act” shall mean the Companies Act, 2013 including the Rules made thereunder, as amended C) Capital expenditure requirements; from time to time. D) Resources required to fund acquisitions and / or new businesses; 4.2. “Applicable Laws” shall mean the Companies Act, 2o13 and Rules made thereunder, the Securities E) Cash flow required to meet contingencies; and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations F) Outstanding borrowings; and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015; as amended from time to time and such other G) Past Dividend Trends; Annual Report 2018-19 65 Directors’ Report contd. H) Prevailing legal requirements, regulatory E) In the event of inadequacy of profits or conditions or restrictions laid down under the whenever the Company has incurred losses. Applicable Laws including tax laws; 5.3 Utilisation of retained earnings: I) Dividend payout ratios of companies in the same industry; The Company may declare dividend out of the J) Economic Viability; profits of the Company for the year or out of the profits for any previous year or years or out of the 5.2 Circumstances under which the shareholders may free reserves available for distribution of Dividend, or may not expect Dividend: after having due regard to the parameters laid down in this Policy. The Board shall consider the parameters / factors provided above before declaring any 5.4 Parameters adopted with regard to various dividend payout after analysing the prospective classes of shares: opportunities and threats, viability of the options of dividend payout or retention, etc. At present, the Share Capital of the Company The decision of dividend payout shall, majorly comprises only of equity shares. As and when the be based on the aforesaid factors considering Company issues other kind of shares, the Board of the balanced interest of the shareholders and Directors may suitably amend this Policy. the Company. However, the shareholders of the Company may not expect Dividend under the 6. Disclosure following circumstances The Company shall make appropriate disclosures as required under the SEBI Regulations. A) Whenever it undertakes or proposes to undertake a significant expansion project 7. General requiring higher allocation of capital; This Policy would be subject to revision/amendment in accordance with the guidelines as may be issued by B) Significantly higher working capital Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Securities and Exchange requirements adversely impacting Board of India or such other regulatory authority as may free cash flow; be authorised, from time to time, on the subject matter. C) Whenever it undertakes any acquisitions The Company reserves its right to alter, modify, add, or joint ventures requiring significant delete or amend any of the provisions of this Policy. allocation of capital; D) Whenever it proposes to utilise surplus cash for buy-back of securities; or 66 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS Annexure II Secretarial Audit Report (a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India For the Financial Year Ended 31 March, 2019 (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) [Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulations, 2011; Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014] (b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; To: The Members, (c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India Sterlite Technologies Limited, (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) E1, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, Regulations, 2009 and 2018; Aurangabad – 431 136, Maharashtra (d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014; I have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to (e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue good corporate practices by Sterlite Technologies Limited and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008; (hereinafter called “the Company”). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided me a reasonable basis (f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) and expressing my opinion thereon. Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client; Based on my verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records (g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India maintained by the Company and also the information (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009 provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorised (Not applicable to the Company during the representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, I Audit Period); and hereby report that in my opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering the financial year ended on 31 (h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India March, 2019 (‘Audit Period’) complied with the statutory (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998 and provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company 2018 (Not applicable to the Company during has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism the Audit Period). in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter: (vi) No law is specifically applicable to the Company. I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses returns filed and other records maintained by the Company of the following: for the financial year ended on 31 March, 2019 according to the provisions of: (i) Secretarial Standards (SS-1 and SS-2) issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India; and (i) The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made thereunder; (ii) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (ii) The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) Regulations, 2015. and the rules made thereunder; During the period under review the Company has complied (iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Bye-laws framed thereunder; Standards, etc. mentioned above. (iv) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the I further report that rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive and External Commercial Borrowings; Directors and Independent Directors. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during (v) The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed the period under review were carried out in compliance with under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, the provisions of the Act. 1992 (‘SEBI Act’): — Annual Report 2018-19 67 Directors’ Report contd. Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations generally sent at least seven days in advance, and a system and guidelines. exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and for I further report that during the audit period there were meaningful participation at the meeting. no specific events/actions having a major bearing on the company’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred laws, All decisions at Board Meetings and Committee Meetings rules, regulations, guidelines and standards. were carried out unanimously as recorded in the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors or Committees of the Place: Pune Dr. K. R. Chandratre Board, as the case may be. Date: April 23, 2019 FCS No.: 1370, C. P. No.: 5144 I further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate with the size This report is to be read with my letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure and forms an integral part of this report. Annexure to the Secretarial Audit Report To: The Members, Sterlite Technologies Limited, E1, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, Aurangabad – 431 136, Maharashtra My report of even date is to be read along with this letter: 1. Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management of the Company. My responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on my audit. 2. I have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test-check basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. I believe that the process and practices, I followed provide a reasonable basis for my opinion. 3. I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and books of accounts of the Company. 4. Wherever required, I have obtained Management Representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and happening of events, etc. 5. The compliance of the provisions of corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of management. My examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test-check basis. 6. The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company. Place: Pune Dr. K. R. Chandratre Date: April 23, 2019 FCS No.: 1370, C. P. No.: 5144 68 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS Annexure III Details of Stock Options as on March 31, 2019 Statement as on March 31, 2019 for Employee Stock Option Scheme, 2010 as required under Regulation 14 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014. Sr. No Particulars ESOP 2010 Scheme 1. Date of Shareholders’ approval July 14, 2010 2. Total Number of options approved Upto 5% of the paid-up capital of the Company 3. Vesting Requirements 1. The company achieving targets as per prescribed 2. continuous employment with the company Performance Criteria 4. Source of shares Primary 5. Exercise price Options vest at a nominal value of equity shares i.e. ` 2 per option 6. Maximum term of options granted Granted options would vest over a period of five years from the date of grant. Vested options are to be exercised within one year from the date of vesting 7. Variation of terms of option None 8. Option movement during the year: Number of options outstanding at the beginning of the year 50,50,978 Number of options granted during the year 16,36,950 Number of options forfeited/ lapsed during the year 5,22,248 Number of options vested during the year 21,59,818 Number of options exercised during the year 15,51,202 Number of shares arising as a result of exercise of options 15,51,202 Money realised by exercise of options (INR), if scheme is implemented ` 31,02,404/directly by the Company Number of options outstanding at the end of the year 46,14,478 Number of options exercisable at the end of the year 3,41,195 9. Employee-wise details of options granted during FY19 to I. Number of options granted to Senior Managerial Personnel Dr. Anand Agarwal 1,30,000 CEO & Whole-time Director II. Any other employee who receives a grant in any one year of option Dr. Anand Agarwal amounting to 5% or more of option granted during that year II. Identified employees who were granted options during any one year, equal None to or exceeding 1% of issued capital (excluding outstanding warrants and conversions) of the Company at the time of grant 10. Diluted earnings per share pursuant to issue of ordinary shares on exercise ` 13.16 of Options calculated in accordance with Ind AS 33 11. Method of Calculation of Employee Compensation Cost The Company has used fair market value method for calculation of compensation cost, using the Black Scholes Option Pricing Model and Monte Carlo simulation model. Use of model is based on the related vesting conditions. 12. Weighted average exercise price and weighted average fair values of `2 Options granted for options whose exercise price either equals or exceeds Grant I ` 25.87 or is less than the market price of the stock. Grant II – ` 29.77 Weighted Average exercise price (per option) Grant III – ` 28.22 Weighted Average Fair value (per option) Grant IV – ` 48.66 Grant V` 79.99 Grant VI` 84.62 & ` 87.30 Grant VII – ` 103.94 Grant VIII` 162.87 & ` 92.90 Grant IX – ` 265.58 Grant X` 377.59 Grant XI – ` 291.97 & ` 134. 31 Grant XII` 286.53 Annual Report 2018-19 69 Directors’ Report contd. 13. Description of method and significant assumptions used during the year to estimate the fair values of options: a) Assumptions under Black Scholes Option Pricing : Grants Details I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X XI XII 1. Risk Free Interest rate (%) 8.33 8.04 8.66 7.84 7.22 6.50 6.12 6.20 6.27 6.54 7.03 6.88 2. Expected Life (yrs) 1.5 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.8 1.5 1.54 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.54 1.5 3. Expected Volatility (%) 48.31 53.93 44.41 51.55 55.34 50.28 47.02 37.00 42.75 43.28 44.79 44.64 4. Expected Dividend Yield (%) 0.73 0.79 0.79 0.59 0.72 1.14 0.47 2.20 1.90 1.30 1.04 0.69 5. Weighted Average Fair value (`) 25.87 29.77 28.22 48.66 79.99 84.62 103.94 162.87 265.58 377.59 291.97 286.53 Assumptions used are as follows: b) Assumptions under Monte Carlo Simulation model Vesting of options is dependent on the shareholder • Fair value of the options calculated by using Black-Scholes return during the performance period as compared option pricing model. to comparator group identified by Nomination and Remuneration Committee. The Monte Carlo model • Stock price: The closing price on NSE as on the date of requires the following variables of the company and grant has been considered for valuing the options granted. comparator group companies. • Expected Volatility: The daily volatility of the stock prices on NSE till the date of grant corresponding with • Historical share price and expected volatility during the expected life of the options has been considered to the performance period calculate the fair value of the options. • Risk free interest rate of the country where stock of • Risk free interest rate: The risk free interest rate on the comparator group is listed date of grant considered for the calculation is the interest rate applicable for a maturity equal to the expected life • Dividend yield based on historical dividend payments of the options based on the zero coupon yield curve for Government Securities. • Estimate of correlation coefficients for each • Time of Maturity/ Expected Life: Time of Maturity/ pair of company Expected Life of option is the period for which the Company expects the option to be live. The minimum life Assumptions used are as follows: of a stock option is the minimum period before which the options cannot be exercised and the maximum life is the Variables Grant VIII Grant XI Price of underlying stock ` 172.30 ` 301.75 period after which the options cannot be exercised. Expected volatility 37.00% 44.79% • Expected dividend yield: Expected dividend yield Risk Free rate 6.40% 7.03% has been calculated on the dividend prior to the Exercise Price (per Option) ` 2.00 ` 2.00 date of the grant. Dividend Yield 2.20% 1.04% Fair Value of the option ` 92.90 ` 134.31 70 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS Annexure IV Statement of Disclosure of Remuneration Information as required under the provisions of Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013, read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 A. Remuneration disclosures for Executive Directors and Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) for the financial year ended March 31, 2019 ` in crores Sr. No. Name of Director/KMP and Designation Remuneration of % increase in Ratio of remuneration Director/KMP for Remuneration in the of each Director/KMP to financial year 2018-19 Financial Year 2018-19 median remuneration of employees 1 Mr. Pravin Agarwal Vice Chairman & Whole-time Director 14.34 4.5% 180 2 Dr. Anand Agarwal (KMP) CEO & Whole-time Director 12.40 23.5% 155 3 Mr. Anupam Jindal (KMP) Chief Financial Officer 3.44 23.7% 43 4 Mr. Amit Deshpande (KMP) Company Secretary & Corporate General Counsel 0.88 20.5% 11 Note: As the liability for leave encashment is provided on an actuarial basis for the Company as a whole, the said amounts are not included above. The remuneration of KMPs also includes perquisites value of Employee Stock Options (ESOPs) exercised, if any. Details of remuneration paid to Independent Directors and other Non-Executive Directors are provided in the Corporate Governance Report, which forms a part of the Annual Report. Further, Independent and Non-Executive Directors received no remuneration, except sitting fees for attending Board / Committee meetings and commission, the required details are not applicable. B. The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year is 9.79%. C. The number of permanent employees on the rolls of company as on March 31, 2019 is 2588. D. Average percentile increase made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the last financial year viz. FY19 was 10.69%. E. It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration paid is as per the Remuneration Policy for Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other Employees. Annual Report 2018-19 71 Directors’ Report contd. Annexure V Form No. MGT-9 Extract of Annual Return as on the financial year ended on March 31, 2019 [Pursuant to section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 12(1) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014] I. Registration and Other Details: I CIN L31300MH2000PLC269261 Ii Registration Date March 24, 2000 Iii Name of the Company Sterlite Technologies Limited iv Category/Sub-category of the Company Public Company / Limited by shares v Address of the Registered office & contact details E1, MIDC Industrial Area Waluj Aurangabad 431136, Maharashtra, INDIA Tel: +0240-2558400 Fax + 0240-2564598 vi Whether listed company Yes vii Name, Address & contact details of the Registrar & Transfer Agent, Karvy Fintech Private Limited if any. (Unit – Sterlite Technologies Limited) Karvy Selenium Tower-B | Plot No. 31 & 32, Financial District, Gachibowli, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally Hyderabad 500 008 India Phone No.: +91 040 67161524 E-mail: einward.ris@karvy.com II. Principal Business Activities of the Company All the business activities contributing 10 % or more of the total turnover of the company shall be stated: Sl. No Name and Description of main products / services NIC Code of the Product/ service* % to total turnover of the company 1 Optical Fibre including cable & laying services 27310 80.67% * As per National Industrial Classification 2008, Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation. III. Particulars of Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies Sr. Name And Address Of The Company Holding/ % of Shares held Applicable CIN No. Subsidiary/ Section Associate 1 Twin Star Overseas Ltd 33, Edith Cavell Street, Port-Louis, 11324, Holding 52.02% 2(46) NA Mauritius 2 Speedon Network Limited Survey No. 68/1, Rakholi Village, Madhuban Dam Road, Silvassa, Subsidiary 100% 2 (87) U32202DN2011PLC000373 Dadara and Nagar Haveli – 396 230 3 Sterlite Telesystems Limited Survey No. 68/1, Rakholi Village, Madhuban Dam Road, Silvassa Dadar & Subsidiary 100% 2 (87) U64200DN2015PLC000481 Nagar Haveli – 396230, India 4 Maharashtra Transmission Communication Infrastructure Ltd. Prakashganga, Plot No C 19, E Block Bandra Subsidiary 59.47% 2 (87) U64201MH2012PLC234316 Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai 400051, Maharashtra India 72 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS Sr. Name And Address Of The Company Holding/ % of Shares held Applicable CIN No. Subsidiary/ Section Associate 5 Sterlite Tech Connectivity Solutions Limited Plot No 33/1/1, Waghadara Road, Dadra, Silvasa Subsidiary 100% 2 (87) U74999DN2018PLC005557 Silvasa Dadra & Nagar Haveli – 396230, India 6 Sterlite Innovative Solutions Limited E 2, MIDC, Waluj, Aurangabad – 431 133, Subsidiary 100% 2 (87) U74999MH2018PLC310212 Maharashtra, India 7 Elitecore Technologies (Mauritius) Limited 9th Floor, EbeneTower, 52, Cybercity, Subsidiary 100% 2 (87) NA Ebene Mauritius 8 Elitecore Technologies Sdn Bhd. Level 2, No. 11, Jalan PJU 1A/41B, NZX Commercial Centre, Ara Jaya, 47301, Subsidiary 100% 2 (87) NA Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia 9 Sterlite Technologies S.p.A Via del Vecchio Politecnico n. 9, 20121, Milan Italy Subsidiary 100% 2 (87) NA 10 Metallurgica Bresciana S.p.A Dello (Brescia -Italy) Via Marconi 31, Italy Subsidiary 100% 2 (87) NA 11 Sterlite Global Ventures (Mauritius) Ltd 33, Edith Cavell Street, Subsidiary 100% 2 (87) NA Port-Louis, 11324, Mauritius 12 Sterlite Technologies UK Ventures Limited Third Floor, 126-134 Baker Street, London W1U Subsidiary 100% 2 (87) NA 6UE, UK 13 Jiangsu Sterlite Tonggaung Fiber Co. Ltd 777 Beihai Beihai Rd, Haimen Town, Hai Men City, Subsidiary 75% 2 (87) NA Jiangsu, China 14 Sterlite Conduspar Industrial Ltda Sao Jose dos Pinhais, State of Parana, at Rua Dr. Muricy, 4000, Barracoa Fundos, Bairro Subsidiary 58.05% 2 (87) NA Coesteria, CEP 83015 – 290, Brazil 15 Sterlite (Shanghai) Trading Company Limited 1902 Far East International Plaza, 317 Xian Xia Subsidiary 100% 2 (87) NA Road Shanghai 200051, China 16 Sterlite Tech Holding Inc. 1555 Heron Bay Blvd. Coral Springs, Subsidiary 100% 2 (87) NA Florida 33076 USA 17 Sterlite Technologies Inc. 1555 Heron Bay Blvd. Coral Springs, Subsidiary 100% 2 (87) NA Florida 33076 USA Annual Report 2018-19 73 Directors’ Report contd. I. Share Holding Pattern (Equity Share Capital Breakup as percentage of Total Equity) i) Category-wise Share Holding No. of shares held at the No. of shares held at the end % beginning of the year April 1, 2018 of the year March 31, 2019 Sr. Change Category of Shareholder % Of No. % of Total During Demat Physical Total Demat Physical Total Total the Year Shares Shares (I) (II) (III) (IV) (V) (VI) (VII) (VIII) (IX) (X) (XI) (A) Promoter and Promoter Group (1) Indian (a) Individual /HUF 24,28,556 24,28,556 0.61 24,40,176 24,40,176 0.61 0.00 (b) Central Government/ State Government(s) (c) Bodies Corporate 47,64,295 47,64,295 1.19 47,64,295 47,64,295 1.18 (0.01) (d) Financial Institutions / Banks (e) Others Sub-Total A(1) : 71,92,851 71,92,851 1.80 72,04,471 72,04,471 1.79 (0.01) (2) Foreign (a) Individuals (NRIs/ Foreign Individuals) (b) Bodies Corporate 20,94,02,750 20,94,02,750 52.22 20,94,02,750 20,94,02,750 52.03 (0.19) (c) Institutions (d) Qualified Foreign Investor (e) Others Sub-Total A(2) : 20,94,02,750 20,94,02,750 52.22 20,94,02,750 20,94,02,750 52.03 (0.19) Total A=A(1)+A(2) 21,65,95,601 21,65,95,601 54.02 21,66,07,221 21,65,95,601 53.82 (0.20) (B) Public Shareholding (1) Institutions (a) Mutual Funds /UTI 3,04,47,289 0 3,04,47,289 7.59 3,73,30,005 0 3,73,30,005 9.27 1.68 (b) Financial Institutions / 7,40,350 2,530 7,42,880 0.19 10,07,936 3,030 10,10,966 0.25 0.07 Banks (c) Central Government / 500 0 500 0.00 500 0 500 0.00 0.00 State Government(s) (d) Venture Capital Funds 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (e) Insurance Companies 1,37,79,296 0 1,37,79,296 3.44 52,21,535 0 52,21,535 1.30 (2.14) (f) Foreign Institutional 3,13,718 0 3,13,718 0.08 3,21,352 0 3,21,352 0.08 0.00 Investors (g) Foreign Venture 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Capital Investors (h) Qualified Foreign 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Investor (i) Foreign Portfolio 3,38,02,347 0 3,38,02,347 8.43 2,38,67,629 0 2,38,67,629 5.93 (2.50) Investors (j) Others 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.00 Sub-Total B(1) : 7,90,83,500 2,530 7,90,86,030 19.72 6,77,48,957 3,030 6,77,51,987 16.83 (2.89) (2) Non-Institutions (a) Bodies Corporate 1,17,84,535 11,555 1,17,96,090 2.94 1,48,09,627 10,505 1,48,20,132 3.68 0.74 (b) Individuals (i) Individuals holding nominal share capital 6,34,82,098 38,08,753 6,72,90,851 16.78 7,40,78,879 30,70,074 7,71,48,953 19.17 2.38 upto ` 1 lakh (ii) Individuals holding nominal share capital 1,85,80,649 76,360 1,86,57,009 4.65 1,70,97,799 76,360 1,71,74,159 4.27 (0.39) in excess of ` 1 lakh (c) Qualified Foreign Investor (d) Others 74 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS No. of shares held at the No. of shares held at the end % beginning of the year April 1, 2018 of the year March 31, 2019 Sr. Change Category of Shareholder % Of No. % of Total During Demat Physical Total Demat Physical Total Total the Year Shares Shares (I) (II) (III) (IV) (V) (VI) (VII) (VIII) (IX) (X) (XI) NBFC 85,521 0 85,521 0.02 1,57,691 0 1,57,691 0.04 0.02 Clearing Members 4,66,787 0 4,66,787 0.12 7,25,683 0 7,25,683 0.18 0.06 Directors 8,94,825 0 8,94,825 0.22 9,79,190 0 9,79,190 0.24 0.02 Foreign Nationals 1,37,677 0 1,37,677 0.03 13,850 0 13,850 0.00 (0.03) IEPF 30,12,826 0 30,12,826 0.75 33,43,380 0 33,43,380 0.83 0.08 Non Resident Indians 18,20,514 2,67,975 20,88,489 0.52 24,70,874 2,03,630 26,74,504 0.66 0.14 NRI Non-Repatriation 7,54,805 0 7,54,805 0.19 10,62,663 0 10,62,663 0.26 0.08 Trusts 48,810 500 49,310 0.01 7,110 500 7,610 0.00 (0.01) Sub-Total B(2) : 10,10,69,047 41,65,143 10,52,34,190 26.24 11,47,46,746 33,61,069 11,81,07,815 29.34 3.10 Total B=B(1)+B(2) : 18,01,52,547 41,67,673 18,43,20,220 45.97 18,24,95,703 33,64,099 18,58,59,802 46.17 0.21 Total (A+B) : 39,67,48,148 41,67,673 40,09,15,821 99.98 39,91,02,924 33,64,099 40,24,67,023 99.98 0.00 (C) Shares held by custodians, against which Depository Receipts have been issued (1) Promoter and Promoter Group (2) Public 74,700 0 74,700 0.02 74,700 0 74,700 0.02 0.00 GRAND TOTAL (A+B+C): 39,68,22,848 41,67,673 40,09,90,521 100.00 39,91,77,624 33,64,099 40,25,41,723 100.00 ii) Shareholding of Promoters Sl. Shareholder’s Name Shareholding at the beginning Shareholding at the end % change in No. of the year March 31, 2018 of the year March 31, 2019 shareholding No. of Shares % of total %of Shares No. of Shares % of total %of Shares during Shares of the Pledged / Shares of the Pledged / the year company encumbered to company encumbered total shares to total shares 1 Twin Star Overseas Ltd 20,94,02,750 52.22 37.20 20,94,02,750 52.02 52.02 (0.20) Note:The Company has published details of only Promoter Category which is decided as per the declaration received under Regulation 30 of SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011 iii) Change in Promoters’ Shareholding (please specify, if there is no change):There is no change in the Promoters’ Shareholding during FY19. iv) Shareholding Pattern of top ten Shareholders (other than Directors, Promoters and Holders of GDRs and ADRs): Name of the Share Holder Shareholding at the Cumulative Shareholding beginning of the Year during the Year No of Shares % of total shares Date Increase/ Reason No of Shares % of total shares of the company Decrease in share of the company holding LIFE INSURANCE 1,32,54,197 3.31 1,32,54,197 3.31 CORPORATION OF INDIA 06/04/2018 (9,85,770) Transfer 1,22,68,427 3.06 13/04/2018 (9,68,338) Transfer 1,13,00,089 2.82 20/04/2018 (15,67,770) Transfer 97,32,319 2.43 27/04/2018 (4,78,122) Transfer 92,54,197 2.31 Annual Report 2018-19 75 Directors’ Report contd. Name of the Share Holder Shareholding at the Cumulative Shareholding beginning of the Year during the Year No of Shares % of total shares Date Increase/ Reason No of Shares % of total shares of the company Decrease in share of the company holding 11/05/2018 (5,94,859) Transfer 86,59,338 2.16 21/12/2018 (6,93,224) Transfer 79,66,114 1.98 28/12/2018 (4,11,414) Transfer 75,54,700 1.88 31/12/2018 (25,000) Transfer 75,29,700 1.87 04/01/2019 (5,28,831) Transfer 70,00,869 1.74 11/01/2019 (9,84,461) Transfer 60,16,408 1.50 18/01/2019 (4,95,707) Transfer 55,20,701 1.37 25/01/2019 (7,99,183) Transfer 47,21,518 1.17 01/02/2019 (20,821) Transfer 47,00,697 1.17 31/03/2019 At the end of the year 47,00,697 1.17 DSP BLACKROCK EQUITY 1,11,16,331 2.77 1,11,16,331 2.77 & BOND FUND 27/07/2018 11,56,467 Transfer 1,22,72,798 3.06 17/08/2018 1,93,254 Transfer 1,24,66,052 3.10 24/08/2018 (45,085) Transfer 1,24,20,967 3.09 31/08/2018 (2,96,358) Transfer 1,21,24,609 3.02 07/09/2018 3,00,634 Transfer 1,24,25,243 3.09 14/09/2018 2,23,740 Transfer 1,26,48,983 3.15 21/09/2018 73,481 Transfer 1,27,22,464 3.17 28/09/2018 3,07,803 Transfer 1,30,30,267 3.24 05/10/2018 69,900 Transfer 1,31,00,167 3.26 12/10/2018 2,65,395 Transfer 1,33,65,562 3.32 19/10/2018 660 Transfer 1,33,66,222 3.32 26/10/2018 1,500 Transfer 1,33,67,722 3.32 02/11/2018 (5,73,919) Transfer 1,27,93,803 3.18 16/11/2018 (22,850) Transfer 1,27,70,953 3.17 23/11/2018 (3,37,239) Transfer 1,24,33,714 3.09 30/11/2018 (26,153) Transfer 1,24,07,561 3.08 14/12/2018 (28,09,540) Transfer 95,98,021 2.39 21/12/2018 (9,16,806) Transfer 86,81,215 2.16 28/12/2018 (98,710) Transfer 85,82,505 2.13 01/02/2019 26,755 Transfer 86,09,260 2.14 08/02/2019 22,504 Transfer 86,31,764 2.14 15/02/2019 2,00,000 Transfer 88,31,764 2.19 22/02/2019 2,36,234 Transfer 90,67,998 2.25 29/03/2019 61,535 Transfer 91,29,533 2.27 31/03/2019 At the end of the year 91,29,533 2.27 L AND T MUTUAL FUND 93,75,651 2.34 93,75,651 2.34 TRUSTEE LTD-L AND T 06/04/2018 4,12,154 Transfer 97,87,805 2.44 MONTHLY IN 13/04/2018 1,83,873 Transfer 99,71,678 2.49 20/04/2018 3,02,578 Transfer 1,02,74,256 2.56 04/05/2018 1,80,032 Transfer 1,04,54,288 2.61 11/05/2018 38,952 Transfer 1,04,93,240 2.62 15/06/2018 11,79,861 Transfer 1,16,73,101 2.91 22/06/2018 1,39,299 Transfer 1,18,12,400 2.94 29/06/2018 3,32,305 Transfer 1,21,44,705 3.02 06/07/2018 3,27,502 Transfer 1,24,72,207 3.11 27/07/2018 4,18,800 Transfer 1,28,91,007 3.21 31/08/2018 1,69,000 Transfer 1,30,60,007 3.25 28/09/2018 55,920 Transfer 1,31,15,927 3.27 05/10/2018 91,636 Transfer 1,32,07,563 3.28 12/10/2018 1,00,000 Transfer 1,33,07,563 3.31 19/10/2018 65,838 Transfer 1,33,73,401 3.32 76 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS Name of the Share Holder Shareholding at the Cumulative Shareholding beginning of the Year during the Year No of Shares % of total shares Date Increase/ Reason No of Shares % of total shares of the company Decrease in share of the company holding 26/10/2018 2,90,199 Transfer 1,36,63,600 3.40 02/11/2018 1,78,000 Transfer 1,38,41,600 3.44 16/11/2018 (50,853) Transfer 1,37,90,747 3.43 23/11/2018 91,800 Transfer 1,38,82,547 3.45 30/11/2018 1,36,000 Transfer 1,40,18,547 3.48 21/12/2018 3,24,000 Transfer 1,43,42,547 3.56 28/12/2018 23,377 Transfer 1,43,65,924 3.57 31/12/2018 1,35,337 Transfer 1,45,01,261 3.60 11/01/2019 1,00,000 Transfer 1,46,01,261 3.63 25/01/2019 1,24,800 Transfer 1,47,26,061 3.66 01/02/2019 1,00,000 Transfer 1,48,26,061 3.68 15/03/2019 (6,02,968) Transfer 1,42,23,093 3.53 22/03/2019 (15,70,370) Transfer 1,26,52,723 3.14 29/03/2019 (5,33,378) Transfer 1,21,19,345 3.01 31/03/2019 At the end of the year 1,21,19,345 3.01 RELIANCE CAPITAL 50,12,500 1.25 50,12,500 1.25 TRUSTEE CO. LTD-A/C 06/04/2018 12,500 Transfer 50,25,000 1.25 RELIANCE CAPI 08/06/2018 62,000 Transfer 50,87,000 1.27 15/06/2018 3,00,000 Transfer 53,87,000 1.34 13/07/2018 (1,00,000) Transfer 52,87,000 1.32 20/07/2018 (1,25,000) Transfer 51,62,000 1.29 27/07/2018 (1,25,000) Transfer 50,37,000 1.25 10/08/2018 (1,00,000) Transfer 49,37,000 1.23 02/11/2018 (1,43,000) Transfer 47,94,000 1.19 07/12/2018 (37,000) Transfer 47,57,000 1.18 01/02/2019 3,027 Transfer 47,60,027 1.18 08/02/2019 13,037 Transfer 47,73,064 1.19 22/02/2019 7,001 Transfer 47,80,065 1.19 01/03/2019 45 Transfer 47,80,110 1.19 08/03/2019 11,660 Transfer 47,91,770 1.19 15/03/2019 1,568 Transfer 47,93,338 1.19 15/03/2019 (10,000) Transfer 47,83,338 1.19 22/03/2019 1,10,450 Transfer 48,93,788 1.22 29/03/2019 1,592 Transfer 48,95,380 1.22 31/03/2019 At the end of the year 48,95,380 1.22 AKASH BHANSHALI 28,54,542 0.71 28,54,542 0.71 01/03/2019 (7,00,000) Transfer 21,54,542 0.54 31/03/2019 At the end of the year 21,54,542 0.54 SYDINVEST 22,33,322 0.56 22,33,322 0.56 06/04/2018 (2,24,964) Transfer 20,08,358 0.50 13/04/2018 (86,286) Transfer 19,22,072 0.48 20/04/2018 (94,590) Transfer 18,27,482 0.46 22/06/2018 (2,81,809) Transfer 15,45,673 0.38 29/06/2018 (1,13,427) Transfer 14,32,246 0.36 13/07/2018 (4,25,016) Transfer 10,07,230 0.25 20/07/2018 (3,90,763) Transfer 6,16,467 0.15 03/08/2018 1,04,364 Transfer 7,20,831 0.18 17/08/2018 1,68,605 Transfer 8,89,436 0.22 05/10/2018 46,908 Transfer 9,36,344 0.23 12/10/2018 67,505 Transfer 10,03,849 0.25 26/10/2018 (1,47,183) Transfer 8,56,666 0.21 09/11/2018 (3,18,043) Transfer 5,38,623 0.13 Annual Report 2018-19 77 Directors’ Report contd. Name of the Share Holder Shareholding at the Cumulative Shareholding beginning of the Year during the Year No of Shares % of total shares Date Increase/ Reason No of Shares % of total shares of the company Decrease in share of the company holding 21/12/2018 4,47,932 Transfer 9,86,555 0.25 11/01/2019 2,16,710 Transfer 12,03,265 0.30 18/01/2019 2,54,960 Transfer 14,58,225 0.36 25/01/2019 1,87,851 Transfer 16,46,076 0.41 01/02/2019 (2,00,950) Transfer 14,45,126 0.36 08/02/2019 (2,31,925) Transfer 12,13,201 0.30 15/02/2019 (1,95,868) Transfer 10,17,333 0.25 15/03/2019 (1,76,596) Transfer 8,40,737 0.21 22/03/2019 (2,38,358) Transfer 6,02,379 0.15 31/03/2019 At the end of the year 6,02,379 0.15 BLACKROCK INDIA 22,00,108 0.55 22,00,108 0.55 EQUITIES (MAURITIUS) 15/06/2018 (4,13,113) Transfer 17,86,995 0.45 LIMITED 22/06/2018 (17,86,995) Transfer 0.00 31/03/2019 At the end of the year 0.00 VALLABH BHANSHALI 21,78,100 0.54 21,78,100 0.54 15/02/2019 1,50,000 Transfer 23,28,100 0.58 29/03/2019 2,38,000 Transfer 25,66,100 0.64 30/03/2019 At the end of the year 25,66,100 0.64 ADITYA BIRLA SUN 16,92,200 0.42 16,92,200 0.42 LIFE TRUSTEE PRIVATE 06/04/2018 25,000 Transfer 17,17,200 0.43 LIMITED A/C 13/04/2018 25,000 Transfer 17,42,200 0.43 20/04/2018 90,000 Transfer 18,32,200 0.46 27/04/2018 (76,000) Transfer 17,56,200 0.44 04/05/2018 50,000 Transfer 18,06,200 0.45 18/05/2018 80,000 Transfer 18,86,200 0.47 25/05/2018 (2,26,500) Transfer 16,59,700 0.41 01/06/2018 5,06,700 Transfer 21,66,400 0.54 08/06/2018 3,85,000 Transfer 25,51,400 0.64 08/06/2018 (3,50,000) Transfer 22,01,400 0.55 15/06/2018 14,67,000 Transfer 36,68,400 0.91 22/06/2018 15,25,000 Transfer 51,93,400 1.29 29/06/2018 50,000 Transfer 52,43,400 1.31 06/07/2018 1,15,000 Transfer 53,58,400 1.33 13/07/2018 88,200 Transfer 54,46,600 1.36 20/07/2018 96,800 Transfer 55,43,400 1.38 10/08/2018 1,09,800 Transfer 56,53,200 1.41 10/08/2018 (50,000) Transfer 56,03,200 1.40 14/09/2018 (30,000) Transfer 55,73,200 1.39 21/09/2018 2,40,200 Transfer 58,13,400 1.45 05/10/2018 (1,00,000) Transfer 57,13,400 1.42 12/10/2018 2,08,000 Transfer 59,21,400 1.47 19/10/2018 (45,000) Transfer 58,76,400 1.46 26/10/2018 (6,267) Transfer 58,70,133 1.46 02/11/2018 (25,000) Transfer 58,45,133 1.45 09/11/2018 (93,477) Transfer 57,51,656 1.43 23/11/2018 2,83,000 Transfer 60,34,656 1.50 23/11/2018 (1,00,000) Transfer 59,34,656 1.48 30/11/2018 (20,000) Transfer 59,14,656 1.47 21/12/2018 50,000 Transfer 59,64,656 1.48 18/01/2019 (52,000) Transfer 59,12,656 1.47 08/02/2019 3,50,000 Transfer 62,62,656 1.56 78 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS Name of the Share Holder Shareholding at the Cumulative Shareholding beginning of the Year during the Year No of Shares % of total shares Date Increase/ Reason No of Shares % of total shares of the company Decrease in share of the company holding 08/02/2019 (1,01,000) Transfer 61,61,656 1.53 15/02/2019 1,39,000 Transfer 63,00,656 1.57 15/02/2019 (1,83,500) Transfer 61,17,156 1.52 22/02/2019 50,000 Transfer 61,67,156 1.53 01/03/2019 36,000 Transfer 62,03,156 1.54 08/03/2019 10,000 Transfer 62,13,156 1.54 22/03/2019 (3,50,000) Transfer 58,63,156 1.46 31/03/2019 At the end of the year 58,63,156 1.46 EMERGING MARKETS 16,48,718 0.41 16,48,718 0.41 CORE EQUITY PORT21/12/2018 (15,378) Transfer 16,33,340 0.41 FOLIO 28/12/2018 (56,431) Transfer 15,76,909 0.39 31/03/2019 At the end of the year 15,76,909 0.39 HSBC INFRASTRUCTURE 0.00 0.00 EQUITY FUND 02/11/2018 450,000 Transfer 4,50,000 0.11 14/12/2018 100,000 Transfer 5,50,000 0.14 21/12/2018 55,000 Transfer 6,05,000 0.15 04/01/2019 50,000 Transfer 6,55,000 0.16 15/02/2019 2,00,000 Transfer 8,55,000 0.21 22/02/2019 2,98,915 Transfer 11,53,915 0.29 01/03/2019 1,26,085 Transfer 12,80,000 0.32 31/03/2019 At the end of the year 12,80,000 0.32 BLUE DAIMOND 0.00 0.00 PROPERTIES PVT LTD 01/02/2019 1,09,189 Transfer 1,09,189 0.03 08/02/2019 7,79,637 Transfer 8,88,826 0.22 15/02/2019 58,949 Transfer 9,47,775 0.24 22/02/2019 50,000 Transfer 9,97,775 0.25 01/03/2019 40,000 Transfer 10,37,775 0.26 08/03/2019 80,185 Transfer 11,17,960 0.28 31/03/2019 At the end of the year 11,17,960 0.28 LATA BHANSHALI 9,85,846 0.25 9,85,846 0.25 19/10/2018 975,000 Transfer 19,60,846 0.49 19/10/2018 (9,75,000) Transfer 9,85,846 0.25 31/03/2019 At the end of the year 9,85,846 0.24 Note: The above information is based on the weekly beneficiary positon received from depositaries. Annual Report 2018-19 79 Directors’ Report contd. v) Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel: Sl. Name Shareholding at the beginning Change during the year Cumulative Shareholding No. of the year April 1, 2018 during the year No. of shares % of total Date Increase/ Reason No. of shares % of total shares of the Decrease in shares of the compa-ny shareholding company 1 Anil Agarwal Chairman Nil Nil No change during the year Nil Nil 2 Pravin Agarwal – Vice-Chairman 11,29,750 0.28 No change during the year 11,29,750 0.28 3 Arun Todarwal Independent 1,925 0.00 19/12/2018 125 Transfer 1,800 0.00 Director 01/02/2019 500 Purchase 2,300 0.00 4 A R Narayanaswamy Nil Nil 07/12/2018 500 Purchase 500 0.00 Independent Director 01/02/2019 500 Purchase 1,000 0.00 5 Sandip DasIndependent 3,420 0.00 No change during the year 3,420 0.00 Director 6 Avaantika Kakkar – Nil Nil No change during the year Nil Nil Independent Director* 7 Kumud Srinivasan – Nil Nil No change during the year Nil Nil Independent Director** 8 Pratik Agarwal – Non-Executive 1,18,340 0.03 No change during the year 1,18,340 0.03 Director 9 Anand Agarwal (KMP) – CEO & 8,92,900 0.22 14/06/2018 28,070 ESOP 9,20,970 0.21 Whole-time Director 25/07/2018 35,000 ESOP 9,55,970 0.22 17/08/2018 50,000 Market Sale 9,05,970 0.24 21/09/2018 40,500 ESOP 9,46,470 0.23 19/11/2018 26,000 ESOP 9,72,470 0.24 10 Anupam Jindal (KMP) – Chief 1,78,420 0.04 26/04/2018 65,577 ESOP 2,43,997 0.06 Financial Officer 11 Amit Deshpande (KMP) – 34,274 0.01 19/11/2018 9,998 ESOP 44,272 0.01 Company Secretary * Ms. Avaantika Kakkar ceased to be a Director effective from May 22, 2018. **Ms. Kumud Srinivasan was appointed as Director effective from May 22, 2018. V. Indebtedness Indebtedness of the Company including interest outstanding/accrued but not due for payment ` in crores Secured Loans excludUnsecured Loans Deposits Total ing deposits Indebtedness Indebtedness at the beginning of the financial year i) Principal Amount 1,113.20 50.00 1,163.20 ii) Interest due but not paid iii) Interest accrued but not due 6.68 6.68 Total (i+ii+iii) 1,119.88 50.00 1,169.88 Change in Indebtedness during the financial year ● Addition 990.09 900.00 1,890.09 ● Reduction 1,020.00 550.00 1,570.00 Net Change (29.91) 350.00 320.09 Indebtedness at the end of the financial year i) Principal Amount 1,086.85 400.00 1,486.85 ii) Interest due but not paid iii) Interest accrued but not due 3.12 3.12 Total (i+ii+iii) 1,089.97 400.00 1,489.97 80 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS VI. Remuneration of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel A. Remuneration to Managing Director, Whole-time Directors and/or Manager: ` in lakhs Sl. Particulars of Remuneration Name of MD/WTD/Manager No. Mr Pravin Agarwal Dr Anand Agarwal Total Amount 1 Gross salary (a) Salary as per provisions contained in 1,275.39 796.79 2,072.18 section 17(1) of the Income-tax Act,1961 (b) Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) Income-tax Act,1961 82.11 401.98 484.09 (c) Profits in lieu of salary under section 17(3) Incometax Act, 1961 2 Stock Option # 3 Sweat Equity 4 Commission as % of profit others, specify… 5 Others, please specify Superannuation (LIC) 1.00 1.00 Gratuity 21.92 12.69 34.62 Provident Fund Employer contribution 53.98 28.08 82.06 Total (A) 1,434.40 1,239.54 2,673.94 Ceiling as per the Act ` 8,398 lakhs (being 10% of the net profits of the Company calculated as per Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013) #Details of Stock Options are mentioned in details of Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel in Point IV (v) B. Remuneration to other directors: ` in lakhs Sl. Particulars of Remuneration Name of Director No. Arun AR C V Krishnan* Avaantika Sandip Kumud Pratik Total Todarwal Narayanaswamy Kakkar@ Das** Srinivasan# Agarwal Amount 1 Independent Directors ● Fee for attending board 9.00 6.50 0.00 0.75 7.25 3.25 NA 26.75 committee meetings ● C ommission 15.00 15.00 7.50 15.00 7.50 NA NA 60.00 ● O thers, please specify Total (1) 24.00 21.50 7.50 15.75 14.75 3.25 0.00 86.75 2 Other Non-executive Directors ● F ee for attending board 2.00 2.00 committee meetings ● C ommission ● O thers, please specify 15.00 15.00 Total (2) 17.00 17.00 Total Managerial 24.00 21.50 7.50 15.75 14.75 3.25 17.00 103.75 Remuneration Total = (1+2) Overall Ceiling as per the Act ` 840 lakhs (being 1% of the net profits of the Company calculated as per Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013) *Mr. C V Krishnan ceased to be a Director effective from October 16, 2017. **Mr. Sandip Das was appointed as a Director effective from October 16, 2017 #Ms. Kumud Srinivasan appointed as an independent director from May 22, 2018 @Mr. Avantika Kakkar resigned from directorship effective May 22, 2018 Annual Report 2018-19 81 Directors’ Report contd. C. Remuneration to Key Managerial Personnel Other Than MD/Manager/WTD ` in lakhs Sl. Particulars of Remuneration Key Managerial Personnel No. CEO CFO Company Secretary Total 1 Gross salary (a) Salary as per provisions contained in section 796.79 197.52 53.64 1047.95 17(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (b) Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) Income-tax 401.98 139.07 31.62 572.67 Act,1961 (c) Profits in lieu of salary under section 17(3) Incometax Act, 1961 2 Stock Option # # # 3 Sweat Equity 4 Commission as % of profit others, specify… 5 Others, please specify Superannuation (LIC) Gratuity 12.69 2.30 0.67 15.66 Provident Fund Employer contribution 28.08 5.56 1.64 35.28 Total 1,239.53 344.45 87.57 1,671.55 # Details of Stock Options are mentioned in details of Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel in Point IV (v) VII. Penalties/Punishment/Compounding of Offences – Nil 82 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS Annexure VI Particulars of Energy Conservation, Technology Absorption 3. The capital investment on energy conservation and Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo required under equipment the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 for the year ended a. New high speed & advanced machines with March 31, 2019. multi product capability are procured to increase A. Conservation of energy productivity with minimum scrap and which are 1. The steps taken or impact on conservation of capable of producing multiple products without energy: increase in the energy consumptions. a. Installation of LED lamps at service floor, optimisation of other lights & motion sensors for b. Replacing the Old DC motor with High lighting lead to electricity consumption. efficiency AC Motor to improve to reduce the energy Consumption. b. Variable frequency drive in HVAC & optimisation of Chilled water network for chilled water c. It is planned to procure Solar panels of 300 KVA. operations are, generating a saving of approx. 1000 units per day. B. Technology Absorption 1. The efforts made towards technology absorption c. Installation of auto control to restrict the air loss. a. Bus coupler operations of the transformers, which are running in parallel, where enhanced d. Installation of Air Boosters in buffering area with adoption of automatic changeover scheme to scrap and improved productivity with lower at Power control center benefiting fault level compressed air consumption. reduction & safe operation. e. Replacement of all DC motors by AC motors b. Replacing aged LT switchgears, adopted new for power saving. technology of ABBMNS design panels with benefits of drawing out feeders enabling f. Installation of DG Synchronization Unit for quick changeovers. optimisation of power consumption. c. Reduced losses in water recycling capacity of g. Introduction of Condition based monitoring to treated water from Multi Effect Evaporator-MEE reduce Breakdowns, improve productivity. Unit (ETP) by adopting cold weld technology of Belzona for leakage arresting. h. Initiation of RCM (reliability cantered maintenance) of Utility systems. d. Adoption of Steam Boilers with LNG fuel technology instead of Furnace oil boiler & replaced i. Initiated Automation in DG sets electrical panels to hydrogen with LNG in the production machines. reduce start up time during power failure. e. Replacing HVAC old AHUs, adopted new direct 2. The steps taken by the Company for utilising drive technology in AHU’s reducing the net alternate sources of energy power consumption. a. Preliminary feasibility study of adopting solar power initiated for Optic Fibre Plants. f. Initiation of Automation in Environmental chambers to utilise with Coil coolers. b. Initiated 300 KVA Roof top solar systems with auto cleaning of panels. g. Installation of centralised SCADA system for Utility section. c. Recycling and reuse of water in different processes in plants. h. Barcode job card automation for Bobbin tracking systems for buffering. d. Initiated procurement of High Recovery RO. i. Temperature based cooling tower e. Initiated SCADA for complete Utility to increase control is initiated. efficiency to rated level. j. Improved line speed in Buffering from f. Installation of transparent roof sheet in shop-floor 600 to 750 mpm. for more to increase the illumination level & to reduce the usage of overhead lights in day time. Annual Report 2018-19 83 Directors’ Report contd. k. Installation of closed loop heat exchanger system individual ribbons very flexible, easy to strip and handle, to reduce chilled water losses. thus enabling first-time-right splicing. l. Initiation of Diesel consumption optimisation by  Rugged-micro duct_432F for Dual purpose Blow/Pull use of dual trigger APFC relay for reactive power for Trunk fiberisation. compensation during DG set operation. Next Gen Micro cable _576F (24F*(9+15)LT) m. Initiated implementation of ECO mode in UPS Microcable with improved duct to cable fill ratio system through parallel operation of UPS to and right-of-way utilisation. This design utilises reduce power consumption by 12.5 lakhs re-Engineered buffer tube material for optimum cable units per year. packing efficiency. Our cable can easily be blown into microducts of 13mm and above. 2. The benefits derived like product improvement, cost reduction, product development or import 72F NextGen Micro Overblowing 72F overblow substitution cable boosts network capability without much CapEx a. Our primary product 652D fiber scrap reduced investment and this cable deploys nearly 500 m. from 14% to 10% resulting in additional volume cable in 15 minutes. and reduction in product cost. NextGen Microcable_432F (24F*(6+12)LT) Our b. In house fluorination to substitute Import of Patented product provides maximum fibres in a Flourine doped tube for our New product G 657A2 Microcable with improved duct to cable fill ratio for Europe market. This project may completely and right-of-way utilisation. This design utilises substitute high value Fluorine doped tube re-engineered buffer tube material for optimum cable imports in future. packing efficiency. Our cable can easily blown into microducts of 10mm and above. c. In-house cladding for G657 A2 to substitute high cost Rod In Cylinder (RIC) collapsed preform and Construction Products Regulations (CPR) certification Shinitsu made preform. This project will replace – Successfully conducted Product testing and Factory costly G657 A2 glass purchase to cater to demand Production Control audit at our Silvassa vicinity for OFC upto 15 mn per annum. and speciality cable divisions. d. New Product G 657A2 scaled up to 10 Mn run rate Flexi Armor Cable “Fast and Efficient underground enabling presence of approximate 40% in FTTH network rollout” , Scalable cable design enabling lesser France market. Total road map available upto 30 time to market with a 25% Lighter Ease of Handling & Mn scale up as per market need. Improved Blowing efficiency of 16% Reduced Diameter as compared with conventional armor cable. e. Designed and built take up and preform feed in-house with additional features and integrated 48F Indicium cable Successful field trials in aerial with the existing towers. installation by LGI. f. Upgraded control system to Programmable Logic Re-invented ADSS cable with GRY Suitable for span Control system, designed and executed by Indian lengths of 80 meter which can comply stringent tests partner instead of importing new machines. like 1mn Galloping test and 10mn Aeolian vibration test. g. Successful trial taken to manufacture G657 A2  imulation capabilities for optical fiber cables OFC S under 200 microns diameter to help our cable plant added significant value for the Indian cable plants to launch new products by increasing the industry by incorporating engineering simulations into fiber count in the available cable space. cable research programs. Adding this capability into the hands of optical fiber cable researchers would Product Development results in developing world class optical fiber cables At Optic Fiber Cables (OFC), below new products in India. OFC plant started utilising this ability for new were developed: cable development.  TruRibbon –“Highest fiber density in the most Optic Fiber compact cable package “The patented technology Keeping the customer centric approach and address the of our Revolutionary TruRibbon Cables makes the fueling demand for TruRibbon and Microcable Sterlite® 84 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS developed the two next generation reduced diameter C. Foreign Exchange Earnings and optical fiber product which is compliant to ITU 657A2 and ITU G.657A1/D. Next generation MICRO BOW-LIT(E) Single Outgo Mode Optical Fiber is a reduced coating diameter with Discussion on activities relating to development of ultralow bend sensitivity. Sterlite® MICRO BOW-LITETM (E) exports is covered in the Management Discussion & is ideal for market requirement of Access and Fiber To The Analysis Report. Home (FTTH) applications particularly in-building use and in Foreign Exchange Actual Inflow: ` 1,510.10 crores cables with high fiber counts and lower diameter micro cable and TruRibbon. Sterlite next generation reduced diameter Foreign Exchange Actual Outflow: ` 1,582.72 crores product enables optical fiber cable designer to go for high density, reduced diameter TruRibbon and Microcable. D. Environment and Sustiability 3. In case of imported technology (imported during Project Zero waste to landfill the last three years reckoned from the beginning As part of Zero waste to landfill initiative, OFC – Rakholi of the financial year) – Not Applicable unit has achieved an incredible feet by obtaining “Zero a. The details of technology imported waste to landfill” certification by Intertek. On achieving the same STL OFC – Rakholi unit is the first in India b. The year of import among optical fibre manufacturing facility and one of c. Whether the technology been fully absorbed very few industry in the world to get certified. The OFC – Rakholi unit divert nearly 99.5% of waste away from d. If not fully absorbed, areas where absorption has landfill/incineration however, the primary focus of the not taken place, and the reasons thereof company is a reduction of waste at source. 4. The expenditure incurred on Research and Development (` crores) a. Capital – 12.94 b. Recurring – 34.98 c. Total – 47.92 d. Total R&D expenditure as a % of total turnover – 1% Annual Report 2018-19 85 Directors’ Report contd. Annexure VII 1) A brief outline of the Company’s CSR Policy, including overview of projects or programs proposed to be undertaken and a reference to the web-link to the CSR policy and projects or programs. Transforming Everyday Living, by Delivering Smarter Networks is how STL envisions enabling a connected future for India that is inclusive for all. The Company has warranted this by ensuring that Connectivity, Innovation and Sustainability are not just fundamental to how it operates as a business, but also incorporated into every effort to ‘Create Shared Value’. STL’s CSR and Sustainability focus areas, realigned in 2017 Education, Women Empowerment, Health and Environment are interconnected and power each other through their alignment with the UN Sustainable Development Goals and Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Network. This, in addition to strategic partnerships with the Government of India, NGOs, technical institutions and other development players allows STL to create holistic solutions that positively impact and contribute to the realisation of integrated development for rural, semi-urban and urban areas in India. The Company’s updated CSR Policy, including an overview of projects or programs proposed to be undertaken can be viewed on the link mentioned below: https://www.sterlitetech.com/pdf/coc/18_jan__CSR_Policy_approved_by_the_Board_of_Directors.html 2) The Composition of the Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (CSR Committee) a. Mr. Arun Todarwal (Independent Director) b. Mr. A. R. Narayanaswamy (Independent Director) c. Mr. Pravin Agarwal d. Dr. Anand Agarwal 3) Average net profit of the Company for last three financial years: ` 268.60 crores. 4) Prescribed CSR Expenditure (two per cent of the amount as in item 3 above): The Company is required to spend 2% of last three years’ average net profit – ` 5.37 crores 5) Details of CSR spent during the financial year – a. Total amount to be spent for FY19: ` 5.37 crores b. Amount unspent, if any – Nil c. Amount Actually spent on CSR: ` 5.48 crores d. Manner in which the amount spent during the financial year is detailed below – (` In lakhs) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Sl. No. CSR project or Activity Identified Sector Location Amount outlay Amount Cumulative Amount (budget), spent on the expenditure spent: Direct project or projects upto the or through program wise (lakhs) reporting implementing (lakhs) period (lakhs) agency* 1 Jeewan Jyoti Women Empowerment Education, Pune 157.00 193.90 661.37 Direct Institution Vocational training and Women holistic development program for Empowerment women from rural communities Jeewan Jyoti Ved Vidyalaya Education Pune 41.00 50.00 89.13 Direct Preservation of heritage language Educational Scholarships and Education, Multiple 13.00 13.00 13.00 Direct donations Health locations 86 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS (` In lakhs) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Sl. No. CSR project or Activity Identified Sector Location Amount outlay Amount Cumulative Amount (budget), spent on the expenditure spent: Direct project or projects upto the or through program wise (lakhs) reporting implementing (lakhs) period (lakhs) agency* 2 Virtual Classroom Project Education Mumbai 76.00 72.00 269.28 Direct Technology based quality education program for underprivileged children from urban slums, in PPP with Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) Pragyan Technology based Education Jaipur 64.00 70.00 70.00 Direct quality education program for underprivileged children combined with training for the teachers. 3 Green Belt Plan sustainable green Environment Aurangabad 30.00 18.00 23.47 Direct zone development, etc. 4 Mobile Medical Unit Enabling Health Silvassa 24.00 13.50 82.89 In-direct access to preventative and curative healthcare services across tribal communities in Diu, Daman, Dadra, Silvassa area 5 Smart Nandghars Redeveloping Education Silvassa 58.00 57.00 57.00 Direct existing government Anganwadis at Silvassa and equiping them with a setup at par with private play schools. 6 Educational Scholarships and Education Silvassa 22.00 12.50 53.84 Direct donations 7 Community service Education, Multiple 23.00 6.00 6.00 Direct+ Women locations Indirect Empowerment, Environment 8 Disaster Relief 16.00 16.00 Direct 9 Social Enterprise Incubation Education, Multiple 2.00 2.60 14.00 Indirect Education and Healthcare Health, locations interventions Community Development 10 Administration and Management Admin Multiple 27.00 23.50 54.16 Direct + locations Indirect TOTAL 537.00 548.00 1,410.14 *Details of implementing agencies: Sterlite Tech Foundation (Pune), Jnana Prabodhini (Pune), Tilak Maharashtra Vidyapeeth (Pune), Maharshi Ved Vyas Pratishthan (Pune), MCGM (Mumbai), Reniscience (Mumbai), UnLtd India (Mumbai), SSR Memorial Foundation (Silvassa), Indian Red Cross Society (Silvassa), UT Administration (Silvassa, D&NH) Note:CSR activities have been carried out either through Sterlite Tech Foundation (Public Charitable Trust with 3 years track record) or directly by the Company through administrative support of several Implementing Agencies as mentioned above and other Non-Governmental Organisations or Charitable Institutions. 6) In case the Company has failed to spend the two per cent of the average net profit of the last three financial years or any part thereof, the Company shall provide the reasons for not spending the amount in its Board report. – Not Applicable 7) CSR committee responsibility statement CSR Committee confirms that the implementation and monitoring of CSR activities is in compliance with CSR objectives and policy of the Company. Date: April 23, 2019 Anand Agarwal Arun Todarwal Place: Pune CEO & Whole Time Director Chairman CSR Committee Annual Report 2018-19 87 Corporate Governance Report Philosophy of the Company on Code of Listing Regulations’), requiring not less than half the Board to Governance be Independent. Corporate Governance represents the value, ethical and moral framework under which business decisions are taken. All the Independent Directors have confirmed that they The investors want to be sure that not only is their capital meet the ‘independence’ criteria as mentioned under Listing handled effectively and adds to the creation of wealth, but Regulations. All Directors have made necessary disclosures the business decisions are also taken in a manner which is regarding Committee positions and Directorships held by not illegal or involves moral hazard. them in other companies. None of the Directors is a Member of more than ten Committees and Chairman of more than Your Company perceives good corporate governance five Committees (Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ practices as key to sustainable corporate growth and Relationship Committee) across all companies in which he long-term shareholder value creation. The primary / she is a Director. None of the Company’s Independent objective is to develop and adhere to a corporate culture Directors served as Independent Director in more than of harmonious and transparent functioning, increasing seven listed companies. The appointment of the Whole-time employee and client satisfaction and enhancing Directors, including their tenure and remuneration are also shareholders’ wealth by developing capabilities and approved by the Board. identifying opportunities that best serve the goal of value creation. Mr. Pravin Agarwal and Dr. Anand Agarwal, Whole-time Directors of the Company, are not appointed as Independent The Company has a three-tier governance structure: Directors of any Listed Company. Mr. Anil Agarwal and Mr. Pravin Agarwal are brothers. Mr. Pratik Agarwal is the son Strategic The Board of Directors occupies the topmost of Mr. Pravin Agarwal. supervision tier in the governance structure. It plays a role of strategic supervision that is devoid In the opinion of Board, the Independent Directors fulfill of involvement in the task of strategic the conditions specified in the Listing Regulations and are management of the Company. The Board lays independent of the management. down strategic goals and exercises control to ensure that the Company is progressing to Ms. Avaantika Kakkar, Independent Director resigned during fulfill stakeholders’ aspirations. FY19 due to other pre-occupations. Further, Ms. Kakkar has Strategic The Executive Committee is composed of also confirmed that there are no material reasons other than management the senior management of the Company and the above for her resignation. operates upon the directions of the Board. Executive The function of Management Committee Board Meetings management is to execute and realise the goals that During FY19, six Board Meetings were held. The said are laid down by the Board and the meetings were held on April 25, 2018, July 19, 2018, Executive Committee. September 14, 2018, October 24, 2018, December 19, 2018 and January 24, 2019. The maximum time-gap Board of Directors between any two consecutive meetings did not exceed Composition of Board one hundred and twenty days. Video/Tele-conferencing The Board of Directors of the Company (“the Board”) facilities were made available to facilitate Directors travelling comprises of two Whole-time Directors and six abroad, or present at other locations, to participate in Non-Executive Directors including one Woman Director. the meetings. As required by Part A of Schedule II to the Mr. Anil Agarwal is a Non-Executive Chairman and Listing Regulations, all the necessary information was Mr. Pravin Agarwal is the Vice Chairman of the Board. placed before the Board from time to time. The Board The Board composition is in compliance with the also reviews the declaration made by the Chief Executive requirements of Regulation 17 of SEBI (Listing Obligations Officer regarding compliance with all applicable laws on a and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘the quarterly basis as also steps taken to remediate instances of non-compliances, if any. 88 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS The composition of the Board, their attendance in meetings, other Directorships and Committee memberships and their shareholding in the Company are as follows: Name Category Board Meetings Board Meetings Attendance at Directorships Committee Number of held during attended the last AGM in other Memberships & shares held in FY19 held on Companies1 [Chairperson the Company June26, ships] in other as on March 31, 2018 Companies2 2019 Anil Agarwal, Chairman Promoter 06 02 No 02 Nil Nil Non-Executive Arun Todarwal Independent 06 06 Yes 10 08 [04] 2,300 Non-Executive A. R. Narayanaswamy Independent 06 06 No 07 7 [03] 1,000 Non-Executive Avaantika Kakkar3 Independent 01 01 NA 09 Nil Nil Non-Executive Sandip Das Independent 06 06 No Nil Nil 3,420 Non-Executive Kumud Srinivasan4 Independent 05 04 No Nil Nil Nil Non-Executive Pravin Agarwal, Vice Promoter, Executive 06 05 Yes 05 02 11,29,750 Chairman & Whole-time Director Anand Agarwal, CEO & Executive 06 06 Yes 04 Nil 9,72,470 Whole-time Director Pratik Agarwal Promoter 06 04 No 04 02 1,18,340 Non-Executive 1. All public, private, foreign, Section 8 Companies are included. Directorship in Sterlite Technologies Limited has been excluded. 2. As required by Regulation 26 of the Listing Regulations, the disclosure includes membership/chairmanship of audit committee and stakeholders relationship committee in Indian public companies (listed and unlisted). Committee positions held in Sterlite Technologies Limited have been excluded. 3. Ms. Avaantika Kakkar ceased to be a Director effective from May 22, 2018. 4. Ms. Kumud Srinivasan was appointed as Director effective from May 22, 2018. Details of Directorships in Other Listed Entities Director Listed Entities Category of Directorship Mr. Anil Agarwal Nil NA Mr. Arun Todarwal 1) Sterlite Power Transmission Limited* Independent Director (In all companies) 2) Sterlite Grid 2 Limited * 3) Anuh Pharma Limited 4) Hindustan Zinc Limited Mr. A. R. Narayanaswamy 1) Hindustan Zinc Limited Independent Director (In all companies) 2) Sterlite Power Grid Ventures Limited* 3) Sterlite Grid 2 Limited* Mr. Sandip Das Nil NA Ms. Kumud Srinivasan Nil NA Mr. Pravin Agarwal 1) Sterlite Power Grid Ventures Limited* Non-executive Director (In all companies) 2) Sterlite Power Transmission Limited* Mr. Anand Agarwal Nil NA Mr. Pratik Agarwal 1) Sterlite Power Grid Ventures Limited* Non-Executive Director 2) Sterlite Power Transmission Limited* Managing Director & CEO *Debt listed companies. Information provided to the Board financial results and their analysis, governance matters Information is provided to the Board members on regular and legal updates. The Statutory Agenda for Board and basis for their review, inputs and approvals. The quarterly Committee meetings is sent well in advance as per the Board Meeting presentations (made by the CEO to the statutory timelines. All material information is incorporated Board) provide adequate information to Directors on in the agenda for facilitating meaningful and focused strategy, future roadmap, technology, functional updates, discussions at the meeting. Annual Report 2018-19 89 Corporate Governance Report contd. Further, Chief Operating Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial 1. Reviewing the Company’s financial reporting process Officer (CFO) have interactions with all Directors at the and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure Board Meeting; Members of senior Management also attend the financial statement is correct, sufficient and credible. the Board Meetings at times to provide detailed insight to the Board Members. 2. Reviewing with the management, external and internal auditors, the adequacy of internal audit function, the Separate meeting of Independent Directors structure of the internal audit department, staffing As stipulated by the Code of Independent Directors and seniority of the official heading the department, under the Act, and the Listing Regulations, a separate reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal meeting of the Independent Directors of the Company audit, significant findings by internal auditors and was held on January 24, 2019 to review the performance follow up there on. of Non-Independent Directors (including the Chairman) and the Board as whole. The Independent Directors also 3. Recommending the appointment, terms of appointment reviewed the quality, content and timeliness of the flow of and removal of auditors and the fixation of audit fees, information between the Management and the Board and it’s including, payment to Statutory Auditors for any other Committees which is necessary to effectively and reasonably services rendered and any other related payments. perform and discharge their duties. 4. Reviewing the Statutory and Internal Auditor’s Induction and Familiarisation of Board Members independence and performance and scrutinizing the Upon appointment, the concerned Director is issued effectiveness of the entire Audit process. a Letter of Appointment setting out in detail, the terms of appointment, duties, responsibilities and expected 5. Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations time commitments. Each newly appointed Independent by the internal auditors into matters where there is Director is taken through a formal induction program suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal including the presentation from the Whole-time Director control systems of a material nature and reporting the & CEO on the Company’s manufacturing, marketing, matter to the Board. finance and other important functions. The Company Secretary briefs the Directors about their legal and 6. Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly regulatory responsibilities as a Director. The induction and annual financial statements and the Auditors’ for Independent Directors includes interactive sessions report before submission to the Board for approval, with Executive Committee Members, Business and focusing primarily on: Functional Heads, visit to the manufacturing site and more. On matters of specialised nature, the Company a. Matters required to be included in the Directors' engages outside experts/consultants for presentation and Responsibility Statement to be included in the discussion with the Board members. The familiarisation Board’s report. programme of directors forms part of Company’s b. Compliance with accounting standards and Nomination and Remuneration Policy and can be viewed changes in accounting policies and practices and on the Company’s website in “Investors” section at the link reasons for the same. https://www.sterlitetech.com/Code-of-Conduct-and-Policies. c. Major accounting entries involving estimates Committees of the Board based on exercise of judgment by Management. I. Audit Committee d. Audit qualifications and significant adjustments The Audit Committee of the Board is governed by a Charter arising out of audit. drawn in accordance with the requirements of the Act and Regulation 18 of the Listing Regulations and Section 177 e. Significant adjustments made in the financial of the Act. The primary objective of the Audit Committee statements arising out of Audit findings. of the Board of Directors is to discharge responsibilities f. Compliance with listing and other legal relating to accounting and reporting of financial practices requirements relating to financial statements. adopted by the Company and its subsidiaries, surveillance of internal financial control systems as well as accounting and g. Disclosure of any related party transactions. audit activities. h. Modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report; The terms of reference of the Audit Committee include: i. Reviewing draft audit report in the format of Key Audit Matters KAM Report 90 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS 7. Reviewing, with the management, the statement of including existing loans / advances / investments uses/application of funds raised through an issue existing amounts. (public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, etc.), the statement of funds utilised for purposes other than 20. Reviewing the following information: those stated in the offer document/prospectus/notice a. management discussion and analysis of financial and the report submitted by the monitoring agency condition and results of operations; monitoring the utilisation of proceeds of a public or rights issue, and making appropriate recommendations b. statement of significant related party to the Board to take up steps in this matter. transactions (as defined by the audit committee), submitted by management; 8. To review statement of deviations: c. management letters / letters of internal control i. quarterly statement of deviation(s) including report weaknesses issued by the statutory auditors; of monitoring agency, if applicable, submitted to d. internal audit reports relating to internal control stock exchange(s) in terms of Regulation 32(1) weaknesses; and SEBI Listing Regulations. e. the appointment, removal and terms of ii. annual statement of funds utilised for remuneration of the chief internal auditor shall be purposes other than those stated in the offer subject to review by the audit committee. document/prospectus/notice in terms of Regulation 32(7) of SEBI Listing Regulations. f. Reviewing compliance with the provisions of the Code of Conduct to Regulate, Monitor and Report 9. Discussing with external auditors, nature and scope of Trading in the Securities of the Company and audit as well as having post-audit discussions. applicable SEBI Regulations and to verify that the systems for internal controls are adequate and 10. Reviewing the Company’s financial and risk are operating effectively and to amend, modify, management policies and risk management systems. interpret the Code. Composition and Meetings 11. Reviewing Whistle Blower Mechanism (Vigil mechanism The Audit Committee comprises of three as per of the Companies Act, 2013). Independent Directors and one Executive Director. Mr. A.R.Narayanaswamy, Chairman of the Committee 12. Approving any transactions or subsequent modifications (Independent Director) is a Chartered Accountant and has of transactions with related parties. accounting and financial expertise. The other Committee members also are financially literate. The quorum of the 13. Reviewing inter-corporate loans and investments. Committee is two members or one-third of its members, whichever is higher with at least two Independent Directors. 14. Reviewing valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company, if necessary. The Chairman of the Audit Committee attended the last Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) of the Company. 15. Reviewing financial statements and investments made The Audit Committee met four times during FY19 i.e., by subsidiary companies. on April 25, 2018; July 19, 2018; October 24, 2018 and January 24, 2019 and the gap between two meetings did 16 Evaluating reasons for any substantial defaults in not exceed one hundred and twenty days. The composition payment to the depositors, debenture holders, of Audit Committee and attendance details of its shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared meetings is as follows: dividend) and creditors, if any. Number of Meetings Name Category 17. Reviewing the effectiveness of the system for attended A. R. Narayanaswamy, Non-Executive & 04 monitoring compliance with laws and regulations. *Chairman Independent Director Arun Todarwal Non-Executive & 04 18. Approving the appointment of CFO after assessing Independent Director the qualification, experience and background etc. Pravin Agarwal Vice Chairman & 03 of the candidate. Whole-time Director Sandip Das Non-Executive & 04 19. Reviewing the utilisation of loans and/ or advances Independent Director from/investment by the holding company in the *Mr. A. R. Narayanaswamy was appointed as a Chairman effective subsidiary exceeding rupees 100 crores or 10% of October 24, 2018. the asset size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower Annual Report 2018-19 91 Corporate Governance Report contd. Audit Committee meetings are usually attended by the Secretary acts as the Secretary to Nomination and Executive Directors, the CFO and representatives of Remuneration Committee. The Composition of Nomination Statutory Auditors and Internal Auditors. Business CEOs and and Remuneration Committee and attendance details of its Functional Heads are also invited to the meetings, as and meetings is as follows: when needed. The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary Number of Meetings to Audit Committee. The Internal Audit function reports to the Name Category attended Audit Committee to ensure its independence. Sandip Das Chairman* Non-Executive & 05 Independent Director II. Nomination and Remuneration Committee Arun Todarwal Non-Executive & 05 The powers, role and terms of reference of the Nomination Independent Director A. R. Narayanaswamy Non-Executive & 05 and Remuneration Committee covers the areas as provided Independent Director under Regulation 19 of the Listing Regulations and Section Kumud Srinivasan** Non-Executive & 01 178 of the Act, besides other terms as referred by the Board. Independent Director *Mr. Sandip Das was appointed as a Chairman effective October 24, 2018 The terms of reference of the Nomination and Remuneration **Ms. Kumud Srinivasan was appointed as a Member effective Committee include: October 24, 2018 1. Formulation of the criteria for determining qualifications, III. Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee positive attributes and independence of a director The powers, role and terms of reference of the Stakeholders’ and recommend to the Board a policy, relating to the Relationship Committee covers the areas as provided under remuneration of the directors, key managerial personnel Regulation 20 read with Part D of Schedule II of the Listing and other employees; Regulations and Section 178 of the Act, besides other terms as referred by the Board. 2. Formulation of criteria for evaluation of Independent Directors and the Board; The terms of reference of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee include: 3. Reviewing whether to extend or continue the term 1. Resolving the grievances of the security holders of appointment of the independent director, on the of the listed entity including complaints related to basis of the report of performance evaluation of transfer/transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual independent directors; report, non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of new/duplicate certificates, general meetings etc. 4. Devising a policy on Board diversity; 2. Review of measures taken for effective exercise of 5. Identifying persons who are qualified to become voting rights by shareholders. directors and who may be appointed in senior management in accordance with the criteria 3. Review of adherence to the service standards adopted laid down, and recommend to the Board their by the listed entity in respect of various services being appointment and removal; rendered by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent. 6. Administration of Employee Stock Option Scheme(s); 4. Review of the various measures and initiatives taken by the listed entity for reducing the quantum of unclaimed 7. Recommend to the Board, all remuneration, in whatever dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend form, payable to senior management, i.e. all members warrants/annual reports/statutory notices by the of management one level below the chief executive shareholders of the company. officer/managing director/whole time director/manager (including chief executive officer/manager, in case they Composition and Meetings are not part of the board) and shall specifically include The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee oversees company secretary and chief financial officer. redressal of stakeholders’ grievances. The Committee met four times during the FY19 i.e., on April 25, 2018, Composition and Meetings July 19, 2018, October 24, 2018 and January 24, 2019. The Committee comprises of four Non-Executive Further during the year, the Company received 654 Independent Directors. Mr. Sandip Das is the Chairman of the complaints for various matters like non-receipt of share Committee. The Committee met five times during the FY19 certificates, non-issue of duplicate certificates, rejection of i.e., on April 25, 2018; July 19, 2018, October 10, 2018, demat requests. All the complaints were resolved to the October 24, 2018 and January 24, 2019. The Company satisfaction of investors. Mr. Amit Deshpande, Company 92 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS Secretary acts as the Compliance Officer of the Company. Composition and Meetings The composition of Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee No meeting of Risk Management Committee was held during and attendance details of its meetings is as follows: FY19. The Composition of Risk Management Committee is as follows:Number of Meetings Name Category attended Name Category Kumud Srinivasan, Non-Executive & 02 Sandip Das Non-Executive & Independent Director Chairperson* Independent Director Avaantika Kakkar** Non-Executive & 01 Pravin Agarwal Vice Chairman & Whole-time Director Independent Director Anand Agarwal Chief Executive Officer & Whole-time Director Arun Todarwal Non-Executive & 04 Anupam Jindal Chief Financial Officer Independent Director Pravin Agarwal Vice Chairman & 03 Whole-time Director V. Sustainability and Corporate Social Sandip Das Non-Executive & 04 Responsibility Committee Independent Director The Committee’s primary role is to assist the Company in discharging its social responsibilities. The Committee *Ms. Kumud Srinivasanwas inducted as a Chairperson w.e.f. May 22, 2018 monitors the implementation of the Corporate Social **Ms. Avaantika Kakkar ceased to be Chairperson w.e.f May 22, 2018 Responsibility Policy and oversees Company’s sustainability IV. Risk Management Committee initiatives. The Committee’s constitution and terms of According to SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure reference meet with the requirements of the Act and Rules Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, effective, made thereunder. Its terms of reference include: April 1, 2019, it is mandatory for Top 500 listed entities to have a Risk Management Committee with majority of 1. To formulate and recommend to the Board, a members being directors. The Board of Directors has Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (CSR Policy) accordingly, constituted Risk Management Committee or its modification which shall indicate the activities effective January 24, 2019. to be undertaken by the Company as specified in Schedule VII; The powers, role and terms of reference of the Risk Management Committee covers the areas as provided under 2. To recommend the amount of expenditure Regulation 21 of the Listing Regulations besides other terms to be incurred on the activities as prescribed as referred by the Board. under CSR Policy; The terms of reference of the Risk Management 3. To monitor the CSR Policy of the Company Committee include: from time to time. 1. Resolving the grievances of the security holders 4. To approve the Corporate Sustainability Report and of the listed entity including complaints related to oversee the implementation of sustainability activities. transfer/transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual report, non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of 5. To formulate and recommend to the Board policies, new/duplicate certificates, general meetings etc. principles and practices to foster the sustainable growth of the Company and to respond to evolving public 2. Review of measures taken for effective exercise of sentiment and government regulations. voting rights by shareholders. 6. To aid management in setting strategy, establishing 3. Review of adherence to the service standards adopted goals and integrating sustainability into daily business by the listed entity in respect of various services being activities across the Company. rendered by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent. 7. To review and advise the Board on Company’s 4. Review of the various measures and initiatives taken by sustainability reporting and sustainability targets. the listed entity for reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend 8. To review management’s risk assessment and risk warrants/annual reports/statutory notices by the management policies and procedures with respect to shareholders of the company. sustainability impacts and considerations. Annual Report 2018-19 93 Corporate Governance Report contd. The Committee met once during FY19 on April 25, 2018. • Leadership The composition of Sustainability and Corporate Social • Strategic planning and oversight Responsibility Committee and attendance details of its meetings is as follows: • Operational oversight Number of Meetings • Financial skills Name Category attended Arun Todarwal, Non-Executive & 01 • Risk management and internal control Chairman Independent A.R. Narayanaswamy Non-Executive & 01 • Experience and knowledge of the industry Independent • Geographic, gender and cultural diversity Pravin Agarwal Vice Chairman & 01 Whole-time Director • Technology skills Anand Agarwal CEO & Whole-time Director 01 • Member and stakeholder engagement VI. Other Committees The Board as a whole should also encompass The Board has also constituted the following Committees, to desirable diversity in aspects such as gender, age and assist in discharging its functions – different perspectives. 1. Banking and Authorisation Committee Policy for Selection and Appointment of 2. Allotment Committee Directors and their Remuneration The Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) has These Committees operate within the limit of authorities, as adopted a Charter which, inter alia, deals with the manner of delegated by the Board of Directors. selection of the Directors, KMP and Senior Management and their remuneration. This Policy is accordingly derived from Board Evaluation the said Charter. The Board of Directors of the Company is committed to assessing its own performance as a Board in order to a. Appointment Criteria and Qualification: identify its strengths and areas in which it may improve its The NRC shall identify and ascertain the integrity, functioning. To that end, the Nomination and Remuneration qualification, expertise and experience of the person Committee has established processes for performance for appointment as Director in terms of Diversity evaluation of Independent Directors, the Board and Policy of the Board and recommend to the Board his / Committees of the Board. her appointment. Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, and the Listing For the appointment of KMP (other than Managing Regulations, the Board has carried out an annual evaluation / Whole-time Director or Manager) or Senior of its own performance, performance of its Committees as Management, a person should possess adequate well as the directors individually. A structured evaluation qualification, expertise and experience for the position was carried out based on various parameters such as skills he / she is considered for the appointment. and experience to perform the role, level of participation, contribution to strategy, degree of oversight, professional b. Term: conduct and independence. The Term of the Directors including Managing / Whole time Director / Manager/ Independent Director shall be Chart or a Matrix Setting out the List of Core governed as per the provisions of the Act and Rules Skills/Expertise/Competencies made thereunder and Listing Regulations, as amended The skills and attributes of the Board can be broadly from time to time. categorised as follows: Whereas the term of the KMP (other than the • Governance skills (skills directly relevant to performing the Managing / Whole-time Director/ Manager) and Senior Board’s key functions); Management shall be governed by the prevailing HR policies of the Company. • Industry skills (skills relevant to the industry); • Personal attributes or qualities that are considered c. Removal: desirable to be an effective Director. Due to reasons for any disqualification mentioned in the Act or under any other applicable Act, Rules and The Board has identified below matrix, which will be used Regulations there under and / or for any disciplinary this as a guide to ensure reasonable diversity and a broad reasons and subject to such applicable Acts, Rules range of skills are evident across the Board: and Regulations and the Company’s prevailing HR 94 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS policies, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee the Whole-time Director based on the standard market may recommend, to the Board, with reasons recorded practice and prevailing HR policies of the Company. in writing, removal of a Director, KMP or Senior Management Personnel. e. Remuneration to Non-executive / Independent Director: d. Remuneration of Managing / Whole-time The remuneration / commission / sitting fees, as the Director, KMP and Senior Management case may be, to the Non-Executive / Independent The remuneration / compensation / commission, etc., Director, shall be in accordance with the provisions of as the case may be, to the Managing / Whole-time the Act and the Rules made thereunder for the time Director will be determined by the NRC Committee being in force or as may be decided by the Committee / and recommended to the Board for approval. Board / shareholders. The remuneration / compensation / commission, etc., as the case may be, shall be subject to the prior / post An Independent Director shall not be entitled to approval of the shareholders of the Company and any stock option of the Company unless otherwise Central Government, wherever required and shall be permitted in terms of the Act and Listing Regulations, as in accordance with the provisions of the Act and Rules amended from time to time. made thereunder. Further, the Whole-time Director of the Company is authorised to decide the remuneration The complete text of the Nomination and Remuneration of KMP (other than Managing/ Whole-time Director) and Policy can be accessed on Company’s website at the link: Senior Management, and which shall be decided by https://www.sterlitetech.com/Code-of-Conduct-and-Policies. Details of Remuneration paid to the Directors Mr. Pravin Agarwal and Dr. Anand Agarwal are the two Executive Directors of the Company. Mr. Pravin Agarwal was appointed as Whole-time Director of the Company for a period of 5 years with effect from October 30, 2015. As per the terms of appointment, the agreement can be terminated by giving 90 days’ notice or equivalent pay by either of the sides. Dr. Anand Agarwal was appointed as Whole-time Director and designated as Chief Executive Officer of the Company for a period of 5 years with effect from July 30, 2015. As per the terms of appointment, the agreement can be terminated by giving 90 days’ notice or equivalent pay by either of the sides. In FY 19, sitting fee of ` 50,000/for attendance at each meeting of the Board and ` 25,000/for each meeting of the Committees of the Board, was paid to its Members (excluding Executive Directors). Remuneration by way of commission to non-executive directors is decided by the Board of Directors and distributed to them based on their participation and contribution at the Board and certain Committee meetings as well as time spent on operational matters other than at meetings. On August 4, 2015, Members had approved the payment of remuneration by way of commission to the NonExecutive directors of the Company, of a sum not exceeding 1% per annum of the net profits of the Company. The break-up of remuneration actually paid to directors (excluding provisions, if any) in FY19 is as follows: (` In lakhs) Salary / Incentive/ Director Sitting Fee Total Perquisites1 Commission Anil Agarwal Arun Todarwal 15.00 9.00 24.00 A. R. Narayanaswamy 15.00 6.50 21.50 Avaantika Kakkar(upto May 22, 2018) 15.00 0.75 15.75 Kumud Srinivasan (from May 22, 2018) NA 3.25 3.25 Pravin Agarwal 1,141.40 293.00 1,434.40 Anand Agarwal2 964.45 275.08 1,239.53 Pratik Agarwal 15.00 2.00 17.00 Sandip Das3 (from October 16, 2017) 7.50 7.25 14.75 1. As the liabilities for gratuity and leave encashment are provided on an actuarial basis for the Company as a whole, the said amounts are not included above. 2. Remuneration of Dr. Anand Agarwal also includes the perquisite value of Employee Stock Options (ESOPs) exercised by him during the year. He has exercised 1,29,570 options in FY19 against which equal number of shares were allotted to him. 1,30,000 options were granted to him in FY19, which are eligible for vesting over a period of five years. 3. The Company has paid ` 3.75 lakhs per month to Mr. Sandip Das as consultancy fees in FY19 for advisory services rendered by him in professional capacity and the same is not a part of his remuneration as Director. Annual Report 2018-19 95 Corporate Governance Report contd. General Body Meetings Particulars of last three Annual General Meetings of the Company: Date Venue Time Special Resolutions that were passed with requisite majority August 30, 2016 E1, MIDC Industrial 11.00 am • To offer or invite for subscription of Non-Convertible Debentures on private Area, Waluj, placement basis Aurangabad, Maharashtra – 431 • Raising of the funds through Qualified Institutional Placement (QIP)/ 136, India External Commercial Borrowings (ECBs) with rights of conversion into Shares/ Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds (FCCBs)/ American Depository Receipts (ADRs)/ Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) /Optionally or Compulsorily Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares (OCPs/CCPs) etc. pursuant to Section 62 of the Act July 4, 2017 E1, MIDC Industrial 11.00 am • To offer or invite for subscription of Non-Convertible Debentures on private Area, Waluj, Aurangabad, placement basis Maharashtra – 431 • Raising of the funds through Qualified Institutional Placement (QIP)/ 136, India External Commercial Borrowings (ECBs) with rights of conversion into Shares/ Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds (FCCBs)/ American Depository Receipts (ADRs)/ Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) /Optionally or Compulsorily Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares (OCPs/CCPs) etc. pursuant to Section 62 of the Act June 26, 2018 E1, MIDC Industrial 11.00 am • To offer or invite for subscription of Non-Convertible Debentures on private Area, Waluj, placement basis Aurangabad, Maharashtra – 431 • Raising of the funds through Qualified Institutional Placement (QIP) / 136, India External Commercial Borrowings (ECBs) with rights of conversion into Shares / Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds (FCCBs) / American Depository Receipts (ADRs) / Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) /Optionally or Compulsorily Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares (OCPs/CCPs) etc. pursuant to Section 62 of Companies Act, 2013 The Company had provided facility of e-voting pursuant Related Party Transactions to provisions of the Act and the Listing Regulations, to its All Related Party Transactions are approved by the Audit Members. A scrutinizer was appointed by the Company to Committee. Approval of the Board is taken, as needed, monitor and review the e-voting process. On completion in accordance with the Act and the Listing Regulations. of e-voting process, the Scrutinizer presented a report There were no materially significant transactions with related to the Chairman. All the resolutions were passed with parties during the financial year which were in conflict requisite majority. with the interest of the Company. No transaction with the Promoters, Directors or their relatives has a potential During FY19, no special resolutions were passed through conflict with the Company’s interest. The related party postal ballot. There is no special resolution proposed to be transactions are entered into based on considerations of conducted through postal ballot. various business exigencies, such as synergy in operations, sectoral specialisation and the Company’s long-term Subsidiary Companies strategy for sectoral investments, optimisation of market The Company has formulated a policy for determining share, profitability, legal requirements, liquidity and capital ‘material’ subsidiaries pursuant to the provisions of the resources of subsidiaries and associates. All related party Listing Regulations and the same is displayed on its transactions are negotiated on an arm’s length basis, and are website at link https://www.sterlitetech.com/Code-ofintended to further the Company’s interests. Conduct-and-Policies All transactions entered into with Related Parties as The applicable requirements of Regulation 24 of Listing defined under the Act and Regulation 23 of the Listing Regulations with respect to material subsidiary are complied Regulations during the FY 19 were in the ordinary with. Minutes of subsidiary companies are placed before course of business and on an arm’s length basis. the Board and the attention of the Directors is drawn to Suitable disclosures as required under the applicable significant transactions and arrangements entered into by Accounting Standards have been made in the notes to the the subsidiary companies. Financial Statements. The Board has approved the policy 96 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS on Related Party Transactions, which has been uploaded of the Whistleblower Policy are available at the link on the Company’s website in “Investors” section at link https://www.sterlitetech.com/Code-of-Conduct-and-Policies https://www.sterlitetech.com/Code-of-Conduct-and-Policies Prevention of Insider Trading Code Of Conduct The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for The Company has adopted a ‘Code of Business Conduct Regulating, Monitoring and Reporting of trading by insiders & Ethics’ to meet the changing internal and external of the Company (‘the Code’) as per the SEBI (Prohibition of environment for its employees at all levels including Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 with a view to regulate Senior Management and Directors. The Code has trading in securities by the Directors and designated also been posted on the Company’s website at link employees of the Company. Under the Code, the Company https://www.sterlitetech.com/Code-of-Conduct-and-Policies. has constituted Insider Trading Monitoring Committee for The Code serves as a guide to the employees of the overall administration of the Code. The Code requires Company to make informed and prudent decisions. pre-clearance for dealing in the Company’s shares and As required under the Listing Regulations, the affirmation of prohibits the purchase or sale of Company’s securities by the compliance with the Code has been obtained from Directors Directors and the designated employees while in possession and Senior Management personnel for FY19. of unpublished price sensitive information in relation to the Company and during the period when the Trading Disclosures in Relation to the Sexual Window is closed. Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, CEO and CFO Certification 2013: The Chief Executive Officer and Whole Time Director and During FY19, 1 pending complaint from last financial year the Chief Financial Officer of the Company give annual was resolved. No other complaint was pending as on certification on financial reporting and internal controls to the March 31, 2019. Board in terms of Regulation 17 of the Listing Regulations. The Chief Executive Officer and Whole-time Director and Vigil Mechanism/ Whistleblower Policy the Chief Financial Officer also give quarterly certification on The Company has a Vigil mechanism and has adopted financial results while placing the financial results before the a ‘Whistleblower Policy’, which has been communicated Board in terms of Regulation 33 of the Listing Regulations. to all employees along with Code of Business Conduct & The annual certificate for FY 19 given by the Chief Executive Ethics. The Whistleblower policy is the mechanism to help Officer and Whole-time Director and the Chief Financial the Company’s directors, employees, its subsidiaries and Officer is published in this Report. all external stakeholders to raise their concerns about any malpractice, impropriety, abuse or wrongdoing at an early Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit stage and in the right way, without fear of victimisation, A qualified Practising Company Secretary carries out a subsequent discrimination or disadvantage. The policy Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit on a quarterly basis encourages raising concerns within the Company rather to reconcile the total admitted capital with NSDL and CDSL than overlooking a problem. All Complaints under this policy and the total issued and listed capital. The Audit report is are reported to the Director Management Assurance, who submitted to the stock exchanges and is also placed before is independent of operating management and businesses. the Board. The audit confirms that the total issued/paid-up ‘Complaints’ can also be reported on a web-based portal, capital is in agreement with the aggregate of the total designated email id or toll-free number as below: number of shares in physical form and the total number of shares in dematerialised form (held with NSDL and CDSL). Web based Portal www.vedanta.ethicspoint.com Toll Free number 000 800 100 1681 Disclosures Email stl.whistleblower@sterlite.com a. The Company has complied with the requirements Mailing address Group Head – Management Assurance, of the Stock Exchanges, SEBI and other statutory Vedanta, 75 Nehru Road, authorities on all matters relating to capital markets. Vile Parle (E), Mumbai 400 099 No penalties or strictures were imposed on the Tel No. +9122 – 6646 1000, Company by the Stock Exchanges, SEBI or any statutory Fax No. +9122 – 6646 1450 authorities on any matter relating to the above. No person has been denied access to the Audit Committee. b. The Company has not received any complaints The Whistleblower policy has also been extended to external relating to child labour, forced labour, involuntary stakeholders like vendors, customers, etc. The details labour during FY19. Annual Report 2018-19 97 Corporate Governance Report contd. c. As a result of its businesses and the global nature of Means of Communication its operations, the Company is exposed in particular to a. Quarterly Financial Results are published in all-India market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange Editions of Financial Express and, in the Aurangabad rates and interest rates, while commodity price risks and Pune Edition of Maharashtra Times. arise from procurement. The Company has established internal guidelines for risk controlling procedures b. Results are also posted on the Company’s website: and for the use of financial instruments, including a www.sterlitetech.com and the websites of BSE clear segregation of duties with regard to financial Limited (BSE) and The National Stock Exchange of activities, settlement, accounting and the related India Limited (NSE). controlling. The guidelines upon which the Company’s risk management processes for financial risks are c. The Company displays official news releases and the based, are designed to identify and analyze these presentations made to institutional investors or to risks throughout the company, to set appropriate risk analysts on the website. limits and controls and to monitor the risks by means of reliable and up-to-date administrative and information d.  NSE Electronic Application Processing System systems. The guidelines and systems are regularly (NEAPS) and BSE Corporate Compliance & Listing reviewed and adjusted to changes in markets and Centre (the ‘Listing Centre’): NEAPS and BSE Listing products. The Company enters into forward contracts Centre are web-based applications designed by for hedging foreign exchange exposures against NSE/BSE for corporates. All periodical compliance exports and imports. filings like shareholding pattern, corporate governance report, media releases, among others are filed d. The Company has complied with all the mandatory electronically on these applications. requirements specified in Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub – regulation (2) of Regulation General Shareholder Information 46 of the Listing Regulations. Comments on adoption CIN L31300MH2000PLC269261 of non-mandatory requirements are given at the end Annual General Day, Date: Tuesday, July 23, 2019 of this report. Meeting Time: 11.00 a.m. E 1, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, Aurangabad 431136, Maharashtra, INDIA e. This Corporate Governance Report of the Company for the Financial Year ended as on March 31, 2019 Book Closure Dates Saturday, July 20, 2019 to Tuesday, July 23, 2019 (both days inclusive) is in compliance with the requirements of Corporate Dividend Dividend, if declared in the AGM will be paid Governance under Listing Regulations. Payment Date within the statutory time limits. f. Total fees for all services paid by the Company and Financial Calendar for FY20 (Financial Year April 1 to its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to PWC, March 31) (tentative) the statutory auditor and all entities in the network First Quarter Results End of July 2019 firm/network entity of which the statutory auditor is a Half Yearly Results End of October 2019 part, are as below: Third Quarter Results End of January 2020 (` in lakhs) Fourth Quarter/Annual Results End of April 2020 Entity Fees paid in FY 19 Sterlite Technologies Limited (STL) 86.67 Listing of shares on Stock Exchanges Subsidiaries of STL 8.00 The equity shares of the Company are listed on BSE Total 94.67 and NSE. Annual listing fees for the financial year ended March 31, 2019 have been paid to BSE and NSE. The Stock g. The Company has obtained a certificate from M/s. J. B. Codes of the Exchanges are as under: Bhave & Co., Company Secretary in practice that none of the directors on the Board of the Company, have Exchange Code Address BSE 53237 BSE Limited been debarred or disqualified from being appointed Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, or continuing as directors of companies by the Dalal Street Board/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory Mumbai400001 authority. The said certificate is attached to this Report. NSE STRTECH The National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. Exchange Plaza, Plot no. C/1, G Block, h. The Board has accepted all the recommendations Bandra-Kurla Complex, of its Committees during FY19, which were Bandra (E), Mumbai 400 051. mandatorily required. 98 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS Debt Securities The Company has outstanding Secured, Rated, Redeemable, Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs) of ` 300 crores. NCDs are listed on the debt segment of BSE Limited, as per the SEBI Guidelines and Listing Regulations. Stock Price Data Stock Price data for the period April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 is as detailed below: BSE Monthly BSE Monthly NSE Monthly NSE Monthly Month High (`) Low (`) High (`) Low (`) Apr-18 365.00 314.90 365.00 315.00 May-18 357.85 301.40 358.00 301.35 Jun-18 332.50 255.60 322.45 255.40 Jul-18 355.00 260.30 355.65 261.60 Aug-18 374.00 331.55 374.70 331.25 Sep-18 368.05 280.00 368.75 289.00 Oct-18 395.00 275.00 396.50 275.00 Nov-18 399.00 331.70 399.90 332.00 Dec-18 356.00 277.40 356.20 277.05 Jan-19 301.55 240.00 301.85 239.50 Feb-19 251.90 181.00 251.90 206.85 Mar-19 279.25 215.90 279.80 215.65 Sources: Data compiled from BSE & NSE official websites. Stock Performance The performance of the Company’s stock prices is given in the chart below: 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 28-03-2018 28-04-2018 28-05-2018 28-06-2018 28-07-2018 28-08-2018 28-09-2018 28-10-2018 28-11-2018 28-12-2018 28-01-2019 28-02-2019 STL BSE Sensex Midcap BSE 500 BSE Small Cap Annual Report 2018-19 99 Corporate Governance Report contd. Distribution of Shareholding as on March 31, 2019 Sr. No Category Cases % of Cases No. of shares % of shareholding 1 1-5000 1,75,169 98.65 58,072,888 14.43 2 500110000 1,244 0.70 8,931,511 2.22 3 1000120000 574 0.32 8,279,133 2.06 4 2000130000 194 0.11 4,874,735 1.21 5 3000140000 86 0.05 2 991,438 0.74 6 4000150000 58 0.03 2 624,323 0.65 7 50001100000 101 0.06 7,200,193 1.79 8 100001 & Above 145 0.08 3,09,567,502 76.90 Total: 1,77,571 100.00 4,02,541,723 100.00 Equity holding pattern as on March 31, 2019 The voting rights on the shares in the suspense account as Category Number of Shares % of Equity on March 31, 2019 shall remain frozen till the rightful owners Promoter Group 21,66,07,221 53.81 of such shares claim the shares. Banks, Mutual Funds, Trusts, Govt 43,570,616 10.82 & Insurance Companies, Indian Share Transfer System Financial Institutions, etc. Requests for Transfer/ Transmission of shares held in FIIs, Foreign National, Foreign 27,939,998 6.94 physical form can be lodged with the Company’s Registrar Portfolio Investors and NRIs and Transfer Agent, Karvy Fintech Private Limited (‘Karvy’), Bodies Corporates & NBFCs 14,977,823 3.72 Hyderabad. The requests are generally processed within Registered with RBI Individuals (Public) & HUFs 95,302,302 23.68 10-15 days of receipt of documents, if documents are Clearing Members 7,25,683 0.18 complete and valid in all respects. Shares under objection GDRs 74,700 0.02 are returned within 7-10 days. Others (including IEPF) 33,43,380 0.83 Total 402,541,723 100.00 Pursuant to Regulation 40(9) of the Listing Regulations, the Company submits to Stock Exchanges, a certificate, on half yearly basis, issued by a Practising Company Secretary for Dematerialisation of Shares and Liquidity due compliance of share transfer formalities by the Company. The Company’s equity shares are compulsorily traded in the electronic form. As on March 31, 2019, 39,91,77,624 Registrar & Transfer Agent shares representing 99.16% of total equity capital were held Karvy is the Registrar and Transfer Agent of the Company. in electronic form. The Shareholders can hold the shares in Shareholders, beneficial owners and Depository Participants, demat form either through NSDL or CDSL. The ISIN allotted (DPs) can send/deliver the documents/correspondence to the Company is INE089C01029. relating to the Company’s share transfer activity, etc. to Karvy at the following address: Outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any Convertible instruments, conversion date & likely impact on equity Karvy Fintech Private Limited The Company has 74,700 GDRs outstanding as on (Unit – Sterlite Technologies Limited) March 31, 2019. Karvy Selenium Tower-B, Plot No. 31 & 32, Financial District, Gachibowli, Nanakramguda, Details of outstanding shares in the Unclaimed Serilingampally Suspense Account Hyderabad 500 008 India In terms of Schedule V of Listing Regulations, the Company Phone No.: 040 67161524 E-mail: einward.ris@karvy.com reports the following details in respect of equity shares lying in the suspense account Shareholders’ correspondence should be addressed to the Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agents at the Particulars Total No. of No. of Outstanding Shareholders Shares lying in above-mentioned address. In case of unresolved complaints, Unclaimed the members may also write to the Company Secretary Suspense Account & Compliance Officer at the office of the Company as As on April 1, 2018 1263 9,05,220 detailed below: Shareholders approached for 22 9,215 transfer/delivery during FY 19 Shares transferred/delivered 22 9,215 during FY19 Shares transferred to IEPF 380 1,50,420 Balance as on March 31, 2019 861 7,45,585 100 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS Sterlite Technologies Limited Credit Rating Ground Floor, Godrej Millennium The Company’s credit rating ascribed by ICRA/ 9 Koregaon Road, Pune – 411 001 CRISIL as on date: Maharashtra, India Phone: +91-20-30514000 Fax: +91-20-30514113 Debt instrument ICRA CRISIL E-mail: secretarial@sterlite.com Rating Outlook Rating Outlook Non-Convertible AA Stable AA Stable Registered Office: Debentures E1, MIDC Industrial Area Commercial Papers A1+ NA A1+ NA Waluj, Aurangabad – 431 136, Maharashtra, India Line of credit AA Stable AA Stable Debenture Trustee Compliance Certificate of Practising Company Axis Trustee Services Limited Secretary The Ruby, 2nd Floor, SW Certificate from Dr. K.R. Chandratre, Practicing Company 29 Senapati Bapat Marg, Dadar West Secretary, confirming compliance with conditions of Mumbai400 028 Corporate Governance as stipulated under Listing Contact No.: +91022-6230 0438 Regulations, is attached to this Report. Depository Bank (GDRs) Compliance with Non-Mandatory Requirements Deutsche Bank AG 1. The Board Trust & Securities Services Mr. Anil Agarwal is the Non-Executive Chairman of The Capital, C-70, G Block, 14th Floor, the Board. As the Chairman has a separate office, the Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Company does not reimburse expenses incurred by him Mumbai 400 051. India for maintenance of a separate Chairman’s office. Phone No. +91-22-71804386 2. Shareholder Rights Plant Locations The Company publishes its results in the newspapers Optical Fiber E 1, E2, E3, MIDC, Waluj, Aurangabad – having nationwide circulation. Also, results are 431136, India uploaded on Company’s website. The copy of results AL-23, A-1/7, Shendra Five Star Industrial is furnished to all the shareholders who request for the Area, Aurangabad 431 201, Maharashtra, same. Therefore, the Company does not circulate the India half-yearly results to its shareholders. 777 Beihai Beihai Rd, Haimen Town, Hai Men City, Jiangsu, China Fiber Optic Cables & Survey No. 68/1, Rakholi Village, 3. Modified opinion in audit report OPGW Cables Madhuban Dam Road, Silvassa – 396230, Please refer to the explanation by the Board in the Union Territory of Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Directors’ Report, on the qualification of auditors on the India Dello (Brescia -Italy) Via Marconi 31, Italy accounts for the Financial Year 2018-19. Sao Jose dos Pinhais, State of Parana, at Rua Dr. Muricy, 4000, Barracoa Fundos, 4. Separate Posts of Chairman and CEO Bairro Coesteria, CEP 83015 – 290, Brazil The Company has separate posts of Chairman Copper Telecom Survey No. 33/1/1, Waghdara Road, Dadra and CEO. Cables & Structured – 396191, Union Territory of Dadra & Nagar Data Cables Haveli, India 5. Reporting of Internal Auditor The Internal Auditor of the Company reports directly to Audit Committee. Annual Report 2018-19 101 Corporate Governance Report contd. CEO AND CFO CERTIFICATE (As per Schedule II of the Listing Regulations) To, The Board of Directors Sterlite Technologies Limited a) We have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement of Sterlite Technologies Limited for the year ended March 31, 2019 and to the best of our knowledge and belief: (i) these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that might be misleading; (ii) these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations. b) There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s Code of Conduct. c) We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and we have evaluated the effectiveness of Company’s internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting. We have not come across any reportable deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls. d) We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit Committee: (i) significant changes in internal control during the year. (ii) significant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the same have been disclosed in the notes to the financial statements; and (iii) instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the management or an employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control system. For Sterlite Technologies Limited Anand Agarwal Anupam Jindal CEO & Whole-Time Director Chief Financial Officer Place: Pune Date: April 23, 2019 CERTIFICATE ON COMPLIANCE WITH CODE OF CONDUCT In accordance with Regulation 26 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, I hereby confirm that, all Board Members and the Senior Management Personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct and Business Ethics of the Company for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2019. For Sterlite Technologies Limited Place: Pune Anand Agarwal Date: April 23, 2019 CEO & Whole-Time Director CERTIFICATE ON COMPLIANCE WITH SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS), REGULATIONS, 2015 BY STERLITE TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED I have examined compliance by Sterlite Technologies Limited (the Company) with the requirements under the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements), Regulations, 2015 (Listing Regulations) relating to corporate governance requirements for the year ended on 31 March 2019. In my opinion and to the best of my information and according to the explanations given to me and the representation by the Directors and the management, I certify that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the Listing Regulations. The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management of the Company. My examination was limited to procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance under the Listing Regulations. The examination is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company or the Corporate Governance Report of the Company. I state that no investor’s grievance is pending unresolved by the Company for a period exceeding one month against the Company as per the records maintained by the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee. I further state that such compliance is neither an assurance to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the company. For Sterlite Technologies Limited Place: Pune Dr. K R Chandratre Date: April 23, 2019 Practising Company Secretary FCS No. 1370. Certificate of Practice No. 5144 102 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS (Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015) To, The Members of STERLITE TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED E1, MIDC Industrial Area Waluj Aurangabad431136, Maharashtra I have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of STERLITE TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED having CIN: L31300MH2000PLC269261 and having registered office at E1, MIDC Industrial Area Waluj Aurangabad 431136, Maharashtra (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before me by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. In my opinion and to the best of my information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number (DIN) status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to me by the Company & its officers, I hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year ending on 31st March, 2019 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory Authority. Sr. No Name of Director Designation DIN Date of appointment in Company 1 Anil Kumar Agarwal Non-Executive Director 00010883 30/10/2006 2 Arun Lalchand Todarwal Non-Executive and Independent Director 00020916 25/01/2003 3 Pravin Agarwal Whole-time Director 00022096 30/10/2006 4 Anand Gopaldas Agarwal Whole-time Director and CEO(KMP) 00057364 30/07/2009 5 Sandip Das Non-Executive and Independent Director 00116303 16/10/2017 6 Narayanaswamy Alampallam Non-Executive and Independent Director 00818169 30/04/2007 Ramakrishnan 7 Pratik Pravin Agarwal Non-Executive Director 03040062 26/04/2013 8 Kumud Madhok Srinivasan Non-Executive and Independent Director 06487248 22/05/2018 Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the same based on our verification. This certificate is specifically being issued in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company. For J. B. Bhave & Co. Company Secretaries Jayavant Bhave Proprietor FCS: 4266 CP: 3068 Place: Pune Date: April 23, 2019 Annual Report 2018-19 103 Business Responsibility Report Introduction Aspiration of creating shared value, conducting our business activities in an environmentally and socially responsible manner while making a positive contribution to India’s economic growth have been business drivers for Sterlite Technologies Limited (STL) since inception. The principles of sustainable development and alignment to triple bottom line of sustainability have always been at the core of our business strategy and ingrained in our business activities and stakeholder interactions. This Business Responsibility Report chronicles our actions in the domain of sustainable development in FY 2018-19. Aligning with the guidelines set forth by Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), this report presents the commitment of the organisation to the principles as laid out in the ‘National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business’ issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. Section A: General Information about the Company 1. Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company : L31300MH2000PLC269261 2. Name of the Company : STERLITE TECHNOLOGIES LTD. 3. Registered address : E1, MIDC Industrial Area Waluj, Aurangabad, MH 431136 4. Website : www.sterlitetech.com 5. E-mail id : communications@sterlite.com 6. Financial year reported : 2018-19 7. Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in (industrial activity code-wise) Product/ Service NIC Code Fibre Optical Cable 3890 Optical Fibre 3890 Copper Telecom Cables 3130 Fibre Optical Cable Laying Services 3890 8. List three key products/services that the Company a. Connectivity Solutions manufactures/provides (as in balance sheet) b. Network Services c. Network Software 9. Total number of locations where business activity is undertaken by the Company (a) Number of international locations (Provide details of major five) i. International 1. Italy -1 2. China 2 3. Brazil 1 4. UK 1 (b) Number of national locations i. National Locations 1. Maharashtra 4 2. UT of D&NH 2 3. Gujarat 1 4. Haryana 1 5. Karnataka 1 10. Markets served by the Company – Local/State/National/International With expertise ranging from optical fibre and cables, hyper-scale network design, and deployment and network software, STL is the industry's leading integrated solutions provider for global data networks. We partner with global and national telecom companies, cloud companies, citizen networks and large public enterprises to design, build and manage such cloud-native software-defined networks. 104 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS Section B: Financial Details of the Company 1. Paid-up capital (`) : 80.51 crores 2. Total turnover (`) : 4,862.63 crores 3. Total profit after taxes (`) : 535.23 crores 4. Total spending on corporate social responsibility (CSR) as percentage of profit after tax (%) : 2.04 5. List of activities in which expenditure in above four have been incurred a.  Jeewan Jyoti Women Empowerment Programme: A programme for women empowerment in rural areas that imparts vocational training, along with placement support. b.  Virtual Classrooms (Sterlite School Tech): A technology-based quality education programme for underprivileged school-going children of urban slums. This project is a joint initiative of Sterlite Tech Foundation and Mumbai Corporation of Greater Mumbai. c.  obile Medical Unit (MMU): Operating a mobile health van equipped with necessary healthcare facilities with onboard doctors M and nurses. The MMU has been instrumental in providing basic healthcare services in rural areas, creating health awareness, encouraging preventive care and addressing local health issues. d.  Project Jaldoot: Initiatives targeting the water scarce regions in the vicinity of Aurangabad by enhancing water harvesting capacity of existing storage structures, watershed development activities and educating villagers in good irrigation practices. e.  Project Greenbelt: With the intention of alleviating the effects of climate change caused by industrialisation in Aurangabad, STL proactively initiated Project Greenbelt. The programme has ensured that the approach road to MIDC, Waluj (Aurangabad) is lush green and pollution-free. Section C: Other Details 1. Does the Company have any subsidiary company/companies? : Yes 2. Do the subsidiary company/companies participate in the BR initiatives of the : Yes, three (3) subsidiaries (Indian) parent company? If yes, then indicate the number of such subsidiary company(s) 3. Do any other entity/entities (e.g. suppliers, distributors etc.) that the Company does business with, participate in the BR initiatives of the Company? If yes, then indicate the percentage of such entity/entities? (Less than 30%, 30-60%, More than 60%): We offer end-to-end solutions to our customers and guide them on best practices and sustainable approaches during the laying of optical fibre cables, as well as over the course of the life of our products. Hence, by partnering with our esteemed customers, we have been able to further extend the reach of our initiatives. Overall, 30% of our customers are part of our BR initiatives. We are also increasing our efforts to extend our sustainable development commitment across the supply chain and collaborating with our suppliers. Section D: BR Information 1. Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR (a) Details of the Director/Director responsible for implementation of the BR policy/policies 1. DIN Number : 00057364 2. Name : Dr. Anand Agarwal 3. Designation : CEO & Whole-time Director (b) Details of the BR Head 1. DIN Number (if applicable) : 03040078 2. Name : Anupam Jindal 3. Designation : Chief Financial Officer 4. Telephone number : +91.20.30514000 5. E-mail id : anupam.jindal@sterlite.com Annual Report 2018-19 105 Business Responsibility Report contd. 2. Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies (a) Details of compliance (Reply in Y/N) No. Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 Code of Product Employee Stakeholder Human Public Customer Principle Area Environment CSR Conduct Responsibility Wellbeing Engagement Rights Advocacy Value 1 Do you have a policy/ Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y policies for...? 2 Has the policy Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y being formulated in consultation with the relevant stakeholders? 3 Does the policy Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y conform to any national/international standards? If yes, specify? (50 words)1 4 Has the policy been Y Y N Y Y Y Y Y Y approved by the Board? If yes, has it been signed by MD/ owner/CEO/appropriate Board Director? 5 Does the Company Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y have specified committee of the Board/Director/ Official to oversee implementation of policy/policies? 6 Indicate the link for the Code of Internal Internal Internal Internal Internal Internal CSR Internal policy to be viewed Conduct2 Policy3 online 7 Has the policy been Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y formally communicated to all relevant internal and external stakeholders? 8 Does the Company Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y have in-house structure to implement the policy/ policies? 9 Does the Company Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y have a grievance redressal mechanism related to the policy/ policies to address stakeholders’ grievances related to the policy/policies? 10 Has the Company Y Y Y N N Y N Y Y carried out independent audit/ evaluation of the working of the policy/ policies by an internal or external agency? 1 Based on National Laws and Regulatory Frameworks 2 www.sterlitetech.com/pdf/coc/Code-of-condact-24-page.pdf 3 www.sterlitetech.com/pdf/coc/CSR-Policy-STL.pdf (b) If answer to the question at serial number 1 against any principle, is ‘No’, please explain why: (Tick up to two options) No. Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 1 The Company has not understood the principles 2 The Company is not at a stage where it finds itself in a position to formulate and implement the policies on specified principles 3 The Company does not have financial or manpower resources available for the task 4 It is planned to be done within the next six months 5 It is planned to be done within the next one year 6 Any other reason (please specify) 106 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS 3. Governance related to BR transactions with high level of ethics, transparency (a) Indicate the frequency with which the Board and integrity. of Directors, Committee of the Board or CEO to assess the BR performance of the Company 2. How many stakeholder complaints have been (within three months, three to six months, received in the past financial year and what annually, more than one year) percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the  The Board of Directors meet on a quarterly management? If so, provide details thereof, in about basis while the Sustainability Council, which is 50 words or so. responsible for reviewing the BR performance, Details of the shareholder complaints are included meets on monthly basis. in the Corporate Governance Report of the Annual Report under the section on Stakeholders’ (b) Does the Company publish a BR or a Relationship Committee. Sustainability Report? What is the hyperlink for viewing this report? How frequently is it published? Principle 2  We publish the Business Responsibility Report Businesses should provide goods and services annually as part of our Annual Report. The first that are safe and contribute to sustainability one was published for FY 2016-17. Additionally, STL is one of the few fully integrated optical fibre we published the first sustainability report for FY and cable manufacturers in the world. Our unique 2017-18, which has been prepared as per globally proposition of offering integrated solutions for clients accepted GRI sustainability reporting standards. enables us to proactively address sustainability challenges across the complete value chain. Section E: Principle-Wise Performance Our actions are not only governed by the business Principle 1 perspective, but we also give due importance to the sustainability impacts of our operations, products and Business should conduct and govern themselves services. We have undertaken several initiatives in with ethics, transparency and accountability this regard, which have helped us reduce the impact Uncompromising business ethics are an integral part of of our products and services. We have initiated a our values and it has always been our vision to live up to comprehensive assessment of our manufacturing the highest standards while upholding integrity in every activities to evaluate the waste reduction opportunities. business transaction. We believe that ethical and economic values are interdependent and business communities must always strive to operate in compliance to the accepted global norms. 1. List up to three of your products or services whose design has incorporated social or environmental Our commitment towards ensuring that we conduct business concerns, risks and/or opportunities. and governance in a transparent and accountable manner  Sterlite Smart City Solution Suite: We offer is evident through our comprehensive set of policies such comprehensive service solutions in the form of Sterlite as the Code of Conduct and Ethics, Whistleblower and Smart City Solution Suite, which is an end-to-end the Supply Chain Management policies. Each of these is approach for fast and future-proof network rollout. an extension of our values and principles and provide the It is a unique offering that features complete guidance required for managing business activities while programme management, project execution and maintaining utmost integrity. network integration from infrastructure management to network applications. 1. Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption cover only the Company? Does it extend to  Smart City Solution: Our Smart City Solution has been the Group/joint ventures/suppliers/contractors/NGOs/ carefully designed keeping in mind sustainability risks others? with efforts to minimise our environmental footprint Our Code of Conduct and Ethics policy applies and avoid any detrimental social impacts. It not only to employees of STL and its subsidiaries. enables speedy and targeted delivery of services, Our Whistleblower policy applies to all employees but also brings citizens closer to the government by of STL, its subsidiaries and all external stakeholders. enabling smarter services to citizens, providing efficient Additionally, our supply chain partners are covered ways to connect with government agencies, improving as part of the Supply Chain Management policy, productivity, service quality, better governance which includes the principles on conducting business resulting in overall increase in economic development. Annual Report 2018-19 107 Business Responsibility Report contd. Enhanced safety through round-the-clock surveillance is piloted replacing corrugated boxes with polypropylene another social benefit for citizens. boxes. These boxes are reused among our facilities like the spools. We now plan to replicate these learnings  Life Cycle Assessment Study: Towards our endeavour towards elimination of requirements for fresh packaging of delivering world-class products and services while materials to a large extent. minimising the impact of our business activities on the environment and society, we have completed our first We dispatch our cables to customers on large wooden pilot Life Cycle Assessment Study for optical fibre cable. drums, as well as pallets. We have been able to This study has helped us understand the environmental identify the opportunity to refurbish wooden drums impacts of hotspots and will be instrumental in guiding and pallets in-house, which has helped us significantly our future product development. Thus, we aim to deeply reduce the requirement for fresh wood thus leading to embed sustainable practices in our products. conservation of natural resources. 2. For each such product, provide the following details (b) Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, in respect of resource use (energy, water, raw material water) has been achieved since the previous and others) per unit of product (optional): year? Reducing resource consumption is the heart of the Our products inherently do not consume Manufacturing Excellence Strategy and we have any energy or water during their use. inculcated a culture wherein each employee is However, as is case with optical fibers, there are encouraged to identify opportunities for resource losses associated with it resulting in weakening conservation. We firmly believe that this not only brings of signals. These losses increase even more if cost savings but also helps in mitigating risks in a there are several bends in the system. It has been resource constrained world. By adopting the principle our effort to develop cables with reduced losses of ‘first time right’, we have set ourselves an ambitious thus leading to better efficiency while the cable goal of eliminating rework and waste, which will help us is in use. This not only improves the overall signal in conserving valuable resources. quality but also results in significant savings in terms of energy requirements by our customers. Through collective efforts, we have been successful in bringing down our energy and water use at our 3. Does the Company have procedures in place for manufacturing locations compared to the previous sustainable sourcing (including transportation)? year. On top of that, we continue to recycle and reuse (a) If yes, what percentage of your inputs was treated effluents back into our processes to reduce our sourced sustainably? Also, provide details dependence on freshwater. thereof, in about 50 words or so. Our Supply Chain Management policy has been (a) Reduction during sourcing/production/distribution enacted to facilitate development of suppliers as achieved since the previous year throughout the value long-term business partners. With such partners, chain? we work closely on not only business focus areas, Business activities at STL are conducted with the firm but also on sustainable development. We are objective of conserving precious resources. This is continuously working with our suppliers towards endeavored not only in the manufacturing, which identifying and addressing existing issues to happens at our facilities but also in upstream and achieve a sustainable supply chain. downstream stages. We thus ensure that we can mitigate environmental impact that goes beyond the Our vendor selection criteria gives due importance physical boundaries of our operations. Our first life to the environmental and societal performance cycle assessment study has been undertaken with aspects and we regularly monitor our vendors the aim of scientifically quantifying these impacts and to ensure that our suppliers are also operating preparing a roadmap with measurable goals towards according to the principles of sustainable their reduction. This study is helping us understand development. We have started collecting data environmental footprint from lifecycle perspective and on sustainability credentials of our suppliers. evaluate opportunities across the value chain. This is in addition to mandatory engagement on regulatory requirements such as those related We are actively adopting principles of circular economy to REACH and RoHS. We regularly review the in our sourcing decisions. For example, we are reusing restricted substances list and connect with our plastic spools several times by passing them from our suppliers to make sure that our sourcing database one manufacturing unit to another, thereby extending is up to date. their life. During the year, we have also successfully 108 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS 4. Has the Company undertaken any steps to procure been certified for successfully diverting more than 99% goods and services from local and small producers, waste from landfill by effective recycling and reuse. including communities surrounding their place of Further, we are diverting close to 95% waste generated work? from facilities in India away from landfill. Driven by our vision of creating shared value for society while achieving success in business activities, we believe it is important to ensure that our operations Principle 3 should lead to prosperity for community members. Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all As a result, we have made steady progress towards employees developing local vendor base and have assisted To create and nurture a positive work environment several suppliers in expanding their operations closer where employees can excel professionally and lead to our manufacturing facilities. In fact, as part of our an overall healthy lifestyle has always been among responsible corporate citizenship commitment, all the core objectives of STL. This has been achieved non-critical materials such as packaging, machine through a mix of progressive policies and active spares, job work and others are preferably procured engagement with employees on a regular basis to hear from local vendors. We collaborate with these vendors their feedback and help them grow. At STL, employee to improve their skills and ensure that they meet wellbeing has always been accorded paramount our stringent requirements thus leading to a win-win importance and our human resource strategy has partnership. We have observed that such vendors been centered on this. Our commitments towards benefit immensely from these opportunities and several helping build a professionally rewarding career for our have been able to scale rapidly. employees include: (a) If yes, what steps have been taken to improve • Providing and maintaining absolute transparency the capacity and capability of local and small and equality during all stages of recruitment vendors? and employment, which discourages As part of our capacity building programmes, we discrimination on any grounds have engaged and developed local partners in • Promoting wellbeing of employees by helping them Silvassa to produce and supply high-quality FRP achieve work-life balance and providing necessary and wooden drums. At Waluj and Shendra, we facilities to them, including those with special needs have a partner audit programme, which gives vendors useful inputs on improvement in quality, • Assisting the employees to move up the professional capability and other parameters. ladder and ensure availability of continual training and skill-upgradation opportunities and promote 5. Does the Company have a mechanism to recycle employee morale and career development products and waste? If yes what is the percentage of • Enabling a safe workplace free from all sorts of recycling of products and waste (separately as <5%, harassment and providing all required means 5-10%, >10%). Also, provide details thereof, in about and measures to ensure access to grievance 50 words or so. redressal mechanism Recycling and reuse of solid waste has been a top priority for us. This is reflected in our vision of diverting 100% waste away from landfill. During the past year, our optical fibre cable manufacturing unit in Rakholi has 1. Please indicate the total number of employees 2,990 2. Please indicate the total number of employees hired on temporary/contractual/casual basis 2,637 3. Please indicate the number of permanent women employees 472 4. Please indicate the number of permanent employees with disabilities 3 5. Do you have an employee association that is recognised by the management? Yes, in Italy 6. What percentage of your permanent employees holds membership of this recognised employee 125 out of 2,990 (4%) association? 7. Please indicate the number of complaints relating to child labour, forced labour, involuntary labour, sexual harassment in the last financial year and pending, as on the end of the financial year. Annual Report 2018-19 109 Business Responsibility Report contd. No. of complaints filed No. of complaints No. Category during the financial pending as on end of year the financial year 1 Child labour/forced labour/involuntary labour 0 0 2 Sexual harassment 0 0 3 Discriminatory employment 0 0 8. What percentage of your under-mentioned employees were given safety and skill up-gradation training in the last year? (a) Permanent Employees Safety Training for 100% employees and skill upgradation for 60% of our people (b) Permanent Women Employees Safety training for 100% women employees and skill upgradation for 63% our female teammates (c) Casual/Temporary/Contractual Safety training for 100% employees with disabilities and skill upgradation for 15% (w.r.t the Employees software B.U) of them. (d) Employees with Disabilities Safety training for 100% employees and skill upgradation for 50% (we have 2 eligible employees) Principle 4 Unit (MMU) programme. The MMU project is run Businesses should respect the interests of, and in partnership with the Indian Red Cross Society. be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially The programme has been providing free health those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and checkups to 24 villages and has served more than marginalised. two lakh patients till date. The project also includes 1. Has the Company mapped its internal and external preventive awareness programmes and monitoring of stakeholders? the challenges faced by the villagers. We seek to constructively engage with all stakeholder groups, both internal as well as external, with an intent The region of Marathwada where our Aurangabad to create shared value. We have always adopted a facility is located has traditionally been drought prone proactive approach for reaching out to the stakeholders due to scanty rainfall and unpredictable monsoons. for gauging their perception, needs and expectations. Through our project ‘Jaldoot’, we have worked in This understanding has helped us to design the 13 worst affected villages to enhance the water interventions, which align with our business goals while storage capacity of existing structures and educate bringing about a positive impact in the lives of people. farmers on water conservation, use of irrigation and cropping patterns. We recognise our stakeholders as any person or groups who are affected by our business activities and/or have Jeewan Jyoti Women Empowerment Institute by a potential or actual impact on our business by the way Sterlite Tech Foundation operates to address issues of their presence in the vicinity of our operations or by like low literacy among women, social system that the way of their perceptions and opinions. Over the undermines women and underdeveloped education, years, we have identified and prioritised stakeholders social and economic infrastructure, among others by understanding their influencing ability and interest in and around Ambavane through the institute’s level. This has allowed us to map stakeholders vocational courses, and personality and economic effectively and come up with engagement strategies. development programmes. 2. O  ut of the above, has the Company identified The details of these initiatives have been presented in the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised the Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility stakeholders. as Annexure VI of the Directors’ Report of the We actively engage with the communities in the vicinity Annual Report. of our operations and our objective has been to identify and work towards upliftment of those who are socially and financially disadvantaged. Principle 5 Businesses should respect and promote 3. Are there any special initiatives undertaken by human rights the Company to engage with the disadvantaged, Our commitment towards protecting and upholding vulnerable and marginalised stakeholders? If so, human rights has been guided by principles propagated provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. by United Nations Universal Declaration on Human Rights Near our manufacturing facility in Silvassa, we are and the International Labour Organization’s Declaration working towards bringing the tribal communities from on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We have nearby villages into mainstream through proactive enacted a policy on human rights, which draws from the interventions. Realising the critical need of the rural abovementioned principles and applies to STL and its tribal population in Dadra & Nagar Haveli for primary subsidiaries. Our approach towards human rights protection healthcare services, we initiated our Mobile Medical aligns to our fundamental commitment of conducting 110 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS we organised a mass tree plantation drive at Aurangabad business in an ethical manner while ensuring that we adhere led by STL employees, who actively volunteered towards the to the labour laws in communities where we operate. cause of planting over 1000 trees. We periodically organise such events with the objective of engaging employees on To further ensure that our commitment towards respecting a larger scale as well as doing our bit towards conserving and promoting human rights are in sync with global efforts, the environment. we have now become signatory to United Nations Global Compact. This gives us opportunity to derive motivation from 1. Does the policy relate to Principle 6 cover only the the world’s largest forum on corporate sustainability and Company or extends to the Group/joint ventures/ seek guidance where necessary. suppliers/contractors/NGOs/others? The QEHS policy is applicable to STL, as well as We also ensure that every employee has access to platforms our subsidiaries. to voice their concerns and grievances in an appropriate manner, which is duly recorded and taken up for resolution. 2. Does the Company have strategies/initiatives to address global environmental issues such as climate Details of all such helpline and communication channels, change, global warming and others? If yes, please along with our policy commitments have been effectively give hyperlink for webpage etc. communicated to every employee at all our facilities. At STL, we have always focussed on protecting our These are also displayed prominently at key locations such environment and ensure that air, water and land around that everyone has access to the information. us remain undisturbed and pristine. We aim to achieve this by conducting business activities synergistically 1. Does the policy of the Company on human rights with our surroundings. Driven by this commitment, we cover only the Company or is extend to the Group/ have given high priority to waste management while joint ventures/suppliers/contractors/NGOs/others? looking for every opportunity to reuse and recycle our Our human rights policy is based on the principles waste and by-products in line with the principles of of adherence to labour standards; ensuring health circular economy. and safety for employees; recognition of freedom of In our effort to align our sustainability strategy with association; zero tolerance for child and forced labour; global sustainability issues, we have now become promoting diversity and equal opportunities; ensuring signatory to United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). absolute non-discrimination; and respecting and By doing so, we have formally stated our commitment preserving culture and heritage of local communities. to work towards the 10 principles, including those on The policy applies to STL and our subsidiaries. We have environment. We see our commitment to UNGC as a taken steps towards implementation of these principles significant milestone in our sustainability journey and across our operations and value chain. one which helps us in contributing to jointly address global sustainability and environmental issues. 2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial year and what percent We recognise the challenges faced by communities was satisfactorily resolved by the management? residing in water stressed regions around Aurangabad. 2.1 S  takeholder complaints related to human rights NIL Hence, we have collaborated with villagers and received in the financial year government agencies through Project Jaldoot. Through this initiative, we are rejuvenating local water 2.2 S  takeholder complaints related to human rights NIL pending from previous year bodies and increasing water literacy. This in turn has helped in spreading awareness on water conservation 2.3 S  takeholder complaints related to human rights NIL and its sustainable use, along with water harvesting; resolved in the financial year thus, mitigating the adverse impact due to climate change and global warming. Further details about the same are hosted on the website of the Company at Principle 6 www.sterlitetech.com/b_business Business should respect, protect and make efforts to restore the environment 3. Does the Company identify and assess potential Environmental excellence is evident from the commitment of environmental risks? top management through the Quality, Environment, Health Yes. We have established Sustainability Council, which and Safety (QEHS) policy, which has been implemented is chaired by the CEO and meetings are held on across all STL facilities. The policy stresses on minimising periodic basis to review and assess the environmental pollution at sources and conserving natural resources. risks facing the organisation, along with monitoring of We have inculcated a culture for environmental conservation various initiatives in progress. While sustainability has at every level in the organisational structure. This has been always been deeply ingrained in the organisational achieved through effective sensitisation about the imminent purpose at STL, the establishment of the Sustainability need for protecting and restoring the environment while Council has been premised on the need for continually minimising the footprint of our activities. During March 2018, evaluating the sustainability risks faced by the Annual Report 2018-19 111 Business Responsibility Report contd. organisation in the evolving business scenario. • Cellular Operator Association of India (COAI) As a result of growing customer awareness and ever • Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of stringent regulations coupled with the expanding India (ASSOCHAM) market base of STL, we have put together a process to critically review the business strategy incorporating • Telecom Equipment Export Promotion Council the potential effects of environmental risks in (TEPC) our operations. 2. Have you advocated/lobbied through above associations for the advancement or improvement of 4. Does the Company have any project related to Clean public good? If yes, specify the broad areas (drop box: Development Mechanism? If so, provide details Governance and Administration, Economic Reforms, thereof, in about 50 words or so. Also, if Yes, whether Inclusive Development Policies, Energy Security, any environmental compliance report is filed? Water, Food Security, Sustainable Business Principles, Not Applicable others) Yes, we are actively advocating for greater good 5. Has the Company undertaken any other initiatives of the public. The business scenario is undergoing on clean technology, energy efficiency, renewable a transformation with the rapid technological shift. energy, etc. Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for web In such a scenario, we have voiced our opinion at page. various forums and industry associations for promoting We have established an Energy Management System development of policies and regulatory frameworks for in our manufacturing plants, which provides realtime meeting the demands of an economically surging nation analysis of power consumption. This has enabled us like India while also ensuring competitive environment. to tap on the potential of energy saving and keep monitoring the opportunities for optimising energy usage. Initiatives such as efficient air conditioners, power factor correction equipment, variable frequency Principle 8 drives and timers for various electrical fitments have led Businesses should support inclusive growth and to significant savings in electricity consumption. equitable development Our commitment has always been to demonstrate highest We are also actively considering adopting solar PV standards of corporate citizenship and as a result, our for meeting our non-process electricity consumption approach has been to proactively evaluate social and and have already incorporated Rainwater Harvesting environmental factors that can potentially influence our (RWH) provisions in facility expansions, which have business activities in the long term. Based on this, we have been completed recently. Apart from this, for our defined a strategy to effectively engage with the impacted existing manufacturing locations, we have set up the stakeholder groups. infrastructure for collecting rainwater and using it for recharging the groundwater table. Our CSR focus encompasses environmental protection, resource repletion, health and empowerment through 6. Are the emissions/waste generated by the Company education, working in partnership with credible non-profit within the permissible limits given by Central Pollution organisations on a wide spectrum of related projects. Control Board/State Pollution Control Board (CPCB/ SPCB) for the financial year being reported? We consciously partner with communities in the vicinity of Yes our manufacturing facilities and those geographic regions, which fall under the radius of our influence. We work with 7. Number of show cause/ legal notices received from a clear goal to give back to society in such a way that the Central Pollution Control Board/State Pollution needs of the weaker sections are met, and improvements Control Board (CPCB/SPCB), which are pending (i.e. made in the quality of their lives. not resolved to satisfaction) as on end of Financial Year. 1. Does the Company have specified programmes/ As on the end of year, no show cause/legal initiatives/projects in pursuit of the policy related to notices are pending. Principle 8? If yes, provide details thereof The details of our CSR initiatives are presented in the CSR report, which is included as Annexure VI to the Principle 7 Directors’ Report. Businesses, when engaged in influencing public 2. Are the programmes/projects undertaken through and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible in-house team/own foundation/external NGO/ manner government structures/any other organisation? 1. Is your Company a member of any trade and chamber The CSR projects are undertaken by Sterlite Tech or association? If Yes, name only those major ones Foundation either directly or through an external NGO that your business deals with: or government structures. • Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) 112 Sterlite Technologies Limited GOVERNANCE REPORTS 3. Has the Company conducted any impact assessment creation and societal value creation go hand in hand of the initiatives? and achieving business prosperity is not possible unless For all projects, key performance indicators (KPIs) at society benefits from the business value creation. three levels are selected based on which a project is monitored either directly by the Company or in collaboration with the NGO we are working with or a third-party agency: Principle 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value • Activity indicators, which show if we are on track to to their customers and consumers in a responsible deliver the activities in our project plan manner • Outcome indicators, which tell us if project activities Being a customer-centric organisation, delivering products are making a difference and solutions, which not only meet but exceed the clients’ expectations has always been our prime objective. This has • Impact indicators, which tell us the shortto even been established through a robust QEHS policy, which medium-term impact resulting from project outcomes aims at enhancing customer satisfaction through proactive These KPIs are tracked on a monthly basis by the CSR understanding customers’ changing requirements and global team or our NGO partners. The CSR team is closely benchmarking. The policy also lays down our commitment to associated with the monitoring and evaluation process continually improve quality parameters, reduce total cost of and uses tools like physical verification (site visits), the product, maximise recycling, reduce wastes, discharges group discussions at the CSR location, surprise visits and emission and prevent/minimise impact on population, and other techniques. The CSR team internally manages thus creating further value for our customers. online CSR reporting platform to ensure projects are delivering according to the plan by making data on KPIs 1. What percentage of customer complaints/consumer available readily for analysis and course correction. cases are pending as on the end of financial year. Of the total customer complaints/consumer cases Our Virtual Classrooms project, which is a part of open at the beginning of the year and filed during the Sterlite School Tech programme measures the FY 2018-19, 29% complaints/cases are pending as on impact of the intervention through assessments at the March 31, 2019. beginning and at the end of each year. Through such impact assessment, we determine the effectiveness 2. Does the Company display product information on of pedagogy, as well as the improvement in students’ the product label, over and above what is mandated performance. Similarly, for our tree plantation efforts, as per local laws? Yes/No/N.A. /Remarks (additional we have setup a detailed monitoring framework, which information) helps us track growth of each tree planted and maintain All our product labels are made in compliance with the progress on periodic basis. local law and consumer requirements. 4. What is the Company’s direct contribution to 3. Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against community development projects (amount in INR and the Company regarding unfair trade practices, the details of the projects undertaken)? irresponsible advertising and/or anti-competitive Details of our expenditure incurred on CSR initiatives behaviour during the last five years and pending as are presented in the CSR report, which is included as on end of financial year. If so, provide details thereof, Annexure VI to the Directors’ Report. in about 50 words or so. There are no cases filed or pending against STL regarding unfair trade practices, irresponsible advertising and/or anti-competitive behaviour during 5. Has the Company undertaken steps to ensure that the last five years. this community development initiative is successfully adopted by the community? Please explain in 50 4. Did your Company carry out any consumer survey/ words, or so. consumer satisfaction trends? We conduct periodic reviews of all our CSR projects We periodically reach out to our customers to to determine the effectiveness of the initiatives. understand their perceptions, as well as concerns We also conduct an audit for our CSR projects, which through customer satisfaction (CSAT) surveys. is performed by an independent third-party agency We monitor the trends of such surveys and necessary and based on this the details are then reported in interventions are made as required. the Annual Report. Our ultimate objective for each of our CSR interventions is to deliver shared value for society. Our concept of shared value rests on the belief that business value Annual Report 2018-19 113 Independent Auditors’ Report To the Members of Sterlite Technologies Limited 4. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under section Report on the audit of the Standalone financial 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those statements Standards are further described in the Auditor’s Qualified Opinion Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial 1. We have audited the accompanying standalone Statements section of our report. We are independent financial statements of Sterlite Technologies Limited of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics (“the Company”), which comprise of the Balance Sheet issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of as at March 31, 2019, the Statement of Profit and Loss India together with the ethical requirements that are (including Other Comprehensive Income), Statement of relevant to our audit of the financial statements under Changes in Equity and Statement of Cash Flows for the the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities including a summary of significant accounting policies in accordance with these requirements and the Code and other explanatory information. of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 2. In our opinion and to the best of our information and for our qualified opinion. according to the explanations given to us, except for the indeterminate effects of the matter described in Emphasis of Matter – Amortisation of goodwill the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph of our report, recognized on acquisition the aforesaid standalone financial statements give the 5. We draw attention to Note 46 to the standalone information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (the financial statements which describes that the Company “Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and had recognised Goodwill on amalgamation during fair view in conformity with the accounting principles the financial year ended March 31, 2016, which is generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the being amortised over a period of five years from the Company as at March 31, 2019, total comprehensive appointed date of September 29, 2015, in accordance income (comprising of profit and other comprehensive with the accounting treatment prescribed under the income), changes in equity and its cash flows for the Scheme of amalgamation approved by the Gujarat year then ended. High Court. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. Basis for Qualified opinion 3. We draw your attention to Note 44 to the standalone Key audit matters financial statements, which states that the Company in 6. Key audit matters are those matters that, in our an earlier year received an order of CESTAT upholding professional judgment, were of most significance in a demand of ` 188 crores (including penalties but our audit of the standalone financial statements of excluding interest) (`188 crores as at March 31, 2018) the current year. These matters were addressed in in relation to a excise/customs matter. The Company’s the context of our audit of the standalone financial appeal against this order with the Honourable Supreme statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion Court has been admitted. Based on the current status thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on and legal advice received, the management has these matters. In addition to the matter described in the recognised a provision amounting to ` 4.5 crores as on Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph above, we have March 31, 2019, (` 4.5 crores as at March 31, 2018), determined the matters described below to be the key in respect of this matter based on its best estimate. audit matters to be communicated in our report. Pending disposal of the matter by the Honourable Supreme Court, we are unable to comment on the adequacy of the provision made towards the amount of excise / customs duty payable. 114 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter 1. Revenue Recognition on transition to Ind AS 115 (Refer note 2(b), 3 and 51 to the standalone financial statements) Our testing approach included both tests of controls as well substantive procedures (i.e test of details). Effective April 1, 2018, the Company has adopted Ind AS 115 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”. Consequently, As part of our test of controls, we understood and evaluated the management has reviewed its existing contracts with customers design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over under the model provided in Ind AS 115. revenue recognition. Management has applied significant judgements with respect to: Our substantive testing of revenue transactions was designed to cover certain large and complex contracts and testing of sample of • Combination of contracts entered into with the same customer; other contracts. Our procedures included, among other things: • Identification of performance obligations; • Allocation of consideration to identified performance obligations; • Reading of selected contracts to identify significant terms of • Recognition of revenue over a period of time or at a point in the contracts; time based on timing when control is transferred to customer. • Assessing appropriateness of management’s significant For assessment of the date of transfer of control, Management judgements in accounting for identified contracts; has obtained legal opinion in respect of certain arrangements. • Evaluation of the contract terms and also consideration of the legal opinion obtained by Management with respect to assessment of Further, for contracts where revenue is recognised over a period of time, the Company made estimates which impact the revenue the date of transfer of control; recognition. Such estimates include, but are not limited to: • Testing of timing of recognition of revenue (including procedures related to cut off) in line with the terms of contracts; • costs to complete, • Testing the key management assumptions used to estimate • contract risks, contract cost, contract risks, claims etc; • price variation claims, • Testing of journal entries for unusual/irregular revenue • liquidated damages transactions; and We focused on this area because a significant portion of the • Consideration of the adequacy of the disclosures as required to be revenue generated requires management to exercise judgement made by Management under the new standard. and therefore could be subject to material misstatement due to fraud or error. Based on above procedures, we did not note any significant exceptions in the estimates and judgements applied by the In addition, first time disclosures required under Ind AS 115 have Management in revenue recognition including those relating to been identified as an area of focus for the current year. presentation and disclosures. 2. A  ccounting policy and fair valuation of investments in joint venture in accordance with Ind AS 109 Refer note 2 (o) (Accounting Policies) to the Standalone Financial Statements The Company makes investments in start-ups and growth Our audit procedures included: companies. Such investment activity is separately managed from the manufacturing activities with a stated objective of earning a • Understanding the controls of the Company around investment return from appreciation in the value of the investments and are strategy in start-ups and growth companies; made with identified exit strategies. The total carrying value of such • Evaluation of the design and testing the operating effectiveness investments as at March 31, 2019 is ` 22.86 crores. Management of the aforesaid controls; has concluded that basis the terms of the contract with the investee • Evaluation of the Company’s investment strategy and companies such investments will qualify to be investment in internal organization; Associates or Joint Ventures. Further Management has evaluated • Consideration of the investment subscription agreements for the the requirements of Ind AS 28 for availing the exemption from terms and conditions; applying equity method of accounting and concluded that such • Discussion with the relevant management personnel engaged exemption is available to the Company for such investments. The in managing the investment decisions and involved in such Company has accordingly elected to measure such investments at transactions to understand the purpose of such investments and fair value through Profit and Loss account in accordance with Ind how the investment activity is managed; AS 109 in the standalone financial statements. Management has • Evaluation of the criteria considered by the management in their obtained a report from an independent valuer for determining the conclusion on accounting treatment in accordance with the fair valuation of the investments as at the Balance Sheet date. requirements of Ind AS 28 and Ind AS 109. • Consideration of adequacy of disclosures in the standalone We focused on this area as there was significant judgement financial statements along with related accounting policies. involved in concluding whether the exemption from equity method • Assessment of the methodology and the appropriateness of accounting for such investments is available to the Company and of the valuation models and inputs used by management to the fair valuation of these investments contain assumptions that are value investments. not observable. Based on the results above procedures, we found the accounting policy followed by Management to be appropriate and did not find any material exceptions to management’s estimates and judgements with regard to the accounting and fair valuation of investments in accordance with the relevant accounting standard. Annual Report 2018-19 115 Independent Auditors’ Report contd. Other Information Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial 7. The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the statements other information. The other information comprises the 10. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance information included in the Directors’ Report, but does about whether the standalone financial statements as a not include the standalone financial statements and our whole are free from material misstatement, whether due auditor’s report thereon. to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high Our opinion on the standalone financial statements level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit does not cover the other information and we do not conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, In connection with our audit of the standalone financial individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably statements, our responsibility is to read the other be expected to influence the economic decisions information and, in doing so, consider whether the of users taken on the basis of these standalone other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements. standalone financial statements or our knowledge 11. As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be professional judgment and maintain professional materially misstated. If, based on the work we have scepticism throughout the audit. We also: performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement required to report that fact. We have nothing to report of the standalone financial statements, whether in this regard. due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain Responsibilities of management and those charged audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate with governance for the financial statements to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not 8. The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible detecting a material misstatement resulting from for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, with respect to the preparation of these standalone as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional financial statements that give a true and fair view of the omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of financial position, financial performance, changes in internal control. equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant with the accounting principles generally accepted in to the audit in order to design audit procedures that India, including the Accounting Standards specified are appropriate in the circumstances. Under Section under section 133 of the Act. This responsibility 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for also includes maintenance of adequate accounting expressing our opinion on whether the company has records in accordance with the provisions of the Act adequate internal financial controls with reference for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for to standalone financial statements in place and the preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; operating effectiveness of such controls. selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgements and estimates that are • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and maintenance of adequate internal financial and related disclosures made by management. controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the • Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, use of the going concern basis of accounting and, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the based on the audit evidence obtained, whether standalone financial statements that give a true and fair a material uncertainty exists related to events or view and are free from material misstatement, whether conditions that may cast significant doubt on the due to fraud or error. Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we 9. In preparing the standalone financial statements, are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report management is responsible for assessing the to the related disclosures in the standalone financial Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on concern and using the going concern basis of the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our accounting unless management either intends to auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or may cause the Company to cease to continue as a has no realistic alternative but to do so. Those Board going concern. of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, 116 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS including the disclosures, and whether the standalone (e) The outcome of the matter described in the financial statements represent the underlying Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph above in transactions and events in a manner that achieves our opinion, may have an adverse effect on the fair presentation. functioning of the Company. 12. We communicate with those charged with governance (f) On the basis of the written representations regarding, among other matters, the planned scope received from the directors as on 31st March, and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, 2019 taken on record by the Board of Directors, including any significant deficiencies in internal control none of the directors is disqualified as on that we identify during our audit. 31st March, 2019 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act. 13. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant (g) The reservation relating to maintenance of ethical requirements regarding independence, and accounts and other matters connected therewith to communicate with them all relationships and are as stated in the Basis for Qualified Opinion other matters that may reasonably be thought to paragraph above. bear on our independence, and where applicable, (h) With respect to the adequacy of the internal related safeguards. financial controls with reference to standalone 14. From the matters communicated with those charged financial statements of the Company and the with governance, we determine those matters that operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to were of most significance in the audit of the standalone our separate Report in “Annexure A”. financial statements of the current year and are (i) With respect to the other matters to be included in therefore the key audit matters. We describe these the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, our opinion and to the best of our information and in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that according to the explanations given to us: a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would (i) Except for the matters described in the Basis reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest for Qualified Opinion paragraph above, the benefits of such communication. Company has disclosed the impact, if any, of pending litigations as at March 31, 2019 on Report on other legal and regulatory requirements its financial position in its standalone financial 15. As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, statements – Refer Note 22, 39 and 44 to the 2016 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government standalone financial statements; of India in terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of (ii) The Company has made provision, the Act, we give in the Annexure B a statement on the as required under the applicable law matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to or accounting standards, for material the extent applicable. foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term 16. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that: contracts including derivative contracts – Refer Note 20 to the standalone (a) We have sought and obtained all the information financial statements; and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the (iii) There has been no delay in transferring purposes of our audit. amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (b) In our opinion, except for the matter described in by the Company during the year ended the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph above, March 31, 2019. proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears (iv) The reporting on disclosures relating to the from our examination of those books. Specified Bank Notes is not applicable to the Company for the year ended March 31, 2019. (c) The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss (including other comprehensive income), For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP Statement of Changes in Equity and the Cash Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016 Flow Statement dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account. Neeraj Sharma Partner (d) Except for the indeterminate effects of the matters Membership Number: 108391 described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph above, in our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Place: Pune Accounting Standards specified under Section Date: April 23, 2019 133 of the Act. Annual Report 2018-19 117 Annexure A to Independent Auditors’ Report Referred to in paragraph 16(h) of the Independent Auditors’ Report of even date to the members of Sterlite Technologies Limited on the standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Report on the Internal Financial Controls with to standalone financial statements included obtaining reference to standalone financial statements an understanding of internal financial controls with under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 reference to standalone financial statements, assessing of the Act the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing 1. We have audited the internal financial controls with and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness reference to standalone financial statements of Sterlite of internal control based on the assessed risk. Technologies Limited (the “Company”) as of March 31, The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 2019 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone judgement, including the assessment of the risks of financial statements of the Company for the year ended material misstatement of the standalone financial as on that date. statements, whether due to fraud or error. Management’s Responsibility for Internal 5. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained Financial Controls is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 2. The Company’s management is responsible for our audit opinion on the Company’s internal financial establishing and maintaining internal financial controls system with reference to standalone controls based on the internal control over financial financial statements. reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of reference to standalone financial statements Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 6. A company's internal financial controls with reference to issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of standalone financial statements is a process designed India (ICAI). These responsibilities include the design, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the implementation and maintenance of adequate internal reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial controls that were operating effectively standalone financial statements for external purposes for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its in accordance with generally accepted accounting business, including adherence to company’s policies, principles. A company's internal financial controls with the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and reference to standalone financial statements includes detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the completeness of the accounting records, and the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, timely preparation of reliable financial information, as accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and required under the Act. dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded Auditors’ Responsibility as necessary to permit preparation of standalone 3. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with generally Company's internal financial controls with reference accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and to standalone financial statements based on our expenditures of the company are being made only in audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the accordance with authorisations of management and Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the assurance regarding prevention or timely detection Standards on Auditing deemed to be prescribed under of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the section 143(10) of the Act to the extent applicable to company's assets that could have a material effect on an audit of internal financial controls, both applicable to the standalone financial statements. an audit of internal financial controls and both issued by the ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial require that we comply with ethical requirements Controls with reference to standalone financial and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable statements assurance about whether adequate internal financial 7. Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements was established and maintained and if such statements, including the possibility of collusion or controls operated effectively in all material respects. improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and 4. Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal of the internal financial controls with reference to financial controls system with reference to standalone standalone financial statements to future periods are financial statements and their operating effectiveness. subject to the risk that the internal financial controls Our audit of internal financial controls with reference with reference to standalone financial statements may 118 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS become inadequate because of changes in conditions, maintained, in all material respects, adequate internal or that the degree of compliance with the policies or financial controls with reference to standalone financial procedures may deteriorate. statements and such internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements were Basis for Qualified Opinion operating effectively as of March 31, 2019, based on 8. According to the information and explanations given the internal control over financial reporting criteria to us and based on our audit, the following material established by the Company considering the essential weakness has been identified in the operating components of internal control stated in the Guidance effectiveness of the Company’s internal financial Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over controls with reference to standalone financial Financial Reporting issued by the ICAI. statements as at March 31, 2019: 10. We have considered the material weakness identified The Company’s internal financial controls over and reported above in determining the nature, timing, the evaluation and assessment of provision for an and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of the excise/customs matter pending with the Honourable standalone financial statements of the Company for Supreme Court were not operating effectively which the year ended March 31, 2019 and the material could potentially result in the Company not recognising weakness has affected our opinion on the standalone adequate provision in respect of this matter. financial statements of the Company and we have Refer paragraph 3 of the main audit report. accordingly issued a modified report on the standalone financial statements. A ‘material weakness’ is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal financial control with For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP reference to standalone financial statements, such Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016 that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim Neeraj Sharma standalone financial statements will not be prevented or Partner detected on a timely basis. Membership Number: 108391 Qualified opinion Place: Pune 9. In our opinion, except for the possible effects of the Date: April 23, 2019 material weakness described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph above on the achievement of the objectives of the control criteria, the Company has Annual Report 2018-19 119 Annexure B to Independent Auditors’ Report Referred to in paragraph 15 of the Independent Auditors’ Report of even date to the members of Sterlite Technologies Limited on the standalone financial statements as of and for the year ended March 31, 2019 i. (a)  The Company is maintaining proper records iv. In our opinion, and according to the information and showing full particulars, including quantitative explanations given to us, the Company has complied details and situation, of fixed assets. with the provisions of Section 185 and 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 in respect of the loans and (b) The fixed assets are physically verified by the investments made and guarantees and security Management according to a planned programme provided by it. designed to cover all the items once in three years which, in our opinion, is reasonable having v. The Company has not accepted any deposits from the regard to the size of the Company and the nature public within the meaning of Sections 73, 74, 75 and of its assets. Pursuant to the programme, fixed 76 of the Act and the Rules framed there under to the assets have been physically verified by the extent notified. Management during the previous year and no material discrepancies have been noticed on such vi. P ursuant to the rules made by the Central Government of verification. Further, the physical verification of India, the Company is required to maintain cost records cables is impractical due the manner in which they as specified under Section 148(1) of the Act in respect have been installed/laid. of manufacture of copper cables. We have broadly reviewed the same and are of the opinion that, prima (c) The title deeds of immovable properties, as facie, the prescribed accounts and records have been disclosed in Note 4 on fixed assets to the made and maintained. We have not, however, made standalone financial statements, are held in the a detailed examination of the records with a view to name of the Company. determine whether they are accurate or complete. ii. The physical verification of inventory excluding vii. (a) According to the information and explanations stocks lying with third party have been conducted at given to us and the records of the Company reasonable intervals by the Management during the examined by us, in our opinion, the Company is year. In respect of inventory lying with third parties, regular in depositing the undisputed statutory these have substantially been confirmed by them. dues, including provident fund, employees’ The discrepancies noticed on physical verification state insurance, income tax, duty of customs, of inventory as compared to book records were not cess, goods and service tax and other material and have been appropriately dealt with in the material statutory dues, as applicable, with the books of accounts. appropriate authorities. iii. The Company has not granted any secured or (b) According to the information and explanations unsecured loans, to companies covered in the register given to us and the records of the Company maintained under Section 189 of the Act. There are no examined by us, there are no dues of goods companies covered in the register maintained under and service tax and value added tax which have Section 189 of the Act. Therefore, the provisions of not been deposited on account of any dispute. Clause 3(iii), (iii)(a), (iii)(b) and (iii)(c) of the said Order are The particulars of dues of income tax, service tax, not applicable to the Company. duty of customs and duty of excise as at March 31, 2019 which have not been deposited on account of a dispute, are as follows: Name of the statute Nature of dues Amount in INR Crores$ Period to which the amount relates Forum where the dispute is pending Central Excise Act, 1944 # Excise Duty 188.00 2001-2003 Honourable Supreme Court Excise Duty 30.07 2001-2003 Bombay High Court Excise Duty 0.88 2002-2003 CESTAT Mumbai Excise Duty 1.16 2013-2017 Additional commissioner Central GST and Central Excise, Daman Customs Act, 1962# Custom Duty 1.64 2013-2014 The commissioner of Customs (appeals) Custom Duty 67.12 2001-2003 Mumbai High Court Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 Central Sales Tax 0.38 2014-2015 Assistance Commissioner of State Tax, Ahmedabad Finance Act, 1994 Service Tax 0.42 2002-2007 Bombay High Court Service Tax 0.45 1999-2003 Gujrat High Court Service Tax 0.14 2013-2017 CommissionerAppeals Nasik Service Tax 1.31 2013-16 CESTAT Gujrat Income Tax Act, 1961* Income Tax 2.67 AY 2013-14, AY 2015-16 Commissioner (Appeals) Mumbai Income Tax 0.71 AY 2011-12, AY 2013-14, AY Commissioner 2014-15, AY 2015-16 (Appeals) Ahmedabad Income Tax 0.04 AY 2012-13 Gujarat High Court Income Tax 0.15 AY 2010-11, 2009-10 Income Tax Appellate Tribunal Ahmedabad * Amount disclosed above are after considering the rectification application filed by the Company with Income tax authorities. # Demand disclosed above does not include the interest claimed but not quantified by the Central excise/customs authorities. $ Net of amounts paid under protest. 120 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS viii. According to the records of the Company examined of Clause 3(xii) of the Order are not applicable by us and the information and explanation given to to the Company. us, the Company has not defaulted in repayment of loans or borrowings to any financial institution or xiii. The Company has entered into transactions with bank or Government or dues to debenture holders related parties in compliance with the provisions of as at the balance sheet date. As stated in Note 39 Sections 177 and 188 of the Act. The details of such to the standalone financial statements, the Company related party transactions have been disclosed in the continues to dispute amounts aggregating ` 18.87 standalone financial statements as required under crores claimed by a bank in the earlier years, towards Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 24, Related Party import consignments under letter of credit not accepted Disclosures specified under Section 133 of the Act. by the Company, owing to discrepancies in documents. Since the matter is in dispute, we are unable to xiv. The Company has not made a preferential allotment determine whether there is a default in repayment of or private placement of shares or fully or partly dues to the said bank. convertible debentures during the year under review. Accordingly, the provisions of Clause 3(xiv) of the Order ix. In our opinion, and according to the information and are not applicable to the Company. explanations given to us, the moneys raised by way term loans (including debt instruments) have been xv. The Company has not entered into any non cash applied for the purposes for which they were obtained. transactions with its directors or persons connected The Company has not raised any moneys by way of with him. Accordingly, the provisions of Clause 3(xv) of initial public offer or further public offer. the Order are not applicable to the Company. x. During the course of our examination of the books and xvi. The Company is not required to be registered under records of the Company, carried out in accordance with Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. the generally accepted auditing practices in India, and Accordingly, the provisions of Clause 3(xvi) of the Order according to the information and explanations given are not applicable to the Company. to us, we have neither come across any instance of material fraud by the Company or on the Company by For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP its officers or employees, noticed or reported during the Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016 year, nor have we been informed of any such case by the Management. Neeraj Sharma Partner xi. The Company has paid/provided for managerial Membership Number: 108391 remuneration in accordance with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of Section 197 Place: Pune read with Schedule V to the Act. Date: April 23, 2019 xii. As the Company is not a Nidhi Company and the Nidhi Rules, 2014 are not applicable to it, the provisions Annual Report 2018-19 121 Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2019 (All amounts are in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars Note (` in crores) (` in crores) ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant & equipment 4 1,750.31 990.88 Capital work-in progress 413.87 225.84 Investment property 7 8.88 Goodwill 5,6 44.29 73.93 Other intangible assets 5 14.00 14.71 Financial assets Investments 8 164.46 120.98 Trade receivables 9 1.76 4.09 Loans 10 115.63 90.02 Other non-current financial assets 11 42.37 7.69 Other non-current assets 12 20.62 97.74 2,567.31 1,634.76 Current assets Inventories 13 381.01 306.04 Financial assets Investments 14 100.00 155.00 Trade receivables 9 1,178.77 862.46 Cash and cash equivalents 15A 58.43 69.20 Other bank balances 15B 88.93 6.22 Other current financial assets 11 97.95 68.20 Contract assets 12 1,093.02 Other current assets 12 332.20 261.20 Asset classified as held for sale 16 28.27 20.77 3,358.58 1,749.09 Total Assets 5,925.89 3,383.85 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Equity share capital 17 80.51 80.20 Other Equity 18 1,507.70 989.79 Total Equity 1,588.21 1,069.99 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities Borrowings 19 581.71 616.22 Other financial liabilities 20 14.88 64.82 Employee benefit obligations 25 32.35 7.87 Provisions 22 0.72 24.96 Deferred tax liabilities (net) 24A 72.13 30.21 701.79 744.08 Current liabilities Financial liabilities Borrowings 19 797.48 462.74 Trade payables 21 (A) total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises (refer note 41) 92.30 15.11 (B) total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises 1,717.69 618.39 Other financial liabilities 20 629.66 287.53 Contract liabilities 23 269.31 Other current liabilities 23 49.59 136.43 Current tax liabilities (Net) 24B 55.38 Employee benefit obligations 25 14.52 22.75 Provisions 22 9.96 26.83 3,635.89 1,569.78 Total liabilities 4,337.68 2,313.86 Total Equity & Liabilities 5,925.89 3,383.85 Summary of significant accounting policies 2 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the board of directors of Sterlite Technologies Limited For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP Pravin Agarwal Anand Agarwal Firm Registration No: FRN 012754N/N500016 Vice Chairman & Whole-time Director CEO & Whole-time Director DIN : 00022096 DIN : 00057364 Neeraj Sharma Anupam Jindal Amit Deshpande Partner Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Membership Number: 108391 Place: Pune Place: Pune Date: April 23, 2019 Date: April 23, 2019 122 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2019 (All amounts are in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars Note (` in crores) (` in crores) INCOME Revenue from operations 26 4,862.63 2,893.57 Other income 27 14.32 22.19 Total Income (I) 4,876.95 2,915.76 EXPENSES Cost of raw material and components consumed 29 2,583.40 1,131.10 Purchase of traded goods 30.58 32.99 (Increase) / decrease in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress, traded goods and 29 (110.47) 16.68 construction work-in-progress Excise duty on sale of goods 28.46 Employee benefit expense 30 439.55 316.10 Other expenses 31 880.05 765.21 Total Expense (II) 3,823.11 2,290.54 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) (I) (II) 1,053.84 625.22 Depreciation and amortisation expense 32 167.79 170.14 Finance costs 33 95.25 102.68 Finance Income 28 (20.52) (14.84) Profit before tax 811.32 367.24 Tax expense: Current tax 34 270.99 113.68 Deferred tax 34 5.10 (1.12) Total tax expenses 276.09 112.56 Profit for the year 535.23 254.68 Other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Net movement on cash flow hedges 132.77 (49.01) Income tax effect on the above (46.39) 17.12 Net other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 86.38 (31.89) Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Remeasurements of defined benefits plans (7.84) 0.10 Income tax effect on the above 2.74 (0.04) Net movement on cash flow hedges 1.09 Income tax effect on the above (0.38) Change in fair value of FVOCI equity instrument (3.20) Net other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in (5.10) (2.43) subsequent periods Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 81.28 (34.32) Total comprehensive income for the year 616.51 220.36 Earnings per equity share 36 Basic Computed on the basis of profit for the year (`) 13.32 6.38 Diluted Computed on the basis of profit for the year (`) 13.16 6.28 Summary of significant accounting policies 2 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the board of directors of Sterlite Technologies Limited For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP Pravin Agarwal Anand Agarwal Firm Registration No: FRN 012754N/N500016 Vice Chairman & Whole-time Director CEO & Whole-time Director DIN : 00022096 DIN : 00057364 Neeraj Sharma Anupam Jindal Amit Deshpande Partner Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Membership Number: 108391 Place: Pune Place: Pune Date: April 23, 2019 Date: April 23, 2019 Annual Report 2018-19 123 Statement of Changes in Equity (All amounts are in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) A. Equity Share Capital Equity shares of ` 2 each issued, subscribed and fully paid Note No. in Crs. Amount At 01 April 2017 39.83 79.66 Changes in equity share capital 17 0.27 0.54 At 31 March 2018 40.10 80.20 Changes in equity share capital 17 0.15 0.31 At 31 March 2019 40.25 80.51 B. Other Equity Employee Debenture Cash Flow Capital Securities General Retained stock option Redemption Hedge Total Reserve Premium Reserve Earnings Outstanding Reserve Reserve As at 01 April 2017 (19.06) 16.04 19.74 37.50 112.50 626.48 (1.69) 791.51 Profit for the year 254.68 254.68 Other comprehensive income for the year (3.14) (31.18) (34.32) Total comprehensive income for the year (19.06) 16.04 19.74 37.50 112.50 878.02 (32.87) 1,011.87 Addition on ESOPs exercised 11.89 11.89 Transferred to Securities premium account (11.89) (11.89) Employees stock option expenses for the year (refer note 35) 13.39 13.39 Amount transferred to debenture redemption reserve 37.50 (37.50) Equity dividend including taxes thereon (refer note 48) (36.07) (36.07) Reclassified to Statement of profit and loss 0.60 0.60 As at 31 March 2018 (19.06) 27.93 21.24 75.00 112.50 804.45 (32.27) 989.79 Impact of change in accounting policy on adoption of Ind AS 115 (refer note 51) (12.71) (12.71) Restated balance as at 01 April 2018 (19.06) 27.93 21.24 75.00 112.50 791.74 (32.27) 977.08 Profit for the year 535.23 535.23 Other comprehensive income for the year (5.10) 86.38 81.28 Total comprehensive income for the year (19.06) 27.93 21.24 75.00 112.50 1,321.87 54.11 1,593.59 Addition on ESOPs exercised 10.75 10.75 Transferred to Securities premium account (10.75) (10.75) Employees stock option expenses for the year (refer note 35) 19.16 19.16 Equity dividend including taxes thereon (refer note 48) (96.80) (96.80) Transferred to Statement of profit and loss (8.25) (8.25) As at 31 March 2019 (19.06) 38.68 29.65 75.00 112.50 1,225.07 45.86 1,507.70 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the board of directors of Sterlite Technologies Limited For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP Pravin Agarwal Anand Agarwal Firm Registration No: FRN 012754N/N500016 Vice Chairman & Whole-time Director CEO & Whole-time Director DIN : 00022096 DIN : 00057364 Neeraj Sharma Anupam Jindal Amit Deshpande Partner Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Membership Number: 108391 Place: Pune Place: Pune Date: April 23, 2019 Date: April 23, 2019 124 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended March 31, 2019 (All amounts are in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars Note (` in crores) (` in crores) A. Operating activities Profit before tax 811.32 367.24 Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows Depreciation and impairment of property, plant & equipment 133.19 135.82 Amortization & impairment of intangible assets 34.51 34.18 Depreciation of investment properties (refer note 7) 0.09 0.15 Provision for doubtful debts and advances 5.91 13.53 Provision for warranty 13.92 Bad debts / advances written off 17.19 10.54 Cash flow hedge movement 0.60 (Profit)/Loss on sale of assets, net (2.08) 1.65 Rental income (2.01) (2.68) Employees stock option expenses 19.16 13.39 Changes in fair value of investment in joint venture 1.74 Finance costs 95.25 102.68 Finance income (20.52) (14.84) Unrealized exchange difference (2.88) (2.31) 279.55 306.63 Operating profit before working capital changes 1,090.87 673.87 Working capital adjustments: Increase/(decrease) in trade payables 1,191.07 198.67 Increase/(decrease) in long-term provisions (24.24) Increase/(decrease) in short-term provisions (16.87) Increase/(decrease) in other current liabilities (86.84) 89.33 Increase/(decrease) in other current financial liabilities (28.05) (52.31) Increase/(decrease) in contract liabilities 269.31 Increase/(decrease) in other non-current financial liabilities 1.61 28.91 Increase/(decrease) in non current employee benefit obligations 16.64 (4.29) Increase/(decrease) in current employee benefit obligations (8.23) 9.06 Decrease /(increase) in current trade receivable (351.48) (184.02) Decrease /(increase) in non current trade receivable 2.33 0.43 Decrease /(increase) in inventories (74.97) 3.27 Decrease /(increase) in long-term loans (25.61) (31.15) Decrease/(increase) in other current financial assets 25.18 (0.55) Decrease/(increase) in contract assets (1,093.02) Decrease /(increase) in other non-current financial assets (34.68) 3.20 Decrease /(increase) in other current assets (71.00) (51.82) Decrease/(increase) in other non-current assets 1.51 2.15 Change in working capital (307.34) 10.88 Cash generated from operations 783.53 684.75 Income tax paid (net of refunds) (191.06) (89.40) Net cash flow from operating activities 592.47 595.35 Annual Report 2018-19 125 Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended March 31, 2019 (All amounts are in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars Note (` in crores) (` in crores) B. Investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment (736.72) (290.19) Receipt of government grant for investment in property, plant & equipment 28.82 Purchase of intangible assets (4.15) (6.70) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 5.96 1.82 Investment in subsidiaries (40.22) Purchase of noncurrent investments (5.00) (9.60) Investment in asset held for sale (7.50) Purchase of current investments (100.00) (357.49) Proceeds of current investments 155.00 238.86 Investment in bank deposits (having original maturity of more than three months) (82.17) (0.51) Redemption of bank deposits (having original maturity of more than three months) 4.72 Unpaid Dividend (0.54) (2.83) Rental income 2.01 2.68 Advances given to subsidiaries / joint ventures (21.17) Interest received (finance income) 20.55 13.36 Net cash flow used in investing activities (763.96) (427.05) C. Financing activities Proceeds from long term borrowings 106.42 150.00 Repayment of long term borrowings (84.90) (63.63) Proceeds/(repayment) from/of short term borrowings (net) 334.74 (126.01) Proceeds from issue of shares against employee stock options 0.31 0.54 Interest paid (99.04) (95.38) Dividend paid on equity shares (80.30) (29.97) DDT on equity dividend paid (16.51) (6.10) Net cash flow used in financing activities 160.72 (170.55) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (10.77) (2.25) Cash and cash equivalents as at beginning of year (Refer note 15A) 69.20 71.45 Cash and cash equivalents as at year end (Refer note 15A) 58.43 69.20 Components of cash and cash equivalents: Balances with banks: 58.40 69.17 Cash in hand 0.03 0.03 Total cash and cash equivalents 58.43 69.20 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the board of directors of Sterlite Technologies Limited For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP Pravin Agarwal Anand Agarwal Firm Registration No: FRN 012754N/N500016 Vice Chairman & Whole-time Director CEO & Whole-time Director DIN : 00022096 DIN : 00057364 Neeraj Sharma Anupam Jindal Amit Deshpande Partner Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Membership Number: 108391 Place: Pune Place: Pune Date: April 23, 2019 Date: April 23, 2019 126 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 1. Corporate information Amended standards adopted by the Company  terlite Technologies Limited (the Company) is a public S The company has applied Ind AS 115 for the first time for company domiciled in India and incorporated under the their annual reporting period starting from April 01, 2018. provisions of the Companies Act, 1956. Its shares are listed Company has disclosed the impact of adoption of Ind AS on two stock exchanges in India. The registered office 115 in note 51 to the financial statements. of the Company is located at E 1, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, Aurangabad, Maharashtra, India. The Company is Current versus non-current classification primarily engaged in the business of Connectivity and The Company presents assets and liabilities in the balance Network solutions. sheet based on current/non-current classification. An asset is current when it is:  he Company is a global leader in end-to-end data network T solutions. The company designs and deploy high-capacity • Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or converged fibre and wireless networks. With expertise consumed in the normal operating cycle; ranging from optical fibre and cables, hyper-scale network • Held primarily for the purpose of trading; design, and deployment and network software, the company is the industry's leading integrated solutions provider for • Expected to be realised within twelve months after the global data networks. The company partners with global reporting period; or telecom companies, cloud companies, citizen networks • Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being and large enterprises to design, build and manage such exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least twelve cloud-native software-defined networks. months after the reporting period. 2. Significant accounting policies All other assets are classified as non-current.  his note provides a list of the significant accounting policies T A liability is current when: adopted in the preparation of these standalone financial • It is expected to be settled in the normal operating cycle; statements. These policies have been consistently applied to • It is held primarily for the purpose of trading; all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. • It is due to be settled within twelve months after the 2.1 Basis of preparation reporting period; or T  he standalone financial statements comply in all material • There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement aspects with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified of the liability for at least twelve months after the under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) reporting period. [Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015] and other relevant provisions of the Act. The Company classifies all other liabilities as non-current.  he standalone Ind AS financial statements have been T Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the following non-current assets and liabilities. assets and liabilities which have been measured at fair value or revalued amount: Operating cycle of the Company is the time between the acquisition of assets for processing and their realisation in • Derivative financial instruments; cash or cash equivalents. Based on the nature of products and the time between the acquisitions of assets for • Certain financial assets and liabilities measured processing and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents, at fair value (refer accounting policy regarding the company has ascertained operating cycle of 12 months financial instruments). for the purpose of current and non-current classification of • Share based payments assets and liabilities. • Defined benefit plans plan assets measured at fair value a) Foreign currency translation • Asset held for sale – measured at fair value Functional and presentation currency less cost to sale. Items included in the financial statements of the company are measured using the currency of the primary economic The standalone Ind AS financial statements are presented in environment in which the company operates ('the functional Indian Rupees in Crores, except when otherwise indicated. currency'). The financial statements are presented in Indian rupee (INR), which is company’s functional and presentation currency. Annual Report 2018-19 127 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Transactions and balances (i) identify contracts with customers Foreign currency transactions are translated into the (ii) identify the separate performance obligation functional currency using the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses (iii) determine the transaction price of the contract resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from (iv) allocate the transaction price to each of the separate the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated performance obligations, and in foreign currencies at year end exchange rates are generally recognised in profit or loss. They are deferred (v) recognise the revenue as each performance in equity if they relate to qualifying cash flow hedges and obligation is satisfied. qualifying net investment hedges or are attributable to part of the net investment in a foreign operation. A monetary item Transition for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in On transition to Ind AS 115, the Company has elected to the foreseeable future is considered as a part of the entity's adopt the new revenue standard as per cumulative catch-up net investment in that foreign operation. transition method. As per the cumulative catch-up transition method, the Company has recognized the cumulative effect Foreign exchange differences regarded as an adjustment to of initially applying the Ind AS 115 as at April 1, 2018 in borrowing costs are presented in the statement of profit and retained earnings. The comparative financial statements for loss, within finance costs. All other foreign exchange gains year ended March 31, 2018 are not restated. and losses are presented in the Statement of profit and loss on the basis of underlying transactions. Revenue recognition policy The Company has following streams of revenue: Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in (i) Revenue from sale of goods a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined. (ii) Revenue from sale of services Translation differences on assets and liabilities carried at (iii) Revenue from network integration projects fair value are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss. For example, translation differences on non-monetary assets (iv) Revenue from software products/licenses and and liabilities such as equity instruments held at fair value implementation activities through profit or loss are recognised in profit or loss as part of the fair value gain or loss and translation differences on The Company accounts for a contract when it has approval non-monetary assets such as equity investments classified and commitment from parties involved, the rights of the as FVOCI are recognised in other comprehensive income. parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical consideration is probable. cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions. The Company identifies distinct performance obligations in each contract. For most of the network integration projects b) Revenue from contracts with customers contracts, the customer contracts with the Company to Ind AS 115 Revenue from contracts with customers has been provide a significant service of integrating a complex set issued with effect from April 1, 2018. The new standard of tasks and components into a single project or capability. deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for Hence, the entire contract is accounted for as one reporting useful information to users of financial statements performance obligation. about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entity’s contracts with However, the Company may promise to provide distinct customers. Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains goods or services within a contract, for example when a control of a promised good or service and thus has the ability contract covers multiple promises (e.g., construction of to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good network with its maintenance and support), in which case or service in an amount that reflects the consideration to the Company separates the contract into more than one which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those performance obligation. If a contract is separated into goods and services. more than one performance obligation, the Company allocates the total transaction price to each performance A new five-step process must be applied before revenue obligation on the basis of the relative standalone selling can be recognised: price of each distinct product or service promised in the contract. Where standalone selling price is not observable, 128 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 the Company uses the expected cost plus margin The Company estimates variable consideration using approach to allocate the transaction price to each distinct expected value method of probability-weighted values at performance obligation. an amount to which it expects to be entitled. The Company includes estimated amounts in the transaction price to the The Company assesses for the timing of revenue extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative recognition in case of each distinct performance obligation. revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty The Company first assesses whether the revenue can be associated with the variable consideration is resolved. recognized over time as it performs if any of the following The estimates of variable consideration and determination criteria is met: of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of the anticipated (a) The customer simultaneously consumes the benefits as performance and all information (historical, current and the Company performs, or forecasted) that is reasonably available. (b) The customer controls the work-in-progress, or Contracts are modified to account for changes in contract (c) The Company’s performance does not create an specifications and requirements. The Company considers asset with alternative use to the Company and the contract modifications to exist when the modification either Company has right to payment for performance creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and completed till date obligations. Most of the contract modifications are for goods If none of the criteria above are met, the Company or services that are not distinct from the existing contract due recognizes revenue at a point-in-time. The point-in-time to the significant integration service provided in the context is determined when the control of the goods or services of the contract and are accounted for as if they were part of is transferred which is generally determined based on that existing contract. The effect of a contract modification when the significant risks and rewards of ownership are on the transaction price and measure of progress for the transferred to the customer. Apart from this, the Company performance obligation to which it relates, is recognized also considers its present right to payment, the legal title as an adjustment to revenue (either as an increase in or a to the goods, the physical possession and the customer reduction of revenue) on a cumulative catch-up basis. acceptance in determining the point in time where control has been transferred. When estimates of total costs to be incurred exceed total estimates of revenue to be earned on a performance The Company uses input method to measure the progress obligation related to a contract, a provision for the entire loss for contracts because it best depicts the transfer of on the performance obligation is recognized in the period. control to the customer which occurs as it incurs costs on contracts. Under the input method measure of progress, For fixed price contracts, the customer pays the fixed amount the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the payment schedule. If the services rendered based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total by the Company exceed the payment, a contract asset is estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation. recognized. If the payment exceed the services rendered, a Revenues, including estimated fees or profits, are recorded contract liability is recognised. proportionally as costs are incurred. Revenue in respect of operation and maintenance contracts is recognized on a All the qualitative and quantitative information related to time proportion basis. significant changes in contract asset and contract liability balances such as impairment of contract asset, changes due Due to the nature of the work required to be performed on to business combination, changes in the timeframe for a performance obligations, the estimation of total revenue and performance obligation to be satisfied are disclosed by the cost at completion is complex, subject to many variables Company at every reporting period. and requires significant judgment. It is common for network integration projects contracts to contain liquidated damages Revenue recognised at a point-in-time on delay in completion/performance, bonus on early For sale of products, revenue is recognized at point in time completion, or other provisions that can either increase or when control of goods is transferred to the customer based decrease the transaction price. These variable amounts on delivery terms, payment terms, customer acceptance and generally are awarded upon achievement of certain other indicators of control as mentioned above. performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and may be based upon customer discretion. Annual Report 2018-19 129 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 c) Other Income and liabilities attributable to temporary differences and 1. Interest income to unused tax losses. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest The current income tax charge is calculated on rate applicable. Interest income is included in finance the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively income in the statement of profit and loss. enacted at the end of the reporting period. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in 2. Dividends tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable  Dividends are recognised in profit or loss only when the tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes right to receive payment is established, it is probable provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts that the economic benefits associated with the dividend expected to be paid to the tax authorities. will flow to the Company, and the amount of the dividend can be measured reliably. Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability 3. Rental income method, on temporary differences arising between the Rental income arising from operating leases on tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying investment properties is accounted for on a straight-line amounts in the financial statements at the reporting basis over the lease terms and is included in other date. Deferred tax is not accounted when the deferred income in the statement of profit and loss. tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an d) Government grants asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business  Grants from the government are recognised at their fair combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects value where there is a reasonable assurance that the neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss. grant will be received and the company will comply with all attached conditions. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: Government grants relating to income are deferred • When the deferred tax liability arises from the initial and recognised in the profit or loss over the period recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a necessary to match them with the costs that transaction that is not a business combination and, they are intended to compensate and presented at the time of the transaction, affects neither the within other income. accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; • In respect of taxable temporary differences between Government grants relating to the purchase of the carrying amount and tax bases of investments property, plant and equipment are recognised in in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interests books by deducting the grant from the carrying in joint ventures, when the timing of the reversal amount of the asset. of the temporary differences can be controlled by the Company and it is probable that the temporary When loans or similar assistance are provided by differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. governments or related institutions, with an interest rate below the current applicable market rate, the effect of Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible this favourable interest is regarded as a government temporary differences, the carry forward of unused grant. The loan or assistance is initially recognised and tax credits and unused tax losses. Deferred tax measured at fair value and the government grant is assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable measured as the difference between the initial carrying that taxable profit will be available against which the value of the loan and the proceeds received. The loan deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward is subsequently measured as per the accounting policy of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be applicable to financial liabilities. utilised, except: e) Income Taxes • In respect of deductible temporary differences Current income tax between the carrying amount and tax bases of The income tax expense or credit for the period is the investments in subsidiaries, branch, associates and tax payable on the current period's taxable income interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are based on the applicable income tax rate for each recognised only to the extent that it is probable jurisdiction adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets that the temporary differences will reverse in 130 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be activity or is incidental there to. Income earned during available against which the temporary differences the construction period is deducted from the total of the can be utilised. indirect expenditure. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at Subsequent costs are included in the asset's carrying each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available only when it is probable that future economic benefits to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. associated with the item will flow to the Company and the Unrecognised deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has amount of any component accounted for as a separate become probable that future taxable profits will allow the asset is derecognised when replaced. All other repairs deferred tax asset to be recovered. and maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the reporting period in which they are incurred. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method reporting date and are expected to apply in the year when to allocate their cost, net of their residual values, over their the asset is realised or the liability is settled. estimated useful lives. The Company, based on technical assessments made by technical experts and management Current and Deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss, estimates, depreciates the certain items of tangible assets except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in over estimated useful lives which are different from the other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this useful life prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies Act, case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive 2013. The management believes that these estimated income or directly in equity, respectively. useful lives are realistic and reflect fair approximation of the period over which the assets are likely to be used. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a Table below provide the details of the useful life which are legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets different from useful life prescribed under Schedule II of the against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate Companies Act, 2013: to the current tax assets and tax liabilities are offset when the entity has a legally enforceable right to offset and intend Useful Life Asset Category Useful life (Schedule II#) either to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and considered settle the liability simultaneously. Plant and Machinery 3 25 Years * Continous process plant -25 Years Others 15 Years f) Property, plant and equipment Furniture and fixtures 7.5 10 Years * 10 Years Freehold land and Capital work in progress are carried Data processing 3 5 Years * Service and at historical costs. All other items of property, plant and equipment networks -6 years and equipment are stated at historical cost, net of accumulated Desktops and depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. laptop etc 3 Years Such historical cost includes the cost of replacing part of the Office equipment 4 5 Years * 5 Years property, plant and equipment and borrowing costs if the Electric fittings 4 10 Years * 10 Years recognition criteria are met. When significant parts of the Vehicles 4 5 Years *# 8 Years property, plant and equipment are required to be replaced * Considered on the basis of management’s estimation, supported by technical at intervals, the Company depreciates them separately advice, of the useful lives of the respective assets. based on their specific useful lives. Likewise, when a # Residual value considered as 15% on the basis of management’s estimation, major inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in supported by technical advice. the carrying amount of the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied. All The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in leases is depreciated over the asset's useful life or over the statement of profit or loss as incurred. No decommissioning shorter of the asset's useful life and the lease term if there liabilities are expected or be incurred on the assets of plant is no reasonable certainty that the Company will obtain and equipment. ownership at the end of the lease term. Expenditure directly relating to construction activity is The Company depreciates building using straight capitalised. Indirect expenditure incurred during construction line method over 30 to 60 years from the date of period is capitalised as part of the construction costs to the original purchase. extent the expenditure can be attributable to construction Annual Report 2018-19 131 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant and accumulated impairment losses. Internally generated part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal or intangible assets, excluding capitalised development costs, when no future economic benefits are expected from its are not capitalised and the expenditure is recognised in use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition the Statement of Profit and Loss in the period in which the of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net expenditure is incurred. disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in the statement of profit or loss when the asset The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either is derecognised. finite or indefinite. An asset's carrying amount is written down immediately to its Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over recoverable amount if the asset's carrying amount is greater their useful economic lives and assessed for impairment than its estimated recoverable amount. whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are proceeds with carrying amount. These are included in profit reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. or loss within other gains/(losses). Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and the asset are considered to modify the amortisation period adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period. or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates. The amortisation expense on g) Investment properties intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the Property that is held for long-term rental yields or for statement of profit or loss. capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the Company, is classified as investment property. The Company does not have any intangible assets with Investment property is measured initially at its cost, indefinite useful lives. including related transaction costs and where applicable borrowing costs. Subsequent expenditure is capitalised to Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible the asset's carrying amount only when it is probable that asset are measured as the difference between the net future economic benefits associated with the expenditure disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and will flow to the Company and the cost of the item can be are recognised in the statement of profit or loss when the measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance costs asset is derecognised. are expensed when incurred. When part of an investment property is replaced, the carrying amount of the replaced Customer acquisition costs consist of payments made to part is derecognised. obtain consents/permissions for laying of fiber cables and other telecom infrastructure in residential and commercial The Company, based on technical assessment made by complexes/townships. Such cost is amortized over the period technical expert and management estimate, depreciates the of the consent/permission on a straight line basis. building over estimated useful life which is also the useful life prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013. Softwares are amortised on a straight line basis over a The management believes that these estimated useful lives period of five to six years. are realistic and reflect fair approximation of the period over which the assets are likely to be used. All other intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over a period of five to six years. Investment properties are derecognised either when they have been disposed of or when they are permanently Goodwill on amalgamation is amortised on a straight withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is line basis over a period of five years from the date of expected from their disposal. The difference between the net amalgamation as per the Court Order. disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is recognised in profit or loss in the period of derecognition. Research costs are expensed as incurred. h) Intangible Assets i) Leases Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial The determination of whether an arrangement is (or contains) recognition at cost. Following initial recognition, intangible a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation the inception of the lease. The arrangement is, or contains, 132 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 a lease if fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on Leases are classified as finance leases when substantially the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement all the risks and rewards of ownership transfer from the conveys a right to use the asset or assets, even if that right is Company to the lessee. Amounts due from lessees under not explicitly stated in the arrangement. finance leases are recorded as receivables at the Company’s net investment in the leases. Finance lease income is Company as a lessee allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant A lease is classified at the inception date as a finance lease periodic rate of return on the net investment outstanding in or an operating lease. A lease that transfers substantially respect of the lease. all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership to the Company is classified as a finance lease. The respective leased assets are included in the balance sheet based on their nature. Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s inception at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present j) Inventories value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the realisable value. lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. The corresponding Cost of raw materials and traded goods comprises cost of rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included purchases. Cost of work-in progress and finished goods in borrowings or other financial liabilities as appropriate. comprises direct materials, direct labour and an appropriate Finance charges are recognised in finance costs in the proportion of variable and fixed overhead expenditure, statement of profit and loss, unless they are directly the latter being allocated on the basis of normal operating attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capacity. Cost of inventories also include all other costs capitalized in accordance with the Company’s general policy incurred in bringing the inventories to their present on the borrowing costs. location and condition. Cost includes the reclassification from equity of any gains or losses on qualifying cash flow A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the hedges relating to purchases of raw material but excludes asset. However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the borrowing costs. Costs are assigned to individual items of Company will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, inventory on the basis of weighted average basis. Costs of the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated purchased inventory are determined after deducting rebates useful life of the asset and the lease term. and discounts. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated Leases in which a significant portion of the risk and rewards costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary of ownership are not transferred to the Company are to make the sale. classified as operating lease. Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the statement of profit and k) Impairment of non-financial assets loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless the Goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite useful payment are structured to increase inline with the expected life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually general inflation to compensate for the lessors expected for impairment, or more frequently if events or changes inflationary cost increases. in circumstances indicate that they might be impaired. Other assets are tested for impairment whenever events or Company as a lessor changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount Leases in which the Company does not transfer substantially may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset are for the amount by which the asset's carrying amount exceeds classified as operating leases. Rental income from operating its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the lease is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term higher of an asset's fair value less costs of disposal and of the relevant lease unless the receipts are structured value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, to increase inline with the expected general inflation to assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there compensate for the expected inflationary cost increases. are separately identifiable cash inflows which are largely Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the of assets (cash-generating units). Non-financial assets other leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed same basis as rental income. for possible reversal of the impairment at the end of each reporting period. Annual Report 2018-19 133 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 l) Provisions (iii) Post-employment obligations General The Company operates the following post-employment Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present schemes: obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying (a) Defined benefit plans in the nature of gratuity and economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the (b) Defined contribution plans such as provident fund. obligation. When the Company expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised Gratuity obligations as a separate asset, but only when the reimbursement The liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet in is virtually certain. The expense relating to a provision respect of defined benefit gratuity plans is the present value is presented in the statement of profit or loss net of any of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting reimbursement. Provisions are not recognised for future period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit operating losses. obligation is calculated annually by actuaries using the projected unit credit method. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that The present value of the defined benefit obligation reflects, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. denominated in INR is determined by discounting the When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due estimated future cash outflows by reference to market to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost. yields at the end of the reporting period on government bonds that have terms approximating to the terms of the m) Employee benefits related obligation. (i) Short-term obligations Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-monetary The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount benefits that are expected to be settled wholly within 12 rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation months after the end of the period in which the employees and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in render the related service are recognised in respect of employee benefit expense in the statement of profit and loss. employees' services up to the end of the reporting period and are measured at the amounts expected to be paid when Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience the liabilities are settled. The liabilities are presented as adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are current employee benefit obligations in the balance sheet. recognised in the period in which they occur, directly in other comprehensive income. They are included in retained (ii) Other long-term employee benefit obligations earnings in the statement of changes in equity and in The liabilities for earned leave and sick leave are not the balance sheet. expected to be settled wholly within 12 months after the end of the period in which the employees render the Changes in the present value of the defined benefit related service. They are therefore measured as the present obligation resulting from plan amendments or curtailments value of expected future payments to be made in respect are recognised immediately in profit or loss as of services provided by employees up to the end of the past service cost. reporting period using the projected unit credit method. The benefits are discounted using the market yields at the Defined contribution plans end of the reporting period that have terms approximating The company pays provident fund contributions to publicly to the terms of the related obligation. Remeasurements as administered provident funds as per local regulations. a result of experience adjustments and changes in actuarial The company has no further payment obligations once assumptions are recognised in profit or loss. the contributions have been paid. The contributions are accounted for as defined contribution plans and the The obligations are presented as current liabilities in the contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense balance sheet if the entity does not have an unconditional when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as right to defer settlement for at least twelve months after the an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the reporting period, regardless of when the actual settlement is future payments is available. expected to occur. n) Share-based payments The fair value of options granted under the Employee Option Plan is recognised as an employee benefits expense with 134 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 a corresponding increase in equity. The total amount to be ii) Measurement: expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the At initial recognition, the Company measures a financial options granted: asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are • Including any market performance conditions (e.g., the directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. entity's share price) Transaction costs of financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are expensed in profit or loss. • Excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions (e.g. profitability, sales Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered growth targets and remaining an employee of the entity in their entirety when determining whether their cash flows over a specified time period), and are solely payment of principal and interest. • Including the impact of any non-vesting conditions (e.g. the requirement for employees to save or holdings shares Debt instruments for a specific period of time). Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the company's business model for managing the asset and The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, the cash flow characteristics of the asset. There are three which is the period over which all of the specified vesting measurement categories into which the company classifies conditions are to be satisfied. At the end of each period, its debt instruments: the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting Amortised cost: Assets that are held for collection of and service conditions. It recognises the impact of the contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent revision to original estimates, if any, in profit or loss, with a solely payments of principal and interest are measured at corresponding adjustment to equity. amortised cost. A gain or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently measured at amortised cost and is not part of o) Investment and Other Financial assets a hedging relationship is recognised in profit or loss when i) Classification & Recognition: the asset is derecognised or impaired. Interest income from The company classifies its financial assets in the following these financial assets is included in finance income using the measurement categories: effective interest rate method. • Those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either Fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI): through other comprehensive income, or through Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows profit or loss) and for selling the financial assets, where the assets' cash • Those measured at amortised cost. flows represent solely payments of principal and interest, are measured at fair value through other comprehensive The classification depends on the entity's business model income (FVOCI). Movements in the carrying amount are for managing the financial assets and the contractual terms taken through OCI, except for the recognition of impairment of the cash flows. For assets measured at fair value, gains gains or losses, interest revenue and foreign exchange gains and losses will either be recorded in profit or loss or other and losses which are recognised in profit and loss. When the comprehensive income. For investments in debt instruments, financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss this will depend on the business model in which the previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from equity investment is held. For investments in equity instruments, to profit or loss and recognised in other gains/ (losses). this will depend on whether the company has made an Interest income from these financial assets is included in irrevocable election at the time of initial recognition to other income using the effective interest rate method. account for the equity investment at fair value through other comprehensive income. Fair value through profit or loss: Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or FVOCI are measured at The company reclassifies debt investments when and only fair value through profit or loss. A gain or loss on a debt when its business model for managing those assets changes. investment that is subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss and is not part of a hedging relationship Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are is recognised in profit or loss and presented net in the recognised on trade-date, the date on which the company statement of profit and loss within other gains/(losses) in the commit to purchase or sale the financial asset. period in which it arises. Interest income from these financial assets is included in other income. Annual Report 2018-19 135 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Equity instruments impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each The company subsequently measures all equity investments reporting date, right from its initial recognition. at fair value. Where the company's management has elected to present fair value gains and losses on equity investments For recognition of impairment loss on other financial assets in other comprehensive income, there is no subsequent and risk exposure, the Company determines that whether reclassification of fair value gains and losses to profit or loss. there has been a significant increase in the credit risk since Dividends from such investments are recognised in profit or initial recognition. If credit risk has not increased significantly, loss as other income when the company's right to receive 12-month ECL is used to provide for impairment loss. payments is established. However, if credit risk has increased significantly, lifetime ECL is used. If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the Changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value instrument improves such that there is no longer a significant through profit or loss are recognised in other gain/ (losses) increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then the entity in the statement of profit and loss. Impairment losses reverts to recognising impairment loss allowance based (and reversal of impairment losses) on equity investments on 12-month ECL. measured at FVOCI are not reported separately from other changes in fair value. Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of a financial Equity investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint instrument. The 12-month ECL is a portion of the lifetime ECL venture are carried at historical cost as per the accounting which results from default events that are possible within 12 policy choice given by IND AS 27. months after the reporting date. The Company makes investments in certain joint ventures ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows and associates with the objective to generate growth that are due to the Company in accordance with the in the medium term and with identified exit strategies. contract and all the cash flows that the entity expects Such investments are managed on a fair value basis. The to receive (i.e., all cash shortfalls), discounted at the company has elected to measure investments in such joint original EIR. When estimating the cash flows, an entity is ventures and associates in accordance with Ind AS 109. required to consider: iii) Impairment of financial assets • All contractual terms of the financial instrument (including In accordance with Ind AS 109, the Company applies prepayment, extension, call and similar options) over the expected credit loss (ECL) model for measurement and expected life of the financial instrument. However, in rare recognition of impairment loss on the following financial cases when the expected life of the financial instrument assets and credit risk exposure: cannot be estimated reliably, then the entity is required to use the remaining contractual term of the a) Financial assets that are debt instruments, and are financial instrument; measured at amortised cost e.g., loans, debt securities, • Cash flows from the sale of collateral held or other credit deposits, trade receivables and bank balance enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms. b) Lease receivables under Ind AS 17 ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognized during the period is recognized as income/ expense in the c) Trade receivables or any contractual right to receive statement of profit and loss. This amount is reflected under cash or another financial asset that result from transactions the head ‘other expenses’ in the statement of profit and that are within the scope of Ind AS 115. loss. The balance sheet presentation for various financial instruments is described below: The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on: • Financial assets measured as at amortised cost, contractual revenue receivables and lease receivables: • Trade receivables or contract revenue receivables; and ECL is presented as an allowance, i.e., as an integral part of the measurement of those assets in the balance • All lease receivables resulting from transactions within the sheet. The allowance reduces the net carrying amount. scope of Ind AS 17 Until the asset meets write-off criteria, the Company The application of simplified approach does not require the does not reduce impairment allowance from the gross Company to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognises carrying amount. 136 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 For assessing increase in credit risk and impairment loss, p) Financial liabilities the Company combines financial instruments on the basis Trade and other payables of shared credit risk characteristics with the objective of These amounts represent liabilities for goods and services facilitating an analysis that is designed to enable significant provided to the Company prior to the end of financial increases in credit risk to be identified on a timely basis. year which are unpaid. The amounts are unsecured and are usually paid within 3o days of recognition. Trade and The Company does not have any purchased or originated other payables are presented as current liabilities unless credit-impaired (POCI) financial assets, i.e., financial assets payment is not due within 12 months after the reporting which are credit impaired on purchase/ origination. period. They are recognised initially at their fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective iv) Decognition of financial asset interest method. A financial asset is derecognised only when the Company has transferred the rights to receive cash flows from the Borrowings financial asset or retains the contractual rights to receive the Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of cash flows of the financial asset, but assumes a contractual transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more recipients. measured at amortised cost. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption Where the entity has transferred an asset, the Company amount is recognised in profit or loss over the period of the evaluates whether it has transferred substantially all risks and borrowings using the effective interest method. Fees paid rewards of ownership of the financial asset. In such cases, on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as the financial asset is derecognised. Where the entity has not transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership of that some or all of the facility will be drawn down. In this the financial asset, the financial asset is not derecognised. case, the fee is deferred until the draw down occurs. To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or Where the entity has neither transferred a financial asset all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as nor retains substantially all risks and rewards of ownership a prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the of the financial asset, the financial asset is derecognised if period of the facility to which it relates. the Company has not retained control of the financial asset. Where the Company retains control of the financial asset, Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when the the asset is continued to be recognised to the extent of obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled continuing involvement in the financial asset. or expired. The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability that has been extinguished or transferred v) Reclassification of financial assets to another party and the consideration paid, including The Company determines classification of financial assets any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is and liabilities on initial recognition. After initial recognition, no recognised in profit or loss as other gains/(losses). reclassification is made for financial assets which are equity instruments and financial liabilities. For financial assets Where the terms of a financial liability are renegotiated and which are debt instruments, a reclassification is made only if the entity issues equity instruments to a creditor to extinguish there is a change in the business model for managing those all or part of the liability (debt for equity swap), a gain or assets. Changes to the business model are expected to be loss is recognised in profit or loss, which is measured as infrequent. The Company’s senior management determines the difference between the carrying amount of the financial change in the business model as a result of external or liability and the fair value of the equity instruments issued. internal changes which are significant to the Company’s operations. Such changes are evident to external parties. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the A change in the business model occurs when the Company company has an unconditional right to defer settlement either begins or ceases to perform an activity that is of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting significant to its operations. If the Company reclassifies period. Where there is a breach of a material provision of financial assets, it applies the reclassification prospectively a long-term loan arrangement on or before the end of the from the reclassification date which is the first day of the reporting period with the effect that the liability becomes immediately next reporting period following the change payable on demand on the reporting date, the entity does in business model. The Company does not restate any not classify the liability as current, if the lender agreed, previously recognised gains, losses (including impairment after the reporting period and before the approval of the gains or losses) or interest. financial statements for issue, not to demand payment as a consequence of the breach. Annual Report 2018-19 137 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Borrowing Costs hedges is recognised in the other comprehensive income General and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to in cash flow hedging reserve within equity, limited to the the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that cumulative change in fair value of the hedged item on necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready a present value basis from the inception of the hedge. for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is cost of the asset. All other borrowing costs are expensed recognised immediately in profit or loss, within other in the period in which they occur. Borrowing costs consist gains/(losses). of interest and other costs that the Company incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. Borrowing cost also When forward contracts are used to hedge forecast includes exchange differences to the extent regarded as an transactions, the company designate the full change in fair adjustment to the borrowing costs. value of the forward contract as the hedging instrument. The gains and losses relating to the effective portion of q) Offsetting of financial instruments the change in fair value of the entire forward contract are Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net recognised in the cash flow hedging reserve within equity. amount is reported in the balance sheet if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously. The legally profit or loss (for example, when the forecast sale that is enforceable right must not be contingent on future events hedged takes place). and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the When the hedged forecast transaction results in the Company or the counter party. recognition of a non-financial asset (for example inventory), the amounts accumulated in equity are transferred to profit r) Derivatives and hedging activities or loss as follows: Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently • With respect to gain or loss relating to the effective portion re-measured to their fair value at the end of each reporting of the forward contracts, the deferred hedging gains and period. The accounting for subsequent changes in fair losses are included within the initial cost of the asset. value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a The deferred amounts are ultimately recognised in profit or hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being loss as the hedged item affects profit or loss (for example, hedged and the type of hedge relationship designated. through cost of sales). When a hedging instrument expires, or is sold or terminated, The company designates their derivatives as hedges or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge of foreign exchange risk associated with the cash flows accounting, any cumulative deferred gain or loss and of highly probable forecast transactions and variable deferred costs of hedging in equity at that time remains interest rate risk associated with borrowings (cash flow in equity until the forecast transaction occurs. When the hedges). The company documents at the inception of the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the hedging transaction the economic relationship between cumulative gain or loss and deferred costs of hedging that hedging instruments and hedged items including whether were reported in equity are immediately reclassified to the hedging instrument is expected to offset changes in profit or loss within other gains/(losses). If the hedge ratio cash flows of hedged items. The company documents its for risk management purposes is no longer optimal but risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the risk management objective remains unchanged and various hedge transactions at the inception of each hedge the hedge continues to qualify for hedge accounting, the relationship. The full fair value of a hedging derivative hedge relationship will be rebalanced by adjusting either is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the the volume of the hedging instrument or the volume of remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 the hedged item so that the hedge ratio aligns with the months; it is classified as a current asset or liability when ratio used for risk management purposes. Any hedge the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than ineffectiveness is calculated and accounted for in profit or 12 months. Trading derivatives are classified as a current loss at the time of the hedge relationship rebalancing. asset or liability. Derivatives that are not designated as hedges Cash flow hedges that qualify for hedge accounting The company enters into certain derivative contracts The effective portion of changes in the fair value of to hedge risks which are not designated as hedges. derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow 138 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Such contracts are accounted for at fair value through profit u) Dividends or loss and are included in statement of profit and loss. The Company recognises a liability to make cash distributions to equity holders of the Company when the Embedded derivatives distribution is authorised and the distribution is no longer at Derivatives embedded in a host contract that is an the discretion of the Company. As per the corporate laws asset within the scope of Ind AS 109 are not separated. in India, a distribution is authorised when it is approved by Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered the shareholders. A corresponding amount is recognised in their entirety when determining whether their cash flows directly in equity. are solely payment of principal and interest. v) Earnings per share Derivatives embedded in all other host contract are Basic earnings per share separated only if the economic characteristics and risks Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit of the embedded derivative are not closely related attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted to the economic characteristics and risks of the host average number of equity shares outstanding during the and are measured at fair value through profit or loss. financial year, adjusted for bonus elements in equity shares Embedded derivatives closely related to the host contracts issued during the year and excluding treasury shares. are not separated. Diluted earnings per share s) Financial Guarantee Contracts Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in the Financial guarantee contracts are recognised as a financial determination of basic earnings per share to take into liability at the time the guarantee is issued. The liability account the after income tax effect of interest and other is initially measured at fair value and subsequently at the financing costs associated with dilutive potential equity higher of (i) the amount determined in accordance with shares, and the weighted average number of additional the expected credit loss model as per Ind AS 109 and (ii) equity shares that would have been outstanding assuming the amount initially recognised less, where appropriate, the conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares. cumulative amount of income recognised in accordance with the priciples of Ind AS 115. w) Presentation of EBITDA The Company presents Earnings before interest, tax, The fair value of financial guarantees is determined based depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA’) in the statement on the present value of the difference between the cash of profit or loss; this is not specifically required by Ind AS 1. flows between the contractual payments required under the The term EBITDA is not defined in Ind AS. Ind AS compliant debt instrument and the payments that would be without the Schedule III allows companies to present line items, sub-line guarantee, or the estimated amount that would be payable items and sub-totals to be presented as an addition or to the third party for assuming the obligations. substitution on the face of the financial statements when such presentation is relevant to an understanding of the Where the guarantees in relation to the loans or other company’s financial position or performance. payables of associates are provided for no compensation, the fair values are accounted for as contributions and Accordingly, the Company has elected to present EBITDA recognised as part of the cost of the investment. as a separate line item on the face of the statement of profit and loss. The Company measures EBITDA on the basis of t) Cash and cash equivalents profit/ (loss) from continuing operations. In its measurement, Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise the Company does not include depreciation and amortization cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with an expense, finance income, finance costs and tax expense original maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. x) Trade receivable Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for For the purpose of presentation in the statement of cash goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course of flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash business. Trade receivables are recognised initially at the equivalent, as defined above, net of outstanding bank amount of consideration that is unconditional unless there is overdrafts if they are considered an integral part of the significant financing components, when they are recognised Company’s cash management. at fair value. The company holds the trade receivables with the objective to collect contractual cash flows and therefore Annual Report 2018-19 139 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 measures them subsequently at amortised cost using the aa) Rounding of amount effective interest method, less provision for impairment. All amounts disclosed in the financial statements and notes have been rounded off to the nearest crores as per the y) Segment Reporting requirement of Schedule III, unless otherwise stated. Operating segments are report in a manner consistent with internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating 2.2 Recent accounting pronouncements Decision Maker (CODM). The Board of Directors has been a) Ind AS 116Leases: identified as being the CODM. Refer note 52 for segment On March 30, 2019, Ministry of Corporate Affairs has information presented. notified Ind AS 116, Leases. Ind AS 116 will replace the existing leases Standard, Ind AS 17 Leases, and related z) Non-current assets (or disposal groups) held for sale Interpretations. The Standard sets out the principles for the and discontinued operations recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as held of leases for both parties to a contract i.e., the lessee for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally and the lessor. Ind AS 116 introduces a single lessee through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use accounting model and requires a lessee to recognize and a sale is considered highly probable. They are measured assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less twelve months,unless the underlying asset is of low value. costs to sell, except for assets such as deferred tax assets, Currently, operating lease expenses are charged to the assets arising from employee benefits, financial assets and statement of Profit & Loss. The Standard also contains contractual rights under insurance contracts, which are enhanced disclosure requirements for lessees. Ind AS specifically exempt from this requirement. 116 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in Ind AS 17. An impairment loss is recognised for any initial or subsequent write-down of the asset (or disposal group) The company intends to adopt the standard using the to fair value less costs to sell. A gain is recognised for any modified retrospective approach which means that the subsequent increases in fair value less costs to sell of an cumulative impact of the adoption will be recognised in asset (or disposal group), but not in excess of any cumulative retained earnings as of 1 April 2019 and that comparatives impairment loss previously recognised. A gain or loss will not be restated. not previously recognised by the date of the sale of the non-current asset (or disposal group) is recognised at the Under modified retrospective approach, the lessee records date of de-recognition. the lease liability as the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted at the incremental borrowing rate and Non-current assets (including those that are part of a the right of use asset either as: disposal group) are not depreciated or amortised while they are classified as held for sale. Interest and other expenses • Its carrying amount as if the standard had been applied attributable to the liabilities of a disposal group classified as since the commencement date, but discounted at held for sale continue to be recognised. lessee’s incremental borrowing rate at the date of initial application or Non-current assets classified as held for sale and the • An amount equal to the lease liability, adjusted by the assets of a disposal group classified as held for sale are amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments related presented separately from the other assets in the balance to that lease recognized under Ind AS 17 immediately sheet. The liabilities of a disposal group classified as held before the date of initial application for sale are presented separately from other liabilities in the balance sheet. The company is in the process of assessing the detailed impact of Ind AS 116. A discontinued operation is a component of the entity that has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale and that b) Ind AS 12 Income taxes Appendix C, Uncertainty represents a separate major line of business or geographical over Income Tax Treatments : area of operations, is part of a single co-ordinated plan to On March 30, 2019, Ministry of Corporate Affairs has dispose of such a line of business or area of operations, or notified Ind AS 12 Appendix C, Uncertainty over Income is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. Tax Treatments which is to be applied while performing the The results of discontinued operations are presented determination of taxable profit (or loss), tax bases, unused separately in the statement of profit and loss. tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates, when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments under Ind AS 12. According to the appendix, companies need to determine 140 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 the probability of the relevant tax authority accepting to recognise in profit or loss as part of past service cost, or a each tax treatment, or company of tax treatments, that the gain or loss on settlement, any reduction in a surplus, even companies have used or plan to use in their income tax if that surplus was not previously recognised because of the filing which has to be considered to compute the most likely impact of the asset ceiling. amount or the expected value of the tax treatment when determining taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax • Effective date for application of this amendment is losses, unused tax credits and tax rates. annual period beginning on or after April 1, 2019. Currently, the Company does not have any impact on The standard permits two possible methods of transition account of this amendment i) Full retrospective approach – Under this approach, 3: Significant Accounting Judgements, Appendix C will be applied retrospectively to each prior Estimates and Assumptions reporting period presented in accordance with Ind AS 8 The preparation of financial statements requires the use of – Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates accounting estimates. Management also needs to exercise and Errors, without using hindsight and ii) Retrospectively judgement in applying the company's accounting policies. with cumulative effect of initially applying Appendix C This note provides an overview of the areas that involved recognized by adjusting equity on initial application, without a higher degree of judgement or complexity, and of items adjusting comparatives. which are more likely to be materially adjusted due to estimates and assumptions turning out to be different than The effective date for adoption of Ind AS 12 Appendix those originally assessed. Detailed information about each of C is annual periods beginning on or after April 1, 2019. these estimates and judgements is described below. The Company will adopt the standard on April 1, 2019. Impairment of Goodwill c) Amendment to Ind AS 12 – Income taxes – The company tests whether goodwill has suffered any Amendments related to income tax consequences of impairment on an annual basis. Impairment exists when the dividend: carrying value of an asset or cash generating unit exceeds On March 30, 2019, Ministry of Corporate Affairs issued its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of a cash amendments to the guidance in Ind AS 12, ‘Income Taxes’, in generating unit (CGU) is determined based on value in connection with accounting for dividend distribution taxes. use calculations. The value in use calculation is based on a DCF model. The cash flows are derived from the budget The amendment clarifies that an entity shall recognise the for the next five years and do not include restructuring income tax consequences of dividends in profit or loss, other activities that the Company is not yet committed to or comprehensive income or equity according to where the significant future investments that will enhance the asset’s entity originally recognised those past transactions or events. performance of the CGU being tested. The recoverable amount is sensitive to the discount rate used for the Effective date for application of this amendment is annual DCF model as well as the expected future cash-inflows period beginning on or after April 1, 2019. The Company and the growth rate used. The key assumptions used to currently evaluating the effect of this amendment on the determine the recoverable amount for goodwill including financial statements. a sensitivity analysis are disclosed and further explained in Note 6. d) Amendment to Ind AS 19 – plan amendment, curtailment or settlement: Estimation of provision for Excise/Customs matter On March 30, 2019, Ministry of Corporate Affairs The Company had in an earlier year received an order of issued amendments to Ind AS 19, ‘Employee Benefits’, CESTAT upholding a demand of ` 188 crores (including in connection with accounting for plan amendments, penalties and excluding interest) (` 188 crores as at curtailments and settlements. March 31, 2018) in a pending excise/customs matter against which the Company’s appeal with the Honourable The amendments require an entity: Supreme Court has been admitted. The details of the matter and the amount of provision made based on • to use updated assumptions to determine current service management's estimate are disclosed and further explained cost and net interest for the remainder of the period after a in Note 44. plan amendment, curtailment or settlement; and Annual Report 2018-19 141 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Revenue Recognition on Contracts with complete the contract and to estimate the actual cost Customers incurred basis completion of relevant activities towards The Company’s contracts with customers could include fulfilment of performance obligations. promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. The Company assesses the products / services Contract fulfilment costs are generally expensed as incurred promised in a contract and identifies distinct performance except for costs that meet the criteria for capitalisation. obligations in the contract. Identification of distinct Such costs are amortised over the life of the contract. performance obligation involves judgement to determine the distinct goods/services and the ability of the customer to Uninstalled materials are materials that will be used benefit independently from such goods/services. to satisfy performance obligations in a contract for Judgement is also required to determine the transaction which the cost incurred does not depict transfer to the price for the contract. The transaction price could be either customer. The Company excludes cost of uninstalled a fixed amount of customer consideration or variable materials for measuring progress towards satisfying a consideration with elements such as volume discounts, performance obligation if it involves only provision of a liquidated damages, penalties, price concessions and procurement service. In case of uninstalled materials, incentives. Any consideration payable to the customer is the Company recognises revenue equal to the cost of adjusted to the transaction price, unless it is a payment for a the uninstalled materials if the goods are distinct, the distinct product or service from the customer. The estimated customer is expected to obtain control of the goods amount of variable consideration is adjusted in the significantly before services related to the goods are transaction price only to the extent that it is highly probable rendered, the cost of the transferred goods is significantly that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative relative to the total expected costs to completely satisfy revenue recognised will not occur and is reassessed at the the performance obligation and the goods are procured end of each reporting period. The Company allocates the from a third party wherein there is no involvement of elements of variable considerations to all the performance the Company in designing and manufacturing of the obligations of the contract unless there is observable good. evidence that they pertain to one or more distinct performance obligations. Share-based payments The Company measures the cost of equity-settled The Company uses judgement to determine an appropriate transactions with employees using Black Scholes model and standalone selling price for a performance obligation Monte carlo's simulation model to determine the fair value (allocation of transaction price). The Company allocates of options. Estimating fair value for share-based payment the transaction price to each performance obligation transactions requires determination of the most appropriate on the basis of the relative standalone selling price of valuation model, which is dependent on the terms and each distinct product or service promised in the contract. conditions relating to vesting of the grant. This estimate also Where standalone selling price is not observable, the requires determination of the most appropriate inputs to Company uses the expected cost plus reasonable margin the valuation model including the expected life of the share approach to allocate the transaction price to each distinct option, volatility and dividend yield and assumptions about performance obligation. them. The assumptions and models used for estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions are disclosed in The Company exercises judgement in determining whether Note 35. the performance obligation is satisfied at a point in time or over a period of time. The Company considers indicators Defined benefit plans such as how customer consumes benefits as services are The cost of the defined benefit plan and the present rendered or who controls the asset as it is being created or value of such obligation are determined using actuarial existence of enforceable right to payment for performance valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various to date and alternate use of such product or service, transfer assumptions that may differ from actual developments in of significant risks and rewards to the customer, acceptance the future. These include the determination of the discount of delivery by the customer, timing gap between transfer of rate, future salary increase, employee turnover and control and actual revenue recognition, etc. expected return on planned assets. Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and its long term nature, a defined Revenue for fixed-price contract is recognised using benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these the input method for measuring progress. The company assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at the year end. uses cost incurred related to total estimated costs to Details about employee benefit obligations and related determine the extent of progress towards completion. assumptions are given in Note 25. Judgement is involved to estimate the future cost to 142 Sterlite Technologies Limited Note 4: Property, Plant & Equipment (Amounts ` crores) Data Freehold Leasehold Plant & Furniture & Office Electrical Buildings# processing Vehicles Total Notes land land machinery fixtures equipments fittings equipments Cost At 01 April 2017 63.99 33.41 216.00 1,451.48 16.38 49.38 13.30 44.71 9.18 1,897.83 Annual Report 2018-19 Additions 3.75 0.79 12.82 94.82 0.25 6.96 0.61 1.63 2.34 123.97 Disposals/Adjustments (1.03) (15.74) (0.22) (1.81) (0.15) (0.22) (0.31) (19.48) At 31 March 2018 67.74 34.20 227.79 1,530.56 16.41 54.53 13.76 46.12 11.21 2,002.32 Additions 2.52 160.86 698.91 0.76 5.55 1.84 11.81 5.45 887.70 Transfer from Investment property (refer note 7) 10.03 10.03 Disposals/Adjustments (0.24) (17.28) (0.22) (0.86) (0.12) (0.05) (4.16) (22.93) At 31 March 2019 67.74 36.72 398.44 2,212.19 16.95 59.22 15.48 57.88 12.50 2,877.12 Depreciation, amortization & Impairment At 01 April 2017 2.07 49.56 770.54 7.71 28.05 8.12 22.04 3.56 891.65 Additions 0.29 12.65 99.69 2.36 7.72 1.54 3.08 1.54 128.87 Disposals/Adjustments (0.18) (6.56) (0.20) (1.56) (0.14) (0.15) (0.29) (9.08) At 31 March 2018 2.36 62.03 863.67 9.87 34.21 9.52 24.97 4.81 1,011.44 Additions 0.31 14.13 99.76 2.03 7.83 1.67 5.77 1.69 133.19 Transfer from Investment property (refer note 7) 1.24 1.24 Disposals/Impairment loss/Adjustments (0.09) (14.71) (0.16) (0.84) (0.11) (0.05) (3.10) (19.06) At 31 March 2019 2.67 77.31 948.72 11.74 41.20 11.08 30.69 3.40 1,126.81 Net Book Value At 31 March 2019 67.74 34.05 321.13 1,263.47 5.21 18.02 4.40 27.19 9.10 1,750.31 At 31 March 2018 to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 67.74 31.84 165.76 666.89 6.54 20.32 4.24 21.15 6.40 990.88 Movement in Capital work in progress # Buildings include those constructed on leasehold land: Opening balance as at 01 April 2018 225.84 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Additions during the year 1,022.36 Gross Block 269.77 118.25 Borrowing cost capitalised during the year (Refer Note 33) 53.37 Depreciation for the year 10.30 4.25 Transfers during the year (887.70) Accumulated depreciation 45.84 35.54 Closing balance as at 31 March 2019 413.87 Net Block 223.93 82.71 Capital work in progress mainly comprises amounts pertaining to plant & machinery. Refer note 19 for information on property, plant and equipment pledged as security by the Company. Refer note 38 for disclosure of capital commitments for the acquistion of property, plant & equipments. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 143 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 5: Intangible Assets (Amount ` in crores) Software/ Indefeasible Customer Goodwill Patents Total licenses Right of use acquisition (Refer note 6) Cost At 01 April 2017 20.50 9.31 1.00 5.63 148.19 184.63 Additions 6.61 0.09 6.70 At 31 March 2018 27.11 9.31 1.00 5.72 148.19 191.33 Additions 4.16 4.16 At 31 March 2019 31.27 9.31 1.00 5.72 148.19 195.49 Amortization & Impairment At 01 April 2017 12.27 9.31 0.33 1.98 44.62 68.51 Additions 3.87 0.07 0.60 29.64 34.18 At 31 March 2018 16.14 9.31 0.40 2.58 74.26 102.69 Additions 4.22 0.08 0.56 29.65 34.51 At 31 March 2019 20.36 9.31 0.48 3.14 103.91 137.20 Net Book Value At 31 March 2019 10.91 0.52 2.57 44.29 58.29 At 31 March 2018 10.97 0.60 3.14 73.93 88.64 Note 6: Impairment Testing of Goodwill The Company has performed its annual impairment test by computing the recoverable amount based on a value in use calculations which require the use of assumptions as given in table below. The calculations use cash flow projections from financial budgets approved by senior management covering a period of five years. The management has not identified any instances that could cause the carrying amount of the CGU's to exceed the recoverable amount. Goodwill generated on acquisition of Elitecore Technologies Private Limited ('ETPL') which was merged with the Company with effect from 29 September 2015 is attributable to Network Software cash generating units ('CGU'). 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 (` in crores) (` in crores) Goodwill (refer note 5) 44.29 73.93 Key assumptions used in the value in use calculations The following table provides the key assumptions for this CGU that have goodwill allocated to them: Long-term EBIDTA margins over the budgeted period 10.50%-16.50% 7.00% 13.00% Long-term terminal Growth rate 5.00% 5.00% Pre-tax discount rate 15.70% 15.70% Discount rate Discount rate represents the current market assessment of the risks specific to the CGU, taking into consideration the time value of money and individual risks of the underlying assets that have been incorporated in the cash flow estimates. The discount rate calculation is based on the specific circumstances of the CGU and is derived from the CGU's weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The WACC takes into account both debt and equity. The cost of equity is derived from the expected return on investment by the investors. The cost of debt is based on the interest-bearing borrowings the Company is obliged to service. CGU specific risk is incorporated by applying individual beta factor. The beta factor is evaluated annually based on publicly available market data. Growth rate The Company has considered growth rate to extrapolate cash flows beyond the forecast period, consistent with the industry forecasts. EBITDA margins EBITDA margins are based on the actual EBITDA of respective CGU based on the past trend and future expectations. 144 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Sensitivity to changes in assumptions of CGU The management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions used in the value in use calculation would cause the carrying value of the CGU to materially exceed its value in use. Note 7: Investment Property 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Cost Opening gross block 10.03 10.03 Addition Transferred to property, plant & equipment during the year (refer note 4) (10.03) Closing gross block 10.03 Accumulated Depreciation Opening balance 1.15 0.99 Additions 0.09 0.16 Transferred to property, plant & equipment during the year (refer note 4) (1.24) Closing balance 1.15 Net Block 8.88 Amounts recognised in profit and loss for investment property 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Rental income derived from investment properties 0.57 0.86 Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) from property generating rental income (0.01) (0.01) Profit arising from investment properties before depreciation 0.56 0.85 Less: Depreciation (0.09) (0.16) Profit arising from investment properties 0.47 0.69 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Fair Value NA 15.07 The Company's investment property consisted of a commercial property in India. As at 31 March 2018 the fair value of the investment property was ` 15.07 crores. This value was based on valuations performed by the management on the basis of available market quotes/ prevalent property prices in the same and nearby localities (Fair value judgements and estimates as per Level 2 hierarchy). The Company had no restrictions on the realisability of its investment property and no contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop investment property or for repairs, maintenance and enhancements. During the current year, company has started using the property for its own use and therefore the same has been reclassified to Property, plant and equipment . (Refer note 4) Annual Report 2018-19 145 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 8: Investments 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Non-current investments in equity instruments (fully paid up) (unquoted) Investment in Subsidiaries Equity component of debt instrument 44,705,928 (31 March 2018: 44,705,928) 0.01% compulsory convertible debentures of Speedon 32.42 32.42 Network Limited Equity investments at cost 12,381,447 (31 March 2018: 12,381,447) 67.14 67.14 Equity shares of Sterlite Global Ventures (Mauritius) Limited of USD 1 each fully paid up 50,50,000 (31 March 2018: Nil) Equity shares of Sterlite Tech SPA of Euro 1 each fully paid-up 40.23 50,000 (31 March 2018: Nil) Equity shares of Sterlite Innovative Solutions Limited of ` 10 0.05 each fully paid-up 50,000 (31 March 2018: Nil) Equity shares of Sterlite Tech Connectivity Solutions Limited of ` 10 0.05 each fully paid-up 1,550,000 (31 March 2018: 1,550,000) Equity shares of Speedon Network Limited of ` 10 -* * each fully paid-up Nil (31 March 2018: 2,000) Equity shares of Sterlite Technologies Europe Ventures Limited of Euro 1 each 0.10 fully paid-up$$ 5,000 (31 March 2018: 5,000) Equity shares of Sterlite Technologies UK Ventures Limited of Euro 0.04 0.04 1 each fully paid-up 100% Equity shares of Sterlite (Shanghai) Trading Company Limited fully paid-up 1.53 1.53 1,98,75,404 (31 March 2018: 1,34,97,853) Equity shares of Maharashtra Transmission Communication -* -* Infrastructure Limited of ` 10 each fully paid up (Refer Note 16) 7,606 (31 March 2018: 7,606) Equity shares of Elitecore 0.14 0.14 Technologies (Mauritius) Limited of MUR 100 each fully paid up 1000 (31 March 2018: 1000) Equity shares of Sterlite Tech Holding Inc. USA 0.00* 0.00* 100 (31 March 2018: 100) Equity shares of Elitecore Technologies SDN, BHD## -* -* Investment in Joint venture at fair value through P&L$ 333 (31 March 2018: 333) Equity shares of Metis Eduventures Private Limited 0.26 2.00 Investments Other at fair value through OCI 10 (31 March 2018: 10) Equity shares of Singularity Healthcare IT Systems Private Limited of ` 10 -* -* each fully paid up Investment in debentures (unquoted) Investment in debenturesJoint Venture at fair value through P&L 17,600,000 (31 March 2018: 17,600,000) 0.001% Compulsorily Convertible Debentures of Metis 17.60 17.60 Eduventures Private Limited 5,000,000 (31 March 2018: Nil) 0.001% Cumulative Optionally Convertible Debentures of Metis 5.00 Eduventures Private Limited Investment in debentures(Others, at fair value through OCI) 3,199,990 (31 March 2018: 3,199,990) 0.001% Compulsorily Convertible Debentures of -* * Singularity Healthcare IT Systems Private Limited of ` 10 each fully paid up Total Investments 164.46 120.98 Total non-current investments Aggregate amount of quoted investments and market value thereof Aggregate amount of unquoted investments 164.46 120.98 Amount of impairment in the value of investments** 1.74 3.20 * Amount is below the rounding off norm followed by the Company. ## As per regulations of country in which subsidiary is domiciled equity investment is not required for the incorporation of the company. $ As described in Significant accounting policies (refer note 2), the Company makes investments in certain joint ventures and associates with the objective to generate growth in the medium term and with identified exit strategies. Such investments are managed on a fair value basis. As permitted by Ind AS 28, the company has elected to measure such investments in joint ventures and associates in accordance with Ind AS 109. $$ During the year, Sterlite Technologies Europe Ventures Limited has been liquidated with effect from May 16, 2018. ** These amounts pertain to fair value change in the investment recognised during the year. 146 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 9: Trade Receivables 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Non-current Trade receivables 1.76 4.09 1.76 4.09 Break-up for security details Unsecured, considered good 1.76 4.09 1.76 4.09 Total Non-current trade receivables 1.76 4.09 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Current Trade receivables 1,157.58 831.04 Receivables from related parties (Refer Note 50) 51.17 31.42 1,208.75 862.46 Break-up for security details Trade receivables considered good Secured Trade receivables considered good Unsecured 1,178.77 862.46 Trade receivables which have significant increase in credit risk Trade receivables Credit impaired 29.99 24.08 Total 1,208.76 886.54 Less: Impairment Allowance 29.99 24.08 Total Current trade receivables 1,178.77 862.46 No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the company either severally or jointly with any other person. Nor any trade or other receivable are due from firms or private companies in which any director is a partner, a director or a member. Refer note 19 for information on trade receivables hypothecated as security by the Company. Note 10: Loans 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Non-current Loans to related parties (refer note 50) 114.93 89.59 Loans to employees 0.70 0.43 Total non-current loans 115.63 90.02 Break-up for security details Loans considered good Secured Loans considered good Unsecured 115.63 90.02 Loans which have significant increase in credit risk Loans Credit impaired Total 115.63 90.02 Annual Report 2018-19 147 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 11: Other Financial Assets 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Non-current (Unsecured, considered good) Derivative instruments Foreign exchange forward contracts 33.34 Others Security deposits 8.81 7.02 Others 0.22 0.67 Total other non-current financial assets 42.37 7.69 Current (Unsecured, considered good) Derivative instruments Foreign exchange forward contracts 58.25 2.26 Currency/ Interest rate swaps 0.28 1.31 Others Security deposits 6.59 3.45 Interest accrued on investments/deposits 0.26 0.29 Financial guarantee receivable 10.37 Others* 22.20 60.89 Total other current financial assets 97.95 68.20 *This includes expenses incurred on behalf of customer, amounting to ` 18.04 crores (31 March 2018: ` 49.83 crores) Refer note 19 for information on financial assets hypothecated as security by the Company. Note 12: Other Assets 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Non-current Capital advances (Unsecured, considered good) 16.99 68.03 Advance income tax, including TDS (net of provisions) 24.57 Prepaid expenses 3.63 5.14 Total other non-current assets 20.62 97.74 Contract assets (refer note 51) 1,093.02 Significant changes in Contract assets Contract assets have increased from previous year as entity has incurred costs towards the fulfilment of performance obligations identified under the contracts with customers before the billing milestone for fixed price contracts. There is no impairment allowance for the contract assets for current year. 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Current Prepaid expenses 39.60 10.83 Balances with Government authorities 250.19 66.39 Gross amount due from customers for construction contracts (refer note 43) 148.98 Unbilled revenue 20.15 Advance to creditors 38.73 13.12 Other advances 3.68 1.73 Total other current assets 332.20 261.20 During the year ended 31 March 2019, ` 148.98 crores of gross amount due from customers from construction contract and ` 20.15 crores of unbilled revenue as of 01 April 2018 has been reclassified to Trade receivables upon billing to customers on completion of milestones. 148 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 13: Inventories 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Raw materials 128.93 74.25 [Includes stock in transit ` 20.28 crores (31 March 2018: ` 15.59 crores] Work-in-progress 37.94 20.38 Construction work-in-progress 98.80 Finished goods 144.02 53.34 [Includes stock in transit ` 39.65 crores (31 March 2018: ` 48.63 crores)] Traded goods 7.93 4.68 Stores, spares, packing materials and others 62.19 54.59 Total 381.01 306.04 Amounts recognised in profit or loss Write-downs of inventories to net realisable value amounted to ` 19.74 crores (31 March 2018` 9.22 crores). These were recognised as an expense and included in 'changes in value of inventories of work-in-progress, stock-in-trade and finished goods' in statement of profit and loss. Refer note 19 for information on inventories hypothecated as security by the Company. Note 14: Current Investments 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) In mutual funds (At fair value through profit or loss) (quoted) Nil (31 March 2018: 17,386) units of Reliance Liquid FundCash PlanDirect Growth Plan Growth Option 50.00 Nil (31 March 2018: 222,499 ) units of SBI Magnum Insta Cash FundTreasury PlanDirect Growth PlanGrowth Option 50.00 Nil (31 March 2018: 2,290,514) units of ICICI Prudential Money Market FundTreasury PlanDirect Growth Plan Growth Option 55.00 102,567.82 (31 March 2018: Nil) units of SBI Liquid fundDirect Growth Plan 30.00 87,774.43 (31 March 2018: Nil) units of Reliance Ultra Short duration fund Direct growth plan 40.00 1,086,454.63 (31 March 2018: Nil) units of ICICI Prudential Liquid FundDirect PlanGrowth Option 30.00 Aggregate amount of quoted investments [Market Value: ` 100.00 crores (31 March 2018 : 100.00 ` 155.00 crores)] 155.00 Note 15A: Cash and Cash Equivalents 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Balances with banks: In current accounts 42.48 61.90 In EEFC accounts 15.92 7.27 Cash in hand 0.03 0.03 58.43 69.20 There are no repatriation restrictions with regards to cash and cash equivalents. Annual Report 2018-19 149 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 15B: Other Bank Balances 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Deposits with original maturity of more than 12 months* 0.01 2.41 Deposits with original maturity of more than 3 months but less than 12 months** 85.00 0.98 In unpaid dividend account 3.37 2.83 Other bank balance 0.55 Total other bank balances 88.93 6.22 * Includes ` 0.01 crores (31 March 2018: ` 2.38 crores) held as lien by banks against bank guarantees. ** ` 15.00 crores (31 March 2018: ` 0.98 crores) held as lien by banks against bank guarantees. Note 16: Asset Classified as Held For Sale 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Investment in 19,875,404 (31 March 2018: 13,497,853) equity shares of Maharashtra Transmission 28.27 20.77 Communication Infrastructure Limited 28.27 20.77 Post demerger of the power business in the financial year ended March 31, 2017, the Company has been in the process of obtaining requisite approvals from government authorities to sell its equity interest in its subsidiary, Maharashtra Transmission Communication Infrastructure Limited (referred as disposal group or MTCIL) to Sterlite Power Transmission Limited. During the year, management received a letter from Department of Telecommunication rejecting Company's application for transfer of entity. The Company has filed a letter seeking justification for such rejection. Pending response from the department, the Company is committed to the sale of MTCIL post requisite regulatory approvals. The Company anticipates completion of the sale by March 2020. The investment in the subsidiary has been measured at lower of carrying amount and fair value, less cost to sell. No write down is required to be recognised as fair value of the investment is higher than cost. This is a level 3 measurement as per the fair value hierarchy set out in the fair value measurement disclosure. Note 17: Share Capital 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Authorised equity share capital (no. crores) 75.00 (31 March 2018: 75.00) equity shares of `2 each 150.00 150.00 Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up shares (no. crores) 40.25 (31 March 2018: 40.10) equity shares of ` 2 each fully paid up. 80.51 80.20 Total issued, subscribed and fully paid-up share capital 80.51 80.20 a. Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting period 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Nos in crores ` in crores Nos in crores ` in crores At the beginning of the year 40.10 80.20 39.83 79.66 Issued during the year against employee stock options 0.15 0.31 0.27 0.54 Outstanding at the end of the year 40.25 80.51 40.10 80.20 b. Terms and rights attached to equity shares The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 2 per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one vote per share except for the underlying 74,700 (31 March 2018: 74,700) equity shares held by custodian bank against Global Depository Receipts (‘GDRs’) which do not have voting rights. 150 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders. c. Shares held by holding company and their subsidiaries/associates: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 No. in crores % holding No. in crores % holding Immediate holding company Twin Star Overseas Limited, Mauritius 20.94 52.03% 20.94 52.22% Subsidiary of Volcan Investments Limited, Bahamas [Ultimate holding company] Vedanta Limited 0.48 1.19% 0.48 1.20% d. Aggregate number of bonus shares issued, share issued for consideration other than cash during the period of five years immediately preceding the reporting date : 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars No. in crores No. in crores Equity shares allotted as fully paid bonus shares by capitalisation of securities premium in five years 0.04 0.04 immediately preceding the reporting date e. Detail of shareholders holding more than 5% of shares in the company 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 No. in crores % holding No. in crores % holding 1. Twin Star Overseas Limited, Mauritius (Holding Company) 20.94 52.03% 20.94 52.22% f. Shares reserved for issue under options For information relating to employees stock options plan, 2010 including details of options issued, exercised and lapsed during the financial year and options outstanding at the end of the reporting period, refer note 35. Annual Report 2018-19 151 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 18: Other Equity 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Securities premium account Opening balance 27.93 16.04 Add: Addition on ESOPs exercised 10.75 11.89 Closing balance 38.68 27.93 Other reserves Capital reserve (19.06) (19.06) Employee stock option outstanding Opening balance 21.24 19.74 Add: Employees stock option expenses for the year (refer note 35) 19.16 13.39 Less: Transferred to Securities premium account (10.75) (11.89) Closing balance 29.65 21.24 Debenture redemption reserve Opening balance 75.00 37.50 Add: Amount transferred from surplus in the statement of profit and loss 37.50 Closing balance 75.00 75.00 General reserve 112.50 112.50 Cash flow hedge reserve Opening balance (32.27) (1.69) Add: Cash flow hedge reserve created on currency forward contracts 144.55 (45.77) Add: Cash flow hedge reserve created on swap contracts 9.88 (2.15) Less: Deferred hedging gain/(losses) transferred to the carrying amount of inventory (1.09) Less: Amount reclassified to Statement of profit and loss (21.66) 1.69 Less: Amount transferred to Statement of profit and loss (8.25) Less: Income tax effect (46.39) 16.74 Closing balance 45.86 (32.27) Total other reserves 243.95 157.41 Retained earnings Opening balance 804.45 626.48 Less: Impact of change in accounting policy on adoption of Ind AS 115 (refer note 51) (12.71) Add: Net profit for the year 535.23 254.68 Add: Remeasurement of post employment benefit obligation, net of tax (5.10) 0.06 Less: Change in fair value of FVOCI equity instrument (3.20) Less: Equity dividend and tax thereon (refer note 48) (96.80) (36.07) Less: Transfer to debenture redemption reserve (37.50) Total retained earnings 1,225.07 804.45 Total other equity 1,507.70 989.79 Nature and Purpose of reserves other than retained earnings Securities premium reserve Securities premium reserve is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve is utilised in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. Capital reserve Capital reserve is created on account of merger of passive infrastructure business of wholly owned subsidiary, Speedon Network Limited, in the year ended March 31, 2017. General reserve General reserve is created out of the amounts transferred from debenture redemption reserves on account of redemption of debentures in earlier years. 152 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Cash flow hedge reserve The Company uses hedging instruments as part of its management of foreign currency risk associated with its highly probable forecasted sales and purchases and interest rate risk associated with variable interest rate borrowings as described in note 47. For hedging foreign currency risk, the Company uses foreign currency forward contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges. For hedging interest rate risk, the Company uses interest rate swaps which are also designated as cash flow hedges. To the extent these hedges are effective, the change in fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in the cash flow hedging reserve. Amounts recognised in the cash flow hedging reserve is reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged item affects profit or loss. When the forecasted transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset (e.g. inventory), the amount recognised in the cash flow hedging reserve is adjusted against the carrying amount of the non financial asset. Employee stock option outstanding The share options outstanding account is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued to employees under employee stock option plan (ESOP Scheme) approved by shareholders of the Company. Debenture redemption reserve The Company is required to create a debenture redemption reserve out of the profits which are available for payment of interest for the purpose of redemption of debentures as per provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. Note 19: Borrowings 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Non-current borrowings Debentures (Secured) 1,500 (31 March 2018 :1,500 ) 8.45% Non convertible debentures of ` 10 lacs each 150.00 150.00 1,500 (31 March 2018 :1,500 ) 8.70% Non convertible debentures of ` 10 lacs each 150.00 150.00 Term loans Indian rupee loans from banks (secured) 50.00 101.14 Foreign currency loan from banks (secured) 138.35 164.31 Indian rupee loans from banks (unsecured) 100.00 Deferred payment liabilities (unsecured) 142.95 135.03 731.30 700.48 The above amount includes Secured borrowings 488.35 565.45 Unsecured borrowings 242.95 135.03 Total Non-current borrowings 731.30 700.48 Less: Current maturities of long term borrowings disclosed under the head other current financial 149.59 84.26 liabilities (refer note 20) Net Amount 581.71 616.22 Notes: a) 8.45% Non convertible debentures carry 8.45% rate of interest. Out of the total outstanding amount, 50% are redeemable at par during the FY 2019-20 and balance in the FY 2020-21 . These non-convertible debentures are secured by way of first pari passu charge on entire movable fixed assets (both present and future) and immovable fixed assets of the Company located at Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Pune. b) 8.70% Non convertible debentures carry 8.70% rate of interest. Total amount of non-convertible debentures is due in the FY 2022-23 . These non-convertible debentures are secured by way of first pari passu charge on entire movable fixed assets (both present and future) and mortgage of immovable fixed assets of the Company located at Aurangabad. Annual Report 2018-19 153 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 c) Indian rupee term loan from bank amounting to fixed assets of the Company located at Dadra & Nagar ` 50.00 crores carries interest @ LTMLR + 0.75% p.a. Haveli and Pune. Loan amount is repayable in twelve quarterly equated instalments of ` 10.00 crores (excluding interest) e) Unsecured rupee term loan from bank amounting starting from July 2017. The term loan is secured to ` 100 crores carries interest @ 8.70% p.a. by way of first pari passu charge on entire movable Loan amount is repayable in single bullet payment in fixed assets (both present and future) and mortgage Financial year 2020-21. of immovable fixed assets of the Company located at Dadra & Nagar Haveli. f) Deferred payment liabilities of ` 142.95 crores are as per the contractual terms with creditors for property, d) Foreign Currency term loan from bank amounting plant and equipment and amounts are payable after to ` 138.34 crores carries interest @ Libor+2.70 1080 days from the due date. These amounts are % p.a. Loan amount is repayable in 20 quarterly presented as deferred payment liabilities under equated instalments of USD 0.13 crores starting from borrowings as per the disclosure requirements of April 2018. The term loan is secured by way of first Schedule III. The Interest payable on these deferred pari passu charge on entire movable fixed assets payment liabilities ranges from 6 months Libor + (both present and future) and mortgage of immovable (100-200) bps per annum. 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Current borrowings Cash credit from banks (secured) 33.62 Working capital demand loan from banks (secured) 50.00 Commercial paper from bank (unsecured) 300.00 50.00 Other loans from banks (secured) 394.86 345.52 Other loans (unsecured) 10.72 67.22 Loans from related party (unsecured) 8.28 797.48 462.74 The above amount includes Secured borrowings 478.48 345.52 Unsecured borrowings 319.00 117.22 Net Amount 797.48 462.74 Note: (i) Cash credit was secured by hypothecation of raw material inventory, work in progress, finished goods and trade receivables.The cash credit is repayable on demand and carries interest @ 7.80 % -11.50 % p.a. (ii) Working capital demand loan from banks was secured by first pari-passu charge on entire current assets of the Company (both present and future) and second pari-passu charge on plant & machinery and other movable fixed assets of the Company. Working Capital Demand Loan has been taken for a period of 30 days and carries interest @ 8.40%. (iii) Commercial Papers are unsecured and are generally taken for a period from 60 to 90 days and carry interest @ 6.95% to 8.00% p.a. (iv) Other loans include buyer’s credit arrangements (secured) and export packing credit (unsecured). Buyer’s credit are secured by hypothecation of raw materials, work in progress, finished goods and trade receivables Export packing credit is taken for a period ranging from 30-180 days. Interest rate for both the products ranges from 6.35% 8.55% p.a. 154 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 (v) Loan from related party includes unsecured loan received from Sterlite Power Transmission Limited which is repayable on demand. The loan carries an interest rate of 10% p.a. Net debt reconciliation This section sets out an analysis of net debt and the movements in net debt for each of the periods presented. 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Cash and cash equivalents 58.43 69.20 Current investments* 170.00 155.00 Current Borrowings (797.48) (462.74) Non-current borrowings (including interest accrued but not due and current maturity of long (734.42) term borrowings) (707.33) Net Debt (1,303.47) (945.87) *includes other bank balance of ` 70 crores with respect to fixed deposit. These fixed deposits can be encashed by the Company at any time without any major penalties. Non-current borrowings (` in crores) As on 31 March 2018 707.33 Cashflows 23.67 Interest expense 46.75 Interest paid (42.97) Forex adjustment (0.36) As on 31 March 2019 734.42 Current borrowings (` in crores) As on 31 March 2018 462.74 Cashflows 334.74 Interest expense 28.14 Interest paid (28.14) As on 31 March 2019 797.48 Cash and cash equivalents (` in crores) As on 31 March 2018 69.20 Cashflows (10.77) As on 31 March 2019 58.43 Current Investments (` in crores) As on 31 March 2018 155.00 Cashflows 13.11 Realised gain on current investment 1.89 As on 31 March 2019 170.00 Annual Report 2018-19 155 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 20: Other Financial Liabilities 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Non-current Derivative instruments Foreign exchange forward contracts 1.64 28.19 Currency / Interest Rate Swaps 1.13 Payables for purchase of property, plant and equipment 9.40 35.53 Deposits from vendors 2.71 1.10 Total non-current financial liabilities 14.88 64.82 Current Derivative instruments Foreign exchange forward contracts 10.27 31.77 Currency / Interest Rate Swaps 12.04 10.27 43.81 Other financial liabilities at amortised cost Interest accrued but not due on borrowings 3.12 6.90 Interest accrued and due on borrowings 0.01 Current maturities of long-term borrowings (refer note 19) 149.59 84.26 Unclaimed dividend* 3.37 2.86 Deposits from customers 0.46 0.78 Deposits from vendors 0.41 0.46 Payables for purchase of property, plant and equipment (including deferred payment liabilities) 396.16 53.62 Employee benefits payable 19.40 23.56 Financial guarantee payable 10.37 Others 36.51 71.27 619.39 243.72 Total current financial liabilities 629.66 287.53 * There are no amounts due and outstanding to be credited to Investor Education and Protection Fund. Note 21: Trade Payables 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Total outstanding dues of micro & small enterprises (refer note 41) 92.30 15.11 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro & small enterprises Trade payables to related parties (refer note 50) 72.22 33.40 Others 1,645.47 584.99 1,717.69 618.39 Total Trade Payables 1,809.99 633.50 Note 22: Provisions 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Non-current Provision for warranty 0.72 24.96 Total non-current provision 0.72 24.96 Current Provision for litigations / contingencies 9.50 9.50 Provision for warranty 0.46 17.33 Total current provision 9.96 26.83 156 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Provision for litigations / contingencies The provision of ` 9.50 crores as at 31 March 2019 (31 March 2018: ` 9.50 crores) is towards contingencies in respect of disputed claims against the Company as described in note 39, quantum of outflow and timing of which is presently unascertainable. There is no movement in the provision for litigations / contingencies during the year. Provision for warranty The Company has given warranty on network software and licences sold to customers. The timing of the outflow is expected to be within a period of eighteen months from the date of sale of telecom software products. Movement in provision for warranty is given below. 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) At the beginning of the year 42.29 27.15 Arising during the year 22.90 Impact of change in accounting policy on adoption of Ind AS 115 (refer note 51) (40.33) Unwinding of interest during the year 1.22 Utilized during the year (0.78) (8.98) At the end of the year 1.18 42.29 Current portion 0.46 17.33 Non-current portion 0.72 24.96 Note 23: Other Current Liabilities 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Contract liabilities (refer note 51) Unearned revenue 88.54 Advance from customers 180.77 Total 269.31 Significant changes in Contract liabilities Contract liabilities have increased as entity has received advance from customers against the new fixed price contracts entered during the year. 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Current Unearned revenue 35.40 Indirect taxes payable 7.38 2.02 Withholding taxes (TDS) payable 8.52 5.90 Advance from customers 39.92 Others 33.69 53.19 Total other current liabilities 49.59 136.43 During the year ended March 31, 2019 , the company recognized revenue of ` 35.40 crores arising from opening unearned revenue as of 01 April 2018. Annual Report 2018-19 157 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 24A: Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net) 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Deferred tax liability Property, plant & equipment: Impact of difference between tax depreciation and depreciation/amortisation 119.00 92.46 for financial reporting Impact of fair valuation of Land on transition date 15.88 15.88 Net movement on cash flow hedges 29.27 Others 2.58 Gross deferred tax liability 164.15 110.92 Deferred tax assets Provision for doubtful debts and advances, allowed for tax purposes on payment basis 10.48 8.41 Expenditure allowed for tax purposes on payment basis 19.48 9.12 Provision for inventory 6.90 3.63 Provision for litigations / contingencies 2.53 2.53 Net movement on cash flow hedges 16.74 Unused Tax Credit 18.90 18.90 Impact of fair valuation of Plant & Machinery 5.54 7.39 Impact of change in accounting policy on adoption of Ind AS 115 (refer note 51) 11.96 Re-measurement loss on defined benefits plans 2.74 Others 13.49 13.99 Gross deferred tax assets 92.02 80.71 Net deferred tax liability 72.13 30.21 Reconciliation of deferred tax liability 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Opening deferred tax liability, net 30.21 3.73 Deferred tax (credit) / charge recorded in statement of profit and loss 5.10 (1.12) Deferred tax (credit) / charge recorded in OCI 43.65 (16.70) Movement in Unused Tax Credit 44.30 Impact of change in accounting policy on adoption of Ind AS 115 (refer note 51) (6.83) Closing deferred tax liability, net 72.13 30.21 The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018 are: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Profit or loss section Current tax 270.99 113.68 Deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 5.10 (1.12) 276.09 112.56 OCI section Deferred tax related to items recognised in OCI during in the year Net (gain)/loss on revaluation of cash flow hedges (46.39) 17.12 Re-measurement loss defined benefit plans 2.74 (0.42) (43.65) 16.70 158 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Reconciliation of tax expense 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Accounting profit before income tax 811.32 367.24 Tax at India’s statutory income tax rate of 34.94% (31 March 2018: 34.94%) 283.47 128.31 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years (6.40) Tax benefits under various sections of Income tax Act (8.37) (14.15) Other adjustments 0.99 4.80 Income tax expense 276.09 112.56 Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and loss 276.09 112.56 Note 24B: Current Tax Liabilities (Net) 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Current tax liabilities (Net) 55.38 Total current tax liabilities 55.38 Note 25: Employee Benefit Obligations 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Non Current Provision for gratuity 19.59 5.07 Provision for compensated absences 12.76 2.80 Total non-current employee benefits obligation 32.35 7.87 Current Provision for gratuity 10.27 13.96 Provision for compensated absences 4.25 8.79 Total current employee benefits obligation 14.52 22.75 i) Compensated Absences The compensated absences cover the company's liability for sick and earned leave. The amount of the provision is ` 17.01 crores (31 March 2018: ` 11.59 crores). The company does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement for any of these obligations. However, based on past experience, the company does not expect all employees to take the full amount of accrued leave or require payment within the next 12 months and accordingly amounts have been classified as current and non current based on actuarial valuation report. ii) Post employment benefit Gratuity The company provides for gratuity for employees in India as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Employees who are in continuous service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The amount of gratuity payable on retirement/termination is the employees last drawn basic salary per month computed proportionately for 15 days salary multiplied for the number of years of service. The gratuity plan is a funded plan and the Company makes contributions to fund managed by Life Insurance Corporation of India. The Company does not fully fund the liability and maintains a target level of funding to be maintained over a period of time based on estimate of expected gratuity payments. Annual Report 2018-19 159 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the year 22.98 19.65 Current service cost 2.85 2.55 Interest cost 1.99 1.42 Actuarial (gain)/loss 7.33 0.04 Past service cost 0.26 Benefits paid (0.97) (0.94) Defined benefit obligation, at the end of the year 34.18 22.98 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year 3.77 3.38 Expected return on plan assets 0.51 0.37 Contribution by employer 0.97 0.56 Benefits paid (0.93) (0.39) Actuarial gain / (loss) (0.15) Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 4.32 3.77 The company expects to contribute ` 4.50 crores (31 March 2018: ` 4.16 crores) to its gratuity plan in FY 2019-20. The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of the fair value of total plan assets are as follows: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (%) (%) Insurance Fund with Life Insurance Corporation of India 100 100 The fair value of planned assets represents the amount as confirmed by the fund. Details of defined benefit obligation 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Present value of defined benefit obligation 34.18 22.80 Fair value of plan assets (4.32) (3.77) Benefit liability 29.86 19.03 The net liability disclosed above relates to funded plans are as follows: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Present value of funded obligations 34.18 17.25 Fair value of plan assets (4.32) (3.77) Deficit of funded plan (A) 29.86 13.48 Unfunded plans (B) 5.55 Total net obligation (A+B) 29.86 19.03 160 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 The company has no legal obligation to settle the deficit in the funded plans with an immediate contribution or additional one off contributions. The company intends to continue to contribute the defined benefit plans as per the demand from LIC of India. Net employee benefit expense recognised in the statement of profit and loss: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Current service cost 2.85 2.55 Interest cost on benefit obligation 1.99 1.42 Past service cost 0.27 Expected return on plan assets (0.51) (0.23) Net benefit expense 4.33 4.01 Net employee benefit expense recognised in the other comprehensive income (OCI): 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Actuarial Losses on Obligation For the Period 7.33 0.04 Return on Plan Assets, Excluding Interest Income 0.51 (0.14) Net Expense For the Period Recognized in OCI 7.84 (0.10) Amounts for the current and previous periods are as follows: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) (` in crores) (` in crores) (` in crores) Defined benefit obligation 34.18 22.80 19.65 16.22 11.87 Plan assets 4.32 3.77 3.37 2.59 2.08 Surplus / (deficit) 29.86 19.03 16.28 13.63 9.79 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 3.08 (0.01) (0.14) 1.90 0.41 Experience adjustments on plan assets -* -* (0.15) 0.00* (0.05) * Amount is below the rounding off norm followed by the Company. The principal assumptions used in determining defined benefit obligation are shown below: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Discount rate 7.64% 7.80% Expected rate of return on plan asset 7.64% 7.80% Employee turnover 10.00% 10.00% Expected rate of salary increase 10.00% 8.00% The estimated future salary increase, considered in actuarial valuation, takes into account the effect of inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant factors such as supply and demand in the employment market. Sensitivity Analysis 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) +1% Change in discount rate (2.10) (0.89) -1% Change in discount rate 2.39 1.84 +1% Change in rate of salary increase 2.31 1.82 -1% Change in rate of salary increase (2.08) (0.90) +1% Change in rate of employee turnover (0.44) 0.31 -1% Change in rate of employee turnover 0.49 0.47 Annual Report 2018-19 161 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 The above sensitivity analysis is based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the defined benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet. The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the prior period. Risk exposure Through its defined benefit plans, the company is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below : Asset volatility: The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to bond yields; if plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit. Plan assets are maintained with fund manager, LIC of India. Changes in bond yields: A decrease in bond yields will increase plan liabilities. Future salary escalation and inflation risk: Rising salaries will often result in higher future defined benefit payments resulting in a higher present value of liabilities especially unexpected salary increases provided at managements discretion may lead to uncertainties in estimating this risk. Life expectancy Increases in life expectancy of employee will result in an increase in the plan liabilities. This is particularly significant where inflationary increases result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy. The Company's all assets are maintained in a trust fund managed by public sector insurance company via LIC of India. LIC has a sovereign guarantee and has been providing consistent and competitive returns over the years. The plan asset mix is in compliance with the requirements of the respective local regulations. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 7 years (2018 8 years). The expected maturity analysis of gratuity is as follows: Maturity Analysis of defined benefit obligation: The expected maturity analysis of undiscounted gratuity is as follows: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars Funded Funded Non Funded Projected Benefits Payable in Future Years From the Date of Reporting Less than 1 year 5.03 3.90 0.39 Between 1 to 2 years 2.52 2.78 0.88 Between 3 to 5 years 8.46 2.85 1.03 Over 5 years 49.26 20.64 9.33 162 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 26: Revenue From Operations 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Revenue from contracts with customers Sale of products Finished goods 2,915.75 2,126.56 Traded goods 48.07 19.02 Revenue from sale of products 2,963.82 2,145.58 Revenue from sale of services 66.10 63.57 Revenue from network integration projects 1,570.70 493.22 Revenue from software products/licenses and implementation activities 171.00 123.20 4,771.62 2,825.57 Other operating revenue Scrap sales 25.93 24.59 Export incentives 65.08 43.41 Revenue from operations 4,862.63 2,893.57 Revenue disaggregation in terms of nature of goods and services has been included above. The total contract price of ` 4,859.38 crores is reduced by the consideration of ` 87.76 crores towards variable components. Refer note 2, 3 and 51 for accounting policy, significant judgements and details about impact of changes in accounting policies on adoption of Ind AS 115 respectively. The Company’s unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations can vary due to several factors such as terminations, changes in scope of contracts, periodic revalidations of the estimates or other relevant economic factors. The aggregate value of unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations is ` 2,904 crores which is expected to be recognised evenly over a period of one to three years. Remaining value of performance obligations is expected to be substantially recognised in the next year. Amount of unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations does not include contracts with original expected duration of one year or less since the Company has applied the practical expedient in Ind AS 115. In accordance with the requirements of Ind AS, revenue for the period April 1, 2017 to June 30, 2017 is inclusive of excise duty of ` 28.46 crore. Note 27: Other Income 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Management Fees* 4.33 1.99 Rental Income 2.01 2.68 Profit on sale of assets 2.08 Exchange differences, (net) 4.24 Miscellaneous Income 5.90 13.28 Total other income 14.32 22.19 *The amount disclosed above is net of expenses related to provision of services (refer note 50). Annual Report 2018-19 163 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 28: Finance Income 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Interest income on Bank deposits 0.40 0.25 Loans to related parties (refer note 50) 5.24 3.34 Others 1.54 2.37 Income from current investments 1.89 1.36 Interest subvention 11.45 7.52 Total finance income 20.52 14.84 Note 29: Cost of Raw Material and Components Consumed 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Inventory at the beginning of the year (refer note 13) 74.25 81.38 Add : Purchases 2,638.08 1,123.97 Less : Inventory at the end of the year (refer note 13) (128.93) (74.25) Cost of raw material and components consumed 2,583.40 1,131.10 (Increase)/ decrease in inventories Opening inventories Traded goods 4.68 8.04 Work-in-progress 20.38 21.43 Construction work-in-progress 98.80 124.75 Impact of change in accounting policy on adoption of Ind AS 115 in Construction work-in-progress (refer note 51) (97.78) Finished goods 53.34 39.66 79.42 193.88 Closing inventories Traded goods 7.93 4.68 Work-in-progress 37.94 20.38 Construction work-in-progress 98.80 Finished goods 144.02 53.34 189.89 177.20 (Increase)/Decrease in inventories (110.47) 16.68 Note 30: Employee Benefit Expense 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Salaries, wages and bonus 386.91 277.57 Contribution to provident fund (refer note below) 10.07 8.01 Gratuity expenses (refer note 25) 4.33 4.01 Employees stock option expenses (refer note 35) 19.16 13.39 Staff welfare expenses 19.08 13.12 Total Employee benefit expense 439.55 316.10 164 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 The Company has certain defined contribution plans. Contributions are made to provident fund in India for employees at the rate of 12% of basic salary as per local regulations. The contributions are made to provident fund administered by the government. The obligation of the Company is limited to the amount contributed and it has no further contractual nor any constructive obligation. Defined Contribution Plans: The Company has recognised the following expenses in the Statement of Profit and Loss for the year. 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Contribution to Employees Provident Fund 10.07 8.01 Total 10.07 8.01 Note 31: Other Expenses 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Consumption of stores and spares 129.59 110.34 Consumption of packing materials 82.58 65.21 Increase/(decrease) of excise duty on inventory (1.81) Power, fuel and water 102.26 88.70 Labour Charges 40.88 34.03 Repairs and maintenance Buildings 2.31 3.90 Plant & Machinery 9.12 11.95 Others 28.15 17.15 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenses (refer note 45) 5.37 3.64 Sales commission (other than sole selling agent) 28.21 24.96 Sales promotion 23.66 21.09 Carriage outwards 66.87 45.92 Rent 24.79 21.47 Insurance 12.27 10.90 Legal and professional fees 64.35 49.39 Rates and taxes 6.65 3.10 Travelling and conveyance 59.57 47.80 Loss on sale of assets 1.65 Bad debts/ advances written off 17.19 10.54 Provision for doubtful debts and advances 5.91 13.53 Directors sitting fee and commission 1.07 0.72 Payment to auditor (refer note below) 1.00 0.61 Exchange difference, (net) 0.23 Research and development expenses (refer note 42) Salaries, wages and bonus 22.26 16.07 Raw materials consumed 0.47 1.16 General expenses 12.25 11.10 Total Research and development expenses 34.98 28.33 Less Amount transferred to individual expense line item (34.98) (28.33) Research and development expenses Miscellaneous expenses* 168.02 180.42 Total other expenses 880.05 765.21 *This includes loss of ` 1.74 crores pertaining to investments classified as FVTPL. (refer note 8) Annual Report 2018-19 165 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Payment to auditor As auditor: Audit fee (including limited reviews and audit of consolidated financial statements) 0.60 0.52 Tax audit fee 0.02 0.02 In other capacity: Other services (including certification fees) 0.38 0.07 1.00 0.61 Note 32: Depreciation and Amortisation Expense 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Depreciation of tangible assets 133.19 128.87 Depreciation of investment property 0.09 0.16 Amortisation of intangible assets 34.51 34.18 Provision/(reversal) for impairment of tangible assets 6.93 Total depreciation and amortisation expense 167.79 170.14 Note 33: Finance Cost 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Interest on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost* 74.89 79.53 Bank charges 12.20 9.27 Exchange difference to the extent considered as an adjustment to borrowing costs 8.16 12.66 Unwinding of discount on provision 1.22 Total finance cost 95.25 102.68 * During the year, the Company has capitalised borrowing costs of ` 42.12 crores (31 March 2018: ` 2.67 crores) incurred on the borrowings specifically availed for expansion of production facilities and general borrowing costs. The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs to be capitalised is the weighted average interest rate applicable to the company's general borrowings, in this case 8.49% p.a. Note 34: Tax Expenses 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Current tax 270.99 113.68 Deferred tax 5.10 (1.12) Total tax expenses 276.09 112.56 Note 35: Employee Share Based Payments The Company has established employees stock options plan, 2010 (ESOP Scheme) for its employees pursuant to the special resolution passed by shareholders at the annual general meeting held on July 14, 2010. The employee stock option plan is designed to provide incentives to the employees of the company to deliver long-term returns and is an equity settled plan. The ESOP Scheme is administered by the Nomination and Remuneration committee. Participation in the plan is at the Nomination and Remuneration committee's discretion and no individual has a contractual right to participate in the pIan or to receive any guaranteed benefits. Options granted under ESOP scheme would vest in not less than one year and not more than five years from the date of grant of the options. The Nomination and remuneration committee of the company has approved multiple grants with related vesting conditions. Vesting of the options would be subject to continuous employment with the company and hence the options would vest with passage of time. In addition to this, the Nomination and remuneration committee may also specify certain performance parameters subject to which the options would vest. Such options would vest when the performance parameters are met. 166 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Once vested, the options remain exercisable for a period of one year. Options granted under the plan are for no consideration and carry no dividend or voting rights. On exercise, each option is convertible into one equity share. The exercise price is ` 2 per option. The Company has charged ` 19.16 crores (31 March 2018: ` 13.39 crores) to the statement of profit and loss in respect of options granted under ESOP scheme. a) Set Out Below is the summary of options granted under the plan. 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Average Average Exercise price Number of Options Exercise price Number of Options per share per share Opening Balance 2 50,50,978 2 71,34,568 Granted During the year 2 16,36,950 2 17,12,500 Forfeited During the year 2 2 Exercised During the year 2 (15,51,202) 2 (27,14,978) Expired During the year 2 (5,22,248) 2 (10,81,112) Closing Balance 46,14,478 50,50,978 Vested and Exercisable 3,41,195 2,54,827 Average share price for the year ended 31 March 2019 is 307.95 (31 March 2018: ` 244.84) Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry date and exercise prices. Share options Share options Exercise Price Grant Date Expiry Date outstanding on outstanding on (INR) 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 29 December 2011 29 December 2017 2 1,800 30 April 2014 30 April 2020 2 216,100 414,250 30 March 2015 30 March 2021 2 813,750 1,324,500 13 July 2016 13 July 2022 2 287,598 437,584 25 July 2016 25 July 2022 2 493,100 844,344 28 January 2016 26 January 2022 2 483,000 573,000 18 January 2017 18 January 2023 2 19 July 2017 19 July 2023 2 725,330 1,393,000 16 October 2017 16 October 2023 2 27,850 50,300 17 January 2018 19 January 2023 2 7,100 12,200 19 July 2018 19 July 2024 2 1,496,750 24 January 2019 24 January 2023 2 63,900 Total 4,614,478 5,050,978 Weighted Average remaining contractual life of the options 2.68 2.88 outstanding at the end of the period Annual Report 2018-19 167 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 b) Fair Value of the options granted during the yearDuring the current year remuneration committee has approved two grants. Following are the details of assumptions under individual grant, related vesting conditions and fair valuation model used based on the nature of vesting. Date of GrantJuly 19, 2018 The company has granted options under ESOP scheme based on following two criteria and related assumptions 1. Vesting criteria Assured vesting of 30% Options in five years subject to continuous employment with the company Fair Valuation MethodBlack Scholes options Pricing Model Vest 1 Vest 2 Vest 3 Vest 4 Vest 5 Variables 19 July 2019 19 July 2020 19 July 2021 19 July 2022 19 July 2023 Weighted Average Stock Price 301.75 301.75 301.75 301.75 301.75 Expected volatility 44.79% 42.14% 42.88% 45.40% 45.38% Risk Free rate 7.03% 7.29% 7.44% 7.53% 7.60% Exercise Price (` per Option) 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 Time To Maturity (years) 1.54 2.54 3.54 4.54 5.54 Dividend Yield 1.04% 1.04% 1.04% 1.04% 1.04% Outputs Option Fair value 295.18 292.24 289.33 286.44 283.57 Vesting Percentage 50.00% 20.00% 10.00% 10.00% 10.00% Fair Value of the option (Black Scholes Model) 291.97 2. Vesting criteria 70% Vesting based on total Shareholders return based on market performance Fair Valuation Method Monte Carlo Simulation model Vesting of these options is dependent on the shareholder return during the performance as compared to comparator group identified by Nomination and Remuneration Committee. The Monte carlo model requires the following information of the company and comparator group companies: the historical share price and expected volatility during the performance period Risk free interest rate of the country where stock of comparator group is listed Dividend yield based on historical dividend payments Estimate of correlation coefficients for each pair of company Assumptions used are as follows: Variables Price of underlying stock 301.75 Expected volatility 44.79% Risk Free rate 7.03% Exercise Price (` per Option) 2.00 Dividend Yield 1.04% Fair Value of the option 134.31 168 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Date of GrantJanuary 24, 2019 Vesting Criteria Continuous Employment with the company. Fair Valuation Method Black Scholes options Pricing Model Vest 1 Vest 2 Vest 3 Variables 25 Jan 2020 26 Jan 2021 25 Jan 2022 Weighted Average Stock Price 292.75 292.75 292.75 Expected volatility 44.64% 43.85% 45.57% Risk Free rate 6.88% 7.06% 7.20% Exercise Price (` per Option) 2.00 2.00 2.00 Time To Maturity 1.50 2.51 3.51 Dividend Yield 0.69% 0.69% 0.69% Outputs Option Fair value 287.93 286.05 284.19 Vesting Percentage 50.00% 25.00% 25.00% Fair Value of the option 286.53 Note 36: Earnings Per Share (EPS) The following table shows the computation of basic and diluted EPS. 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Profit for the year 535.23 254.68 Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating basic EPS 40.19 39.89 Adjustments for calculation of diluted EPS: Employee stock option outstanding during the year 0.49 0.64 Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating diluted EPS 40.68 40.53 Earnings per share Basic 13.32 6.38 Diluted 13.16 6.28 Options granted to employees under the ESOP Scheme 2010 are considered to be potential equity shares. They have been included in the determination of diluted earnings per share to the extent to which they are dilutive. The options have not been included in the determination of basic earnings per share. Details relating to the options are given in note 35. Note 37: Leases Operating lease Company as lessee : The Company has taken office buildings on operating lease. The lease term is for periods of three to nine years and renewable at the option of the Company. Future minimum lease payments over non cancellable period of operating leases are as follows :. 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Lease payments recognised in the statement of profit and loss (refer note 31) 22.50 21.47 The future minimum lease payments payable over the next one year 2.48 13.41 The future minimum lease payments payable later than one year but not later than five years 1.87 0.30 Annual Report 2018-19 169 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Company as lessor : The Company has given land and office building on operating lease. The lease term is for non cancellable period of three years and renewable at the option of the Lessee. Future minimum lease receipts over non cancellable period of operating leases are as follows : 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Lease income recognised in the statement of profit and loss for the year 2.01 2.68 The future minimum lease payments receivable over the next one year 1.32 1.98 The future minimum lease payments receivable later than one year but not later than five year 2.14 Note 38: Capital and Other Commitments a] Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not recognised for (net of advances) are ` 174.53 crores (31 March 2018: ` 685.85 crores) b] The company has imported certain machinery under the Export Promotion Capital Goods (EPCG) scheme and accordingly has export obligation as per details below : Year upto Export 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Year of Issue obligation to be (` in crores) (` in crores) fulfilled 2017-18 2023-24 736.12 1,011.75 2018-19 2024-25 269.48 In this respect, the Company has given bonds of ` 984.31 crores (31 March 2018: ` 684.66 crores) to the Commissioner of Customs. The company expects to fulfil the export obligation within prescribed time. c] For commitments relating to lease arrangements please refer note 37. d] The Company has entered into agreements with the lenders of subsidiary Maharashtra Transmission Communication Infrastructure Limited wherein it has committed to hold directly or indirectly at all times at least 51% of equity share capital and not to sell, transfer, assign, pledge or create any security interest except pledge of shares to the respective lenders as covered in respective agreements with lenders. Note 39: Contingent Liabilities 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) 1. Disputed liabilities a) Sales tax 0.81 0.43 b) Excise duty [Including excise duty case in Supreme Court, refer note 22 and note 44] 238.28 239.73 c) Customs duty 75.72 75.67 d) Service tax 3.10 3.10 e) Income tax 26.02 29.96 f) Claims lodged by a bank against the company* 18.87 18.87 g) Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debt 1.11 1.11 2. Corporate guarantee to the income tax department on behalf of group companies. 114.00 114.00 The Company has not provided for disputed liabilities disclosed above arising from disallowances made in assessments which are pending with different appellate authorities for its decision. The Company is contesting the demands and the management, including its tax advisors, believe that its position will likely be upheld in the appellate process. No liability has been accrued in the financial statements for the demands raised. The management believes that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position. In respect of the claims against the company not acknowledged as debts as above, the management does not expect these claims to succeed. It is not practicable to indicate the uncertainties which may affect the future outcome and estimate the financial effect of the above liabilities. 170 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 * In an earlier year, one of the Bankers of the Company had wrongly paid an amount of ` 18.87 crores under the letter of credit facility. The letter of credit towards import consignment was not accepted by the company, owing to discrepancies in the documents. Thereafter, the bank filed claim against the company in the Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT). Against the DRT Order dated 28 October 2010, the parties had filed cross appeals before the Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal. The Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal vide its Order dated 28 January 2015 has allowed the appeal filed by the company and has dismissed the appeal filed by the bank. The bank has challenged the said order in WRIT petition before the Bombay High Court. The management doesn't expect the claim to succeed and accordingly no provision for the contingent liability has been recognised in the financial statements. Note 40: Details of Loans and Advances Given to Subsidiaries The details are provided as required by regulation 53 (f) read with Para A of Schedule V to SEBI (Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. (` in crores) 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Name of Subsidiary Outstanding amount Maximum balance Outstanding amount Maximum balance Sterlite Global Ventures (Mauritius) Limited 0.34 0.34 0.33 0.33 Speedon Network Limited 29.60 29.60 20.52 35.50 Maharashtra Transmission Communication Infrastructure Limited 3.66 3.66 3.98 3.98 Sterlite Technologies UK Ventures Limited 22.33 33.18 21.99 21.99 STH Inc USA 17.02 16.80 8.18 8.18 Sterlite Tech SPA (Italy) 1.33 1.33 Elitecore Technologies SDN. BHD 0.56 0.56 0.40 0.40 Total 74.84 55.40 Note 41: Details of Dues to Micro and Small Enterprises as Defined Under MSMED Act, 2006 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) (i) T he principal amount and the interest due thereon (to be shown separately) remaining unpaid to any suppliers registered under the MSMED Act as at the end of each accounting year. Principal amount due to micro and small enterprises* 92.30 15.11 Interest due on above 0.19 0.10 (ii) The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16, of the Micro Small and Medium Enterprise Development Act, 2006 along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day during each accounting year. (iii) The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without adding the interest specified under Micro Small and Medium Enterprise Development Act, 2006. (iv) The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting year. 0.19 0.10 (v) The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprise for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under section 23 of the Micro Small and Medium Enterprise Development Act, 2006 * includes amount of ` 91.70 crores outstanding, but not overdue to micro, small and medium enterprises as on 31 March 2019. Interest payable as per section 16 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 is ` 0.19 crores (31 March 2018: ` 0.10 crore) and same is not accrued in the books of accounts. Dues to micro and small enterprises have been determined to the extent such parties have been identified on the basis of intimation received from the suppliers / informations available with the Company regarding their status under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises development Act 2006. Annual Report 2018-19 171 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 42: Research and Development Expenditure 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Capital expenditure Plants and machinery capitalized during the year 12.36 4.23 Plants and machinery purchased during the year but pending for capitalization 3.26 2.92 Software capitalized during the year 0.58 0.25 16.20 7.40 Revenue expenditure Salaries, wages and bonus 22.26 16.07 Raw materials consumed 0.47 1.16 General expenses 12.25 11.10 Total 34.98 28.33 The company has three Research and Development Centres. Centre wise breakup of expenditure is as follows : 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Sterlite Centre of Research-Aurangabad Capital Expenditure 2.70 1.51 Revenue Expenditure 17.38 15.36 20.08 16.87 Sterlite Tech Smart Network Centre-Gurgaon Capital Expenditure 10.56 2.72 Revenue Expenditure 5.56 4.47 16.12 7.19 Sterlite Technologies Ahmedabad Capital Expenditure 2.94 3.17 Revenue Expenditure 12.04 8.50 14.98 11.67 Note 43: Disclosures Pursuant To Indian Accounting Standard (Ind As) 11 Construction Contracts 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Amount of contract revenue recognised during the year 493.22 The aggregate amount of costs incurred and recognised profits for all contracts in progress upto the reporting date 1,203.92 Amount of customer advances outstanding for contracts in progress upto the reporting date 35.53 Retention amount due from customers for contracts in progress upto the reporting date 55.54 Gross amount due from customers for construction contracts 148.98 Note 44: Excise /Customs Matter Pending With Honourable Supreme Court The Company had in an earlier year received an order of CESTAT upholding the demand of ` 188 crores (including penalties and excluding interest) (31 March 2018 : ` 188 crores) in the pending excise/custom matters on various grounds. The Company’s appeal with the Honourable High Court of Mumbai was rejected on the grounds of jurisdiction. The Company preferred an appeal with the Honourable Supreme Court of India against the order of CESTAT which has been admitted. The Company has re-evaluated the case on admission of appeal by the Honourable Supreme Court. Based on their appraisal of the matter, the legal advisors are of the view that under most likely event, the provision of ` 4.50 crores (31 March 2018 : ` 4.50 crores) made by the Company against the above demand is adequate. The management is confident of a favourable order and hence no further provision is considered against the said demand. 172 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 45: Corporate Social Responsibility The Company has spent an amount of `5.37 crores (31 March 2018: ` 3.64 crores) during the year as required under section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 in the areas of education, healthcare, woman empowerment and environment. The amount was spent by way of contribution to Sterlite Tech Foundation of ` 5.22 crores, in which directors/senior executives of the Company and their relatives are trustees and to Kerala Chief Minister's Relief Fund ` 0.15 crores. Details of CSR expenditure 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) A. Gross amount required to be spent by the Company as per section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 5.37 3.64 B. Amount spent during the year on 5.37 3.64 (i) Construction/acquisition of any assets (i) On purpose other than (i) above 5.37 3.64 Management has overall responsibility for the establishment and Note 46: Amortisation of Recognised Goodwill oversight of the Company's risk management framework. The risks on Acquisition to which Company is exposed and related risk management policies are summarised below During the year 2015-16, the Company had acquired 100% of the paid up equity share capital of Elitecore Technologies Private Limited ('ETPL'), a global telecom software product company. ETPL (a) Market risk has been merged with the Company with the appointed date of Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a September 29, 2015 under a scheme of amalgamation approved financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market by Honourable Bombay High Court and Gujarat High Court (the prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, Scheme ). Goodwill (excess of purchase consideration over the currency risk and price risk, such as equity price risk and commodity aggregate book value of the net assets acquired) is being amortised risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk mainly includes over a period of five years, as per the Scheme. Ind-AS does not loans given and borrowings, financial assets and liabilities in foreign allow amortisation of goodwill, which amounted to ` 29.65 crores currency, investments in quoted instruments and derivative financial (31 March 2018: ` 29.64 crores) for the year. instruments. The sensitivity analysis in the following sections relate to the position Note 47: Financial Risk Management as at 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018. The Company's principal financial liabilities, comprise borrowings, The sensitivity analysis have been prepared on the basis that trade and other payables and other financial liabilities. The main the amount of debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Company's of the debt and derivatives and the proportion of financial operations. The Company's principal financial assets include instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis Investments, loans, trade and other receivables, cash and of hedge designations in place at 31 March 2019 and 31 March short-term deposits and other financial assets that arise directly 2018. from its operations. The Company also enters into derivative transactions. Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or the future cash flows The Company's activities expose it to market risk, credit risk and of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in interest liquidity risk. The Company's senior management oversees the rates. The Company's exposure to the risk of changes in interest activities to manage these risks. All derivative activities for risk rate primarily relates to the Company's debt obligations with floating management purposes are carried out by specialist teams that interest rates. have the appropriate skills, experience and supervision. It is the Company's policy that no trading in derivatives for speculative The Company is exposed to the interest rate fluctuation in domestic purposes should be undertaken. as well as foreign currency borrowing. The Company manages its interest rate risk by having a balanced portfolio of fixed and variable The Risk Management policies of the Company are established rate borrowings. The Company enters into interest rate swaps, in to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Company, to set which it agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and between fixed and variable rate interest amounts calculated by adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount. At 31 March approved and reviewed regularly by the Board to reflect changes in 2019, after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps, market conditions and the Company's activities. approximately 87% of the Company's borrowings are at a fixed rate of interest (31 March 2018: 83%). Annual Report 2018-19 173 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 The exposure of the company's borrowing to interest rate changes at the end of the reporting period are as follows: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Variable rate borrowings 333.74 359.39 Fixed rate borrowings 1,195.04 803.83 Total borrowings 1,528.78 1,163.22 As at the end of the year, the Company had the following variable rate borrowings and interest rate swap contracts outstanding: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars Balance % of total loans Balance % of total loans Variable rate borrowings 333.74 22% 359.39 31% Interest rate swaps (notional principal amount) 138.35 163.00 Net exposure to cash flow interest rate risk 195.39 196.39 Interest rate sensitivity The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the interest rates on borrowings at variable interest rate. With all the other variables held constant, the Company's profit before tax is affected through the impact on floating rate borrowings, as follows: (` in crores) Increase/ Effect on profit Particulars Decrease in before tax / preBasis Points tax equity 31 March 2019 Base Rate +50 0.98 Base Rate -50 (0.98) 31 March 2018 Base Rate +50 0.98 Base Rate -50 (0.98) Foreign currency risk The company operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from foreign currency transactions, primarily with respect to the USD, EURO and GBP. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities denominated in a currency that is not the company's functional currency (INR). The risk is measured through a forecast of highly probable foreign currency cash flows. The objective of the hedges is to minimise the volatility of the INR cash flows of highly probable forecast transactions. The Company has a policy to keep minimum forex exposure on the books that are likely to occur within a 12-month period for hedges of forecasted sales and purchases. As per the risk management policy, foreign exchange forward contracts are taken to hedge its exposure in the foreign currency risk. During the year ended 31 March 2019 and 2018, the company did not have any hedging instruments with terms which were not aligned with those of the hedged items. When a derivative is entered into for the purpose of hedge, the Company negotiates the terms of those derivatives to match the terms of the underlying exposure. For hedges of forecast transactions the derivatives cover the period of exposure from the point the cash flows of the transactions are forecasted up to the point of settlement of the resulting receivable or payable that is denominated in the foreign currency. Out of total foreign currency exposure the Company has hedged the significant exposure as at 31 March 2019 and as at 31 March 2018. 174 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 The Company exposure to foreign currency risk at the end of the year expressed in INR are as follows. 31 March 2019 (` in crores) Financial Assets USD EUR GBP AED Trade receivable 77.15 112.90 36.90 12.14 Bank Balances 10.56 0.56 4.79 Derivative Assets Foreign exchange forward contracts Sell foreign currency 30.70 97.19 36.90 12.14 Net Exposure to foreign currency risk (Assets) 57.01 16.27 4.79 31 March 2019 (` in crores) Financial Liabilities USD EUR GBP AED Bank Loan (including deferred payment liabilities) 197.65 94.01 Payables for purchase of property, plant & equipment's 262.04 8.46 Trade Payables 191.01 13.86 0.05 Derivative Liabilities Foreign exchange forward contracts Buy foreign currency 238.01 25.96 0.05 Principal Swap 138.34 Net Exposure to foreign currency risk (Liabilities) 274.35 90.37 31 March 2018 (` in crores) Financial Assets USD EUR GBP AUD AED Trade receivable 133.98 124.85 31.21 0.46 10.90 Bank Balances 3.71 3.56 Derivative Assets Foreign exchange forward contracts Sell foreign currency 128.78 124.80 31.21 10.90 Net Exposure to foreign currency risk (Assets) 5.20 3.76 3.56 0.46 31 March 2018 (` in crores) Financial Liabilities USD EUR GBP AUD AED Bank Loan 297.63 Trade Payables (including payable for purchase of property, plant and equipment) 195.37 74.41 29.81 Derivative Liabilities Foreign exchange forward contracts Buy foreign currency 241.73 54.82 29.81 Principal Swap 162.60 Net Exposure to foreign currency risk (Liabilities) 88.67 19.59 Annual Report 2018-19 175 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Foreign currency sensitivity The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD, EUR and GBP exchange rates, with all other variables held constant. The impact on the Company's profit before tax is due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities. The impact on the Company’s pre-tax equity is due to changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges. The Company’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material. With all the other variable held constant, the Company's profit before tax is affected through the impact on change of foreign currency rate as follows: (` in crores) Effect on profit Effect on profit Change in USD Change in Euro Change in GBP Effect on profit before before tax / pre-tax before tax / pre-tax rate rate rate tax / pre-tax equity equity equity 31 March 2019 +5% (10.87)/(5.16) +5% (3.71)/53.60 +5% 0.24/0.24 -5% 10.87/5.16 -5% 3.71/(53.60) -5% (0.24)/(0.24) 31 March 2018 +5% (4.17)/(0.10) +5% (0.79)/(2.16) +5% 0.18/(0.04) -5% 4.17/0.10 -5% 0.79/2.16 -5% (0.18)/0.04 Commodity price risk The Company is affected by the price volatility of certain The Company also invests into highly liquid mutual funds commodities. Its operating activities require the ongoing which are subject to price risk changes. These investments purchase and manufacture of copper cables and therefore are generally for short duration and therefore impact of require a continuous supply of copper. To meet requirements price changes is generally not significant. Investment in the company enters into contracts to purchase copper. these funds are made as a part of treasury management The prices in these purchase contracts are linked to the activities. price on London Metal Exchange. (b) Credit risk The Company has a risk management strategy to mitigate Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations commodity price risk. under a contract, leading to a financial loss. The Company is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade Based on a 1 month forecast of the required copper supply, receivables) and from its investing activities, including deposits the Company hedges the purchase price using future with banks, foreign exchange transactions and other financial commodity purchase contracts. The forecast is deemed to instruments. be highly probable. Trade receivables and Contract assets Commodity price sensitivity Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit As per the Company's policy for commodity price subject to the Company’s established policy, procedures hedging, all the commodity price exposures as on and control relating to customer credit risk management. reporting dates are fully hedged. Thus, there are no Credit quality of a customer is assessed based on credit open unhedged exposures on the reporting dates. rating and individual credit limits are defined in accordance Further, total exposure related to commodity derivative is with credit assessment. Outstanding customer receivables not material. are regularly monitored and any shipments to major customers are generally covered by letters of credit or other Price risk forms of credit assurance. The Company's non-listed equity securities are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting future values of the investment securities. The Company date on an individual basis for major customers. manages the equity price risk through diversification In addition, a large number of minor receivables are and by placing limits on individual and total equity grouped into homogenous groups and assessed for instruments. Reports on the equity portfolio are submitted impairment collectively. The assessment is based on to the Company’s senior management on a regular basis. historical information of defaults. The maximum exposure The Company’s Board of Directors review and approve all to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value equity investment decisions. of each class of financial assets. The Company does not hold collateral as security. The Company evaluates the At the reporting date, the exposure to unlisted equity concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as securities (other than investments in subsidiaries) at fair low, as its customers are located in several jurisdictions value was ` 22.86 crores (31 March 2018: ` 19.60 crores). and operate in largely independent markets. During the 176 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 period, the company made write-offs of ` 17.19 crores terms include mobilisation advance, progress payments (31 March 2018 : ` 10.54 crores) trade receivables with a credit period ranging from 45 to 90 days and and it does not expect to receive future cash flows certain retention money to be released at the end of the or recoveries from collection of cash flows previously project. In some cases retentions are substituted with written off. bank/corporate guarantees. The Company has a detailed review mechanism of overdue The Company’s customer profile for customer contracts and customer receivables at various levels within organisation to software services include public sector enterprises, state ensure proper attention and focus for realisation and based owned companies and private corporates. Accordingly, the on assessment performed management has concluded that Company’s customer credit risk is low. The Company’s impact of expected credit loss is not material and current average network integration projects execution cycle ranges provision made against trade receivable is adequate to cover from 12 to 36 months based on the nature of contract the provision on account of expected credit loss. and scope of services to be provided. General payment Details of Expected credit loss for trade receivables and contract assets is as follows: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars Less than 365 More than 365 Less than 365 More than 365 Total Total days days days days Gross carrying amount 2,283.27 20.26 2,303.54 877.63 13.00 890.63 Expected credit loss rate 0.60% 80.00% 1.63% 75.00% Expected credit loss provision 13.78 16.21 29.99 14.33 9.75 24.08 Carrying amount of trade receivable 2,269.49 4.05 2,273.55 (net of provision) 863.30 3.25 866.55 Financial instruments and cash deposits Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Company’s treasury department in accordance with the Company’s policy. Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty. Counterparty credit limits are reviewed by the Company on an annual basis, and may be updated throughout the year. The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through counterparty’s potential failure to make payments. Other financial assets that are potentially subject to credit risk consists of inter corporate loans. The company assesses the recoverability from these financial assets on regular basis. Factors such as business and financial performance of counterparty, their ability to repay, regulatory changes and overall economic conditions are considered to assess future recoverability. The company charges interest on such loans at arms length rate considering counterparty's credit rating. Based on the assessment performed, the company considers all the outstanding balances of such financial assets to be recoverable as on balance sheet date and no provision for impairment is considered necessary. The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the balance sheet at 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018 is the carrying amounts of each class of financial assets. (c) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company may encounter difficulty in meeting its present and future obligations associated with financial liabilities that are required to be settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Company's objective is to, at all times, maintain optimum levels of liquidity to meet its cash and collateral obligations. The Company requires funds both for short term operational needs as well as for long term investment programs mainly in growth projects. The Company closely monitors its liquidity position and deploys a robust cash management system. It aims to minimise these risks by Annual Report 2018-19 177 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 generating sufficient cash flows from its current operations, which in addition to the available cash and cash equivalents, liquid investments and sufficient committed fund facilities which will provide liquidity. The liquidity risk is managed on the basis of expected maturity dates of the financial liabilities. The average credit period taken to settle trade payables is about 60 90 days. The other payables are with short term durations. The carrying amounts are assumed to be reasonable approximation of fair value. The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company's financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments: (` in crores) Payable on Less than 3 3 months to 1 year to Particulars Total demand months 12 months 5 years As at March 31, 2019 Borrowings 41.92 738.51 166.65 581.70 1,528.78 Other financial liabilities 4.24 39.63 29.77 2.71 76.35 Trade payables 264.14 783.46 762.39 1,809.99 Payables for purchase of Property, plant and equipments 92.94 303.22 9.40 405.56 Derivative instruments 6.29 3.98 2.77 13.04 310.30 1,660.83 1,266.01 596.58 3,833.72 As at March 31, 2018 Borrowings 267.62 279.38 616.22 1,163.22 Other financial liabilities 2.86 30.46 72.52 1.10 106.94 Trade payables 0.15 499.73 133.62 633.50 Payables for purchase of Property, plant and equipments 15.83 37.79 35.53 89.15 Derivative instruments 10.67 33.14 28.19 72.00 3.01 824.31 556.46 681.04 2,064.81 Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange forward contracts are designated as hedging instruments in cash flow hedges of highly probable forecast transactions/firm commitments for sales and purchases in USD, EUR and GBP. The foreign exchange forward contract balances vary with the level of expected foreign currency sales and purchases and changes in foreign exchange forward rates. The terms of the foreign currency forward contracts match the terms of the expected highly probable forecast transactions. As a result, no hedge ineffectiveness arose requiring recognition through profit or loss as on 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018. The cash flow hedges for such derivative contracts as at 31 March 2019 were assessed to be highly effective and a net unrealised gain of ` 122.95 crore, with a deferred tax liability of ` 42.96 crores relating to the hedging instruments, is included in OCI. Comparatively, the cash flow hedges as at 31 March 2018 were assessed to be highly effective and an unrealised loss of ` 47.92 crore, with a deferred tax asset of ` 16.74 crores was included in OCI in respect of these contracts. The amounts retained in OCI at 31 March 2019 are expected to mature and affect the statement of profit and loss during the year ended 31 March 2020. At 31 March 2019, the Company has currency/interest rate swap agreements in place with a notional amount of USD 2 crores (` 138.34 crore) (31 March 2018 : USD 2.5 crores ) whereby the Company receives a variable rate of interest of Libor + 2.70% and pays interest at a fixed rate equal to 10.0425% on the notional amount with USD-INR rate fixed at INR 66.3850 per USD. The swaps are being used to hedge the exposure to changes in the foreign exchange rates and interest rates. The Company also has multiple interest rate swap agreements in place with a total notional amount of USD 2.45 crores whereby the Company pays interest at fixed rate of 2.69%-3% and receives interest at a variable rate of 6M LIBOR. The cash flow hedges for such derivative contracts as at 31 March 2019 were assessed to be highly effective and a net unrealised gain of ` 9.87 crore, with a deferred tax liability of ` 3.45 crores relating to the hedging instruments, is included in OCI. Comparatively, the cash flow hedges as at 31 March 2018 were assessed to be highly effective and an unrealised loss of ` 2.15 crore, with a deferred tax asset of ` 0.75 crores was included in OCI in respect of these contracts. The amounts 178 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 retained in OCI at 31 March 2019 are expected to mature and affect the statement of profit and loss during the year ended 31 March 2020. Impact of hedging activities (a) Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial position: 31 March 2019 (` in crores) Change in the value of hedged Carrying Changes in fair item used as Nominal Amount of Hedge Weighted average Types of hedge and risks Maturity date value of hedging the basis for Value Hedging ratio* Strike Price/Rate instrument recognising Instruments hedge effectiveness Assets / (Liabilities) Cash flow hedge Foreign exchange risk (i) Foreign exchange forward EUR:INR90.38 contractsAssets April 2019 1,233.38 80.97 1:1 GBP:INR101.09 80.92 (80.92) December 2023 USD:INR70.29 (ii) Foreign exchange April 2019EUR:INR79.04 forward contractsLiabilities (39.36) (0.65) 1:1 41.98 (41.98) January 2021 USD:INR71.033 (iii) Foreign Currency Loan (138.34) 0.18 3-Jan-23 1:1 USD:INR 66.39 12.22 (12.22) Interest rate risk Interest rate swap (307.72) (1.04) 3-Jan-23 1:1 N/A (2.35) 2.35 31 March 2018 (` in crores) Change in the value of hedged Carrying Changes in fair item used as Nominal Amount of Hedge Weighted average Types of hedge and risks Maturity date value of hedging the basis for Value Hedging ratio* Strike Price/Rate instrument recognising Instruments hedge effectiveness Assets / (Liabilities) Cash flow hedge Foreign exchange risk (i) Foreign exchange forward AED:INR17.82 contractsAssets AUD:INR50.05 112.86 0.05 April 2018 1:1 (1.47) 1.47 EUR:INR83.98 March 2022 GBP:INR90.52 USD:INR66.92 (ii) Foreign exchange EUR:INR83.91 (1,388.57) (42.63) April 20181:1 (44.30) 44.30 forward contractsLiabilities GBP:INR101.28 January 2021 USD:INR66.75 (iii) Foreign Currency Loan (165.96) (12.04) 3-Jan-23 1:1 USD:INR 66.39 (1.71) 1.71 Interest rate risk Interest rate swap (165.96) 1.31 3-Jan-23 1:1 N/A (0.44) 0.44 *The foreign exchange forward contracts are denominated in the same currency as the highly probable future sales therefore the hedge ratio is 1:1. The notional amount of interest rate swap is equal to the portion of variable rate loans that is being hedged and therefore the Annual Report 2018-19 179 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 hedge ratio for interest rate swaps is also 1:1. The entire amount of foreign currency loan (USD) is designated as cash flow hedge and hence the hedge ratio is 1:1. (b) Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial performance 31 March 2019 (` in crores) Amount Change in the Value Hedge Line item affected in reclassified of hedging instrument ineffectiveness statement of profit and Type of hedge from cash flow recognised in other recognised in loss because of the hedging reserve comprehensive income profit or loss reclassification to profit or loss Cash flow hedge Foreign exchange risk 135.12 (21.66) Revenue and COGS Interest Risk (2.35) N/A 31 March 2018 (` in crores) Amount Change in the Value Hedge Line item affected in reclassified of hedging instrument ineffectiveness statement of profit and Type of hedge from cash flow recognised in other recognised in loss because of the hedging reserve comprehensive income profit or loss reclassification to profit or loss Cash flow hedge Foreign exchange risk (47.48) 1.69 Other expenses Interest Risk (0.44) N/A The Company’s hedging policy requires for effective hedge relationships to be established. Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception of the hedge relationship and through periodic prospective effectiveness assessments to ensure that an economic relationship exists between the hedged item and hedging instrument. The company enters into hedge relationships where the critical terms of the hedging instrument match exactly with the terms of the hedged item, and so a qualitative assessment of effectiveness is performed. If changes in circumstances affect the terms of the hedged item such that the critical terms no longer match exactly with the critical terms of the hedging instrument, the company uses the hypothetical derivative method to assess effectiveness. Ineffectiveness is recognised on a cash flow hedge where the cumulative change in the designated component value of the hedging instrument exceeds on an absolute basis the change in value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. In hedges of foreign currency forecast sale may arise if: the critical terms of the hedging instrument and the hedged item differ (i.e. nominal amounts, timing of the forecast transaction, interest resets changes from what was originally estimated), or differences arise between the credit risk inherent within the hedged item and the hedging instrument. Refer note 18 for the details related to movement in cash flow hedging reserve. Note 48: Capital Management For the purpose of the Company's capital management, capital includes issued equity capital and all other equity reserves attributable to the shareholders of the Company. The primary objective of the Company's capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value. The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions and the requirements of the financial covenants. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return on capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The Company monitors capital using a 180 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt. The Company's policy is to keep the gearing ratio optimum. The Company includes within net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, trade and other payables less cash and cash equivalents excluding discontinued operations. As at As at Particulars 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 (` in crores) (` in crores) Interest Bearing Loans and borrowings 1,528.78 1,163.22 Trade Payables 1,809.99 618.39 Other Financial Liabilities 494.95 268.09 Less: Cash and Cash equivalents & current investment* (228.43) (224.20) Net debt 3,605.29 1,825.50 Equity share capital 80.51 80.20 Other equity 1,507.70 989.79 Total capital 1,588.21 1,069.99 Capital and net debt 5,193.50 2,895.49 Gearing ratio 69.42% 63.05% *includes other bank balance of ` 70 crores with respect to fixed deposit. These fixed deposits can be encashed by the Company at any time without any major penalties. In order to achieve this overall objective, the Company's capital management, amongst other things, aims to ensure that it meets financial covenants attached to the interest-bearing loans and borrowings that define capital structure requirements. Breaches in meeting the financial covenants would permit the bank to immediately call loans and borrowings. There have been no breaches in the financial covenants of any interest-bearing loans and borrowing in the current year. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the years ended 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018. Dividend Distribution Made And Proposed As a part of Company's capital management policy, dividend distribution is also considered as key element and management ensures that dividend distribution is in accordance with defined policy. Below mentioned are details of dividend distributed and proposed during the year. As at As at Particulars 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 (` in crores) (` in crores) Cash dividends on equity shares declared and paid: Final dividend for the year ended on 31 March 2018: ` 2 per share (31 March 2017: ` 0.75 per share) 80.30 29.97 Dividend Distribution Tax on final dividend 16.51 6.10 96.81 36.07 Proposed dividends on Equity shares: Final dividend for the year ended on 31 March 2019: ` 3.5 per share (31 March 2018: ` 2 per share) 140.86 80.20 Dividend Distribution Tax on proposed dividend 28.68 16.33 169.54 96.53 Proposed dividend on equity shares is subject to approval at the ensuing annual general meeting and is not recognised as a liability (including DDT thereon) as at year end. Annual Report 2018-19 181 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 During the year ended 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018, the Company has paid dividend to its shareholders. This has resulted in payment of Dividend Distribution Tax (DDT) to the taxation authorities. The Company believes that DDT represents additional payment to taxation authority on behalf of the shareholders. Hence DDT paid is charged to equity. Note 49: Fair Values a) Financial Instruments by Category Set out below, is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Company's financial instruments, other than those with carrying amounts that are reasonable approximations of fair values as of March 31, 2019: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 FVPL FVOCI Amortised Cost FVPL FVOCI Amortised Cost Financial assets Investments Equity instruments 0.26 2.00 Debentures 22.60 17.60 Mutual funds 100.00 155.00 Trade receivables 1,180.53 866.55 Loans 115.63 90.02 Cash and cash equivalents 147.36 75.42 Derivative financial assets 7.91 83.96 2.21 1.36 Contract assets 1,093.02 Security deposits 15.40 10.47 Other financials assets 33.05 61.85 Total financial assets 130.77 83.96 2,584.99 176.81 1.36 1,104.31 Financial liabilities Borrowings 1,528.78 1,163.22 Derivative financial liabilities 9.10 3.94 17.03 54.97 Trade Payables 1,809.99 633.50 Payables for purchase of property, plant and equipment 405.56 89.15 Deposits from vendors 3.12 1.56 Other Financial Liabilities 73.23 105.38 Total financial liabilities 9.10 3.94 3,820.68 17.03 54.97 1,992.81 182 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 b) Fair value hierarchy This section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that are (a) recognised and measured at fair value. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the Company has classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard. An explanation of each level follows underneath the table. Fair value measurement using Significant Significant Quoted prices in observable unobservable Amount active markets inputs inputs (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value recurring fair value measurements Investments in Equity Shares of joint venture As at March 31, 2019 0.26 0.26 As at March 31, 2018 2.00 2.00 Investments in Debentures As at March 31, 2019 22.60 22.60 As at March 31, 2018 17.60 17.60 Investments in Mutual Funds As at March 31, 2019 100.00 100.00 As at March 31, 2018 155.00 155.00 Derivative financial assets Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts As at March 31, 2019 7.91 7.91 As at March 31, 2018 2.26 2.26 Derivative financial assets Currency/Interest Rate Swaps As at March 31, 2019 83.96 83.96 As at March 31, 2018 1.31 1.31 Derivative financial Liabilities Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts As at March 31, 2019 9.10 9.10 As at March 31, 2018 59.96 59.96 Derivative financial Liabilities Currency/Interest Rate Swaps As at March 31, 2019 3.94 3.94 As at March 31, 2018 12.04 12.04 Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices. Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation techniques which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2. Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. There have been no transfers among Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3. c) Valuation technique used to determine fair value The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: The fair values of the quoted mutual funds are based on quoted price at the reporting date. Annual Report 2018-19 183 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 The fair values of the unquoted equity shares and debentures have been estimated using a DCF model. The valuation requires management to make certain assumptions about the model inputs, including forecast of cash flows, discount rate, credit risk and volatility. The probabilities of the various estimates within the range can be reasonably assessed and are used in management’s estimate of fair value for these unquoted equity investments. The Company enters into derivative financial instruments with financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings. Foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps are valued using valuation techniques, which employs the use of market observable inputs. The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing model, using present value calculations. The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality counterparties, foreign exchange spot and forward rates, yield curves of the respective currencies, currency basis spread between the respective currencies, interest rate curves etc. The changes in counterparty credit risk had no material effect on the hedge effectiveness assessment for derivatives designated in hedge relationships and other financial instruments recognised at fair value. d) Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (level 3) The following table presents the changes in level 3 items for the periods ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018: (` in crores ) Investments in Investments in Particulars Equity Shares of JV Debentures As at March 31, 2018 2.00 17.60 Acquisitions 5.00 Changes in Fair value (1.74) As at March 31, 2019 0.26 22.60 e) Valuation inputs and relationships to fair value The following table summarises the quantitative information about the significant unobservable inputs used in level 3 fair value measurements. Sensitivity of the input to fair Particulars Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs Range value FVTPL assets in DCF method Terminal Growth Rate March 31, 2019 : 5% 1% (March 31, 2018 : 1%) unquoted equity March 31, 2018 : 5% increase/ (decrease) in the shares and debentures terminal growth rate would result in increase /(decrease) in fair value by ` 1.34/ (1.17) crores (31 March 2018 : ` 1.51/ (0.59) crore) WACC (pre-tax) March 31, 2019: 20% 1% (March 31, 2018 : March 31, 2018: 20% 1%) increase/ (decrease) in the WACC would result in decrease/(increase) in fair value by ` 1.71/ (1.96) crores (31 March 2018 : ` 1.03/ (2.0)) Long-term operating margin March 31, 2019 : 20% 1% (March 31, 2018 : 1%) March 31, 2018: increase/ (decrease) in 3.1% 14.2% the margin would result in increase/(decrease) in fair value by ` 0.73/ (0.73) crores (31 March 2018: ` 1.24/ (0.47)) *There were no significant inter-relationships between unobservable inputs that materially affect fair values. f) Valuation processes The finance department of the company includes a team that oversees the valuations of financial assets and liabilities required for financial 184 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 reporting purposes, including level 3 fair values. External valuers are involved for valuation of significant assets, such as unquoted financials assets. Involvement of external valuers is decided by the valuation team. Selection criteria includes market knowledge, reputation, independence and whether professional standards are maintained. The Valuation team decides, after discussions with the company's external valuers, which valuation techniques and inputs to use for each case. The main level 3 inputs for used by the company are derived and evaluated as follows: Discount rates are determined using a capital asset pricing model or based on weighted average cost of capital of counterparty, to calculate a post-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risk specific to the asset. Risk adjustments specific to the counterparties (including assumptions about credit default rates) are derived from risk assessment (based on review of financial condition, economic factors) by management. Earnings growth factor for unlisted equity securities are estimated based on market information for similar types of companies. Changes in level 3 fair values are analysed at the end of each reporting period during the valuation discussion between the valuation team and external valuer. As part of this discussion the team presents a report that explains the reason for the fair value movements. The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy together with a quantitative sensitivity analysis as at 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018 are as shown above. g) Financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost (` in crores ) 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars Carrying value Fair value Financial liabilities Debentures @ 8.45% 150.00 150.36 Debentures @ 8.70% 150.00 150.09 The fair values of non-current borrowings are based on discounted cash flows using a current borrowing rate. They are classified as level 3 fair values in the fair value hierarchy due to the use of unobservable inputs, including own credit risk. The management assessed that cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, trade payables, other current assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. The management has further assessed that borrowings availed and loans given approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the interest rates being variable or in case of fixed rate borrowings/loans, movements in interest rates from the recognition of such financial instrument till period end not being material. Note 50: Related Party Transactions (A) Name of related party and nature of its relationship: (a) Related parties where control exists (i) Holding company Twin Star Overseas Limited, Mauritius (Immediate holding company Volcan Investments Limited, Bahamas (Ultimate holding company) (ii) Subsidiaries Jiangsu Sterlite Tongguang Fiber Co. Ltd. Sterlite Global Ventures (Mauritius) Limited Maharashtra Transmission Communication Infrastructure Limited Sterlite Technologies UK Ventures Limited Speedon Network Limited Sterlite Telesystems Limited Annual Report 2018-19 185 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Elitecore Technologies (Mauritius) Limited Elitecore Technologies SDN BHD. (Malaysia) Sterlite (Shanghai) Trading Company Limited Sterlite Tech Holding Inc. Sterlite Technologies Europe Ventures Limited Sterlite Technologies Inc. Sterlite Tech S.P.A Sterlite Innovative Solutions Limited Sterlite Tech Connectivity Solutions Limited Metallurgica Bresciana S.P.A (b) Other related parties under IND AS-24 Related party disclosures with whom transactions have taken place during the year (i) Fellow Subsidiaries Cairn India Holdings Ltd Sterlite Power Transmission Limited Twin Star Technologies Limited Sterlite Grid 1 Limited Twin Star Display Technologies Limited Vedanta Limited Fujairah Gold FZE Avan Strate Inc. (ii) Joint ventures Sterlite Conduspar Industrial Ltda Metis Eduventures Private Limited M.B Maanshaan Special Cables Co. Ltd (iii) Key management personnel (KMP) Mr. Pravin Agarwal (Vice Chairman & Whole-time Director) Dr. Anand Agarwal (CEO & Whole-time Director) Mr. A. R. Narayanaswamy (Non executive & Independent Director) Mr. Arun Todarwal (Non executive & Independent Director) Mr. C. V. Krishnan (Non executive & Independent Director) (upto October 12,2017) Ms. Avaantika Kakkar (Non executive & Independent Director) (upto May 22,2018) Mr. Sandip Das (Non executive & Independent Director) Mr Pratik Agarwal (Non executive Director) Mr. Kumud Srinivasan (Non executive & Independent Director) (from May 22, 2018) (iv) Relative of key management personnel (KMP) Mr. Ankit Agarwal Mrs Jyoti Agarwal Mrs Ruchira Agarwal Mrs Sonakshi Agarwal Mr Navin Agarwal (v) Entities where key management personnel or relatives of key management personnel have significant influence (EKMP) Khaitan & Co. LLP (EKMP) Universal Floritech LLP (EKMP) Sterlite Tech Foundation (EKMP) (c) Additional related parties as per Companies Act, 2013 with whom transactions have taken place during the year (i) Key management personnel (KMP) Mr. Anupam Jindal (Chief Financial Officer) Mr. Amit Deshpande (Company Secretary) 186 Sterlite Technologies Limited (B) The transactions with related parties during the year and their outstanding balances are as follows:Subsidiaries Joint Ventures Holding Company KMP Relatives of KMP Fellow Subsidiaries/EKMP S. Particulars 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March No. 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 1 Remuneration Notes 31.06 27.26 3.60 3.04 2 Sitting Fees 0.29 0.12 3 Commission 0.75 0.63 Annual Report 2018-19 4 Consultancy 0.45 0.40 5 Dividend (received)/paid 41.88 15.71 0.49 0.22 0.24 0.09 0.95 0.36 6 Investment during the year 47.82 15.02 5.00 9.60 7 Loans and advances given 16.42 20.82 0.11 0.35 6.28 40.85 8 Repayment of loans 1.12 1.37 3.27 17.30 9 Loan taken 7.50 10 Repayment of advances 0.44 0.17 11 Interest charged on loans 2.43 1.69 0.12 2.81 1.47 12 Interest payable on loans 0.70 13 Management fees received 13.24 1.99 14 Management fees paid 0.52 3.10 15 Corporate guarantee & SBLC 1.34 commission charged 16 Purchase of goods & services 302.29 7.70 7.31 74.86 17 Sale of goods & services 154.73 62.12 14.18 12.21 18.85 28.91 18 Contributions made for CSR 5.22 3.64 19 Rental income 0.06 0.08 20 Professional fees paid 0.27 Outstanding Balances 1 Loans/advance receivables## 74.84 55.40 40.09 34.19 2 Loans/advance payables## 8.28 to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 3 Trade receivables 25.83 10.67 6.53 20.75 18.81 4 Trade payables 70.97 2.99 1.25 30.41 5 Investment in equity 141.60 101.38 22.86 19.60 shares,preference shares & debentures 6 Investments classified as 28.27 20.77 assets held for sale 7 Corporate and bank 10.16 114.00 114.00 guarantees given and FINANCIAL outstanding STATEMENTS 187 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 (C) Disclosure in respect of material related party transaction during the year: S. No. Particulars Relationship 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 1 Remuneration Mr. Pravin Agarwal KMP 14.34 13.72 Dr. Anand Agarwal KMP 12.40 10.04 Mr. Ankit Agarwal Relative of KMP 3.60 3.04 2 Sitting Fees Mr. Arun Todarwal KMP 0.09 0.05 Mr. A. R. Narayanaswamy KMP 0.07 0.04 Mr. Sandip Das KMP 0.07 0.01 Ms. Kumud Srinivasan KMP 0.03 3 Commission Mr. Arun Todarwal KMP 0.15 0.13 Mr. A. R. Narayanaswamy KMP 0.15 0.13 Ms. Avaantika Kakkar KMP 0.15 0.13 Mr. Pratik Agarwal KMP 0.15 0.13 4 Consultancy Mr. Sandip Das KMP 0.45 0.40 5 Dividend (received)/paid Twin Star Overseas Limited Holding Company 41.88 15.71 6 Investment during the year Sterlite Technologies S.P.A. (Italy) Subsidiary 40.22 Maharashtra Transmission Communication Infrastructure Limited Subsidiary 7.50 Metis Eduventures Private Limited Joint Venture 5.00 9.60 7 Loans & advances given Speedon Network Limited Subsidiary 7.46 9.89 Sterlite Tech Holding Inc. Subsidiary 8.07 8.06 Twinstar Display Technologies Limited. Fellow Subsidiary 3.44 22.14 Sterlite Power Transmission Limited. Fellow Subsidiary 2.52 8.64 8 Repayment of loans Maharashtra Transmission Communication Infrastructure Limited Subsidiary 1.00 Sterlite Power Transmission Limited Fellow Subsidiary 2.78 7.80 9 Loan taken Sterlite Power Transmission Limited Fellow Subsidiary 7.50 10 Repayment of advances Jiangsu Sterlite and Tongguang Fiber Co. Limited Subsidiary 0.44 Sterlite Grid 1 ltd Fellow Subsidiary 0.17 11 Interest charged / (payable) on loans Speedon Network Limited Subsidiary 1.75 1.42 Twin Star Display Technologies Limited Fellow Subsidiary 2.11 1.47 Twin Star Technologies Ltd Fellow Subsidiary 0.70 12 Interest payable on loans Sterlte Power Transmission Limited Fellow Subsidiary 0.70 13 Management fees received Twin Star Display Technologies Limited Fellow Subsidiary 1.99 Cairn India Holdings Ltd** Fellow Subsidiary 13.24 14 Management fees paid Sterlte Power Transmission Limited Fellow Subsidiary 3.10 Vedanta Limited Fellow Subsidiary 0.52 15 Corporate guarantee & SBLC commission charged Sterlite Tech S.P.A Subsidiary 1.33 16 Purchase of goods & services Jiangsu Sterlite and Tongguang Fiber Co. Limited Subsidiary 261.32 0.14 Fujairah Gold FZE Fellow Subsidiary 4.52 70.62 188 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 S. No. Particulars Relationship 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 17 Sale of goods & services Jiangsu Sterlite and Tongguang Fiber Co. Limited Subsidiary 88.05 57.74 Metallurgica Brescina Subsidiary 64.21 Sterlite Conduspar Industrial Ltda Joint Venture 14.18 12.21 Sterlite Power Transmission Limited Fellow Subsidiary 18.85 28.91 18 Contributions made for CSR Sterlite Tech Foundation EKMP 5.22 3.64 19 Rental income Universal Floritech LLP EKMP 0.06 0.08 20 Payment of professional fees Khaitan & Co. LLP EKMP 0.00 0.27 (D) Compensation of Key mangement personnel of the company Particulars 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Short term employee benefits 26.44 25.78 Long term & Post employment benefits 1.40 0.38 Share based payment transaction* 6.82 4.14 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 34.66 30.30 During the year Sterlite Technologies Europe Ventures Ltd. has been liquidated with effect from May 16, 2018. # #Includes interest & expenses incurred and recoverable. *Share-based payments include the perquisite value of stock incentives excercised during the year,determined in accordance with the provisions of the Income-tax Act,1961. **The amount is gross of the expenses incurred towards provision of these services. Note 51: Changes in Accounting Policies The Company applied Ind AS 115 for the first time by using the cumulative catch-up transition method of adoption with the date of initial application of April 01, 2018. Under this method, company recognised the cumulative effect of initially applying the Ind AS 115 as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as on April 01, 2018. For all open contracts as on that date, comparative prior period has not been adjusted. 01 April 2018 Particulars Notes (` in crores) Balances in retained earnings 804.45 Less: Adjustment on account of revenue recognition as per IND AS 115 (i) (19.54) Add: Increase in Deferred Tax Assets (i) 6.83 Balances in retained earnings after adjustment 791.74 Note (i) : Impact is mainly on account of : 1. Service warranty As per Ind AS 115, service warranty has been considered as a separate performance obligation and accordingly contract price has been allocated to such seperate performance obligation resulting in an impact on estimated revenue & warranty cost recognised. There was no such requirement under Ind AS 11 and accordingly provision for warranty was recognised basis percentage of completion of contract. 2. Impact of variable considerations As per Ind AS 115, variable consideration eg. liquidated damages and other penalties which are based on future events should be netted off against revenue and reassessed at every reporting period. Accordingly, such variable considerations have been adjusted against the contract price. Under the previous standard, these were considered as a part of estimated contract costs. 3. Impact of bought out components Under previous standard cost incurred on bought out components was considered in the calculation of the percentage of completion of network integration projects. As per Ind AS 115, revenue with respect to bought out components should be recognised equivalent to cost incurred to faithfully depict performance if all the prescribed conditions are met. Accordingly on transition, margin on cost related to bought out component was derecognised. Annual Report 2018-19 189 Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 4. Revenue recognition on transfer of control Under the previous revenue recognition standards, revenue was recognised when the entity has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of goods. Under Ind AS 115, revenue is recognised when entity satisifies a performance obligation by transferring control of a promised goods and service to a customer. As a consequence revenue with respect to cost incurred on construction work in progress is recognised on transition. 5. Milestone based accounting As per Ind AS 115, there is change in the revenue recognition as compared to previous standard wherein revenue was recognised once milestones were achieved. The following table presents the amount by which each financial statement line item is affected in the current year ended March 31, 2019 by the application of Ind AS 115 as compared with the previous revenue recognition requirements. Line items that were not affected by the changes have not been included. As a result, the sub-totals and totals disclosed cannot be recalculated from the numbers provided. 31 March 2019 (without 31 March 2019 Balance Sheet (Extract) Increase/ (Decrease) adoption of Ind AS 115) (as reported) Current assets Inventories 493.33 (112.32) 381.01 Trade receivables 1,049.91 128.86 1,178.77 Contract assets 1,093.02 1,093.02 Other current assets 1,521.44 (1,189.24) 332.20 Equity Other Equity 1,510.87 (3.17) 1,507.70 Total Equity 1,591.38 (3.17) 1,588.21 Non-current liabilities Provisions 24.02 (23.30) 0.72 Deferred tax liabilities (net) 73.83 (1.70) 72.13 Current liabilities Trade payables 1,769.66 40.33 1,809.99 Contract liabilities 269.31 269.31 Provisions 26.99 (17.03) 9.96 Other current liabilities 393.72 (344.13) 49.59 31 March 2019 (without 31 March 2019 Statement of profit and loss (extract) year ended 31 March 2019 Increase/ (Decrease) adoption of Ind AS 115) (as reported) Revenue from operations 4,885.27 (22.64) 4,862.63 Total Income (I) 4,899.59 (22.64) 4,876.95 Cost of raw material and components consumed 2,620.75 (37.35) 2,583.40 Other expenses 880.01 0.04 880.05 Total Expense (II) 3,860.42 (37.31) 3,823.11 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) (I) (II) 1,039.17 14.67 1,053.84 Profit before tax 796.65 14.67 811.32 Total tax expenses 270.96 5.13 276.09 Profit for the year 525.68 9.55 535.23 Total comprehensive income for the year 606.96 9.55 616.51 Presentation of assets and liabilities related to contracts with customers: The company also has changed the presentation of certain amounts in the balance sheet to reflect the terminology of Ind AS 115: Contract assets recognised was previously presented as a part of other current assets. Contract assets are in the nature of right to receive consideration which arises when entity satisfies a performance obligation but does not have an unconditional right to consideration as it has not reached the contractual billing milestone. Contract liabilities recognised was previously presented as a part of other current liabilities. Contract liabilities represent deferred revenue arising from revenue from network integration projects contracts. It also includes advance received from customers. 190 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 52: Segment Reporting The Company has only one operating segment which is Connectivity and Network Solutions. Accordingly, separate segment information is not required to be disclosed. Geographical Information 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) (1) Revenue from external customers Within India 3,279.13 1,623.74 Outside India 1,583.50 1,269.83 Total revenue per statement of profit and loss 4,862.63 2,893.57 The revenue information above is based on the locations of the customers (2) Non-current operating assets Within India 2,222.47 1,314.24 Outside India Total 2,222.47 1,314.24 Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, capital work in progress, investment properties and intangible assets including Goodwill. (3) Revenue from external customers Revenue from two customers in India amounted to ` 1,293.15 crores (31 March 2018 is ` 360.02 crores). Note 53: Previous Year Figures The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 incorporate the impact of the change in accounting policies as mentioned in Note 51. Thus, current year numbers are not comparable to previous year numbers. As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the board of directors of Sterlite Technologies Limited For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP Pravin Agarwal Anand Agarwal Firm Registration No: FRN 012754N/N500016 Vice Chairman & Whole-time Director CEO & Whole-time Director DIN : 00022096 DIN : 00057364 Neeraj Sharma Anupam Jindal Amit Deshpande Partner Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Membership Number: 108391 Place: Pune Place: Pune Date: April 23, 2019 Date: April 23, 2019 Annual Report 2018-19 191 Independent Auditors’ Report To the Members of Sterlite Technologies Limited on the adequacy of the provision made towards the amount of excise / customs duty payable. Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 4. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Qualified Opinion Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under 1. We have audited the accompanying consolidated section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013. financial statements of Sterlite Technologies Limited Our responsibilities under those Standards are further (hereinafter referred to as the “Holding Company”), described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the its subsidiaries (Holding Company and its subsidiaries Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. together referred to as “the Group”) and its jointly We are independent of the Group in accordance controlled entity; (refer Note 37 to the attached with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of consolidated financial statements), comprising of the Chartered Accountants of India together with the consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2019, the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including of the financial statements under the provisions of Other Comprehensive Income), the consolidated the Companies Act, 2013, and we have fulfilled our Statement of Changes in Equity, the consolidated Cash other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these Flow Statement for the year then ended, and notes requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we to the consolidated financial statements including a have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by summary of significant accounting policies and other the other auditors in terms of their reports referred to explanatory information prepared based on the relevant in sub-paragraph 16 of the Other Matters paragraph records (hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated below, other than the unaudited financial statements financial statements”). as certified by the management and referred to in sub-paragraph 17 of the Other Matters paragraph 2. In our opinion and to the best of our information and below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis according to the explanations given to us, except for for our qualified opinion. the indeterminate effects of the matter described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph of our Emphasis of Matter – Amortisation of goodwill report, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements recognized on acquisition give the information required by the Companies 5. We draw attention to Note 46 to the consolidated Act, 2013 (the “Act”) in the manner so required financial statement which describes that the Group and give a true and fair view in conformity with the had recognised Goodwill on amalgamation during accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the financial year ended March 31, 2016, which is the consolidated state of affairs of the Group and its being amortised over a period of five years from the jointly controlled entity as at March 31, 2019, and their appointed date of September 29, 2015, in accordance consolidated total comprehensive income (comprising with the accounting treatment prescribed under the of consolidated profit and other comprehensive Scheme of amalgamation approved by the Gujarat income) and their consolidated cash flows for the year High Court. Our opinion is not modified in respect ended on that date. of this matter. Basis for Qualified opinion Key audit matters 3. We draw your attention to Note 44 to the Consolidated 6. Key audit matters are those matters that, in our Financial Statements, which states that the Holding professional judgement, were of most significance in Company in an earlier year received an order of our audit of the consolidated financial statements of CESTAT upholding a demand of ` 188 crores (including the current year. These matters were addressed in penalties but excluding interest) (`188 crores as at the context of our audit of the consolidated financial March 31, 2018) in relation to a excise/customs matter. statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion there The Holding Company’s appeal against this order with on, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these the Honourable Supreme Court has been admitted. matters. In addition to the matter described in the Basis Based on the current status and legal advice received, for Qualified Opinion, we have determined the matters the management has recognised a provision amounting described below to be the key audit matters to be to ` 4.5 crores as on March 31, 2019, (`4.5 crores as communicated in our report. at March 31, 2018), in respect of this matter based on its best estimate. Pending disposal of the matter by the Honourable Supreme Court, we are unable to comment 192 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter 1. Revenue Recognition on transition to Ind AS 115 (Refer note 2.3(e), 3 and 55 to the consolidated Our testing approach included both tests of controls as well financial statements) substantive procedures (i.e test of details). Effective April 1, 2018, the Group has adopted Ind AS 115 As part of our test of controls, we understood and evaluated the “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”. Consequently, design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over management has reviewed its existing contracts with customers revenue recognition. under the model provided in Ind AS 115. Management has applied significant judgements with respect to: Our substantive testing of revenue transactions was designed to • Combination of contracts entered into with the same customer; cover certain large and complex contracts and testing of sample of • Identification of performance obligations; other contracts. Our procedures included, among other things: • Allocation of consideration to identified • Reading of selected contracts to identify significant terms of performance obligations; the contracts; • Recognition of revenue over a period of time or at a point in • Assessing appropriateness of management’s significant time based on timing when control is transferred to customer. judgements in accounting for identified contracts For assessment of the date of transfer of control, Management • Evaluation of the contract terms and also consideration of has obtained legal opinion in respect of certain arrangements. the legal opinion obtained by Management with respect to assessment of the date of transfer of control; Further, for contracts where revenue is recognised over a period • Testing of timing of recognition of revenue (including procedures of time, the Group made estimates which impact the revenue related to cut off) in line with the terms of contracts; recognition. Such estimates include, but are not limited to: • Testing the key management assumptions used to estimate • costs to complete, contract cost, contract risks, claims etc.; • contract risks, • Testing of journal entries for unusual/irregular revenue • price variation claims, transactions; and • liquidated damages • Consideration of adequacy of the disclosures as required to be made by Management under the new standard. We focused on this area because a significant portion of the revenue generated requires management to exercise judgement Based on above procedures, we did not note any significant and therefore could be subject to material misstatement due to exceptions in the estimates and judgements applied by the fraud or error. Management in revenue recognition including those relating to presentation and disclosures In addition, first time disclosures required under Ind AS 115 has been identified as an area of focus for the current year. 2.  ccounting policy and fair valuation of investments in joint venture in accordance with Ind AS 109 Refer note 2.3(s) (Accounting A Policies) to the Consolidated Financial Statements The group makes investments in start-ups and growth companies. Our audit procedures included: Such investment activity is separately managed from the manufacturing activities with a stated objective of earning a return • Understanding the controls around Group’s investment strategy in from appreciation in the value of the investments and are made start-ups and growth companies with identified exit strategies. The total carrying value of such • Evaluation of the design and testing the operating effectiveness investments as at March 31, 2019 is ` 22.86 crores. Management of the aforesaid controls has concluded that basis the terms of the contract with the investee • Evaluation of the Group’s investment strategy and companies such investments will qualify to be investment in internal organization; Associates or Joint Ventures. Further Management has evaluated • Consideration of the investment subscription agreements for the the requirements of Ind AS 28 for availing the exemption from terms and conditions; applying equity method of accounting and concluded that such • Discussion with the relevant management personnel engaged exemption is available to the group for such investments. The in managing the investment decisions and involved in such Group has accordingly elected to measure such investments at transactions to understand the purpose of such investments and fair value through Profit and Loss account in accordance with Ind how the investment activity is managed; AS 109 in the consolidated financial statements. Management has • Evaluation of the criteria considered by the management in their obtained a report from an independent valuer for determining the conclusion on accounting treatment in accordance with the fair valuation of the investments as at the Balance Sheet date. requirements of Ind AS 28 and Ind AS 109. We focused on this area as there was significant judgement • Consideration of adequacy of disclosures in the financial involved in concluding whether the exemption from equity method statements along with related accounting policies. of accounting for such investments is available to the group and • Assessment of the methodology and the appropriateness the fair valuation of these investments contain assumptions that are of the valuation models and inputs used by management to not observable. value investments. Based on the above procedures, we found the accounting policy followed by Management to be appropriate and did not find any material exceptions to management’s estimates and judgements with regard to the accounting and fair valuation of investments in accordance with the relevant accounting standard Annual Report 2018-19 193 Independent Auditors’ Report contd. 3. Appropriateness of accounting for Business Combination Refer note 47 to the Consolidated Financial Statements On July 20, 2018, the group through its subsidiary, acquired 100% Our audit procedures included: equity of Metallurgica Bresciana S.p.A (Metallurgica), an Italy based • Evaluation of management’s assessment that the acquisition of company which designs and manufactures special copper and Metallurgica should be accounted for as a business combination; optical fibre cables. The total purchase consideration was Euro 4.65 • Evaluation of the design and testing the operating effectiveness crores. Management assessed that the acquisition of Metallurgica of the controls on recognition of assets and liabilities acquired; qualifies as a business combination by applying the definition • Obtaining the audited financial statements on the date of in Ind AS 103. acquisition and audit opinion issued by another auditor used by Basis a report of an independent valuer, the Management Management in Purchase Price Allocation; determined that the fair value of the net identifiable assets • Assessment of the appropriateness and completeness of the acquired was Euro 3.87 crores including Euro 0.38 crores relating identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at the to intangible assets that arose from the business combination, acquisition date basis audited financial statement of the acquiree resulting in goodwill of Euro 0.78 crores. and terms of the purchase laid out in the agreement; • Assessment of appropriateness of the intangible assets identified We focused on the identification and valuation of assets, including by Management in accordance with Ind AS 38. the intangible assets arising from the business combination as • Involvement of the auditor’s expert to assess the valuation a significant area of judgement. The valuation methodology to methodology and underlying assumptions relating to discount determine the value of identified assets, as well as the inputs and rate etc. used by the independent professional valuer to assumptions like discount rate etc. used in the model, also require estimate the valuation; significant judgement. • Assessment of the appropriateness of the useful lives of the identified intangible assets as determined by management; • Re-performance of the calculation of the goodwill arising from the acquisition of Metallurgica, being the difference between the total purchase consideration and the fair value of the net identifiable assets; • Evaluation of management’s assessment of impairment of goodwill. • Consideration of adequacy of the disclosures as required to be made by Management as per the standard Based on the above procedures performed, no significant observations were noted on the accounting for business combination. Other Information Responsibilities of management and those charged 7. The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is with governance for the financial statements responsible for the other information. The other 8. The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is information comprises the (information included in the responsible for the preparation and presentation of Directors’ Report, but does not include the financial these consolidated financial statements in term of the statements and our auditor’s report thereon.) requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements financial performance, consolidated changes in does not cover the other information and we do not equity and consolidated cash flows of the Group express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. including its jointly controlled entity in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in In connection with our audit of the consolidated India, including the Accounting Standards specified financial statements, our responsibility is to read the under section 133 of the Act. The respective Board other information and, in doing so, consider whether of Directors of the Companies included in the Group the other information is materially inconsistent with the and its jointly controlled entity are responsible consolidated financial statements or our knowledge for maintenance of adequate accounting records obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be in accordance with the provisions of the Act for materially misstated. If, based on the work we have safeguarding of the assets of the Group and its jointly performed and the reports of the other auditors as controlled entity respectively and for preventing and furnished to us (refer note 16 below), we conclude detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection that there is a material misstatement of this other and application of appropriate implementation and information, we are required to report that fact. We have maintenance of accounting policies; making judgments nothing to report in this regard and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 194 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS internal financial controls, that were operating • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness to the audit in order to design audit procedures that of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation are appropriate in the circumstances. Under section and presentation of the financial statements that 143(3)(i) of the Companies Act, 2013, we are also give a true and fair view and are free from material responsible for expressing our opinion on whether misstatement, whether due to fraud or error which the Holding company and its subsidiary companies, have been used for the purpose of preparation of the which are companies incorporated in India, have has consolidated financial statements by the Directors of adequate internal financial controls with reference the Holding Company, as aforesaid. to financial statements in place and the operating 9. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the effectiveness of such controls. board of directors of the Companies included in the • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies Group and its jointly controlled entity are responsible used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates for assessing the ability of the Group and of its jointly and related disclosures made by management. controlled entity respectively, to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related • Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s to going concern and using the going concern basis use of the going concern basis of accounting and, of accounting unless management either intends to based on the audit evidence obtained, whether liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no a material uncertainty exists related to events or realistic alternative but to do so. conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern 10. The respective Board of Directors of the companies including its jointly controlled entity. If we conclude included in the Group and its jointly controlled entity that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to are responsible for overseeing the financial reporting draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related process of the Group and of its jointly controlled entity. disclosures in the Consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit Consolidated Financial Statements 11. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s about whether the consolidated financial statements as report. However, future events or conditions may a whole are free from material misstatement, whether cause the Company to cease to continue as a due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report going concern. that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee content of the consolidated financial statements, that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will including the disclosures, and whether the always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are consolidated financial statements represent the considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, underlying transactions and events in a manner that they could reasonably be expected to influence the achieves fair presentation. economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 13. We communicate with those charged with governance consolidated financial statements. of the Holding Company and such other entities 12. As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise included in the consolidated financial statements of professional judgment and maintain professional which we are the independent auditors regarding, skepticism throughout the audit. We also: among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement any significant deficiencies in internal control that we of the consolidated financial statements, whether identify during our audit. due to fraud or error, design and perform audit 14. We also provide those charged with governance with procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain a statement that we have complied with relevant audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate ethical requirements regarding independence, and to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not to communicate with them all relationships and detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud other matters that may reasonably be thought to is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud bear on our independence, and where applicable, may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, related safeguards. misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 15. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were Annual Report 2018-19 195 of most significance in the audit of the consolidated Requirements below, is not modified in respect of the financial statements of the current year and are above matters with respect to our reliance on the work therefore the key audit matters. We describe these done and the reports of the other auditors and the matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation financial statements certified by the Management. precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements a matter should not be communicated in our report 19. As required by Section 143 (3) of the Act, we report, to because the adverse consequences of doing so would the extent applicable that: reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest (a) We have sought and obtained all the information benefits of such communication. and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the Other Matters purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated 16. We did not audit the financial statements of two financial statements. subsidiaries whose financial statements reflect total assets of ` 686.29 crores as at 31st March, 2019, (b) In our opinion, except for the matter described total revenues of ` 468.73 crores and net cash flows in the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph amounting to ` 29.52 crores for the year ended on that above, proper books of account as required by date and financial statement of one subsidiary whose law, maintained by the Holding Company and its financial statement reflect total assets of ` 451.22 subsidiaries included in the Group incorporated crores as at December 31, 2018, total revenues of in India including relevant records relating to ` 169.14 crores and net cash flows amounting to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated financial ` 4.43 crores for the year then ended, as considered statements have been kept so far as it appears in the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements. from our examination of those books and records These financial statements have been audited by other of the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by included in the Group incorporated in India and the the Management and our opinion on the Consolidated reports of the other auditors. Ind AS financial statements, in so far as it relates to the (c) The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated amounts and disclosures included in respect of these Statement of Profit and Loss (including other subsidiaries and our report in terms of sub-section (3) comprehensive income), Consolidated Statement of Section 143 of the Act, insofar as it relates to the of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Cash aforesaid subsidiaries is based solely on the reports of Flow Statement dealt with by this Report are in the other auditors. agreement with the relevant books of account and 17. We did not audit the financial statements of nine records maintained for the purpose of preparation subsidiaries and one jointly controlled entity, whose of the consolidated financial statements. financial statements reflect total assets of ` 677.79 (d) Except for the indeterminate effects of the matter crores as at 31st March, 2019, total revenues of ` 8.90 described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion crores and net cash flows amounting to ` 0.43 crores paragraph above, in our opinion, the aforesaid for the year ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial statements comply with the consolidated financial statements. These financial Accounting Standards specified under Section statements are unaudited and have been furnished 133 of the Act. to us by the Management and our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as it relates (e) The matter described in the Basis for Qualified to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of Opinion paragraph above in our opinion, may have these subsidiaries and jointly controlled entity and our an adverse effect on the functioning of the group. report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the (f) On the basis of the written representations Act in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries received from the directors of the Holding and jointly controlled entity is based solely on such Company and its subsidiary companies unaudited financial statements. In our opinion and incorporated in India as on March 31, 2019 taken according to the information and explanations given to on record by the Board of Directors of the Holding us by the Management, these financial statements are Company and its subsidiaries incorporated in not material to the Group. India, none of the directors is disqualified as 18. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, on March 31, 2019 from being appointed as a and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act. 196 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (g) The reservation relating to maintenance of (a) Note 20 to the consolidated financial accounts and other matters connected therewith statements for the year ended March 31, are as stated in the Basis for Qualified Opinion 2019 in respect of such items as it relates paragraph above. to the Group and (b) Note 52 to the consolidated financial statement in respect (h) With respect to the adequacy of the internal of Group’s share of net loss in respect of its financial controls over financial statements joint venture; of the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India and the operating (iii) There has been no delay in transferring effectiveness of such controls, refer to our amounts, required to be transferred, to the separate Report in Annexure A. Investor Education and Protection Fund by the Holding Company during the year ended (i) With respect to the other matters to be included in March 31, 2019. There were no amounts the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of which were required to be transferred to the the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, Investor Education and Protection Fund by its in our opinion and to the best of our knowledge subsidiaries incorporated in India and belief and according to the information and explanations given to us: (iv) The reporting on disclosures relating to Specified Bank Notes is not applicable to the (i) Except for the matter described in the Basis Group for the year ended March 31, 2019. for Qualified Opinion above, the consolidated financial statements has disclosed the impact, if any, of pending litigations as at March 31, For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP 2019 on the consolidated financial position of the Group and its jointly controlled entity – Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016 Refer Note 22, 40 and 44 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended Neeraj Sharma March 31, 2019; Partner Membership Number: 108391 (ii) Provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements, as required under the Place: Pune applicable law or accounting standards, Date: April 23, 2019 for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts as at March 31, 2019 – Refer Annual Report 2018-19 197 Annexure A to Independent Auditors’ Report Referred to in paragraph 19(h) of the Independent Auditors’ Report of even date to the members of Sterlite Technologies Limited on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance Report on the Internal Financial Controls with about whether adequate internal financial controls reference to consolidated financial statements with reference to consolidated financial statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 were established and maintained and if such controls of the Act operated effectively in all material respects. 1. In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the 4. Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain year ended March 31, 2019, we have audited the audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial controls system with reference to consolidated financial statements of Sterlite Technologies Limited financial statements and their operating effectiveness. (hereinafter referred to as the “Holding Company”) Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to and its subsidiary companies, which are companies consolidated financial statements included obtaining incorporated in India, as of that date. an understanding of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements, Management’s Responsibility for Internal assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, Financial Controls and testing and evaluating the design and operating 2. The respective Board of Directors of the Holding effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed company and its subsidiary companies, to whom risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s reporting under clause (i) of sub section 3 of Section judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 143 of the Act in respect of the adequacy of the material misstatement of the consolidated financial internal financial controls with reference to consolidated statements, whether due to fraud or error. financial statements is applicable, which are companies incorporated in India, are responsible for establishing 5. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained, and maintaining internal financial controls based is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for on “internal control over financial reporting criteria our audit opinion on the Company’s internal financial established by the Company considering the essential controls system with reference to consolidated components of internal control stated in the Guidance financial statements. Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Accountants of India (ICAI)”. These responsibilities reference to consolidated financial statements include the design, implementation and maintenance of 6. A company's internal financial control with reference to adequate internal financial controls that were operating consolidated financial statements is a process designed effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct to provide reasonable assurance regarding the of its business, including adherence to the respective reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, consolidated financial statements for external purposes the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, in accordance with generally accepted accounting the accuracy and completeness of the accounting principles. A company's internal financial control with records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial reference to consolidated financial statements includes information, as required under the Act. those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, Auditor’s Responsibility accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 3. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide Company's internal financial controls with reference reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded to consolidated financial statements based on our as necessary to permit preparation of consolidated audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the financial statements in accordance with generally Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued expenditures of the company are being made only in by the ICAI and the Standards on Auditing deemed to accordance with authorisations of management and be prescribed under section 143(10) of the Companies directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of assurance regarding prevention or timely detection internal financial controls, both applicable to an audit of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the of internal financial controls and both issued by the company's assets that could have a material effect on ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require the consolidated financial statements. that we comply with ethical requirements and plan 198 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Qualified Opinion Controls with reference to consolidated 9. In our opinion, except for possible effects of the financial statements material weakness described in the Basis for Qualified 7. Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial Opinion paragraph above on the achievement of the controls with reference to consolidated financial objectives of the control criteria, the Holding Company statements, including the possibility of collusion or and its subsidiary companies which are companies improper management override of controls, material incorporated in India, have, in all material respects, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and an adequate internal financial controls system with not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation reference to consolidated financial statements and of the internal financial controls with reference to such internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements to future periods are consolidated financial statements were operating subject to the risk that the internal financial control with effectively as at March 31, 2019, based on the internal reference to consolidated financial statements may control over financial reporting criteria established by become inadequate because of changes in conditions, the Company considering the essential components or that the degree of compliance with the policies or of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on procedures may deteriorate. Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Basis for Qualified Opinion Accountants of India. 8. According to the information and explanations given to us and based on our audit, the following material 10. We have considered the material weakness identified weakness has been identified in the operating and reported above in determining the nature, effectiveness of the Holding Company’s internal timing, and extent of audit tests applied in our audit financial controls with reference to consolidated of the consolidated financial statements of the financial statements as at March 31, 2019: Company for the year ended March 31, 2019, and the material weakness has affected our opinion on the The Company’s internal financial controls over consolidated financial statements of the Company and the evaluation and assessment of provision for an we have accordingly issued a modified report on the excise/customs matter pending with the Honorable consolidated financial statements Supreme Court were not operating effectively which could potentially result in the Company not For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP recognising adequate provision in respect of this matter. Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016 Refer paragraph 7 of our report on the consolidated financial statements. Neeraj Sharma Partner A ‘material weakness’ is a deficiency, or a combination Membership Number: 108391 of deficiencies, in internal financial control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility Place: Pune that a material misstatement of the company's annual Date: April 23, 2019 or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Annual Report 2018-19 199 Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2019 (All amounts are in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars Note (` in crores) (` in crores) ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant & equipment 4 2,317.46 1,135.10 Capital work-in-progress 419.44 357.02 Investment property 7 8.88 Goodwill 5,6 107.35 73.93 Other intangible assets 5 43.06 16.17 Financial assets Investments 8 35.30 19.60 Trade receivables 9 1.76 4.09 Loans 10 42.69 35.01 Other non-current financial assets 11 42.40 7.69 Other non-current assets 12 24.74 98.05 3,034.20 1,755.54 Current assets Inventories 13 589.65 337.85 Financial assets Investments 14 100.17 155.00 Trade receivables 9 1,354.86 867.19 Cash and cash equivalents 15A 143.29 119.56 Other bank balances 15B 90.39 18.92 Other current financial assets 11 99.32 69.41 Contract Assets 12 1,093.51 Other current assets 12 393.07 271.86 Assets classified as held for sale 16 113.82 116.41 3,978.08 1,956.20 Total Assets 7,012.28 3,711.74 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Equity share capital 17 80.51 80.20 Other Equity 18 1,638.79 1,095.12 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,719.30 1,175.32 Non-controlling interests 95.40 81.95 Total Equity 1,814.70 1,257.27 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities Borrowings 19 934.84 630.54 Other financial liabilities 20 14.88 64.82 Employee benefit obligations 25 32.35 7.86 Provisions 22 1.01 25.12 Deferred tax liabilities (net) 24A 74.39 22.16 1,057.47 750.50 Current liabilities Financial liabilities Borrowings 19 982.69 462.74 Trade payables 21 (A) total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises (refer note 41) 92.44 15.14 (B) total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises 1,820.31 641.04 Other financial liabilities 20 708.54 290.76 Contract liabilities 23 270.36 Other current liabilities 23 81.77 146.44 Employee benefit obligations 25 22.34 22.77 Provisions 22 11.46 28.07 Current tax liabilities (Net) 24B 55.38 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 16 94.82 97.01 4,140.11 1,703.97 Total liabilities 5,197.58 2,454.47 Total Equity & Liabilities 7,012.28 3,711.74 Summary of significant accounting policies 2 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the board of directors of Sterlite Technologies Limited For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP Pravin Agarwal Anand Agarwal Firm Registration No: FRN 012754N/N500016 Vice Chairman & Whole-time Director CEO & Whole-time Director DIN : 00022096 DIN : 00057364 Neeraj Sharma Anupam Jindal Amit Deshpande Partner Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Membership Number: 108391 Place: Pune Place: Pune Date: April 23, 2019 Date: April 23, 2019 200 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss For the year ended March 31, 2019 (All amounts are in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars Note (` in crores) (` in crores) INCOME Revenue from operations 26 5,087.26 3,205.49 Other income 27 19.94 25.62 Total Income (I) 5,107.20 3,231.11 EXPENSES Cost of raw materials and components consumed 29 2,591.32 1,222.15 Purchase of traded goods 30.58 32.99 (Increase) / decrease in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress, traded goods and construction work-in-progress 29 (134.67) 15.93 Excise duty on sale of goods 28.38 Employee benefit expense 30 511.23 344.72 Other expenses 31 961.65 811.97 Total Expense (II) 3,960.11 2,456.14 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) (I) (II) 1,147.09 774.97 Depreciation and amortisation expense 32 194.98 182.21 Finance costs 33 105.49 103.83 Finance Income 28 (16.92) (13.65) Profit before tax & share in loss of joint venture 863.54 502.58 Share of loss of joint venture (0.92) Profit before tax from continuing operations 863.54 501.66 Tax expense: Current tax 34 288.97 135.18 Deferred tax 34 (10.81) (2.03) Total tax expenses 278.16 133.15 Profit from continuing operations 585.38 368.51 Discontinued operation Loss from discontinued operation before tax (refer note 16) (7.59) (4.38) Tax expense of discontinued operations (refer note 16) Loss from discontinued operation (7.59) (4.38) Profit for the year 577.79 364.13 Other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Net movement on cash flow hedges 132.77 (49.01) Income tax effect on the above (46.39) 17.12 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (1.71) 25.25 Net other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 84.67 (6.64) Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Re-measurements of defined benefits plan (7.84) 0.10 Income tax effect on the above 2.74 (0.04) Net movement on cash flow hedges 1.09 Income tax effect on the above (0.38) Change in fair value of FVOCI equity instrument (3.20) Net other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods (5.10) (2.43) Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 79.57 (9.07) Total comprehensive income for the year 657.36 355.06 Profit for the year attributable to: Owners of the Company 562.75 334.33 Non-controlling interests 15.04 29.80 577.79 364.13 Other comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the Company 80.40 (15.38) Non-controlling interests (0.83) 6.31 79.57 (9.07) Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the Company 643.15 318.95 Non-controlling interests 14.21 36.11 657.36 355.06 Total comprehensive income attributable to owners from: Continuing Operations 648.50 321.66 Discontinued Operation (5.35) (2.71) 643.15 318.95 Earnings per equity share 36 Basic From continuing operations 14.14 8.45 From discontinued operations (0.13) (0.07) Diluted From continuing operations 13.96 8.32 From discontinued operations (0.13) (0.07) Summary of significant accounting policies 2 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the board of directors of Sterlite Technologies Limited For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP Pravin Agarwal Anand Agarwal Firm Registration No: FRN 012754N/N500016 Vice Chairman & Whole-time Director CEO & Whole-time Director DIN : 00022096 DIN : 00057364 Neeraj Sharma Anupam Jindal Amit Deshpande Partner Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Membership Number: 108391 Place: Pune Place: Pune Date: April 23, 2019 Date: April 23, 2019 Annual Report 2018-19 201 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (All amounts are in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) A. Equity Share Capital Equity shares of ` 2 each issued, subscribed and fully paid Note No. in Crs. Amount At 01 April 2017 39.83 79.66 Changes in equity share capital 17 0.27 0.54 At 31 March 2018 40.10 80.20 Changes in equity share capital 17 0.15 0.31 At 31 March 2019 40.25 80.51 B. Other Equity Foreign Employee Debenture Cash Flow Non Capital Securities General Retained currency stock option Redemption Hedge Total Controlling Reserve Premium Reserve Earnings translation outstanding Reserve Reserve interest reserve As at 01 April 2017 0.04 16.04 19.74 37.50 112.50 620.15 (1.78) (3.78) 800.42 45.20 Profit for the year 334.33 334.33 29.80 Other comprehensive income for the year (3.14) (31.18) 18.94 (15.38) 6.31 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.04 16.04 19.74 37.50 112.50 951.34 (32.95) 15.16 1,119.38 81.31 Addition on ESOPs Exercised 11.89 11.89 Transferred to Securities (11.89) (11.89) premium account Employees stock option expenses for the 13.39 13.39 year (refer note 35) Amount transferred to debenture 37.50 (37.50) redemption reserve Equity dividend including taxes thereon (36.07) (36.07) (refer note 49) Reclassified to Statement of 0.60 0.60 profit and loss Transaction with non-controlling interests (2.16) (2.16) 2.66 Dividend paid to non-controlling interest (2.02) As at 31 March 2018 0.04 27.93 21.24 75.00 112.50 875.61 (32.36) 15.16 1,095.12 81.95 Impact of change in accounting policy on (12.71) (12.71) adoption of Ind AS 115 (refer note 55) Restated balance as at 01 April 2018 0.04 27.93 21.24 75.00 112.50 862.90 (32.36) 15.16 1,082.41 81.95 Profit for the year 562.75 562.75 15.04 Other comprehensive income for the (5.10) 86.38 (0.88) 80.40 (0.83) year, net of tax Total comprehensive income for the year 0.04 27.93 21.24 75.00 112.50 1,420.55 54.03 14.28 1,725.56 96.16 Addition on ESOPs Exercised 10.75 10.75 Transferred to Securities (10.75) (10.75) premium account Employees stock option expenses for the 19.16 19.16 year (refer note 35) Equity dividend including taxes thereon (96.80) (96.80) (refer note 49) Amount transferred to statement of (8.30) (8.30) profit and loss Transaction with non-controlling interests (0.83) (0.83) Issue of equity shares 16.26 Dividend paid to non-controlling interests (17.02) As at 31 March 2019 0.04 38.68 29.65 75.00 112.50 1,323.75 45.72 13.45 1,638.79 95.40 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the board of directors of Sterlite Technologies Limited For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP Pravin Agarwal Anand Agarwal Firm Registration No: FRN 012754N/N500016 Vice Chairman & Whole-time Director CEO & Whole-time Director . DIN : 00022096 DIN : 00057364 Neeraj Sharma Anupam Jindal Amit Deshpande Partner Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Membership Number: 108391 Place: Pune Place: Pune Date: April 23, 2019 Date: April 23, 2019 202 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows For the year ended March 31, 2019 (All amounts are in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars Note (` in crores) (` in crores) A. Operating activities Profit before tax From continuing operations 863.54 501.66 From discontinued operation (7.59) (4.38) 855.95 497.28 Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows Depreciation and impairment of property, plant & equipment 156.91 147.59 Amortization & impairment of intangible assets 37.98 34.47 Depreciation of investment properties 0.09 0.15 Provision for doubtful debts and advances 8.37 13.53 Provision for warranty 13.92 Bad debts / advances written off 17.33 10.54 Cash Flow hedge movement 0.60 (Profit) / Loss on sale of plant and equipment, net (2.08) 1.65 Rental income (2.01) (2.68) Change in Fair Value of Investment 1.74 Employees stock option expenses 19.16 13.39 Finance costs 105.49 103.83 Finance income (16.92) (13.65) Share of loss of joint venture 0.92 Unrealized exchange difference (2.88) (2.31) 323.18 321.94 Operating profit before working capital changes 1,179.13 819.22 Working capital adjustments: Increase/(decrease) in trade payables 1,192.15 202.52 Increase (decrease) in long-term provisions (24.15) 0.62 Increase/(decrease) in short-term provisions (16.61) 1.24 Increase/(decrease) in other current liabilities (59.57) 95.54 Increase/(decrease) in contract liabilities 270.36 Increase/(decrease) in other current financial liabilities 59.16 (15.74) Increase/(decrease) in other non-current financial liabilities (23.81) 28.91 Increase/(decrease) in current employee benefit obligations (15.84) 12.06 Increase/(decrease) in non-current employee benefit obligations 24.37 (6.49) Decrease/ (increase) in trade receivable (339.60) (202.34) Decrease/ (increase) in non-current trade receivable 2.33 0.43 Decrease/ (increase) in inventories (121.28) (7.09) Decrease/ (increase) in long-term loans (7.25) (30.55) Decrease/ (increase) in other current financial assets (29.93) (1.19) Decrease/ (increase) in other non-current financial assets (34.72) 4.07 Decrease/ (increase) in other current assets (110.89) (62.50) Decrease/ (increase) in contract assets (1,093.51) Decrease/ (increase) in other non-current assets 3.47 0.91 Change in working capital (325.32) 20.39 Cash generated from operations 853.81 839.61 Income tax paid (net of refunds) (222.76) (110.68) Net cash flow from operating activities 631.05 728.93 Annual Report 2018-19 203 Statement of Cash Flows For the year ended March 31, 2019 (All amounts are in ` crores, unless otherwise stated) 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars Note (` in crores) (` in crores) B. Investing activities Purchase of property, plant & equipments (832.41) (450.09) Receipt of government grant for investment in property, plant & equipments 28.82 Purchase of intangible assets (5.42) (7.61) Proceeds from sale of property, plant & equipment 5.96 1.82 Investment in Associates/JVs (4.54) (9.60) Investment in subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (366.17) Purchase of current investments (100.17) (357.49) Proceeds from current investments 155.00 238.86 Investment in bank deposits (having original maturity of more than three months) 12.97 (11.38) Redemption of bank deposits (having original maturity of more than three months) (84.57) 3.82 Unpaid dividend (0.54) (2.83) Rental income 2.01 2.68 Redemption of margin money deposits Interest received (finance income) 16.95 9.66 Net cash flow used in investing activities (1,172.11) (582.16) C. Financing activities Proceeds of long term borrowings 438.82 174.47 Repayment of long term borrowings (86.67) (63.63) Proceeds/(repayment) of short term borrowings (net) 422.59 (129.24) Proceeds from issue of shares to non-controlling interest 0.93 Proceeds of issue of shares against employee stock options 0.31 0.54 Interest paid (108.07) (96.51) Dividend paid to minority share holder foreign operations (2.02) Dividend paid on equity shares (80.43) (29.96) Tax on equity dividend paid (16.37) (6.10) Net cash flow used in financing activities 570.18 (151.52) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 29.12 (4.75) Foreign exchange relating to cash and cash equivalents of Foreign operations 0.33 (4.30) Cash and cash equivalents as at beginning of year 119.56 129.81 Cash and cash equivalents as at year end 149.01 120.76 Components of cash and cash equivalents: Balances with banks 143.25 119.53 Cash in hand 0.04 0.03 Total cash and cash equivalents (Refer note 15A) 143.29 119.56 Cash & cash equivalents from discontinued operation (Refer note 16) 5.72 1.20 Total cash and cash equivalents 149.01 120.76 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the board of directors of Sterlite Technologies Limited For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP Pravin Agarwal Anand Agarwal Firm Registration No: FRN 012754N/N500016 Vice Chairman & Whole-time Director CEO & Whole-time Director . DIN : 00022096 DIN : 00057364 Neeraj Sharma Anupam Jindal Amit Deshpande Partner Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Membership Number: 108391 Place: Pune Place: Pune Date: April 23, 2019 Date: April 23, 2019 204 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 1. Corporate information • Asset held for sale – measured at fair value The consolidated Ind AS financial statements comprise less cost to sale. financial statements of Sterlite Technologies Limited (the The consolidated Ind AS financial statements are presented Group) and its subsidiaries and joint venture (collectively, in Indian Rupees Crores, except when otherwise indicated. the Group) for the year ended 31 March 2019. The Group is a public Group domiciled in India and incorporated under Amended standards adopted by the Group the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956. Its shares are The Group has applied Ind AS 115 for the first time for listed on two stock exchanges in India. The registered office their annual reporting period starting from April 01, 2018. of the Group is located at E 1, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, Group has disclosed the impact of adoption of Ind AS 115 in Aurangabad, Maharashtra, India. The Group is primarily note 55 to the financial statements. engaged in the business of Telecom products and solutions. 2.2 Principles of consolidation and equity The Group is a global leader in end-to-end data network accounting solutions. The Group designs and deploy high-capacity The consolidated Ind AS financial statements comprise converged fibre and wireless networks. With expertise the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries ranging from optical fibre and cables, hyper-scale network and joint venture as at 31 March 2019. Control is achieved design, and deployment and network software, the Group is when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns the industry's leading integrated solutions provider for global from its involvement with the investee and has the ability data networks. The Group partners with global telecom to affect those returns through its power over the investee. companies, cloud companies, citizen networks and large Specifically, the Group controls an investee if and only enterprises to design, build and manage such cloud-native if the Group has: software-defined networks. • Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give The consolidated Ind AS financial Statements were it the current ability to direct the relevant activities authorised for issue in accordance with resolution passed by of the investee); the Board of Directors of the Group on April 23, 2019. • Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement 2. Significant accounting policies with the investee; and This note provides a list of the significant accounting policies • The ability to use its power over the investee to adopted in the preparation of these financial statements. affect its returns. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control. To support this presumption, the 2.1 Basis of preparation Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in The consolidated financial statements comply in all material assessing whether it has power over an investee, including: aspects with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) • The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders [Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015] and of the investee; other relevant provisions of the Act. • Rights arising from other contractual arrangements; The consolidated Ind AS financial statements have been • The Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights; prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the following • The size of the Group’s holding of voting rights relative to assets and liabilities which have been measured at fair value the size and dispersion of the holdings of the other voting or revalued amount: rights holders. • Derivative financial instruments; The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to • Certain financial assets and liabilities measured one or more of the three elements of control. Consolidation at fair value (refer accounting policy regarding of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over financial instruments). the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control • Share Based Payments of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are • Defined benefit plansplan assets measured at fair value included in the consolidated financial statements from the Annual Report 2018-19 205 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases accounting policies into line with the Group’s accounting to control the subsidiary. policies. All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between Consolidated financial statements are prepared using members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation. uniform accounting policies for like transactions and other events in similar circumstances. If a member of the Group A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without uses accounting policies other than those adopted in the a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. consolidated financial statements for like transactions and If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it: events in similar circumstances, appropriate adjustments are made to that group member’s financial statements in • Derecognises the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities preparing the consolidated financial statements to ensure of the subsidiary; conformity with the group’s accounting policies. • Derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interests; The financial statements of all entities used for the purpose of consolidation are drawn up to same reporting date as that • Derecognises the cumulative translation differences of the parent Group, i.e., year ended on 31st March, except recorded in equity; for a subsidiary acquired in the current year. (Refer note • Recognises the fair value of the consideration received; 47) When the end of the reporting period of the parent is different from that of a subsidiary, the subsidiary prepares, • Recognises the fair value of any investment retained; for consolidation purposes, additional financial information as • Recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss; of the same date as the financial statements of the parent to enable the parent to consolidate the financial information of • Reclassifies the parent’s share of components previously the subsidiary, unless it is impracticable to do so. recognised in OCI to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate, as would be required if the Group had directly Consolidation procedure: disposed of the related assets or liabilities. (a) Combine like items of assets, liabilities, equity, income, 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies expenses and cash flows of the parent with those of its The following is the summary of significant accounting subsidiaries. For this purpose, income and expenses of policies applied by the Group in preparing its consolidated the subsidiary are based on the amounts of the assets Ind AS financial statements: and liabilities recognised in the consolidated financial statements at the acquisition date; a) Business combinations The acquisition method of accounting is used to account (b) Eliminate the carrying amount of the parent’s for all business combinations, regardless of whether equity investment in each subsidiary and the parent’s portion instruments or other assets are acquired. The consideration of equity of each subsidiary. Business combinations transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary comprises the policy explains how to account for any related goodwill. fair values of the assets transferred; liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquired business; equity interests Eliminate in full intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, issued by the Group and fair value of any asset or liability income, expenses relating to transactions between entities resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. of the group (profits or losses resulting from intragroup transactions that are recognised in assets, such as inventory Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent and fixed assets, are eliminated in full). Intragroup losses liabilities assumed in a business combination are, may indicate an impairment that requires recognition with limited exceptions, measured initially at their fair in the consolidated financial statements. Ind AS 12 values at the acquisition date. The group recognises Income Taxes applies to temporary differences that arise any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity on an from the elimination of profits and losses resulting from acquisition-by-acquisition basis either at fair value or at the intragroup transactions. non-controlling interest's proportionate share of the acquired entity's net identifiable assets. Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income (OCI) are attributed to the equity holders of the Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. parent of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, The excess of the consideration transferred; amount of even if this results in the non-controlling interests having any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity, and a deficit balance. When necessary, adjustments are made acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their 206 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 the acquired entity over the fair value of the net identifiable • Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If those amounts exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least twelve are less than the fair value of the net identifiable assets of months after the reporting period. the business acquired, the difference is recognised in other All other assets are classified as non-current. comprehensive income and accumulated in equity as capital reserve provided there is clear evidence of the underlying A liability is current when: reasons for classifying the business combination as a bargain purchase. In other cases, the bargain purchase gain is • It is expected to be settled in the normal operating cycle; recognised directly in equity as capital reserve. • It is held primarily for the purpose of trading; Where settlement of any part of cash consideration is • It is due to be settled within twelve months after the deferred, the amounts payable in the future are discounted reporting period; or to their present value as at the date of exchange. • There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement The discount rate used is the entity's incremental borrowing of the liability for at least twelve months after the rate, being the rate at which a similar borrowing could be reporting period. obtained from an independent financier under comparable terms and conditions. The Group classifies all other liabilities as non-current. Contingent consideration is classified either as equity or a Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as financial liability. Amounts classified as a financial liability are non-current assets and liabilities. subsequently remeasured to fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss. Operating cycle of the Group is the time between the acquisition of assets for processing and their realisation in If the business combination is achieved in stages, the cash or cash equivalents. Based on the nature of products acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer's previously and the time between the acquisitions of assets for held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair processing and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents, value at the acquisition date. Any gains or losses arising from the group has ascertained operating cycle of 12 months such remeasurement are recognised in profit or loss or other for the purpose of current and non-current classification of comprehensive income, as appropriate. assets and liabilities. b) Investment in joint ventures d) Foreign currency translation The Group’s investment in its joint venture is accounted Functional and presentation currency for using the equity method. Under the equity method of Items included in the financial statements of the Group accounting, the investments are initially recognised at cost are measured using the currency of the primary economic and adjusted thereafter to recognise the group's share of environment in which the entity operates ('the functional the post-acquisition profits or losses of the investee in profit currency'). The financial statements are presented in and loss, and the group's share of other comprehensive Indian rupee (INR), which is Group’s functional and income of the investee in other comprehensive income. presentation currency. Dividends received or receivable from associates and joint ventures are recognised as a reduction in the carrying Transactions and balances amount of the investment. Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates at the dates c) Current versus non-current classification of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses The Group presents assets and liabilities in the balance resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from sheet based on current/non-current classification. An asset the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated is current when it is: in foreign currencies at year end exchange rates are generally recognised in profit or loss. They are deferred • Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or in equity if they relate to qualifying cash flow hedges and consumed in the normal operating cycle; qualifying net investment hedges or are attributable to part of the net investment in a foreign operation. A monetary item • Held primarily for the purpose of trading; for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in • Expected to be realised within twelve months after the the foreseeable future is considered as a part of the entity's reporting period; or net investment in that foreign operation. Annual Report 2018-19 207 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Foreign exchange differences regarded as an adjustment to transition method. As per the cumulative catch-up transition borrowing costs are presented in the statement of profit and method, the Group has recognized the cumulative effect loss, within finance costs. All other foreign exchange gains of initially applying the Ind AS 115 as at April 1, 2018 in and losses are presented in the Statement of profit and loss retained earnings. The comparative financial statements for on the basis of underlying transactions. year ended March 31, 2018 are not restated. Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in Revenue recognition policy a foreign currency are translated using the exchange The Group has following streams of revenue: rates at the date when the fair value was determined. Translation differences on assets and liabilities carried at (i) Revenue from sale of goods fair value are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss. For example, translation differences on non-monetary assets (ii) Revenue from sale of services and liabilities such as equity instruments held at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in profit or loss as part (iii) Revenue from network integration projects of the fair value gain or loss and translation differences on non-monetary assets such as equity investments classified (iv) Revenue from software products/licenses and as FVOCI are recognised in other comprehensive income. implementation activities Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical The Group accounts for a contract when it has approval cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange and commitment from parties involved, the rights of the rates at the dates of the initial transactions. parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of e) Revenue from contracts with customers consideration is probable. Ind AS 115 Revenue from contracts with customers has been issued with effect from April 1, 2018. The new standard The Group identifies distinct performance obligations deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles in each contract. For most of the network integration for reporting useful information to users of financial projects contracts, the customer contracts with the Group statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty to provide a significant service of integrating a complex of revenue and cash flows arising from an entity’s contracts set of tasks and components into a single project or with customers. Revenue is recognised when a customer capability. Hence, the entire contract is accounted for as one obtains control of a promised good or service and thus has performance obligation. the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good or service in an amount that reflects the consideration However, the Group may promise to provide distinct to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for goods or services within a contract, for example when a those goods and services. contract covers multiple promises (e.g., construction of network with its maintenance and support), in which case A new five-step process must be applied before revenue the Group separates the contract into more than one can be recognised: performance obligation. If a contract is separated into more than one performance obligation, the Group allocates the (i) identify contracts with customers total transaction price to each performance obligation on the basis of the relative standalone selling price of (ii) identify the separate performance obligation each distinct product or service promised in the contract. Where standalone selling price is not observable, the Group (iii) determine the transaction price of the contract uses the expected cost plus margin approach to allocate the transaction price to each distinct performance obligation. (iv) a  llocate the transaction price to each of the separate performance obligations, and The Group assesses for the timing of revenue recognition in case of each distinct performance obligation. The Group first (v) recognise the revenue as each performance assesses whether the revenue can be recognized over time obligation is satisfied. as it performs if any of the following criteria is met: Transition (a) The customer simultaneously consumes the benefits as On transition to Ind AS 115, the Group has elected to adopt the Group performs, or the new revenue standard as per cumulative catch-up 208 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 (b) The customer controls the work-in-progress, or (c) The Group’s performance does not create an asset with Contracts are modified to account for changes in contract alternative use to the Group and the Group has right specifications and requirements. The Group considers topayment for performance completed till date contract modifications to exist when the modification either creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and If none of the criteria above are met, the Group recognizes obligations. Most of the contract modifications are for goods revenue at a point-in-time. The point-in-time is determined or services that are not distinct from the existing contract due when the control of the goods or services is transferred to the significant integration service provided in the context which is generally determined based on when the of the contract and are accounted for as if they were part of significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred that existing contract. The effect of a contract modification to the customer. Apart from this, the Group also considers on the transaction price and measure of progress for the its present right to payment, the legal title to the goods, performance obligation to which it relates, is recognized the physical possession and the customer acceptance as an adjustment to revenue (either as an increase in or a in determining the point in time where control has reduction of revenue) on a cumulative catch-up basis. been transferred. When estimates of total costs to be incurred exceed total The Group uses input method to measure the progress for estimates of revenue to be earned on a performance contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to obligation related to a contract, a provision for the entire loss the customer which occurs as it incurs costs on contracts. on the performance obligation is recognized in the period. Under the input method measure of progress, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on For fixed price contracts, the customer pays the fixed amount the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated based on the payment schedule. If the services rendered costs at completion of the performance obligation. by the Group exceed the payment, a contract asset is Revenues, including estimated fees or profits, are recorded recognized. If the payment exceed the services rendered, a proportionally as costs are incurred. Revenue in respect of contract liability is recognised. operation and maintenance contracts is recognized on a time proportion basis. All the qualitative and quantitative information related to significant changes in contract asset and contract liability Due to the nature of the work required to be performed on balances such as impairment of contract asset, changes due performance obligations, the estimation of total revenue and to business combination, changes in the timeframe for a cost at completion is complex, subject to many variables performance obligation to be satisfied are disclosed by the and requires significant judgment. It is common for network Group at every reporting period. integration projects contracts to contain liquidated damages on delay in completion/performance, bonus on early Revenue recognised at a point-in-time completion, or other provisions that can either increase or For sale of products, revenue is recognized at point in time decrease the transaction price. These variable amounts when control of goods is transferred to the customer based generally are awarded upon achievement of certain on delivery terms, payment terms, customer acceptance and performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and other indicators of control as mentioned above. may be based upon customer discretion. f) Other Income The Group estimates variable consideration using expected 1. Interest income value method of probability-weighted values at an amount Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to to which it expects to be entitled. The Group includes the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it applicable. Interest income is included in finance income in is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue the statement of profit and loss. recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. The estimates 2. Dividends of variable consideration and determination of whether to Dividends are recognised in profit or loss only when the include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based right to receive payment is established, it is probable that largely on an assessment of the anticipated performance the economic benefits associated with the dividend will and all information (historical, current and forecasted) that is flow to the Group, and the amount of the dividend can be reasonably available. measured reliably. Annual Report 2018-19 209 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction 3. Rental income that is not a business combination and, at the time of the Rental income arising from operating leases on investment transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable properties is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the profit or loss. lease terms and is included in other income in the statement of profit and loss. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: g) Government grants Grants from the government are recognised at their fair • When the deferred tax liability arises from the initial value where there is a reasonable assurance that the recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a grant will be received and the Group will comply with all transaction that is not a business combination and, at the attached conditions. time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; Government grants relating to income are deferred and • In respect of taxable temporary differences between recognised in the profit or loss over the period necessary the carrying amount and tax bases of investments in to match them with the costs that they are intended to subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, compensate and presented within other income. when the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that Government grants relating to the purchase of property, the temporary differences will not reverse in the plant and equipment are recognised in books by deducting foreseeable future. the grant from the carrying amount of the asset. Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible When loans or similar assistance are provided by temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax governments or related institutions, with an interest rate credits and unused tax losses. Deferred tax assets are below the current applicable market rate, the effect of this recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit favourable interest is regarded as a government grant. will be available against which the deductible temporary The loan or assistance is initially recognised and measured differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and at fair value and the government grant is measured as the unused tax losses can be utilised, except: difference between the initial carrying value of the loan and the proceeds received. The loan is subsequently measured • When the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible as per the accounting policy applicable to financial liabilities. temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business h) Taxes combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects Current income tax neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; The income tax expense or credit for the period is the tax • In respect of deductible temporary differences between payable on the current period's taxable income based on the the carrying amount and tax bases of investments in applicable income tax rate for each jurisdiction adjusted by subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that temporary differences and to unused tax losses. it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of against which the temporary differences can be utilised. the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period. Management periodically evaluates The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has Deferred tax become probable that future taxable profits will allow the Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method on deferred tax asset to be recovered. temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and tax purposes at the reporting date. When the deferred tax asset laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the 210 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 reporting date and are expected to apply in the year when estimated useful lives. The Group, based on technical the asset is realised or the liability is settled. assessments made by technical experts and management estimates, depreciates the certain items of tangible assets Current and Deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss, over estimated useful lives which are different from the except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in useful life prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies Act, other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this 2013. The management believes that these estimated case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive useful lives are realistic and reflect fair approximation of income or directly in equity, respectively. the period over which the assets are likely to be used. Table below provide the details of the useful life which are Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a different from useful life prescribed under Schedule II of the legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets Companies Act, 2013: against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate Useful Life to the same taxable Group and the same taxation authority Asset Category considered Useful life (Schedule II#) and intend to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and Plant and Machinery 3 25 Years * Continuous process settle the liability simultaneously. plant -25 Years Others 15 Years Furniture and fixtures 7.5 10 Years * 10 Years i) Property, plant and equipment Data processing equipments 3 5 Years * Service and Freehold land and Capital work in progress are carried networks -6 years at historical costs. All other items of property, plant and and Desktops and equipment are stated at historical cost, net of accumulated laptop etc 3 Years depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. Office equipment 4 5 Years * 5 Years Electric fittings 4 10 Years * 10 Years Such historical cost includes the cost of replacing part of the Vehicles 4 5 Years *# 8 Years property, plant and equipment and borrowing costs if the * Considered on the basis of management’s estimation, supported by technical recognition criteria are met. When significant parts of the advice, of the useful lives of the respective assets. property, plant and equipment are required to be replaced at # Residual value considered as 15% on the basis of management’s estimation, intervals, the Group depreciates them separately based on supported by technical advice. their specific useful lives. Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition leases is depreciated over the asset's useful life or over the criteria are satisfied. All other repair and maintenance costs shorter of the asset's useful life and the lease term if there is are recognised in statement of profit or loss as incurred. No no reasonable certainty that the group will obtain ownership decommissioning liabilities are expected or be incurred on at the end of the lease term. the assets of plant and equipment. The Group depreciates building using straight line method Expenditure directly relating to construction activity is over 30 to 60 years from the date of original purchase. capitalised. Indirect expenditure incurred during construction period is capitalised as part of the construction costs to the An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant extent the expenditure can be attributable to construction part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal or activity or is incidental there to. Income earned during when no future economic benefits are expected from its the construction period is deducted from the total of the use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition indirect expenditure. of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is Subsequent costs are included in the asset's carrying included in the statement of profit or loss when the asset amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, is derecognised. only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the An asset's carrying amount is written down immediately to its cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying recoverable amount if the asset's carrying amount is greater amount of any component accounted for as a separate than its estimated recoverable amount. asset is derecognised when replaced. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing reporting period in which they are incurred. proceeds with carrying amount. These are included in profit or loss within other gains/(losses). Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost, net of their residual values, over their Annual Report 2018-19 211 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 The asset residual values and useful lives are reviewed at the asset are considered to modify the amortisation period each financial year end and adjusted, if appropriate, at the or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes end of each reporting period. in accounting estimates. The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the j) Investment properties statement of profit or loss. Property that is held for long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the group, The Group does not have any intangible assets with is classified as investment property. Investment property indefinite useful lives. is measured initially at its cost, including related transaction costs and where applicable borrowing costs. Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible Subsequent expenditure is capitalised to the asset's carrying asset are measured as the difference between the net amount only when it is probable that future economic disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the are recognised in the statement of profit or loss when the group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. asset is derecognised. All other repairs and maintenance costs are expensed when incurred. When part of an investment property is replaced, Customer acquisition costs consist of payments made to the carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised. obtain consents/permissions for laying of fiber cables and other telecom infrastructure in residential and commercial The Group, based on technical assessment made by complexes/townships. Such cost is amortized over the period technical expert and management estimate, depreciates the of the consent/permission on a straight line basis. building over estimated useful life which is also the useful life prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013. Software’s are amortised on a straight line basis over a The management believes that these estimated useful lives period of five to six years. are realistic and reflect fair approximation of the period over which the assets are likely to be used. All other intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over a period of five to six years. Investment properties are derecognised either when they have been disposed of or when they are permanently Goodwill on amalgamation is amortised on a straight withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is line basis over a period of five years from the date of expected from their disposal. The difference between the net amalgamation as per the Court Order. disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is recognised in profit or loss in the period of derecognition. Customer relationships recognised as a part of business combination are amortised over period of five years. k) Intangible Assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial Research costs are expensed as incurred. recognition at cost. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation l) Leases and accumulated impairment losses. Internally generated The determination of whether an arrangement is (or contains) intangible assets, excluding capitalised development costs, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at are not capitalised and the expenditure is recognised in the inception of the lease. The arrangement is, or contains, the Statement of Profit and Loss in the period in which the a lease if fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on expenditure is incurred. the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset or assets, even if that right is The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either not explicitly stated in the arrangement. finite or indefinite. Group as a lessee Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over A lease is classified at the inception date as a finance lease their useful economic lives and assessed for impairment or an operating lease. A lease that transfers substantially all whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may the risks and rewards incidental to ownership to the Group is be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation classified as a finance lease. method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are 212 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the Cost of raw materials and traded goods comprises cost of lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on purchases. Cost of work-in progress and finished goods the remaining balance of the liability. The corresponding comprises direct materials, direct labour and an appropriate rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included proportion of variable and fixed overhead expenditure, in borrowings or other financial liabilities as appropriate. the latter being allocated on the basis of normal operating Finance charges are recognised in finance costs in the capacity. Cost of inventories also include all other costs statement of profit and loss, unless they are directly incurred in bringing the inventories to their present attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are location and condition. Cost includes the reclassification capitalized in accordance with the Group’s general policy on from equity of any gains or losses on qualifying cash flow the borrowing costs. hedges relating to purchases of raw material but excludes borrowing costs. Costs are assigned to individual items of A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the inventory on the basis of weighted average basis. Costs of asset. However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the purchased inventory are determined after deducting rebates Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the and discounts. Net realisable value is the estimated selling asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated life of the asset and the lease term. costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Leases in which a significant portion of the risk and rewards of ownership are not transferred to the group are n) Impairment of non-financial assets classified as operating lease. Operating lease payments Goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite useful are recognised as an expense in the statement of profit and life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless the for impairment, or more frequently if events or changes payment are structured to increase in line with the expected in circumstances indicate that they might be impaired. general inflation to compensate for the lessors expected Other assets are tested for impairment whenever events or inflationary cost increases. changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised Group as a lessor for the amount by which the asset's carrying amount exceeds Leases in which the Group does not transfer substantially all its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset are classified higher of an asset's fair value less costs of disposal and as operating leases. Rental income from operating lease value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there relevant lease. Unless the receipts are structured to increase are separately identifiable cash inflows which are largely in line with the expected general inflation to compensate independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups for the expected inflationary cost increases. Initial direct of assets (cash-generating units). Non¬financial assets other costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset for possible reversal of the impairment at the end of each and recognised over the lease term on the same basis reporting period. as rental income. o) Provisions Leases are classified as finance leases when substantially General all the risks and rewards of ownership transfer from the Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present Group to the lessee. Amounts due from lessees under obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, finance leases are recorded as receivables at the Group’s it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying net investment in the leases. Finance lease income is economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of periodic rate of return on the net investment outstanding in the obligation. When the Group expects some or all of a respect of the lease. provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset, but only when the reimbursement The respective leased assets are included in the balance is virtually certain. The expense relating to a provision sheet based on their nature. is presented in the statement of profit or loss net of any reimbursement. Provisions are not recognised for future m) Inventories operating losses. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Annual Report 2018-19 213 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 If the effect of the time value of money is material, The present value of the defined benefit obligation provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that denominated in INR is determined by discounting the reflects, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. estimated future cash outflows by reference to market yields When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due at the end of the reporting period on government bonds to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost. that have terms approximating to the terms of the related obligation. The benefits which are denominated in currency p) Employee benefits other than INR, the cash flows are discounted using market (i) Short-term obligations yields determined by reference to high-quality corporate Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-monetary bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits that are expected to be settled wholly within 12 benefits will be paid, and that have terms approximating to months after the end of the period in which the employees the terms of the related obligation. render the related service are recognised in respect of employees' services up to the end of the reporting period The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount and are measured at the amounts expected to be paid when rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation the liabilities are settled. The liabilities are presented as and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in current employee benefit obligations in the balance sheet. employee benefit expense in the statement of profit and loss. (ii) Other long-term employee benefit obligations Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience The liabilities for earned leave and sick leave are not adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are expected to be settled wholly within 12 months after the recognised in the period in which they occur, directly in end of the period in which the employees render the other comprehensive income. They are included in retained related service. They are therefore measured as the present earnings in the statement of changes in equity and in value of expected future payments to be made in respect the balance sheet. of services provided by employees up to the end of the reporting period using the projected unit credit method. Changes in the present value of the defined benefit The benefits are discounted using the market yields at the obligation resulting from plan amendments or curtailments end of the reporting period that have terms approximating are recognised immediately in profit or loss as to the terms of the related obligation. Remeasurements as past service cost. a result of experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in profit or loss. Defined contribution plans The Group pays provident fund contributions to publicly The obligations are presented as current liabilities in the administered provident funds as per local regulations. balance sheet if the entity does not have an unconditional The group has no further payment obligations once the right to defer settlement for at least twelve months after the contributions have been paid. The contributions are reporting period, regardless of when the actual settlement is accounted for as defined contribution plans and the expected to occur. contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as (iii) Post-employment obligations an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the The Group operates the following post-employment schemes: future payments is available. (a) Defined benefit plans in the nature of gratuity and q) Share-based payments The fair value of options granted under the Employee Option (b) Defined contribution plans such as provident fund. Plan is recognised as an employee benefits expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The total amount to be Gratuity obligations expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the The liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet in options granted: respect of defined benefit gratuity plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting • Including any market performance conditions (e.g., the period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit entity's share price) obligation is calculated annually by actuaries using the • Excluding the impact of any service and non-market projected unit credit method. performance vesting conditions (e.g. profitability, sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period), and 214 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 • Including the impact of any non-vesting conditions (e.g. Debt instruments the requirement for employees to save or holdings shares Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends for a specific period of time). on the group's business model for managing the asset and the cash flow characteristics of the asset. There are three The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, measurement categories into which the group classifies its which is the period over which all of the specified vesting debt instruments: conditions are to be satisfied. At the end of each period, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options Amortised cost: Assets that are held for collection of that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent and service conditions. It recognises the impact of the solely payments of principal and interest are measured at revision to original estimates, if any, in profit or loss, with a amortised cost. A gain or loss on a debt investment that is corresponding adjustment to equity. subsequently measured at amortised cost and is not part of a hedging relationship is recognised in profit or loss when r) Investments and Other Financial assets the asset is derecognised or impaired. Interest income from i) Classification & Recognition: these financial assets is included in finance income using the The Group classifies its financial assets in the following effective interest rate method. measurement categories: Fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI): • Those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows through other comprehensive income, or through and for selling the financial assets, where the assets' cash profit or loss) flows represent solely payments of principal and interest, • Those measured at amortised cost. are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI). Movements in the carrying amount are The classification depends on the entity's business model taken through OCI, except for the recognition of impairment for managing the financial assets and the contractual terms gains or losses, interest revenue and foreign exchange gains of the cash flows. For assets measured at fair value, gains and losses which are recognised in profit and loss. When the and losses will either be recorded in profit or loss or other financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss comprehensive income. For investments in debt instruments, previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from equity this will depend on the business model in which the to profit or loss and recognised in other gains/ (losses). investment is held. For investments in equity instruments, Interest income from these financial assets is included in this will depend on whether the Group has made an other income using the effective interest rate method. irrevocable election at the time of initial recognition to account for the equity investment at fair value through other Fair value through profit or loss: Assets that do not meet comprehensive income. the criteria for amortised cost or FVOCI are measured at fair value through profit or loss. A gain or loss on a debt The Group reclassifies debt investments when and only investment that is subsequently measured at fair value when its business model for managing those assets changes. through profit or loss and is not part of a hedging relationship is recognised in profit or loss and presented net in the Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are statement of profit and loss within other gains/(losses) in the recognised on trade-date, the date on which the group period in which it arises. Interest income from these financial commit to purchase or sale the financial asset. assets is included in other income. ii) Measurement: Equity instruments At initial recognition, the group measures a financial asset The Group subsequently measures all equity investments at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at at fair value. Where the group's management has elected to fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are present fair value gains and losses on equity investments directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. in other comprehensive income, there is no subsequent Transaction costs of financial assets carried at fair value reclassification of fair value gains and losses to profit or loss. through profit or loss are expensed in profit or loss. Dividends from such investments are recognised in profit or loss as other income when the group's right to receive Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered payments is established. in their entirety when determining whether their cash flows are solely payment of principal and interest. Changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in other gain/ (losses) in the statement of profit and loss. Impairment losses Annual Report 2018-19 215 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 (and reversal of impairment losses) on equity investments Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting from all measured at FVOCI are not reported separately from other possible default events over the expected life of a financial changes in fair value. instrument. The 12-month ECL is a portion of the lifetime ECL which results from default events that are possible within 12 Equity investment in subsidiaries and joint venture are months after the reporting date. carried at historical cost as per the accounting policy choice given by IND AS 27. ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to the Group in accordance with the contract and all The Group makes investments in certain joint ventures the cash flows that the entity expects to receive (i.e., all cash and associates with the objective to generate growth shortfalls), discounted at the original EIR. When estimating in the medium term and with identified exit strategies. the cash flows, an entity is required to consider: Such investments are managed on a fair value basis. The Group has elected to measure investments in such joint • All contractual terms of the financial instrument (including ventures and associates in accordance with Ind AS 109. prepayment, extension, call and similar options) over the expected life of the financial instrument. However, in rare iii) Impairment of financial assets cases when the expected life of the financial instrument In accordance with Ind AS 109, the Group applies expected cannot be estimated reliably, then the entity is credit loss (ECL) model for measurement and recognition required to use the remaining contractual term of the of impairment loss on the following financial assets and financial instrument; credit risk exposure: • Cash flows from the sale of collateral held or other credit enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms. a) Financial assets that are debt instruments, and are measured at amortised cost e.g., loans, debt securities, ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognized deposits, trade receivables and bank balance; during the period is recognized as income/ expense in the statement of profit and loss. This amount is reflected under b) Lease receivables under Ind AS 17 the head ‘other expenses’ in the statement of profit and loss. The balance sheet presentation for various financial c) Trade receivables or any contractual right to receive instruments is described below: cash or another financial asset that result from transactions that are within the scope of Ind AS 115. • Financial assets measured as at amortised cost, contractual revenue receivables and lease receivables: The Group follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of ECL is presented as an allowance, i.e., as an integral part impairment loss allowance on: of the measurement of those assets in the balance sheet. The allowance reduces the net carrying amount. Until the • Trade receivables or contract revenue receivables; and asset meets write-off criteria, the Group does not reduce impairment allowance from the gross carrying amount. • All lease receivables resulting from transactions within the scope of Ind AS 115. For assessing increase in credit risk and impairment loss, the Group combines financial instruments on the basis of shared The application of simplified approach does not require the credit risk characteristics with the objective of facilitating an Group to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognises analysis that is designed to enable significant increases in impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each credit risk to be identified on a timely basis. reporting date, right from its initial recognition. The Group does not have any purchased or originated For recognition of impairment loss on other financial assets credit-impaired (POCI) financial assets, i.e., financial assets and risk exposure, the Group determines that whether there which are credit impaired on purchase/ origination. has been a significant increase in the credit risk since initial recognition. If credit risk has not increased significantly, iv) De-recognition of financial asset 12-month ECL is used to provide for impairment loss. A financial asset is derecognised only when the group However, if credit risk has increased significantly, lifetime has transferred the rights to receive cash flows from the ECL is used. If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the financial asset or retains the contractual rights to receive the instrument improves such that there is no longer a significant cash flows of the financial asset, but assumes a contractual increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then the entity obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more recipients. reverts to recognising impairment loss allowance based on 12-month ECL. 216 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Where the entity has transferred an asset, the group proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption evaluates whether it has transferred substantially all risks and amount is recognised in profit or loss over the period of the rewards of ownership of the financial asset. In such cases, borrowings using the effective interest method. Fees paid the financial asset is derecognised. Where the group has not on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership of transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable the financial asset, the financial asset is not derecognised. that some or all of the facility will be drawn down. In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw down occurs. To the Where the group has neither transferred a financial asset extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or nor retains substantially all risks and rewards of ownership all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as of the financial asset, the financial asset is derecognised a prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the if the group has not retained control of the financial asset. period of the facility to which it relates. Where the group retains control of the financial asset, the asset is continued to be recognised to the extent of Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when the continuing involvement in the financial asset. obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired. The difference between the carrying amount of v) Reclassification of financial assets a financial liability that has been extinguished or transferred The Group determines classification of financial assets to another party and the consideration paid, including and liabilities on initial recognition. After initial recognition, any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is no reclassification is made for financial assets which are recognised in profit or loss as other gains/(losses). equity instruments and financial liabilities. For financial assets which are debt instruments, a reclassification is Where the terms of a financial liability are renegotiated and made only if there is a change in the business model for the entity issues equity instruments to a creditor to extinguish managing those assets. Changes to the business model are all or part of the liability (debt for equity swap), a gain or expected to be infrequent. The Group’s senior management loss is recognised in profit or loss, which is measured as determines change in the business model as a result of the difference between the carrying amount of the financial external or internal changes which are significant to the liability and the fair value of the equity instruments issued. Group’s operations. Such changes are evident to external parties. A change in the business model occurs when the Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group either begins or ceases to perform an activity that Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement is significant to its operations. If the Group reclassifies of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting financial assets, it applies the reclassification prospectively period. Where there is a breach of a material provision of from the reclassification date which is the first day of the a long-term loan arrangement on or before the end of the immediately next reporting period following the change in reporting period with the effect that the liability becomes business model. The Group does not restate any previously payable on demand on the reporting date, the entity does recognised gains, losses (including impairment gains or not classify the liability as current, if the lender agreed, losses) or interest. after the reporting period and before the approval of the financial statements for issue, not to demand payment as a s) Financial liabilities consequence of the breach. Trade and other payables These amounts represent liabilities for goods and services Borrowing Costs provided to the group prior to the end of financial year General and specific borrowing costs directly attributable which are unpaid. The amounts are unsecured and are to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset usually paid within 30 days of recognition. Trade and that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get other payables are presented as current liabilities unless ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part payment is not due within 12 months after the reporting of the cost of the asset. All other borrowing costs are period. They are recognised initially at their fair value and expensed in the period in which they occur. Borrowing costs subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective consist of interest and other costs that the Group incurs in interest method. connection with the borrowing of funds. Borrowing cost also includes exchange differences to the extent regarded as an Borrowings adjustment to the borrowing costs. Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost. Any difference between the Annual Report 2018-19 217 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 t) Offsetting of financial instruments the change in fair value of the entire forward contract are Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net recognised in the cash flow hedging reserve within equity. amount is reported in the balance sheet if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously. The legally profit or loss (for example, when the forecast sale that is enforceable right must not be contingent on future events hedged takes place). and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the When the hedged forecast transaction results in the Group or the counter party. recognition of a non-financial asset (for example inventory), the amounts accumulated in equity are transferred to profit u) Derivatives and hedging activities or loss as follows: Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently With respect to gain or loss relating to the effective portion re-measured to their fair value at the end of each reporting of the of forward contracts, the deferred hedging gains period. The accounting for subsequent changes in fair and losses are included within the initial cost of the asset. value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a The deferred amounts are ultimately recognised in profit or hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being loss as the hedged item affects profit or loss (for example, hedged and the type of hedge relationship designated. through cost of sales). The Group designates their derivatives as hedges of foreign When a hedging instrument expires, or is sold or terminated, exchange risk associated with the cash flows of highly or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge probable forecast transactions and variable interest rate risk accounting, any cumulative deferred gain or loss and associated with borrowings (cash flow hedges). The Group deferred costs of hedging in equity at that time remains documents at the inception of the hedging transaction the in equity until the forecast transaction occurs. When the economic relationship between hedging instruments and forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the hedged items including whether the hedging instrument is cumulative gain or loss and deferred costs of hedging that expected to offset changes in cash flows of hedged items. were reported in equity are immediately reclassified to The Group documents its risk management objective and profit or loss within other gains/(losses). If the hedge ratio strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions at the for risk management purposes is no longer optimal but inception of each hedge relationship. The full fair value of the risk management objective remains unchanged and a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or the hedge continues to qualify for hedge accounting, the liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is hedge relationship will be rebalanced by adjusting either more than 12 months; it is classified as a current asset or the volume of the hedging instrument or the volume of liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is the hedged item so that the hedge ratio aligns with the less than 12 months. Trading derivatives are classified as a ratio used for risk management purposes. Any hedge current asset or liability. ineffectiveness is calculated and accounted for in profit or loss at the time of the hedge relationship rebalancing. Cash flow hedges that qualify for hedge accounting The effective portion of changes in the fair value of Derivatives that are not designated as hedges derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow The Group enters into certain derivative contracts to hedge hedges is recognised in the other comprehensive income risks which are not designated as hedges. Such contracts in cash flow hedging reserve within equity, limited to the are accounted for at fair value through profit or loss and are cumulative change in fair value of the hedged item on included in statement of profit and loss. a present value basis from the inception of the hedge. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is Embedded derivatives recognised immediately in profit or loss, within other Derivatives embedded in a host contract that is an gains/(losses). asset within the scope of Ind AS 109 are not separated. Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered When forward contracts are used to hedge forecast in their entirety when determining whether their cash flows transactions, the Group designate the full change in fair are solely payment of principal and interest. value of the forward contract as the hedging instrument. The gains and losses relating to the effective portion of Derivatives embedded in all other host contract are separated only if the economic characteristics and risks 218 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 of the embedded derivative are not closely related year, adjusted for bonus elements in equity shares issued to the economic characteristics and risks of the host during the year and excluding treasury shares. and are measured at fair value through profit or loss. Embedded derivatives closely related to the host contracts Diluted earnings per share are not separated. Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in the determination of basic earnings per share to take into v) Financial Guarantee Contracts account the after income tax effect of interest and other Financial guarantee contracts are recognised as a financial financing costs associated with dilutive potential equity liability at the time the guarantee is issued. The liability shares, and the weighted average number of additional is initially measured at fair value and subsequently at the equity shares that would have been outstanding assuming higher of (i) the amount determined in accordance with the conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares. the expected credit loss model as per Ind AS 109 and (ii) the amount initially recognised less, where appropriate, z) Presentation of EBITDA cumulative amount of income recognised in accordance with The Group presents Earnings before interest, tax, the principles of Ind AS 115. depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA’) in the statement of profit or loss; this is not specifically required by Ind AS 1. The fair value of financial guarantees is determined based The term EBITDA is not defined in Ind AS. Ind AS compliant on the present value of the difference between the cash Schedule III allows companies to present line items, sub-line flows between the contractual payments required under the items and sub-totals to be presented as an addition or debt instrument and the payments that would be without the substitution on the face of the financial statements when guarantee, or the estimated amount that would be payable such presentation is relevant to an understanding of the to the third party for assuming the obligations. group’s financial position or performance. Where the guarantees in relation to the loans or other Accordingly, the Group has elected to present EBITDA as payables of associates are provided for no compensation, a separate line item on the face of the statement of profit the fair values are accounted for as contributions and and loss. The Group measures EBITDA on the basis of recognised as part of the cost of the investment. profit/ (loss) from continuing operations. In its measurement, the Group does not include depreciation and amortization w) Cash and cash equivalents expense, finance income, finance costs, share of profit/ loss Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise from joint ventures and tax expense. cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, which are subject to aa) Trade receivable an insignificant risk of changes in value. Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and of business. Trade receivables are recognised initially at cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits, fair value. Trade receivables are recognised initially at as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts the amount of consideration that is unconditional unless if they are considered an integral part of the Group’s there are significant financing components, when they cash management. are recognised at fair value. The Group holds the trade receivables with the objective to collect contractual cash x) Dividends flows and therefore measures them subsequently at The Group recognises a liability to make cash distributions amortised cost using the effective interest method, less to equity holders of the Group when the distribution provision for impairment. is authorised and the distribution is no longer at the discretion of the Group. As per the corporate laws in bb) Segment Reporting India, a distribution is authorised when it is approved by Operating segments are report in a manner consistent the shareholders. A corresponding amount is recognised with internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating directly in equity. Decision Maker (CODM). The Board of Directors has been identified as being the CODM. Refer note 56 for segment y) Earnings per share information presented. Basic earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit cc) Non-current assets (or disposal groups) held for sale attributable to owners of the group by the weighted average and discontinued operations number of equity shares outstanding during the financial Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally Annual Report 2018-19 219 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more and a sale is considered highly probable. They are measured than twelve months, unless the underlying asset is of low at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less value. Currently, operating lease expenses are charged to costs to sell, except for assets such as deferred tax assets, the statement of Profit & Loss. The Standard also contains assets arising from employee benefits, financial assets and enhanced disclosure requirements for lessees. Ind AS contractual rights under insurance contracts, which are 116 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting specifically exempt from this requirement. requirements in Ind AS 17. An impairment loss is recognised for any initial or The group intends to adopt the standard using the modified subsequent write-down of the asset (or disposal group) retrospective approach which means that the cumulative to fair value less costs to sell. A gain is recognised for any impact of the adoption will be recognised in retained subsequent increases in fair value less costs to sell of an earnings as of 1 April 2019 and that comparatives will asset (or disposal group), but not in excess of any cumulative not be restated. impairment loss previously recognised. A gain or loss not previously recognised by the date of the sale of the Under modified retrospective approach, the lessee records non-current asset (or disposal group) is recognised at the the lease liability as the present value of the remaining lease date of de-recognition. payments, discounted at the incremental borrowing rate and the right of use asset either as: Non-current assets (including those that are part of a disposal group) are not depreciated or amortised while they • Its carrying amount as if the standard had been applied are classified as held for sale. Interest and other expenses since the commencement date, but discounted at attributable to the liabilities of a disposal group classified as lessee’s incremental borrowing rate at the date of held for sale continue to be recognised. initial application or • An amount equal to the lease liability, adjusted by the Non-current assets classified as held for sale and the amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments related assets of a disposal group classified as held for sale are to that lease recognized under Ind AS 17 immediately presented separately from the other assets in the balance before the date of initial application sheet. The liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale are presented separately from other liabilities in The group is in the process of assessing the detailed impact the balance sheet. of Ind AS 116. A discontinued operation is a component of the group that b) Ind AS 12 Income taxes Appendix C, Uncertainty has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale and that over Income Tax Treatments : On March 30, 2019, Ministry represents a separate major line of business or geographical of Corporate Affairs has notified Ind AS 12 Appendix C, area of operations, is part of a single co-ordinated plan to Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments which is to be dispose of such a line of business or area of operations, or applied while performing the determination of taxable profit is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. (or loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits The results of discontinued operations are presented and tax rates, when there is uncertainty over income tax separately in the statement of profit and loss. treatments under Ind AS 12. According to the appendix, companies need to determine the probability of the relevant dd) Rounding of amount tax authority accepting each tax treatment, or group of tax All amounts disclosed in the financial statements and notes treatments, that the companies have used or plan to use have been rounded off to the nearest crores as per the in their income tax filing which has to be considered to requirement of Schedule III, unless otherwise stated. compute the most likely amount or the expected value of the tax treatment when determining taxable profit (tax loss), tax 2.4 Recent accounting pronouncements bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates. a) Ind AS 116Leases: On March 30, 2019, Ministry of Corporate Affairs has The standard permits two possible methods of transition notified Ind AS 116, Leases. Ind AS 116 will replace the i) Full retrospective approach – Under this approach, existing leases Standard, Ind AS 17 Leases, and related Appendix C will be applied retrospectively to each prior Interpretations. The Standard sets out the principles for the reporting period presented in accordance with Ind AS 8 recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure – Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates of leases for both parties to a contract i.e., the lessee and Errors, without using hindsight and ii) Retrospectively and the lessor. Ind AS 116 introduces a single lessee with cumulative effect of initially applying Appendix C accounting model and requires a lessee to recognize 220 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 recognized by adjusting equity on initial application, without and assumptions turning out to be different than those adjusting comparatives. originally assessed. Detailed information about each of these estimates and judgements is described below. The effective date for adoption of Ind AS 12 Appendix C is annual periods beginning on or after April 1, 2019. Impairment of Goodwill The Group will adopt the standard on April 1, 2019. The Group tests whether goodwill has suffered any The Group is currently evaluating the effect of this impairment on an annual basis. Impairment exists when amendment on the financial statements. the carrying value of an asset or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount c) Amendment to Ind AS 12 – Income taxes of a cash generating unit (CGU) is determined based on Amendments related to income tax consequences of value in use calculations. The value in use calculation is dividend : based on a DCF model. The cash flows are derived from On March 30, 2019, Ministry of Corporate Affairs issued the budget for the next five years and do not include amendments to the guidance in Ind AS 12, ‘Income Taxes’, in restructuring activities that the Group is not yet committed to connection with accounting for dividend distribution taxes. or significant future investments that will enhance the asset’s performance of the CGU being tested. The recoverable The amendment clarifies that an entity shall recognise the amount is sensitive to the discount rate used for the income tax consequences of dividends in profit or loss, other DCF model as well as the expected future cash-inflows comprehensive income or equity according to where the and the growth rate used. The key assumptions used to entity originally recognised those past transactions or events. determine the recoverable amount for goodwill including a sensitivity analysis are disclosed and further explained in Effective date for application of this amendment is annual Note 6. period beginning on or after April 1, 2019. The Group currently evaluating the effect of this amendment on the Estimation of provision for Excise/Customs matter financial statements. The Company had in an earlier year received an order of CESTAT upholding a demand of `188 crores (including d) Amendment to Ind AS 19 – plan amendment, penalties and excluding interest) (`188 crores as at curtailment or settlement: On March 30, 2019, Ministry March 31, 2018) in a pending excise/customs matter against of Corporate Affairs issued amendments to Ind AS 19, which the Company’s appeal with the Honourable Supreme ‘Employee Benefits’, in connection with accounting for plan Court has been admitted. The details of the matter and amendments, curtailments and settlements. the amount of provision made based on management's estimate are disclosed and further explained in The amendments require an entity: Note 44. • to use updated assumptions to determine current service Revenue Recognition on Contracts with Customers cost and net interest for the remainder of the period after a The Group’s contracts with customers could include plan amendment, curtailment or settlement; and promises to transfer multiple products and services to a • to recognise in profit or loss as part of past service cost, customer. The Group assesses the products / services or a gain or loss on settlement, any reduction in a surplus, promised in a contract and identifies distinct performance even if that surplus was not previously recognised obligations in the contract. Identification of distinct because of the impact of the asset ceiling. performance obligation involves judgement to determine the distinct goods/services and the ability of the customer to Effective date for application of this amendment is benefit independently from such goods/services. annual period beginning on or after April 1, 2019. Currently the Group does not have any impact on account of Judgement is also required to determine the transaction this amendment. price for the contract. The transaction price could be either a fixed amount of customer consideration or variable Note 3: Significant Accounting Judgements, consideration with elements such as volume discounts, Estimates And Assumptions liquidated damages, penalties, price concessions and The preparation of financial statements requires the use of incentives. Any consideration payable to the customer is accounting estimates. Management also needs to exercise adjusted to the transaction price, unless it is a payment for a judgement in applying the Group's accounting policies. This distinct product or service from the customer. note provides an overview of the areas that involved a higher The estimated amount of variable consideration is degree of judgement or complexity, and of items which adjusted in the transaction price only to the extent are more likely to be materially adjusted due to estimates Annual Report 2018-19 221 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in goods are rendered, the cost of the transferred goods is the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not significantly relative to the total expected costs to completely occur and is reassessed at the end of each reporting satisfy the performance obligation and the goods are period. The Group allocates the elements of variable procured from a third party wherein there is no involvement considerations to all the performance obligations of the Group in designing and manufacturing of the of the contract unless there is observable evidence good. that they pertain to one or more distinct performance obligations. Share-based payments The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions The Group uses judgement to determine an appropriate with employees using Black Scholes model and Monte standalone selling price for a performance obligation carlo's simulation model to determine the fair value of (allocation of transaction price). The Group allocates options. Estimating fair value for share-based payment the transaction price to each performance obligation transactions requires determination of the most appropriate on the basis of the relative standalone selling price of valuation model, which is dependent on the terms and each distinct product or service promised in the contract. conditions relating to vesting of the grant. This estimate also Where standalone selling price is not observable, the Group requires determination of the most appropriate inputs to uses the expected cost plus reasonable margin approach to the valuation model including the expected life of the share allocate the transaction price to each distinct performance option, volatility and dividend yield and assumptions about obligation. them. The assumptions and models used for estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions are disclosed in The Group exercises judgement in determining whether the Note 35. performance obligation is satisfied at a point in time or over a period of time. The Group considers indicators such as Defined benefit plans how customer consumes benefits as services are rendered The cost of the defined benefit plan and the present or who controls the asset as it is being created or existence value of such obligation are determined using actuarial of enforceable right to payment for performance to date valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various and alternate use of such product or service, transfer of assumptions that may differ from actual developments significant risks and rewards to the customer, acceptance in the future. These include the determination of the of delivery by the customer, timing gap between transfer of discount rate, future salary increase, employee turnover control and actual revenue recognition, etc. and expected return on planned assets. Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and its long term Revenue for fixed-price contract is recognised using nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive the input method for measuring progress. The Group to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are uses cost incurred related to total estimated costs to reviewed at the year end. Details about employee determine the extent of progress towards completion. benefit obligations and related assumptions are given in Judgement is involved to estimate the future cost to Note 25. complete the contract and to estimate the actual cost incurred basis completion of relevant activities towards Business Combinations fulfilment of performance obligations. In accounting for business combinations, judgement is required for valuation of assets and identifying whether an Contract fulfilment costs are generally expensed as identifiable intangible asset is to be recorded separately incurred except for costs that meet the criteria for from goodwill. Additionally, estimating the acquisition date capitalisation. Such costs are amortised over the life of the fair value of the identifiable asset acquired and liabilities and contract. contingent considerations involves management judgement. These measurements are based on information available Uninstalled materials are materials that will be used to satisfy at the acquisition date and are based on expectations and performance obligations in a contract for which the cost assumptions, such as discount rate, that have been deemed incurred does not depict transfer to the customer. The Group reasonable by management. Changes in these judgements, excludes cost of uninstalled materials for measuring estimates and assumptions can materially affect the progress towards satisfying a performance obligation if it results of operations. involves only provision of a procurement service. In case of uninstalled materials, the Group recognises revenue equal to the cost of the uninstalled materials if the goods are distinct, the customer is expected to obtain control of the goods significantly before services related to the 222 Sterlite Technologies Limited Note 4: Property, Plant & Equipment (Amounts ` crores) Data Freehold Leasehold Plant & Furniture & Office Electrical Buildings# processing Vehicles Total Notes land land machinery fixtures equipments fittings equipments Cost At 01 April 2017 63.29 35.02 247.79 1,632.37 16.64 49.51 13.83 45.15 9.17 2,112.77 Additions 3.75 0.79 12.82 103.80 0.25 7.01 0.62 1.63 2.34 133.01 Annual Report 2018-19 Assets included in disposal group classified (44.38) (44.38) as held for sale Translation Adjustments 0.49 3.42 11.90 0.11 0.04 15.96 Disposals/Adjustments (1.03) (15.72) (0.22) (1.81) (0.15) (0.22) (0.31) (19.46) At 31 March 2018 67.04 36.30 263.00 1,687.97 16.67 54.82 14.34 46.56 11.20 2,197.90 Additions 7.65 201.98 968.43 0.76 6.17 2.12 11.81 5.45 1,204.37 Transfer from Investment 10.03 10.03 property (refer note 7) Assets Acquired under business combination 53.30 51.04 33.31 137.65 (refer note 47) Translation Adjustments (0.89) (0.09) (2.66) (6.51) (0.02) (0.01) (0.12) (10.30) Disposals/Adjustments (0.24) (17.28) (0.22) (0.86) (0.12) (0.05) (4.16) (22.93) At 31 March 2019 119.45 43.86 523.15 2,665.92 17.21 60.11 16.33 58.32 12.37 3,516.72 Depreciation,amortization and Impairment At 01 April 2017 2.27 54.45 802.33 7.96 28.08 8.34 22.74 3.55 929.72 Additions 0.39 14.21 109.58 2.36 7.89 1.60 3.08 1.54 140.65 Assets included in disposal group classified (2.03) (2.03) as held for sale Translation Adjustments 0.06 0.63 2.75 0.06 0.02 3.52 Disposal/Adjustments (0.18) (6.54) (0.20) (1.56) (0.14) (0.15) (0.29) (9.06) At 31 March 2018 2.72 69.11 906.09 10.12 34.47 9.82 25.67 4.80 1,062.80 Additions 0.52 17.80 119.02 2.03 8.30 1.71 5.77 1.76 156.91 Transfer from Investment 1.24 1.24 property (refer note 7) Translation Adjustments (0.01) (1.05) (1.45) (0.01) (0.11) (2.63) Disposal/Adjustments (0.09) (14.71) (0.16) (0.84) (0.11) (0.05) (3.10) (19.06) At 31 March 2019 3.23 87.01 1,008.95 11.99 41.92 11.42 31.39 3.35 1,199.26 Net Book Value At 31 March 2019 119.45 40.63 436.14 1,656.97 5.22 18.19 4.91 26.93 9.02 2,317.46 At 31 March 2018 67.04 33.58 193.89 781.88 6.55 20.35 4.52 20.89 6.40 1,135.10 to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Movement in Capital work in progress # Buildings include those constructed on leasehold land: Opening balance as at 01 April 2018 357.02 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Gross Block 269.77 118.25 Additions during the year 1,213.42 Depreciation for the year 10.30 4.25 Borrowing cost capitalised during the year (Refer Note 33) 53.37 Accumulated depreciation 45.84 35.54 Transfers during the year (1,204.37) Net Block 223.93 82.71 Closing balance as at 31 March 2019 419.44 Refer note 19 for information on property, plant and equipment pledged as security by the Group Refer note 39 for disclosure of capital commitments for the acquisition of property, plant & equipments. Capital work in progress mainly comprises amounts pertaining to FINANCIAL plant & machinery. STATEMENTS 223 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 5: Intangible Assets (Amount ` in crores) Customer Goodwill Software/ acquisition Indefeasible Patents Right of Way (Refer Total licenses / Customer right of use note 6) Relationships Cost At 01 April 2017 21.73 9.32 5.66 5.10 0.99 148.19 190.99 Additions 7.76 0.09 7.85 Assets included in disposal group (5.10) (5.10) classified as held for sale Translation Adjustments 0.14 0.14 At 31 March 2018 24.53 9.32 5.75 5.10 0.99 148.19 193.88 Additions 4.87 4.87 Assets acquired under business combination (Refer note 47) 30.34 62.27 92.61 Translation Adjustments (0.02) 0.80 0.78 At 31 March 2019 29.38 9.32 36.09 5.10 0.99 211.26 292.14 Amortization & Impairment At 01 April 2017 12.83 9.32 3.06 0.23 0.31 44.62 70.37 Additions 4.16 0.60 0.07 29.64 34.47 Assets included in disposal group (1.18) (1.18) classified as held for sale Translation Adjustments 0.12 0.12 At 31 March 2018 15.93 9.32 3.66 0.23 0.38 74.26 103.78 Additions 4.67 3.57 0.07 29.65 37.96 Translation Adjustments (0.01) (0.01) At 31 March 2019 20.59 9.32 7.23 0.23 0.45 103.91 141.73 Net Book Value At 31 March 2019 8.79 28.86 4.87 0.54 107.35 150.41 At 31 March 2018 8.60 2.09 4.87 0.61 73.93 90.10 Note 6: Impairment Testing of Goodwill 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 (` in crores) (` in crores) Goodwill (refer note 5) 107.35 73.93 Goodwill is monitored by management at CGU level. The Group has performed its annual impairment test by computing the recoverable amount based on a value in use calculations which require the use of assumptions as given in table below. The calculations use cash flow projections from financial budgets approved by senior management covering a period of five years. The management has not identified any instances that could cause the carrying amount of the CGU's to exceed the recoverable amount. A CGU level summary of the goodwill allocation is given below: Connectivity Solutions Network software business in Europe CGU Region CGU 31 March 2019 Goodwill 44.29 63.06 31 March 2018 Goodwill 73.93 224 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Key assumptions used in the value in use calculations The following table provides the key assumptions for this CGU that have goodwill allocated to them: Long-term EBIDTA margins over the budgeted period 10.50%-16.50% 13.00%-16.00% Long-term terminal Growth rate 5.00% 5.00% Pre-tax discount rate 15.70% 10.70% Management has determined the values assigned to each of the above key assumptions as follows: Discount rate Discount rate represents the current market assessment of the risks specific to the CGU, taking into consideration the time value of money and individual risks of the underlying assets that have not been incorporated in the cash flow estimates. The discount rate calculation is based on the specific circumstances of the Group and the CGU and is derived from the CGU's weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The WACC takes into account both debt and equity. The cost of equity is derived from the expected return on investment by the Group’s investors. The cost of debt is based on the interest-bearing borrowings the Group is obliged to service. CGU specific risk is incorporated by applying individual beta factor. The beta factor is evaluated annually based on publicly available market data. Growth rate The Company has considered growth rate to extrapolate cash flows beyond the forecast period, consistent with the industry forecasts. EBITDA margins EBITDA margins are based on the actual EBITDA of respective CGU based on the past trend and future expectations. Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Network Software CGU The management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions used in the value in use calculation would cause the carrying value of the CGU to materially exceed its value in use. Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Connectivity Solutions business in Europe Region CGU Growth rate assumptions The management recognizes that the speed of technological change and the possibility of new entrants can have a significant impact on growth rate assumptions. A reduction of 2% in the long-term growth rate would result in impairment. Discount rates A rise in pre-tax discount rate to 18.50% would result in impairment. EBITDA margins A decreased demand can lead to a decline in EBITDA. A decrease in EBITDA margins below 10% would result in impairment. Annual Report 2018-19 225 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 7: Investment Property 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Cost Opening gross block 10.03 10.03 Addition Transferred to property, plant & equipment during the year (refer note 4) (10.03) Closing gross block 10.03 Accumulated Depreciation Opening balance 1.15 0.99 Additions 0.09 0.16 Transferred to property, plant & equipment during the year (refer note 4) (1.24) Closing balance 1.15 Net Block 8.88 Notes Amounts recognised in profit and loss for investment property 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Rental income derived from investment properties 0.57 0.86 Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) from property generating rental income (0.01) (0.01) Profit arising from investment properties before depreciation 0.56 0.85 Less: Depreciation (0.09) (0.15) Profit arising from investment properties 0.47 0.70 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Fair Value NA 15.07 The Group’s investment property consisted of a commercial property in India. As at 31 March 2018 the fair value of the investment property was ` 15.07 crores. This value was based on valuations performed by the management on the basis of available market quotes/ prevalent property prices in the same and nearby localities (Fair value judgements and estimates as per Level 2 hierarchy). The Group had no restrictions on the realisability of its investment property and no contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop investment property or for repairs, maintenance and enhancements. During the current year, Group has started using the property for its own use and therefore the same has been reclassified to buildings block under property plant and equipment. (Refer note 4) 226 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 8: Investments 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Non-current investments Investment in Joint Venture Equity investment in Sterlite Conduspar Industrial Ltda * -* Investment in Joint venture at fair value through P&L$ 333 (31 March 2018: 333) Equity shares of Metis Eduventures Pvt Ltd 0.26 2.00 Investments Other at fair value through OCI 10 (31 March 2018: 10) Equity shares of Singularity Healthcare IT -* -* Systems Private Limited of ` 10 each fully paid up Investment in debentures (unquoted) Investment in debenturesJoint Venture at fair value through P&L 17,600,000 (31 March 2018: 17,600,000) 0.001% Compulsorily 17.60 17.60 Convertible Debentures of Metis Eduventures Pvt Ltd 5,000,000 (31 March 2018: Nil) 0.001% Cumulative Optionally Convertible Debentures of Metis Eduventures Pvt Ltd 5.00 -* Investment in debentures(Others, at fair value through OCI) 3,199,990 (31 March 2018: 3,199,990) 0.001% Compulsorily -* -* Convertible Debentures of Singularity Healthcare IT Systems Private Limited of ` 10 each fully paid up Investment in Associate Investment in MB Maanshan Special Cable Limited 12.44 -* Total Investments 35.30 19.60 Total non-current investments Aggregate amount of quoted investments and market value thereof Aggregate amount of unquoted investments 35.30 19.60 Amount of impairment in the value of investments# 1.74 3.20 * Amount is below the rounding off norm followed by the Company. $ As described in Significant accounting policies (refer note 2), the Group makes investments in certain joint ventures and associates with the objective to generate growth in the medium term and with identified exit strategies. Such investments are managed on a fair value basis. As permitted by Ind AS 28, the Group has elected to measure such investments in joint ventures and associates in accordance with Ind AS 109. # These amounts pertain to fair value change in the investment recognised during the year. Note 9: Trade Receivables 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Non-current Trade receivables 1.76 4.09 1.76 4.09 Break-up for security details Unsecured, considered good 1.76 4.09 1.76 4.09 Total Non-current trade receivables 1.76 4.09 Annual Report 2018-19 227 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Current Trade receivables 1,367.65 870.58 Receivables from related parties (refer note 51) 25.34 20.75 1,392.99 891.33 Break-up for security details Trade receivables considered good Secured Trade receivables considered good Unsecured 1,354.86 867.19 Trade receivables which have significant increase in credit risk Trade receivables Credit impaired 38.13 24.14 Total 1,392.99 891.33 Less: Impairment Allowance* 38.13 24.14 Total Current trade receivables 1,354.86 867.19 No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the Group either severally or jointly with any other person. Nor any trade or other receivable are due from firms or private companies in which any director is a partner, a director or a member. Refer note 19 for information on trade receivables hypothecated as security by the Group. * Includes impact on account of business combination. Acquired receivables (refer note 47) The fair value of acquired trade receivables is ` 181.21 crores. The gross contractual amount for trade receivables due is ` 184.54 and of which ` 3.33 crores is expected to be uncollectible. Note 10: Loans 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Non-current ( Unsecured, considered good) Loans to related parties (Refer note 51) 42.01 34.55 Loans to employees 0.68 0.46 Total non-current loans 42.69 35.01 Break-up for security details Loans Considered good secured Loans Considered good Unsecured 42.69 35.01 Loans which have significant increase in credit risk Loans Credit Impaired Total 42.69 35.01 Note 11: Other Financial Assets 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Non-current (Unsecured, considered good) Derivative instruments Foreign exchange forward contracts 33.34 Others Security deposits 8.81 7.02 Others 0.25 0.67 Total other non-current financial assets 42.40 7.69 Current (Unsecured, considered good) Derivative instruments 228 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Foreign exchange forward contracts 58.25 2.26 Currency/ Interest rate swaps 0.28 1.31 Others Security deposits 6.98 3.75 Interest accrued on investments/deposits 0.26 0.29 Others* 33.55 61.80 Total other current financial assets 99.32 69.41 *This includes expenses incurred on behalf of customer, amounting to ` 18.04 crores (31 March 2018: ` 49.83 crores) Refer note 19 for information on financial assets hypothecated as security by the Group. Note 12: Other Assets 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Non-current Capital advances (Unsecured, considered good) 16.99 68.03 Advance income tax, including TDS (net of provisions) 4.11 24.86 Prepaid expenses 3.64 5.16 Total other non-current assets 24.74 98.05 Contract assets (refer note 55) 1,093.51 Significant changes in Contract assets Contract assets have increased from previous year as group has incurred costs towards the fulfilment of performance obligations identified under the contracts with customers before the billing milestone for fixed price contracts. There is no impairment allowance for the contract assets for current year. Particulars 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 (` in crores) (` in crores) Current Capital advances (Unsecured, considered good) 7.94 Prepaid expenses 43.11 11.23 Balances with Government authorities 280.64 75.79 Gross amount due from customers for construction contracts (refer note 43) 148.98 Unbilled revenue 17.34 Advance to creditors 57.40 16.53 Other advances 3.98 1.98 Total other current assets 393.07 271.86 During the year ended 31 March 2019, ` 148.98 crores of gross amount due from customers from construction contract and ` 17.34 crores of unbilled revenue as of 01 April 2018 has been reclassified to Trade receivables upon billing to customers on completion of milestones. Note 13: Inventories 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Raw materials 209.62 91.24 [Includes stock in transit ` 20.28 crores (31 March 2018: ` 15.59 crores)] Work-in-progress 74.46 25.25 Construction work-in-progress 98.80 Finished goods 219.36 55.62 [Includes stock in transit ` 39.65 crores (31 March 2018: ` 48.63 crores)] Traded goods 7.91 4.68 Stores, spares, packing materials and others 78.30 62.26 Total 589.65 337.85 Annual Report 2018-19 229 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Amount recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss Write-downs of inventories to net realisable value amounted to `28.14 crores (31 March 2018: ` 9.22 crores). These were recognised as an expense during the year and included in 'changes in value of inventories of work-in-progress, stock-in-trade and finished goods' in statement of profit and loss. Refer note 19 for information on inventories hypothecated as security by the Group. Note 14: Current Investments 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) In mutual funds (At fair value through profit or loss) (quoted) Nil (31 March 2018: 17,386) units of Reliance Liquid FundCash PlanDirect Growth Plan Growth Option 50.00 Nil (31 March 2018: 222,499) units of SBI Magnum Insta Cash FundTreasury PlanDirect Growth 50.00 PlanGrowth Option Nil (31 March 2018: 2,290,514) units of ICICI Prudential Money Market FundTreasury PlanDirect Growth 55.00 Plan Growth Option 102,567.82 (31 March 2018: Nil) units of SBI Liquid fundDirect Growth Plan 30.00 1,086,454.63 (31 March 2018: Nil) units of ICICI Prudential Liquid FundDirect PlanGrowth Option 30.00 87,774.43 (31 March 2018: Nil) units of Reliance Ultra Short duration fund Direct growth plan 40.00 Investment in short term liquid funds 0.17 Aggregate amount of quoted investments [Market Value: ` 100.17 crores (March 31, 2018: 100.17 155.00 ` 155.00 crores)] Note 15A: Cash and Cash Equivalents 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Balances with banks: In current accounts 127.33 112.26 In EEFC accounts 15.92 7.27 Cash in hand 0.04 0.03 Total cash and cash equivalents 143.29 119.56 There are no repatriation restrictions with regards to cash and cash equivalents. Note 15B: Other Bank Balances 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Deposits with original maturity of more than 12 months* 1.47 15.11 Deposits with original maturity of more than 3 months but less than 12 months** 85.00 0.98 In unpaid dividend account 3.37 2.83 Other bank balance 0.55 Total other bank balances 90.39 18.92 * Includes ` 0.01 crores (31 March 2018: ` 2.38 crores) held as lien by banks against bank guarantees. ** ` 15.00 crores (31 March 2018: ` 0.98 crores) held as lien by banks against bank guarantees. 230 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 16: Asset Classified as Held For Sale 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Assets classified as held for sale Property, plant and equipment 90.40 60.73 Capital work-in-progress 4.27 34.90 Intangible assets 3.41 3.66 Other non-current financial assets 0.02 0.02 Other non-current assets 7.98 9.94 Trade receivables 0.88 5.41 Cash and cash equivalents 5.72 1.20 Other bank balances 1.02 0.45 Other financial assets 0.02 0.02 Other current assets 0.10 0.08 Total assets of disposal group held for sale 113.82 116.41 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale Borrowings 26.74 32.64 Trade payables 2.63 0.15 Employee benefit obligations 0.22 0.12 Other financial liabilities 48.28 55.91 Other liabilities 16.95 8.19 Total liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 94.82 97.01 Net assets of disposal group held for sale 19.00 19.40 Post demerger of the power business in the financial year ended March 31, 2017, the Group has been in the process of obtaining requisite approvals from government authorities to sell its equity interest in its subsidiary, Maharashtra Transmission Communication Infrastructure Limited (referred as disposal group or MTCIL) to Sterlite Power Transmission Limited. During the year, management received a letter from Department of Telecommunication rejecting Group's application for transfer of entity. The Group has filed a letter seeking justification for such rejection. Pending response from the department, the Group is committed to the sale of MTCIL post requisite regulatory approvals. The Group anticipates completion of the sale by March 2020. Financial performance and cash flow information 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Revenue 4.52 1.70 Expenses (12.11) (6.08) Loss before income tax (7.59) (4.38) Income tax Loss for the year (7.59) (4.38) Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income (7.59) (4.38) Net cash inflow / (outflow) from operating activities 18.59 8.29 Net cash inflow / (outflow) from investing activities (10.89) (19.10) Net cash inflow / (outflow) from financing activities (3.18) 11.71 Net increase in cash generated from discontinuing operation 4.52 0.90 Annual Report 2018-19 231 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 17: Share Capital 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Authorised equity share capital (no. crores) 75.00 (31 March 2018: 75.00) equity shares of `2 each 150.00 150.00 Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up shares (no. crores) 40.25 (31 March 2018: 40.10) equity shares of ` 2 each fully paid up. 80.51 80.20 Total issued, subscribed and fully paid-up share capital 80.51 80.20 a. Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting period 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Nos in crores ` in crores Nos in crores ` in crores At the beginning of the year 40.10 80.20 39.83 79.66 Issued during the year against employee stock option 0.15 0.31 0.27 0.54 Outstanding at the end of the year 40.25 80.51 40.10 80.20 b. Terms and rights attached to equity shares The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 2 per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one vote per share except for the underlying 74,700 (31 March 2018: 74,700) equity shares held by custodian bank against Global Depository Receipts (‘GDR’) which do not have voting rights. In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders c. Shares held by holding company and their subsidiaries/associates: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 No. in crores % holding No. in crores % holding Immediate holding company Twin Star Overseas Limited, Mauritius 20.94 52.03% 20.94 52.22% Subsidiary of Volcan Investments Limited, Bahamas [Ultimate holding company] Vedanta Limited 0.48 1.19% 0.48 1.20% d. Aggregate number of bonus shares issued, share issued for consideration other than cash during the period of five years immediately preceding the reporting date : 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars No. in crores No. in crores Equity shares allotted as fully paid bonus shares by capitalisation of securities premium during the period 0.04 0.04 of five years immediately preceding the reporting date e. Detail of shareholders holding more than 5% of shares in the company 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 No. in crores % holding No. in crores % holding 1. Twin Star Overseas Limited, Mauritius (Holding Company) 20.94 52.03% 20.94 52.22% f. Shares reserved for issue under options For information relating to employees stock options plan, 2010 including details of options issued, exercised and lapsed during the financial year and options outstanding at the end of the reporting period, refer note 35 232 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 18: Other Equity 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Securities premium account Opening balance 27.93 16.04 Add: Addition on ESOPs exercised 10.75 11.89 Closing balance 38.68 27.93 Other reserves Capital reserve 0.04 0.04 Employee stock option outstanding Balance as per last financial statements 21.24 19.74 Add: Employees stock option expenses for the year (refer note 35) 19.16 13.39 Less: Transferred to Securities premium account (10.75) (11.89) Closing balance 29.65 21.24 Foreign currency translation reserve Balance as per last financial statements 15.16 (3.78) Add: Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations for the year (0.88) 18.94 Less: Transaction with non-controlling interest (0.83) Closing balance 13.45 15.16 Debenture redemption reserve Balance as per last financial statements 75.00 37.50 Add: Amount transferred from surplus in the statement of profit and loss 37.50 Closing balance 75.00 75.00 General reserve 112.50 112.50 Cash flow hedge reserve Balance as per last financial statements (32.36) (1.78) Add: Cash flow hedge reserve created on currency forward contracts 144.55 (45.77) Add: Cash flow hedge reserve created on swap contracts 9.88 (2.15) Less: Deferred hedging gain/(losses) transferred to the carrying amount of inventory (1.09) Less: Amount reclassified to Statement of profit and loss (21.67) 1.69 Less: Amount transferred to Statement of profit and loss (8.29) Less: Income tax effect (46.39) 16.74 Closing balance 45.72 (32.36) Total Other Reserves 276.36 191.58 Retained earnings Opening balance 875.61 620.15 Less: Impact of change in accounting policy on adoption of Ind AS 115 (refer note 55) (12.71) Add: Net profit for the year 562.75 334.33 Add: Remeasurement of post employment benefit obligation, net of tax (5.10) 0.06 Less: Equity dividend and tax thereon (refer note 49) (96.80) (36.07) Less: Change in fair value of FVOCI equity instrument (3.20) Less: Transfer to debenture redemption reserve (37.50) Less: Transaction with non-controlling interests (2.16) Total retained earnings 1,323.75 875.61 Total other equity 1,638.79 1,095.12 Nature and Purpose of reserves other than retained earnings Securities premium reserve Securities premium reserve is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve is utilised in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. Annual Report 2018-19 233 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 General reserve General reserve is created out of the amounts transferred from debenture redemption reserve on account of redemption of debentures in earlier years. Foreign currency translation reserve Exchange differences arising on translation of the foreign operations are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in a separate reserve in equity. The cumulative amount is reclassified to profit or loss when the net investment is disposed off. Cash flow hedge reserve The Group uses hedging instruments as part of its management of foreign currency risk associated with its highly probable forecast sale and inventory purchases and interest rate risk associated with variable interest rate borrowings as described in note 48. For hedging foreign currency risk, the Group uses foreign currency forward contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges. For hedging interest rate risk, the Group uses interest rate swaps which are also designated as cash flow hedges. To the extent these hedges are effective; the change in fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in the cash flow hedging reserve. Amount recognised in the cash flow hedging reserve is reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged item affects profit or loss (e.g. sales and interest payments). When the forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset (e.g. inventory), the amount recognised in the cash flow hedging reserve is adjusted against the carrying amount of the non financial asset Employee stock option outstanding The share options outstanding account is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued to employees under employee stock option plans (ESOP Schemes) approved by shareholders of the Group. Debenture redemption reserve The Group is required to create a debenture redemption reserve out of the profits which is available for payment of interest for the purpose of redemption of debentures as per the provision of the Companies Act, 2013. Note 19: Borrowings 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Non-current Debentures (Secured) 1,500 (31 March 2018 : 1,500) 8.45% Non convertible 150.00 150.00 debentures of ` 10 lacs each 1,500 (31 March 2018 :Nil ) 8.70% Non convertible debentures of ` 10 lacs each 150.00 150.00 Term loans Indian rupee loans from banks (secured) 50.00 101.14 Foreign currency loans from banks (secured) 491.48 178.63 Indian rupee loans from banks (unsecured) 100.00 Deferred payment liabilities (unsecured) 142.95 135.03 1,084.43 714.80 The above amount includes Secured borrowings 841.48 579.77 Unsecured borrowings 242.95 135.03 Total Non-current borrowings 1,084.43 714.80 Less: Current maturities of long term borrowings disclosed under the head other current financial 149.59 84.26 liabilities (refer note 20) Net Amount 934.84 630.54 234 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Notes: is repayable in single bullet payment in Financial year Sterlite Technologies Limited (STL) 2020-21. a) 8.45% Non convertible debentures carry 8.45% rate of f) Deferred payment liabilities of ` 142.95 crores interest. Out of the total outstanding amount, 50% are are as per the contractual terms with creditors redeemable at par during the FY 2019-20 and balance for property, plant and equipment and amounts in the FY 2020-21 . These non-convertible debentures are payable after 1080 days from the due date. are secured by way of first pari passu charge on entire These amounts are presented as deferred movable fixed assets (both present and future) and payment liabilities under borrowings as per the immovable fixed assets of the Company located at disclosure requirements of Schedule III. The Interest Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Pune. payable on these deferred payment liabilities ranges from 6 months Libor + (100-200) bps b) 8.70% Non convertible debentures carry 8.70% per annum. rate of interest. Total amount of non-convertible debentures is due in the FY 2022-23 . Jiangsu Sterlite and Tongguang Optical Fiber These non-convertible debentures are secured by Co. Limited (JSTFCL) way of first pari passu charge on entire movable fixed a) Foreign currency loan from bank of ` 17.61 crores assets (both present and future) and mortgage of ( 31 March 2018 ` 14.32 crores) carries interest @ immovable fixed assets of the Company located at 4.75% p.a. Aurangabad. Sterlite Technologies S.p.A c) Indian rupee term loan from bank amounting to a) Foreign currency term loan from bank of ` 178.48 ` 50.00 crores carries interest @ LTMLR + 0.75% crores (31 March 2018 ` Nil ) carries interest of p.a. Loan amount is repayable in twelve quarterly EURIBOR + 1.90% p.a. Loan amount is repayable on equated instalments of ` 10.00 crores (excluding half yearly basis beginning from financial year 2020-21. interest) starting from July 2017. The term loan This loan is backed by corporate guarantee from Sterlite is secured by way of first pari passu charge Technologies Limited. on entire movable fixed assets (both present and future) and mortgage immovable fixed b) Foreign currency term loan from bank of ` 155.20 assets of the Company located at Dadra & crores (31 March 2018 ` Nil ) carries interest of Nagar Haveli. EURIBOR + 1.70% p.a. Loan amount is repayable on half yearly basis starting from financial year d) Foreign Currency term loan from bank amounting to 2020-21. This loan is backed by SBLC issued by Citi ` 138.34 crores carries interest @ Libor+2.70 % p.a. Bank, India. Loan amount is repayable in 20 quarterly equated instalments of USD 0.13 crores starting from April 2018. Metallurgica Bresciana S.p.A. The term loan is secured by way of first pari passu a) Foreign currency loan from bank of ` 1.84 crores charge on entire movable fixed assets (both present (31 March 2018 ` Nil ) carries interest of 1.25% p.a. and future) and mortgage of immovable fixed assets Loan amount is repayable on half yearly basis beginning of the Company located at Dadra & Nagar Haveli from financial year 2020-21. and Pune. e) Unsecured rupee term loan from bank amounting to ` 100 crores carries interest @ 8.70% p.a. Loan amount Annual Report 2018-19 235 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Current borrowings Cash credit from banks (secured) 33.62 Working capital demand loans from banks (secured) 50.00 Commercial paper from bank (unsecured) 300.00 50.00 Foreign Currency Loan (unsecured) 185.21 Other loan from banks (secured) 394.86 345.52 Other loans (unsecured) 10.72 67.22 Loans from related party (unsecured) 8.28 982.69 462.74 The above amount includes Secured borrowings 478.48 345.52 Unsecured borrowings 504.21 117.22 Net Amount 982.69 462.74 Note: Sterlite Technologies Limited (i) Cash credit was secured by hypothecation of raw material inventory, work in progress, finished goods and trade receivables. The cash credit is repayable on demand and carries interest @ 7.80 % -11.50 % p.a. (ii) Working capital demand loan from banks was secured by first pari-passu charge on entire current assets of the Company (both present and future) and second pari-passu charge on plant & machinery and other movable fixed assets of the Company. Working Capital Demand Loan has been taken for a period of 30 days and carries interest @ 8.40%. (iii) Commercial Papers are unsecured and are generally taken for a period from 60 to 90 days and carry interest @ 6.95% to 8.00% p.a. (iv) Other loans include buyer’s credit arrangements (secured) and export packing credit (unsecured). Buyer’s credit are secured by hypothecation of raw materials, work in progress, finished goods and trade receivables Export packing credit is taken for a period ranging from 30-180 days. Interest rate for both the products ranges 6.35% 8.55% p.a. (v) Loan from related party includes unsecured loan received from Sterlite Power Transmission Limited which is repayable on demand. The loan carries an interest rate of 10% p.a. Jiangsu Sterlite and Tongguang Optical Fiber Co. Limited (JSTFCL) a) Foreign currency term loan from bank of ` 90.35 crores (31 March 2018 ` Nil ) carries interest @ 3.70% 4.35% p.a. b) Foreign currency term loan from bank of ` 9.85 crores (31 March 2018 ` Nil ) carries interest @ LIBOR + 0.70%0.90% p.a. Metallurgica Bresciana S.p.A. a) Foreign currency term loan from bank of ` 59.47 crores (31 March 2018 ` Nil ) carries interest @ 0.75% 1.05% p.a. b) Foreign currency term loan from bank of ` 25.59 crores (31 March 2018 ` Nil ) carries interest @ EURIBOR + 0.75% 1.30% p.a. 236 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Net debt reconciliation This section sets out an analysis of net debt and the movements in net debt for each of the periods presented. 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Cash and cash equivalents* 149.01 120.76 Current investments ** 170.17 155.00 Current Borrowings (982.69) (462.74) Non-current borrowings (including interest accrued but not due and current maturity of long term (1,111.17) (618.50) borrowings.)*** Net Debt (1,774.68) (805.48) *Includes cash and cash equivalents of ` 5.72 crores (31 March 2018 ` 1.20 crores) relating to disposal group (MTCIL) classified as discontinued operations (Refer note 16). ** Includes other bank balance of ` 70 crores with respect to fixed deposit. These fixed deposits can be encashed by the Group at any time without any major penalties. *** Includes non current borrowing ` 26.74 crores (31 March 2018 ` 32.64 crores ) relating to disposal group (MTCIL) classified as discontinued operations (Refer note 16). Non-current borrowings (` in crores) As on 31 March 2018 618.50 Cashflows 496.83 Interest expense 51.34 Interest paid (55.14) Forex adjustment (0.36) As on 31 March 2019 1,111.17 Current borrowings (` in crores) As on 31 March 2018 462.74 Cashflows 519.95 Interest expense 32.10 Interest paid (32.10) Forex adjustment As on 31 March 2019 982.69 Cash and cash equivalent (` in crores) As on 31 March 2018 120.76 Cashflows 28.25 As on 31 March 2019 149.01 Current Investments (` in crores) As on 31 March 2018 155.00 Cashflows 13.28 Realised gain on current investment 1.89 As on 31 March 2019 170.17 Annual Report 2018-19 237 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 20: Other Financial Liabilities 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Non-current Derivative instruments Foreign exchange forward contracts 1.64 28.19 Currency / Interest Rate Swaps 1.13 Others Payables for purchase of property, plant and equipment 9.40 35.53 Deposits from vendors 2.71 1.10 Total non-current financial liabilities 14.88 64.82 Current Derivative instruments Foreign exchange forward contracts 10.27 31.77 Currency / Interest Rate Swaps 12.04 10.27 43.81 Other financial liabilities at amortised cost Interest accrued but not due on borrowings 3.12 6.91 Interest accrued and due on borrowings 0.01 Current maturities of long-term borrowings (refer note 19) 149.59 84.26 Unclaimed dividend* 3.37 2.86 Deposits from customers 0.46 0.79 Deposits from vendors 0.41 0.46 Payables for purchase of property, plant and equipment (including deferred payment liabilities) 475.03 56.83 Employee benefits payable 19.40 23.56 Others 46.89 71.27 698.27 246.95 Total current financial liabilities 708.54 290.76 * There are no amounts due and outstanding to be credited to Investor Education and Protection Fund. Note 21: Trade Payables 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Total outstanding dues of micro & small enterprises (refer note 41) 92.44 15.14 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises & small enterprises Trade payables to related parties (refer note 51) 1.25 30.41 Others 1,819.06 610.63 Total Trade Payables 1,912.75 656.18 Note 22: Provisions 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Non-current Provision for warranty 0.72 24.96 Others 0.29 0.16 Total non-current provision 1.01 25.12 Current Provision for litigations / contingencies 9.50 9.50 Provision for warranty 0.46 17.33 Others 1.50 1.24 Total current provision 11.46 28.07 238 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Provision for litigations / contingencies The provision of ` 9.50 crores as at 31 March 2019 (31 March 2018: ` 9.50 crores) is towards contingencies in respect of disputed claims against the Group as described in note 40, the quantum of outflow and timing of which is presently unascertainable. There is no movement in the provision for litigations / contingencies during the year. Provision for warranty The Group has given warranty on network software and licences sold to customers. The timing of the outflow is expected to be within a period of eighteen months from the date of sale of telecom software products. Movement in provision for warranty is given below. 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) At the beginning of the year 42.29 27.16 Arising during the year 22.90 Impact of change in accounting policy on adoption of Ind AS 115 (refer note 55) (40.33) Unwinding of interest during the year 1.22 Utilized during the year (0.78) (8.99) At the end of the year 1.18 42.29 Current portion 0.46 17.33 Non-current portion 0.72 24.96 Note 23: Other Current Liabilities 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Contract Liabilities (Refer note 55) Unearned revenue 89.40 Advance from customers 180.96 Total contract liabilities 270.36 Significant changes in Contract liabilities Contact liabilities have increased as entity has received advance from customers against the new fixed price contracts entered during the year. 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Current Unearned revenue 35.40 Indirect taxes payable 7.38 2.03 Withholding taxes (TDS) payable 10.26 6.37 Advance from customers 40.86 Others 64.13 61.78 Total other current liabilities 81.77 146.44 During the year ended March 31, 2019, the Group recognized revenue of ` 35.40 crores arising from opening unearned revenue as of April 1, 2018. Annual Report 2018-19 239 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 24: Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net) 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Deferred tax liability Property, plant & equipment: Impact of difference between tax depreciation and depreciation/amortisation 119.00 92.46 for financial reporting Impact of fair valuation of Land on transition date 15.88 15.88 Net movement on cash flow hedges 29.27 Others 2.34 Gross deferred tax liability 164.15 110.68 Deferred tax assets Provision for doubtful debts and advances, allowed for tax purpose on payment basis 10.48 8.41 Expenditure allowed for tax purposes on payment basis 19.48 9.12 Provision for inventory 6.90 3.63 Provision for litigations / contingencies 2.53 2.53 Net movement on cash flow hedges 16.74 Unused Tax Credit 18.90 18.90 Impact of fair valuation of Plant & Machinery 5.54 7.39 Impact of change in accounting policy on adoption of Ind AS 115 (refer note 55) 11.96 Re-measurement loss defined benefits plans 2.74 Others 11.23 21.79 Gross deferred tax assets 89.76 88.52 Net deferred tax liability 74.39 22.16 Reconciliation of deferred tax liability 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Opening deferred tax liability, net 22.16 (3.41) Deferred tax (credit) / charge recorded in statement of profit and loss (10.81) (2.03) Deferred tax (credit) / charge recorded in OCI 43.65 (16.70) Movement in Unused Tax Credit 44.30 Deferred tax on acquisition of subsidiary (refer note 47) 22.55 Impact of change in accounting policy on adoption of Ind AS 115 (refer note 55) (6.83) Others 3.67 Closing deferred tax liability, net 74.39 22.16 The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018 are: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Profit or loss section Current Tax Current tax on profit for the year 288.97 135.18 Deferred Tax Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences (10.81) (2.03) Income tax expenses reported in the statement of profit or loss 278.16 133.15 OCI section Deferred tax related to items recognised in OCI during in the year Net (gain)/loss on revaluation of cash flow hedges (46.39) 16.74 Re-measurement loss defined benefit plans 2.74 (0.04) Income tax charged through OCI (43.65) 16.70 240 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India’s domestic tax rate for 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Profit before tax & share in loss of joint venture 863.54 502.58 Tax at India’s statutory income tax rate of 34.94% (31 March 2018: 34.94%) 301.72 175.60 Tax at lower tax rate of Subsidiaries (18.61) (25.10) Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years (6.40) Tax benefits available under various sections of income tax act (8.37) (14.15) Other adjustments 3.42 3.20 Income tax expense 278.16 133.15 Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and loss 278.16 133.15 Note 24B: Current Tax Liabilities (Net) 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Current tax liabilities (Net) 55.38 Total current tax liabilities 55.38 Note 25: Employee Benefit Obligations 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Non Current Provision for gratuity 19.59 5.06 Provision for compensated absences 12.76 2.80 Total non-current employee benefits obligation 32.35 7.86 Current Provision for gratuity 10.27 13.96 Provision for compensated absences 12.07 8.79 Total current employee benefits obligation 22.34 22.75 i) Compensated Absences The compensated absences cover the Group's liability for sick and earned leave. The amount of the provision is ` 24.83 crores (31 March 2018 ` 11.59 crores). The Group does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement for any of these obligations. However, based on past experience, the Group does not expect all employees to take the full amount of accrued leave or require payment within the next 12 months and accordingly amounts have been classified as current and non current based on actuarial valuation report. ii) Post employment benefit Gratuity The Group provides for gratuity for employees in India as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Employees who are in continuous service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The amount of gratuity payable on retirement/termination is the employees last drawn basic salary per month computed proportionately for 15 days salary multiplied for the number of years of service. The gratuity plan is a funded plan and the Group makes contributions to fund managed by Life Insurance Corporation of India. The Group does not fully fund the liability and maintains a target level of funding to be maintained over a period of time based on estimate of expected gratuity payments. Annual Report 2018-19 241 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the year 22.98 19.65 Current service cost 2.85 2.55 Interest cost 1.99 1.42 Actuarial (gain)/loss 7.33 0.04 Past service cost 0.27 Benefits paid (0.97) (0.94) Defined benefit obligation, at the end of the year 34.18 22.98 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year 3.77 3.38 Expected return on plan assets 0.51 0.37 Contribution by employer 0.97 0.56 Benefits paid (0.93) (0.39) Actuarial gain / (loss) (0.15) Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 4.32 3.77 The Group expects to contribute ` 4.50 crores (31 March 2018: ` 4.16 crores) to its gratuity plan in FY 2019-20. The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of the fair value of total plan assets are as follows: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (%) (%) Insurance Fund with Life Insurance Corporation of India 100 100 The fair value of planned assets represents the amount as confirmed by the fund. Details of defined benefit obligation 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Present value of defined benefit obligation 34.18 22.80 Fair value of plan assets (4.32) (3.77) Benefit liability 29.86 19.03 The net liability disclosed above relates to funded plans are as follows: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Present value of funded obligations 34.18 17.25 Fair value of plan assets (4.32) (3.77) Deficit of funded plan (A) 29.86 13.48 Unfunded plans (B) 5.55 Total net obligation (A+B) 29.86 19.03 The Group has no legal obligation to settle the deficit in the funded plans with an immediate contribution or additional one off contributions. The Group intends to continue to contribute the defined benefit plans as per the demand from LIC of India. 242 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Net employee benefit expense recognised in the statement of profit and loss: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Current service cost 2.85 2.55 Interest cost on benefit obligation 1.99 1.42 Past service cost 0.27 Expected return on plan assets (0.51) (0.23) Net benefit expense 4.33 4.01 Net employee benefit expense recognised in the other comprehensive income (OCI): 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Actuarial Losses on Obligation For the Period 7.33 0.04 Return on Plan Assets, Excluding Interest Income 0.51 (0.14) Net Expense For the Period Recognized in OCI 7.84 (0.10) Amounts for the current and previous periods are as follows: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) (` in crores) (` in crores) (` in crores) Defined benefit obligation 34.18 22.80 19.65 16.22 11.87 Plan assets 4.32 3.77 3.37 2.59 2.08 Surplus / (deficit) 29.86 19.03 16.28 13.63 9.79 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 3.08 (0.01) (0.14) 1.90 0.41 Experience adjustments on plan assets -* -* (0.15) 0.00* (0.05) * Amount is below the rounding off norm followed by the Company. The principal assumptions used in determining defined benefit obligation are shown below: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Discount rate 7.64% 7.80% Expected rate of return on plan asset 7.64% 7.80% Employee turnover 10.00% 10.00% Expected rate of salary increase 10.00% 8.00% The estimated future salary increase, considered in actuarial valuation, takes into account the effect of inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant factors such as supply and demand in the employment market. Sensitivity Analysis 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) +1% Change in discount rate (2.10) (0.89) -1% Change in discount rate 2.39 1.84 +1% Change in rate of salary increase 2.31 1.82 -1% Change in rate of salary increase (2.08) (0.90) +1% Change in rate of employee turnover (0.44) 0.31 -1% Change in rate of employee turnover 0.49 0.47 The above sensitivity analysis is based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the defined benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet. Annual Report 2018-19 243 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the prior period. Risk exposure Through its defined benefit plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: Asset volatility: The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to bond yields; if plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit. Plan assets are maintained with fund manager LIC of India. Changes in bond yields: A decrease in bond yields will increase plan liabilities. Future salary escalation and inflation risk: Rising salaries will often result in higher future defined benefit payments resulting in a higher present value of liabilities especially unexpected salary increases provided at managements discretion may lead to uncertainties in estimating this risk. Life expectancy Increases in life expectancy of employee will result in an increase in the plan liabilities. This is particularly significant where inflationary increases result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy. The Group's all assets are maintained in a trust fund managed by public sector insurance Company via LIC of India. LIC has a sovereign guarantee and has been providing consistent and competitive returns over the years. The plan asset mix is in compliance with the requirements of the respective local regulations. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 7 years (2018 8 years). The expected maturity analysis of gratuity is as follows: Maturity Analysis of defined benefit obligation: The expected maturity analysis of undiscounted gratuity is as follows: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars Funded Funded Non Funded Projected Benefits Payable in Future Years From the Date of Reporting Less than 1 year 5.03 3.90 0.39 Between 1 to 2 years 2.52 2.78 0.88 Between 2 to 5 years 8.46 2.85 1.03 Over 5 years 49.26 20.64 9.33 244 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 26: Revenue from Operations 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Revenue from contracts with customers Sale of products Finished goods 3,131.30 2,433.77 Traded goods 48.49 19.99 Revenue from sale of products 3,179.79 2,453.76 Revenue from sale of services 74.71 67.31 Revenue from network integration projects 1,570.70 493.22 Revenue from software products/licenses and implementation activities 171.04 123.20 4,996.24 3,137.49 Other Operating income Scrap sales 25.94 24.59 Export incentives 65.08 43.41 Revenue from operation 5,087.26 3,205.49 Revenue disaggregation in terms of nature of good and service has been included above. The total contract price of ` 5,084.00 crores is reduced by the consideration of ` 87.76 crores towards variable components. Refer note 2, 3 and 55 for accounting policy, significant judgements and details about impact of changes in accounting policies on adoption of Ind AS 115 respectively. The Group’s unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations can vary due to several factors such as terminations, changes in scope of contracts, periodic revalidations of the estimates or other relevant economic factors. The aggregate value of unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations is ` 2,904.00 crores which is expected to be recognised evenly over a period of one to three years. Remaining value of performance obligations is expected to be substantially recognised in the next year. Amount of unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations does not include contracts with original expected duration of one year or less since the Group has applied the practical expedient in Ind AS 115. In accordance with the requirements of Ind AS, revenue for the period April 1, 2017 to June 30, 2017 is inclusive of excise duty of ` 28.38 crore. Note 27: Other Income 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Management Fees* 4.33 1.99 Rental Income 2.01 2.68 Profit on sale of assets, net 2.08 Exchange differences, net 1.65 6.28 Miscellaneous Income 9.87 14.67 Total other income 19.94 25.62 *The amount disclosed above is net of expenses for provision of services (refer note 51). Annual Report 2018-19 245 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 28: Finance Income 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Interest income on Bank deposits 0.60 0.74 Loans to related parties (refer note 51) 2.81 1.47 Others 0.17 2.56 Income from current investment 1.89 1.36 Interest subvention 11.45 7.52 Total finance income 16.92 13.65 Note 29: Cost of Raw Material and Components Consumed 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Inventory at the beginning of the year (refer note 13) 91.24 93.93 Adjustment on account of business combination (refer note 47) 49.77 Add : Purchases 2,659.93 1,219.46 2,800.94 1,313.39 Less : Inventory at the end of the year (refer note 13) 209.62 91.24 Cost of Raw Material and components consumed 2,591.32 1,222.15 (Increase)/ decrease in inventories Opening inventories Traded goods 4.68 8.04 Work-in-progress 25.25 149.66 Construction work-in-progress 98.80 Finished goods 55.62 42.58 184.35 200.28 Impact of change in accounting policy on adoption of Ind AS 115 (refer note 55) Construction (97.78) work-in-progress Adjustment on account of business combination (refer note 47) Work-in-progress 46.41 Finished Goods 34.08 167.06 200.28 Closing inventories Traded goods 7.91 4.68 Work-in-progress 74.46 25.25 Construction work-in-progress 98.80 Finished goods 219.36 55.62 301.73 184.35 (Increase) / decrease in inventories (134.67) 15.93 246 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 30: Employee Benefit Expense 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Salaries, wages and bonus 452.79 304.14 Contribution to provident fund (refer note below) 12.80 8.03 Gratuity expenses (refer note 25) 4.33 4.01 Employees stock option expenses (refer note 35) 19.16 13.39 Staff welfare expenses 22.15 15.15 Total Employee benefit expense 511.23 344.72 The Group has certain defined contribution plans. Contributions are made to provident fund in India for employees at the rate of 12% of basic salary as per local regulations. The contributions are made to provident fund administered by the government. The obligation of the Group is limited to the amount contributed and it has no further contractual nor any constructive obligation. Defined Contribution Plans: The Group has recognised the following expenses in the Statement of Profit and Loss for the year. 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Contribution to Employees Provident Fund 12.80 8.03 Total 12.80 8.03 Note 31: Other Expenses 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Consumption of stores and spares 141.42 116.78 Consumption of packing materials 90.78 70.95 Increase / (decrease) of excise duty on inventory (1.81) Power, fuel and water 121.97 98.98 Labour Charges 40.88 34.03 Repairs and maintenance Building 2.85 4.11 Plant & machinery 14.85 14.19 Others 24.36 9.22 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenses (refer note 45) 5.37 3.64 Sales commission 35.36 28.17 Sales promotion 10.49 21.09 Carriage outwards 67.84 46.70 Rent 27.20 23.04 Insurance 12.85 11.12 Legal and professional fees 77.18 55.11 Rates and taxes 13.26 8.69 Travelling and conveyance 64.27 52.06 Loss on sale of assets, net 1.65 Bad debts / advances written off 17.33 10.54 Provision for doubtful debts and advances 8.37 13.53 Directors sitting fee and commission 1.57 0.75 Payment to auditor 1.53 0.66 Research and development expenses (refer note 42) Salaries, wages and bonus 22.26 16.07 Raw materials consumed 0.47 1.16 General expenses 12.25 11.10 Total Research and development expenses 34.98 28.33 Less Amount transferred to individual expense line item (34.98) (28.33) Research and development expenses Miscellaneous expenses* 181.92 188.77 Total other expenses 961.65 811.97 *This includes ` 1.74 crores pertaining to investments classified as FVTPL (refer note 8) Annual Report 2018-19 247 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 32: Depreciation and Amortisation Expense 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Depreciation of tangible assets 156.91 140.65 Depreciation of investment property 0.09 0.16 Amortisation of intangible assets 37.98 34.47 Provision/(reversal) for impairment of tangible assets 6.93 Total depreciation and amortisation expense 194.98 182.21 Note 33: Finance Cost 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Interest on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost* 83.44 80.28 Bank charges 13.64 9.88 Exchange difference to the extent considered as an adjustment to borrowing costs 8.41 12.45 Unwinding of discount on provisions 1.22 Total finance cost 105.49 103.83 * During the year, the Group has capitalised borrowing costs of ` 53.37 crores (31 March 2018: ` 2.67 crores) incurred on the borrowings specifically availed for expansion of production facilities and general borrowing costs. The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs to be capitalised is the weighted average interest rate applicable to the Group's general borrowings, in this case 8.49% p.a. Note 34: Tax Expenses 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Current tax 288.97 135.18 Deferred tax (10.81) (2.03) Total tax expenses 278.16 133.15 Unused tax losses for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised 31.85 26.97 Potential tax benefit @34.94% 11.13 9.42 Unrecognised temporary differences Temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries 228.25 219.96 Certain subsidiaries of the group have undistributed earnings where an assessable temporary difference exists, but no deferred tax has been recognised considering applicable tax regulations in countries where subsidiaries are domiciled and the parent entity is able to control the timing of distributions from these subsidiaries and is not expected to distribute these profits in the foreseeable future. Note 35: Employee Share Based Payments The Group has established employees stock options plan, 2010 (ESOP Scheme) for its employees pursuant to the special resolution passed by shareholders at the annual general meeting held on July 14, 2010. The employee stock option plan is designed to provide incentives to the employees of the Group to deliver long-term returns and is an equity settled plan. The ESOP Scheme is administered by the Nomination and Remuneration committee. Participation in the plan is at the Nomination and Remuneration committee's discretion and no individual has a contractual right to participate in the plan or to receive any guaranteed benefits. Options granted under ESOP scheme would vest in not less than one year and not more than five years from the date of grant of the options. The Nomination and remuneration committee of the Group has approved multiple grants with related vesting conditions. Vesting of the options would be subject to continuous employment with the Group and hence the options would vest with passage of time. In addition to this, the Nomination and remuneration committee may also specify certain performance parameters subject to which the options would vest. Such options would vest when the performance parameters are met. 248 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Once vested, the options remain exercisable for a period of one year. Options granted under the plan are for no consideration and carry no dividend or voting rights. On exercise, each option is convertible into one equity share. The exercise price is ` 2 per option. The Group has charged ` 19.16 crores (31 March 2018: ` 13.39 crores) to the statement of profit and loss in respect of options granted under ESOP scheme. a) Set Out Below is the summary of options granted under the plan. 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Average Average Exercise price Number of Options Exercise price Number of Options per share per share Opening Balance 2 50,50,978 2 71,34,568 Granted During the year 2 16,36,950 2 17,12,500 Forfeited During the year 2 2 Exercised During the year 2 (15,51,202) 2 (27,14,978) Expired During the year 2 (5,22,248) 2 (10,81,112) Closing Balance 46,14,478 50,50,978 Vested and Exercisable 3,41,195 2,54,827 Average share price for the year ended 31 March 2019 is 307.95 (31 March 2018: ` 244.84) Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry date and exercise prices. Share options Share options Exercise Price Grant Date Expiry Date outstanding on outstanding on (INR) 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 29 December 2011 29 December 2017 2 1,800 30 April 2014 30 April 2020 2 2,16,100 4,14,250 30 March 2015 30 March 2021 2 8,13,750 13,24,500 13 July 2016 13 July 2022 2 2,87,598 4,37,584 25 July 2016 25 July 2022 2 4,93,100 8,44,344 28 January 2016 26 January 2022 2 4,83,000 5,73,000 18 January 2017 18 January 2023 2 19 July 2017 19 July 2023 2 7,25,330 13,93,000 16 October 2017 16 October 2023 2 27,850 50,300 17 January 2018 19 January 2023 2 7,100 12,200 19 July 2018 19 July 2024 2 14,96,750 24 January 2019 24 January 2023 2 63,900 Total 46,14,478 50,50,978 Weighted Average remaining contractual life of the options 2.68 2.88 outstanding at the end of the period Annual Report 2018-19 249 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 b) Fair Value of the options granted during the yearDuring the current year remuneration committee has approved two grants. Following are the details of assumptions under individual grant, related vesting conditions and fair valuation model used based on the nature of vesting. Date of GrantJuly 19, 2018 The company has granted options under ESOP scheme based on following two criteria and related assumptions 1. Vesting criteria Assured vesting of 30% Options in five years subject to continuous employment with the company Fair Valuation MethodBlack Scholes options Pricing Model Vest 1 Vest 2 Vest 3 Vest 4 Vest 5 Variables 19 July 2019 19 July 2020 19 July 2021 19 July 2022 19 July 2023 Weighted Average Stock Price 301.75 301.75 301.75 301.75 301.75 Expected volatility 44.79% 42.14% 42.88% 45.40% 45.38% Risk Free rate 7.03% 7.29% 7.44% 7.53% 7.60% Exercise Price (` per Option) 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 Time To Maturity (years) 1.54 2.54 3.54 4.54 5.54 Dividend Yield 1.04% 1.04% 1.04% 1.04% 1.04% Outputs Option Fair value 295.18 292.24 289.33 286.44 283.57 Vesting Percentage 50.00% 20.00% 10.00% 10.00% 10.00% Fair Value of the option (Black Scholes Model) 291.97 2. Vesting criteria 70% Vesting based on total Shareholders return based on market performance Fair Valuation Method Monte Carlo Simulation model Vesting of these options is dependent on the shareholder return during the performance as compared to comparator group identified by Nomination and Remuneration Committee. The Monte carlo model requires the following information of the Group and comparator group companies: the historical share price and expected volatility during the performance period Risk free interest rate of the country where stock of comparator group is listed Dividend yield based on historical dividend payments Estimate of correlation coefficients for each pair of Group Assumptions used are as follows: Variables Price of underlying stock 301.75 Expected volatility 44.79% Risk Free rate 7.03% Exercise Price (` per Option) 2.00 Dividend Yield 1.04% Fair Value of the option 134.31 250 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Date of GrantJanuary 24, 2019 Vesting Criteria Continuous Employment with the company. Fair Valuation Method Black Scholes options Pricing Model Vest 1 Vest 2 Vest 3 Variables 25 Jan 2020 26 Jan 2021 25 Jan 2022 Weighted Average Stock Price 292.75 292.75 292.75 Expected volatility 44.64% 43.85% 45.57% Risk Free rate 6.88% 7.06% 7.20% Exercise Price (` per Option) 2.00 2.00 2.00 Time To Maturity 1.50 2.51 3.51 Dividend Yield 0.69% 0.69% 0.69% Outputs Option Fair value 287.93 286.05 284.19 Vesting Percentage 50.00% 25.00% 25.00% Fair Value of the option 286.53 Note 36: Earnings Per Share (EPS) The following table shows the computation of basic and diluted EPS. 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Profit/(Loss) for the year from continuing operations attributable to owners of the company 568.10 337.04 Profit /(Loss) for the year from discounted operations attributable to owners of the company (5.35) (2.71) Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating basic EPS 40.19 39.89 Adjustments for classification of diluted EPS: Employee stock options outstanding during the year 0.49 0.64 Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating diluted EPS 40.68 40.53 Earnings/(loss) per share Basic From continuing operations 14.14 8.45 From discontinued operations (0.13) (0.07) Diluted From continuing operations 13.96 8.32 From discontinued operations (0.13) (0.07) Options granted to employees under the ESOP Scheme 2010 are considered to be potential equity shares. They have been included in the determination of diluted earnings per share to the extent to which they are dilutive. The options have not been included in the determination of basic earnings per share. Details relating to the options are set out in note 35. Annual Report 2018-19 251 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 37: The List of Subsidiaries / Joint Venture Which are Included in the Consolidation and the Group's Effective Holding Therein Effective Effective Country of Name of the Group ownership as on ownership as on incorporation 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 List of subsidiaries Speedon Network Limited 100.00% 100.00% India Maharashtra Transmission Communication Infrastructure Limited 70.49% 61.86% India Sterlite Telesystems Limited 100.00% 100.00% India Sterlite Innovative Solutions Limited 100.00% NA India Sterlite Tech Connectivity Solutions Limited 100.00% NA India Sterlite Global Ventures (Mauritius) Limited 100.00% 100.00% Mauritius Jiangsu Sterlite and Tongguang Fiber Co. Limited 75.00% 75.00% China Sterlite (Shanghai) Trading Co. Limited 100.00% 100.00% China Sterlite Technologies S.p.A 100.00% NA Italy Metallurgica Bresciana S.p.A. 100.00% NA Italy Elitecore Technologies (Mauritius) Limited 100.00% 100.00% Mauritius Elitecore Technologies SDN. BHD 100.00% 100.00% Malaysia Sterlite Technologies Europe Ventures Limited* 100.00% Cyprus Sterlite Technologies UK Ventures Limited 100.00% 100.00% United Kingdom Sterlite Tech Holding Inc. 100.00% 100.00% USA Sterlite Technologies Inc. 100.00% 100.00% USA List of Associate MB Maanshan Special Cable Limited** 40.00% NA China List of joint venture Sterlite Conduspar Industries Ltda 58.05% 58.05% Brazil * During the year, Sterlite Technologies Europe Ventures Limited has been liquidated with effect from May 16, 2018. ** Associate company is not considered for consolidation as the operations of the associate company is insignificant for the Group. Joint Venture with Metis Eduventures Private Limited is not considered for consolidation as the same is accounted as per Ind AS 109 (Refer note 2s(ii)) Note 38: Leases Operating lease Group as lessee: The Group has taken office buildings and premises on operating lease. The lease term is for periods of three to nine years and renewable at the option of the Group. Future minimum lease payments over non cancellable period of operating leases are as follows : 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Lease payments recognised in the statement of profit and loss (refer note 31) 27.20 23.04 The future minimum lease payments payable over the next one year 2.85 13.86 The future minimum lease payments payable later than one year but not later than five years 3.03 1.56 Group as lessor: The Group has given land and office building on operating lease. The lease term is for non cancellable period of three years and renewable at the option of the Lessee. Future minimum lease receipts over non cancellable period of operating lease are as follows : 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Lease income recognised in the statement of profit and loss for the year 2.01 2.68 The future minimum lease payments receivable over the next one year 1.32 1.98 The future minimum lease payments receivable later than one year but not later than five year 2.14 252 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 39: Capital and Other Commitments a] Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not recognized for (net of advances) are ` 215.88 crores (31 March 2018: ` 992.10 crores) b] The Group has imported certain machinery under the Export Promotion Capital Goods (EPCG) scheme and accordingly has export obligation as per details below : (` in crores) Year upto Export Year of Issue obligation to be 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 fulfilled 2017-18 2023-24 736.12 1,011.75 2018-19 2024-25 269.48 In this respect, the Group has given bonds of ` 984.31 crores (31 March 2018: ` 684.66 crores) to the Commissioner of Customs. The Group expects to fulfil the export obligation within prescribed time. c] For commitments relating to lease arrangements please refer note 38. d] The Group has entered into agreements with the lenders of subsidiary Maharashtra Transmission Communication Infrastructure Limited wherein it has committed to hold directly or indirectly at all times at least 51% of equity share capital and not to sell, transfer, assign, pledge or create any security interest except pledge of shares to the respective lenders as covered in respective agreements with lenders. Note 40: Contingent Liabilities 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) 1. Disputed liabilities a) Sales tax 1.16 0.67 b) Excise duty [Including excise duty case in Supreme Court, refer note 22 & 44] 238.28 239.73 c) Customs duty 75.72 75.67 d) Service tax 3.10 3.10 e) Income tax 26.02 29.96 f) Claims lodged by a bank against the Group (*) 18.87 18.87 g) Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debt 1.11 1.11 2. Corporate guarantee to the income tax department on behalf of group companies. 114.00 114.00 The Group has not provided for disputed liabilities disclosed above arising from disallowances made in assessments which are pending with different appellate authorities for its decision. The Group is contesting the demands and the management, including its tax advisors, believe that its position will likely be upheld in the appellate process. No liability has been accrued in the financial statements for the demands raised. The management believes that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the Group's financial position. In respect of the claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts as above, the management does not expect these claims to succeed. It is not practicable to indicate the uncertainties which may affect the future outcome and estimate the financial effect of the above liabilities. * In an earlier year, one of the Bankers of the Group had wrongly paid an amount of ` 18.87 crores under the letter of credit facility. The letter of credit towards import consignment was not accepted by the Group, owing to discrepancies in the documents. Thereafter, the bank filed claim against the Group in the Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT). Against the DRT Order dated 28 October 2010, the parties had filed cross appeals before the Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal. The Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal vide its Order dated 28 January 2015 has allowed the appeal filed by the Group and has dismissed the appeal filed by the bank. The bank has challenged the said order in WRIT petition before the Bombay High Court. The management doesn't expect the claim to succeed and accordingly no provision for the contingent liability has been recognised in the financial statements. Annual Report 2018-19 253 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 41: Details of Dues to Micro and Small Enterprises as Defined Under MSMED Act, 2006 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) (i) T he principal amount and the interest due thereon (to be shown separately) remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the end of each accounting year . Principal amount due to micro and small enterprises* 92.44 15.14 Interest due on above 0.19 0.10 (ii) The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16, of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Development Act, 2006 along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day during each accounting year. (iii) The amount of interest due and payable for the year of delay in making payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without adding the interest specified under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Development Act, 2006. (iv) The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting year. 0.19 0.10 (v) (The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprise for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under section 23 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Development Act, 2006 * includes amount of ` 91.70 crores outstanding, but not overdue to micro, small and medium enterprises as on 31 March 2019. Interest payable as per section 16 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 is ` 0.19 crore (31 March 2018: ` 0.10 crore) and same is not accrued in the books of accounts. Dues to micro and small enterprises have been determined to the extent such parties have been identified on the basis of intimation received from the suppliers located in India / informations available with the Group regarding their status under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises development Act 2006. Note 42: Research and Development Expenditure 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Capital expenditure Plants and machinery capitalized during the year 12.36 4.23 Plants and machinery purchased during the year but pending for capitalization 3.26 2.92 Software capitalized during the year 0.58 0.25 16.20 7.40 Revenue expenditure Salaries, wages and bonus 22.26 16.07 Raw materials consumed 0.47 1.16 General expenses 12.25 11.10 Total 34.98 28.33 The Group has three Research and Development Centres. Centre wise breakup of expenditure is as follows : 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Sterlite Centre of Research-Aurangabad Capital Expenditure 2.70 1.51 Revenue Expenditure 17.38 15.36 20.08 16.87 Sterlite Tech Smart Network Centre-Gurgaon Capital Expenditure 10.56 2.72 Revenue Expenditure 5.56 4.47 16.12 7.19 Sterlite Technologies Ahmedabad Capital Expenditure 2.94 3.17 Revenue Expenditure 12.04 8.50 254 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 14.98 11.67 Note 43: Disclosures Pursuant To Indian Accounting Standard (Ind As) 11 Construction Contracts 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Amount of contract revenue recognised during the year 493.22 The aggregate amount of costs incurred and recognised profits (less recognised losses) for all contracts in 1,203.92 progress upto the reporting date Amount of customer advances outstanding for contracts in progress upto the reporting date 35.53 Retention amount due from customers for contracts in progress upto the reporting date 55.54 Gross amount due from customers for construction contracts 148.98 Note 44: Excise /Customs Matter Pending with Honorable Supreme Court The Company had in an earlier year received an order of CESTAT upholding the demand of ` 188 crores (including penalties and excluding interest) (31 March 2018: ` 188 crores) in the pending excise/custom matters on various grounds. The Company’s appeal with the Honourable High Court of Mumbai was rejected on the grounds of jurisdiction. The Company preferred an appeal with the Honourable Supreme Court of India against the order of CESTAT which has been admitted. The Company has re-evaluated the case on admission of appeal by the Honourable Supreme Court. Based on their appraisal of the matter, the legal advisors/consultants are of the view that under most likely event, the provision of ` 4.50 crores (31 March 2018: ` 4.50 crores) made by the Company against the above demand is adequate. The management is confident of a favourable order and hence no further provision is considered against the said demand. Note 45: Corporate Social Responsibility The Group has spent an amount of `5.37 crores (31 March 2018: ` 3.64 crores) during the year as required under section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 in the areas of education, healthcare, woman empowerment and environment. The amount was spent by way of contribution to Sterlite Tech Foundation of ` 5.22 crores, in which directors/senior executives of the Group and their relatives are trustees and to Kerala Chief Minister's Relief Fund ` 0.15 crores. Details of CSR expenditure 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) A. Gross amount required to be spent by the Group 5.37 3.64 B. Amount spent during the year 5.37 3.64 (i) Construction / acquisition of any assets (i) On purpose other than (i) above 5.37 3.64 Note 46 Amortisation of Recognised Goodwill on Acquisition During the year 2015-16, the Group had acquired 100% of the paid up equity share capital of Elitecore Technologies Private Limited ('ETPL'), a global telecom software product Company. ETPL has been merged with the Group with the appointed date of September 29, 2015 under a scheme of amalgamation approved by Honourable Bombay High Court and Gujarat High Court (the Scheme ). Goodwill (excess of purchase consideration over the aggregate book value of the net assets acquired) is being amortised over a period of five years, as per the Scheme. Ind-AS does not allow amortisation of goodwill, which amounted to ` 29.65 crores (31 March 2018: ` 29.64 crores) for the year. Note 47 : Business Combinations Summary of acquisition The parent company on 20 July 2018 (the “Acquisition date”), through its wholly owned subsidiary Sterlite Technologies S.p.A, acquired 100% equity of Metallurgica Bresciana S.p.A (Metallurgica), a manufacturer of specialised optical cable, for a purchase consideration of Euro 4.65 crores in cash. This acquisition will enable the group to locally operate in the European market. Annual Report 2018-19 255 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 The assets and liabilities recognised as a result of the acquisition are as follows: Fair Value Fair Value Particulars Amount in Euro Amount in crores ` crores Land and buildings 1.30 104.34 Plant and Machinery 0.42 33.31 Intangible Assets: Customer Relationships 0.38 30.34 Investments 0.16 12.90 Inventories 1.62 130.26 Trade receivables 2.26 181.21 Liquid funds 0.09 7.05 Other assets 0.03 2.40 Trade and other payables (0.74) (59.17) Bank loans and borrowings (1.21) (97.48) Deferred tax liabilities (0.28) (22.55) Employee benefit obligations (0.09) (7.45) Accruals and provisions (0.05) (4.22) Net identifiable asset required 3.87 310.95 Amount Euro in Amount ` in Calculation of goodwill crores crores Consideration transferred 4.65 373.22 Less: Net identifiable assets required (3.87) (310.95) Goodwill 0.78 62.27 The goodwill is attributable to the synergies from combining operations with group and workforce. It will not be deductible for tax purposes. There were no acquisitions in the year ended March 31, 2018. Acquired receivables The fair value of acquired trade receivables is ` 181.21 crores. The gross contractual amount for trade receivables due is ` 184.54 and of which ` 3.33 crores is expected to be uncollectible. Revenue & Profit Contribution : The financial information of Metallurgica has been consolidated upto its reporting period ended as on December 31, 2018 which is the most recent audited financial information available with the Management. If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 April 2018, consolidated pro-forma revenue and profit for the year ended 31 March 2019 would have been ` 5,287.64 crores and ` 599.76 crores respectively. These amounts have been calculated using the subsidiary's results and adjusting them for: i) Eliminating pre acquisition date sales transactions by the group to Metallurgica amounting to ` 10.71 crores and ii) the additional depreciation and amortisation that would have been charged assuming the fair value adjustments to Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets had applied from 1 April 2018, together with the consequential tax effects. The working of it as per the following: Revenue Profit Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Total revenue and profit of group excluding Metallurgica 4,918.00 574.41 Revenue and profit of Metallurgica 369.64 25.35 Total 5,287.64 599.76 256 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Purchase Consideration cash outflow 31 March 2019 Outflow of cash to acquire subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (` in crores) Cash consideration 373.22 Less: Balances acquired Cash 7.05 Loans and borrowings (97.48) Net outflow of cash Investing activities 282.79 Acquisition related costs Acquisition related costs of ` 2.81 crores is included in other expenses in Statement of profit & loss. Measurement period The group does not expect any further significant changes till the end of measurement period to the goodwill amount recognised. Note 48: Financial Risk Management The Group's principal financial liabilities, comprise borrowings, trade and other payables and other financial liabilities. The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Group's operations. The Group's principal financial assets include Investments, loans, trade and other receivables, cash and short-term deposits and other financial assets that arise directly from its operations. The Group also enters into derivative transactions. The Group's activities expose it to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group's senior management oversees the activities to manage of these risks. All derivative activities for risk management purposes are carried out by specialist teams that have the appropriate skills, experience and supervision. It is the Group's policy that no trading in derivatives for speculative purposes should be undertaken. The Risk Management policies of the Group are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are approved and reviewed regularly by the Board to reflect changes in market conditions and the Group's activities. Management has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group's risk management framework. The risks to which Group is exposed and related risk management policies are summarised below: (a) Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk, price risk such as equity price risk and commodity risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk mainly including loans given and borrowings, financial assets and liabilities in foreign currency, quoted investments and derivative financial instruments. The sensitivity analysis in the following sections relate to the position as at 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018. The sensitivity analysis have been prepared on the basis that the amount of debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates of the debt and derivatives and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of hedge designations in place at 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018. Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or the future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in interest rates. The Group's exposure to the risk of changes in interest rate primarily relates to the Group's debt obligations with floating interest rates. Annual Report 2018-19 257 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 The Group is exposed to the interest rate fluctuation in domestic as well as foreign currency borrowing. The Group manages its interest rate risk by having a balanced portfolio of fixed and variable rate borrowings. The Group enters into interest rate swaps, in which it agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable rate interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount. At 31 March 2019, after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps, approximately 75% of the Group's borrowings are at a fixed rate of interest (31 March 2018: 83%). The exposure of the group's borrowing to interest rate changes at the end of the reporting period are as follows: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Variable rate borrowings 663.17 359.39 Fixed rate borrowings 1,403.95 818.15 Total borrowings 2,067.12 1,177.54 As at the end of the year, the group had the following variable rate borrowings and interest rate swap contracts outstanding: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Balance Balance % of total loans % of total loans (` In crores) (` In crores) Variable rate borrowings 663.17 32% 359.39 31% Interest rate swaps (notional principal amount) 138.34 163.00 Net exposure to cash flow interest rate risk 524.83 196.39 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the interest rates borrowings at variable interest rate. With all the other variables held constant, the Group's profit before tax is affected through the impact on floating rate borrowings, as follows: (` In crores) Effect on profit Increase/ before tax / preParticulars Decrease in tax equity Basis Points 31 March 2019 Base Rate +50 2.62 Base Rate -50 (2.62) March 31, 2018 Base Rate +50 0.98 Base Rate -50 (0.98) Foreign currency risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from foreign currency transactions, primarily with respect to the USD, EURO, GBP and Chinese renminbi (RMB). Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities denominated in a currency that is not the Group's functional currency (INR). The risk is measured through a forecast of highly probable foreign currency cash flows. The objective of the hedges is to minimise the volatility of the INR cash flows of highly probable forecast transactions. The Group has a policy to keep minimum forex exposure on the books that are likely to occur within a maximum 12-month period for hedges of forecasted sales and purchases. As per the risk management policy, foreign exchange forward contracts are taken to hedge its exposure in foreign currency risk. During the years ended 31 March 2019 and 2018, the Group did not have any hedging instruments with terms which were not aligned with those of the hedged items. When a derivative is entered into for the purpose of hedge, the Group negotiates the terms of those derivatives to match the terms of the underlying exposure. For hedges of forecast transactions the derivatives cover the period of exposure from the point the cash flows of the transactions are forecasted up to the point of settlement of the resulting receivable or payable that is denominated in the foreign currency 258 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Out of total foreign currency exposure the Group has hedged significant exposure as at March 31, 2019 and as at March 31, 2018. The Group's foreign currency exposure at the year end is as follows March 31, 2019 (` in crores) USD EUR GBP AED Financial Assets Trade receivable 103.91 117.81 36.90 12.14 Bank Balances 10.56 0.56 4.79 Derivative Assets Foreign exchange forward contracts Sell foreign currency 30.70 97.19 36.90 12.14 Net Exposure to foreign currency risk (Assets) 83.77 21.18 4.79 March 31, 2019 (` in crores) USD EUR GBP AED Financial Liabilities Bank Loan (including deferred payment liabilities) 197.65 94.01 Payables for purchase of property, plant & equipments 262.04 8.46 Trade Payables 191.01 13.86 0.05 Derivative Liabilities Foreign exchange forward contracts Buy foreign currency 238.01 25.96 0.05 Principal Swap 138.34 Net Exposure to foreign currency risk (Liabilities) 274.35 90.37 March 31, 2018 (` in crores) USD EUR GBP AUD AED MYR Financial Assets Trade receivable 133.98 124.85 31.21 0.46 10.90 4.14 Bank Balances 7.56 3.71 3.56 2.32 Derivative Assets Foreign exchange forward contracts Sell foreign currency 128.78 124.80 31.21 10.90 Net Exposure to foreign currency risk (Assets) 12.76 3.76 3.56 0.46 6.46 March 31, 2018 (` in crores) USD EUR GBP AUD AED MYR Financial Liabilities Bank Loan 297.63 Trade Payables (including payable for purchase of property, 195.37 74.41 29.81 plant & equipments Derivative Liabilities Foreign exchange forward contracts Buy foreign currency 241.73 54.82 29.81 Principal Swap 162.60 Net Exposure to foreign currency risk (Liabilities) 88.67 19.59 Foreign currency sensitivity The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD, EUR and GBP exchange rates, with all other variables held constant. The impact on the Group's profit before tax is due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities. The impact on the Group’s pre-tax equity is due to changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges. The Group’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not Annual Report 2018-19 259 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 material. With all the other variable held constant, the Group's profit before tax is affected through the impact on change of foreign currency rate as follows(` in crores) Effect on profit Effect on profit Effect on profit Change in Change in Change in before tax / pre-tax before tax / pre-tax before tax / pre-tax USD rate Euro rate GBP rate equity equity equity March 31, 2019 +5% (9.53)/(3.82) +5% (3.46)/53.85 +5% 0.24/0.24 -5% 9.53/3.82 -5% 3.46/(53.85) -5% (0.24)/(0.24) March 31, 2018 +5% (4.17)/(0.10) +5% (0.79)/(2.16) +5% 0.18/(0.04) -5% 4.17/0.10 -5% 0.79/2.16 -5% (0.18)/0.04 Commodity price risk short durations and therefore impact of price change is The Group is affected by the price volatility of certain generally not significant commodities. Its operating activities require the ongoing purchase and manufacture of copper cables and (b) Credit risk therefore require a continuous supply of copper. To meet Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its these requirements the Group enters into contracts obligations under a contract, leading to a financial loss. The to purchase copper. The prices in these purchase Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities contracts are linked to the price on London Metal (primarily trade receivables) and from its investing activities, Exchange. including deposits with banks, foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments. The Group has risk management strategy to mitigate commodity price risk. Trade receivables and Contract assets Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit Based on a 1 month forecast of the required copper subject to the Group’s established policy, procedures supply, the Group hedges the purchase price using future and control relating to customer credit risk management. commodity purchase contracts. The forecast is deemed to Credit quality of a customer is assessed based on credit be highly probable. rating and individual credit limits are defined in accordance with credit assessment. Outstanding customer receivables Commodity price sensitivity are regularly monitored and any shipments to major As per the Group's policy for commodity price customers are generally covered by letters of credit or other hedging, all the commodity price exposures as on forms of credit assurance. reporting dates are fully hedged. Thus, there are no An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date open unhedged exposures on the reporting dates. on an individual basis for major customers. In addition, Further, total exposure related to commodity derivative is not a large number of minor receivables are grouped into material. homogenous groups and assessed for impairment collectively. The assessment is based on historical Price risk information of default risk. The maximum exposure to credit The Group's non-listed equity securities are susceptible risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future of financial assets. The Group does not hold collateral as values of the investment securities. The Group manages security. The Group evaluates the concentration of risk with the equity price risk through diversification and by placing respect to trade receivables as low, as its customers are limits on individual and total equity instruments. Reports on located in several jurisdictions and industries and operate in the equity portfolio are submitted to the Group’s senior largely independent markets. During the period, the group management on a regular basis. The Group’s Board of made write-offs of ` 17.33 crores (31 March 2018 : ` 10.54 Directors review and approve all equity investment decisions. crores) trade receivables, it does not expect to receive future cash flows or recoveries from collection of cash flows At the reporting date, the exposure to unlisted equity previously written off. securities (other than investments in subsidiaries) at fair value was ` 35.30 crores (31 March 2018: The Group’s profile for customer contracts and software ` 19.60 crores). services include public sector enterprises, state owned companies and private corporates. Accordingly, the The group invests into highly liquid funds which are subject Group’s customer credit risk is low. The Group’s average to price risk changes. These investments are generally for network integration projects execution cycle ranges 260 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 from 12 to 36 months based on the nature of contract The Group has a detailed review mechanism of overdue and scope of services to be provided. General payment customer receivables at various levels within organisation to terms include mobilisation advance, progress payments ensure proper attention and focus for realisation and based with a credit period ranging from 45 to 90 days and on assessment performed management has concluded that certain retention money to be released at the end of the impact of expected credit loss is not material and current project. In some cases retentions are substituted with provision made against trade receivable is adequate to cover bank/corporate guarantees. the provision on account of expected credit loss. Details of Expected credit loss for trade receivables and contract assets is as follows: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars less than 365 days more than 365 days Total less than 365 days more than 365 days Total Gross carrying amount 2,467.99 20.27 2,488.26 882.42 13.00 895.42 Expected credit loss rate 0.89% 80.00% 1.63% 75.00% Expected credit loss provision 21.91 16.22 38.13 14.39 9.75 24.14 Carrying amount of trade receivable 2,446.08 4.05 2,450.13 868.03 3.25 871.28 (net of provision) Financial instruments and cash deposits 31 March 2018 is the carrying amounts of each class of Credit risk from balances with banks and financial financial assets. institutions is managed by the Group’s treasury department in accordance with the Group’s policy. Investments of (c) Liquidity risk surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group may encounter and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty. difficulty in meeting its present and future obligations Counterparty credit limits are reviewed by the Group on associated with financial liabilities that are required to an annual basis, and may be updated throughout the year be settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. . The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks The Group's objective is to, at all times, maintain optimum and therefore mitigate financial loss through counterparty’s levels of liquidity to meet its cash and collateral obligations. potential failure to make payments. The Group requires funds both for short term operational needs as well as for long term investment programs mainly Other financial assets that are potentially subject to credit in growth projects. The Group closely monitors its liquidity risk consists of inter corporate loans. The Group assesses position and deploys a robust cash management system. the recoverability from these financial assets on regular It aims to minimise these risks by generating sufficient cash basis. Factors such as business and financial performance of flows from its current operations, which in addition to the counterparty, their ability to repay, regulatory changes and available cash and cash equivalents, liquid investments and overall economic conditions are considered to assess future sufficient committed fund facilities, will provide liquidity. recoverability. The Group charges interest on such loans The liquidity risk is managed on the basis of expected at arms length rate considering countparty's credit rating. maturity dates of the financial liabilities. The average credit Based on the assessment performed, the Group considers period taken to settle trade payables is about 60 90 all the outstanding balances of such financial assets to be days. The other payables are with short term durations. recoverable as on balance sheet date and no provision for The carrying amounts are assumed to be reasonable impairment is considered necessary. approximation of fair value. The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group's financial liabilities based on The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the contractual undiscounted payments: components of the balance sheet at 31 March 2019 and Annual Report 2018-19 261 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 (` in crores) Payable on Less than 3 3 months to 1 year to Particulars > 5 years Total demand months 12 months 5 years As at March 31, 2019 Borrowings 41.92 777.40 312.98 934.82 2,067.12 Other financial liabilities 4.24 39.63 29.77 2.71 76.35 Trade payables 264.13 778.28 816.52 53.62 0.20 1,912.75 Payables for purchase of Property, 162.94 312.10 9.40 484.44 plant and equipments Derivatives 6.29 3.98 2.77 13.04 310.29 1,764.54 1,475.35 1,003.32 0.20 4,553.70 As at March 31, 2018 Borrowings 267.09 279.91 630.54 1,177.54 Other financial liabilities 2.86 30.48 72.52 1.10 106.96 Trade payables 0.15 526.04 130.00 656.18 Payables for purchase of Property, 19.04 37.79 35.53 92.36 plant and equipments Derivatives 10.67 33.14 28.19 72.00 3.01 853.31 553.36 695.36 2,105.04 Cash flow hedges At 31 March 2019, the Group has currency/interest rate Foreign exchange forward contracts are designated as swap agreements in place with a notional amount of USD hedging instruments in cash flow hedges of highly probable 2 crores (` 138.34 crore) (31 March 2018 : USD 2.5 crores forecast transactions/firm commitments for sales and ) whereby the Group receives a variable rate of interest purchases in USD, EUR and GBP. The foreign exchange of Libor + 2.70% and pays interest at a fixed rate equal to forward contract balances vary with the level of expected 10.0425% on the notional amount with USD-INR rate fixed foreign currency sales and purchases and changes in foreign at INR 66.3850 per USD. The swaps are being used to exchange forward rates. hedge the exposure to changes in the foreign exchange rates and interest rates. The Group also has multiple interest The terms of the foreign currency forward contracts rate swap agreements in place with a total notional amount match the terms of the expected highly probable forecast of USD 2.45 crores whereby the Group pays interest at transactions. As a result, no hedge ineffectiveness arose fixed rate of 2.69%-3% and receives interest at a variable requiring recognition through profit or loss as on 31 rate of 6M LIBOR. March 2019 and 31 March 2018. The cash flow hedges for such derivative contracts as at The cash flow hedges for such derivative contracts as at 31 March 2019 were assessed to be highly effective and 31 March 2019 were assessed to be highly effective and a net unrealised gain of ` 9.87 crore, with a deferred tax a net unrealised gain of ` 122.95 crore, with a deferred liability of ` 3.45 crores relating to the hedging instruments, tax liability of ` 42.96 crores relating to the hedging is included in OCI. Comparatively, the cash flow hedges as instruments, is included in OCI. Comparatively, the cash at 31 March 2018 were assessed to be highly effective and flow hedges as at 31 March 2018 were assessed to be an unrealised loss of ` 2.15 crore, with a deferred tax asset highly effective and an unrealised loss of ` 47.92 crore, of ` 0.75 crores was included in OCI in respect of these with a deferred tax asset of ` 16.74 crores was included in contracts. The amounts retained in OCI at 31 March 2019 OCI in respect of these contracts. The amounts retained in are expected to mature and affect the statement of profit and OCI at 31 March 2019 are expected to mature and affect loss during the year ended 31 March 2020. the statement of profit and loss during the year ended 31 March 2020. 262 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Impact of hedging activities (a) Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial position: 31 March 2019 (` in crores) Change in the value of hedged Carrying Changes in fair item used as Nominal Amount of Hedge Weighted average Types of hedge and risks Maturity date value of hedging the basis for Value Hedging ratio* Strike Price/Rate instrument recognising Instruments hedge effectiveness Assets / (Liabilities) Cash flow hedge Foreign exchange risk (i) Foreign exchange forward 1,233.38 80.97 April 2019 1:1 EUR:INR90.38 80.92 (80.92) contractsAssets December 2023 GBP:INR101.09 USD:INR70.29 (ii) Foreign exchange (39.36) (0.65) April 20191:1 EUR:INR79.04 41.98 (41.98) forward contractsLiabilities January 2021 USD:INR71.033 (iii) Foreign Currency Loan (138.34) 0.18 3-Jan-23 1:1 USD:INR 66.39 12.22 (12.22) Interest rate risk Interest rate swap (307.72) (1.04) 3-Jan-23 1:1 N/A (2.35) 2.35 31 March 2018 (` in crores) Change in the value of hedged Carrying Changes in fair item used as Nominal Amount of Hedge Weighted average Types of hedge and risks Maturity date value of hedging the basis for Value Hedging ratio* Strike Price/Rate instrument recognising Instruments hedge effectiveness Assets / (Liabilities) Cash flow hedge Foreign exchange risk (i) Foreign exchange forward 112.86 0.05 April 2018 1:1 AED:INR17.82 (1.47) 1.47 contractsAssets March 2022 AUD:INR50.05 EUR:INR83.98 GBP:INR90.52 USD:INR66.92 (ii) Foreign exchange (1,388.57) (42.63) April 20181:1 EUR:INR83.91 (44.30) 44.30 forward contractsLiabilities January 2021 GBP:INR101.28 USD:INR66.75 (iii) Foreign Currency Loan (165.96) (12.04) 3-Jan-23 1:1 USD:INR 66.39 (1.71) 1.71 Interest rate risk Interest rate swap (165.96) 1.31 3-Jan-23 1:1 N/A (0.44) 0.44 *The foreign exchange forward contracts are denominated in the same currency as the highly probable future sales therefore the hedge ratio is 1:1. The notional amount of interest rate swap is equal to the portion of variable rate loans that is being hedged and therefore the hedge ratio for interest rate swaps is also 1:1. The entire amount of foreign currency loan (USD) is designated as cash flow hedge and hence the hedge ratio is 1:1. Annual Report 2018-19 263 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 (b) Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial performance 31 March 2019 (` in crores) Change in the Value Line item affected in Hedge ineffectiveness Amount reclassified Type of hedge of hedging instrument statement of profit and recognised in profit or from cash flow hedging recognised in other loss because of the loss reserve to profit or loss comprehensive income reclassification Cash flow hedge Foreign exchange risk 135.12 (21.66) Revenue and COGS Interest Risk (2.35) N/A 31 March 2018 (` in crores) Change in the Value Line item affected in Hedge ineffectiveness Amount reclassified Type of hedge of hedging instrument statement of profit and recognised in profit or from cash flow hedging recognised in other loss because of the loss reserve to profit or loss comprehensive income reclassification Cash flow hedge Foreign exchange risk (47.48) 1.69 Other expenses Interest Risk (0.44) N/A The Group’s hedging policy requires for effective hedge relationships to be established. Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception of the hedge relationship and through periodic prospective effectiveness assessments to ensure that an economic relationship exists between the hedged item and hedging instrument. The Group enters into hedge relationships where the critical terms of the hedging instrument match exactly with the terms of the hedged item, and so a qualitative assessment of effectiveness is performed. If changes in circumstances affect the terms of the hedged item such that the critical terms no longer match exactly with the critical terms of the hedging instrument, the Group uses the hypothetical derivative method to assess effectiveness. Ineffectiveness is recognised on a cash flow hedge where the cumulative change in the designated component value of the hedging instrument exceeds on an absolute basis the change in value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. In hedges of foreign currency forecast sale may arise if: the critical terms of the hedging instrument and the hedged item differ (i.e. nominal amounts, timing of the forecast transaction, interest resets changes from what was originally estimated), or differences arise between the credit risk inherent within the hedged item and the hedging instrument. Refer note 18 for the details related to movement in cash flow hedging reserve. Note 49: Capital Management For the purpose of the Group's capital management, capital includes issued equity capital and all other equity reserves attributable to the shareholders of the Group. The primary objective of the Group's capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions and/or the requirements of the financial covenants. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return on capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt. The Group's policy is to keep the gearing ratio optimum. The Group includes within net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, trade and other payables less cash and cash equivalents excluding discontinued operations. 264 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 As at As at Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (` in crores) (` in crores) Interest Bearing Loans and borrowings 2,067.12 1,177.54 Trade Payables 1,912.75 656.18 Other Financial Liabilities 573.83 271.32 Less: Cash and Cash equivalents & current investment* (313.46) (274.56) Net debt 4,240.24 1,830.48 Equity share capital 80.51 80.20 Other equity 1,638.79 1,095.12 Total capital 1,719.30 1,175.32 Capital and net debt 5,959.54 3,005.80 Gearing ratio 71.15% 60.90% *includes other bank balance of ` 70 crores with respect to fixed deposit. These fixed deposits can be encashed by the Company at any time without any major penalties. In order to achieve this overall objective, the Group's capital management, amongst other things, aims to ensure that it meets financial covenants attached to the interest-bearing loans and borrowings that define capital structure requirements. Breaches in meeting the financial covenants would permit the bank to immediately call loans and borrowings. There have been no breaches in the financial covenants of any interest-bearing loans and borrowing in the current year. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the years ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018. Dividend Distribution made and Proposed As a part of Group's capital management policy, dividend distribution is also considered as key element and management ensures that dividend distribution is in accordance with defined policy. Below mentioned are details of dividend distributed and proposed during the year. 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) Sterlite Technologies Limited Cash dividends on equity shares declared and paid: Final dividend for the year ended on 31 March 2018: ` 2 per share (31 March 2017: ` 0.75 per share) 80.30 29.97 Dividend Distribution Tax on final dividend 16.50 6.10 Jiangsu Sterlite and Tongguang Optical Fiber Co. Limited Dividend declared and paid to non controlling interests 17.02 113.82 36.07 Proposed dividends on Equity shares: Final cash dividend for the year ended on 31 March 2019: ` 3.5 per share (31 March 2018: ` 2 per share) 140.86 80.20 Dividend Distribution Tax on proposed dividend 28.68 16.33 169.54 96.53 Proposed dividend on equity shares is subject to approval at the ensuing annual general meeting and is not recognised as a liability (including DDT thereon) as at year end. During the year ended 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018, the Group has paid dividend to its shareholders. This has resulted in payment of Dividend Distribution Tax (DDT) to the taxation authorities. The Group believes that DDT represents additional payment to taxation authority on behalf of the shareholders. Hence DDT paid is charged to equity. Annual Report 2018-19 265 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 50: Fair Values a) Financial Instruments by Category Set out below, is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Group's financial instruments, other than those with carrying amounts that are reasonable approximations of fair values as of March 31, 2019: (` in crores) 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 FVPL FVOCI Amortised Cost FVPL FVOCI Amortised Cost Financial assets Investments Equity instruments 0.26 2.00 Debentures 22.60 17.60 Mutual funds 100.17 155.00 Trade receivables 1,356.62 871.28 Loans 42.69 35.01 Cash and cash equivalents 233.68 138.48 Derivative financial assets 7.91 83.96 2.21 1.36 Contract assets 1,093.51 Security deposits 15.79 10.77 Other financials assets 34.06 62.76 Total financial assets 130.94 83.96 2,776.35 176.81 1.36 1,118.30 Financial liabilities Borrowings 2,067.12 1,177.54 Trade Payables 1,912.75 656.18 Derivative financial liabilities 9.10 3.94 17.03 54.97 Payables for purchase of Property, 484.43 92.36 plant and equipment's Deposits from vendors 3.12 1.56 Other Financial Liabilities 73.24 105.40 Total financial liabilities 9.10 3.94 4,540.66 17.03 54.97 2,033.04 b) Fair value hierarchy This section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that are (a) recognised and measured at fair value. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the Group has classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard. An explanation of each level follows underneath the table. Fair value measurement using Significant Significant Quoted prices in observable unobservable Amount active markets inputs inputs (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value recurring fair value measurements Investments in Equity Shares of joint venture As at March 31, 2019 0.26 0.26 As at March 31, 2018 2.00 2.00 Investments in Debentures As at March 31, 2019 22.60 22.60 As at March 31, 2018 17.60 17.60 Investments in Mutual Funds As at March 31, 2019 100.17 100.17 As at March 31, 2018 155.00 155.00 Derivative financial assets Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts As at March 31, 2019 7.91 7.91 As at March 31, 2018 2.26 2.26 266 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Fair value measurement using Significant Significant Quoted prices in observable unobservable Amount active markets inputs inputs (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Derivative financial assets Currency/Interest Rate Swaps As at March 31, 2019 83.96 83.96 As at March 31, 2018 1.31 1.31 Derivative financial Liabilities Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts As at March 31, 2019 9.10 9.10 As at March 31, 2018 59.96 59.96 Derivative financial Liabilities Currency/Interest Rate Swaps As at March 31, 2019 3.94 3.94 As at March 31, 2018 12.04 12.04 Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices. Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation techniques which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2. Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. There have been no transfers among Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3. c) Valuation technique used to determine fair value The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: The fair values of the quoted mutual funds are based on quoted price at the reporting date. The fair values of the unquoted equity shares and debentures have been estimated using a DCF model. The valuation requires management to make certain assumptions about the model inputs, including forecast of cash flows, discount rate, credit risk and volatility. The probabilities of the various estimates within the range can be reasonably assessed and are used in management’s estimate of fair value for these unquoted equity investments. The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings. Foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps are valued using valuation techniques, which employs the use of market observable inputs. The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing model, using present value calculations. The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality counterparties, foreign exchange spot and forward rates, yield curves of the respective currencies, currency basis spread between the respective currencies, interest rate curves etc. The changes in counterparty credit risk had no material effect on the hedge effectiveness assessment for derivatives designated in hedge relationships and other financial instruments recognised at fair value. d) Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (level 3) The following table presents the changes in level 3 items for the periods ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018: ` in crores Investments in Investments in Particulars Equity Shares of JV Debentures As at March 31,2018 2.00 17.60 Acquisitions 5.00 Changes in Fair value (1.74) As at March 31,2019 0.26 22.60 Annual Report 2018-19 267 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 e) Valuation inputs and relationships to fair value The following table summarises the quantitative information about the significant unobservable inputs used in level 3 fair value measurements. Particulars Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs Range Sensitivity of the input to fair value FVTPL assets in DCF method Terminal Growth Rate March 31, 2019 : 5% 1% (March 31, 2018 : 1%) increase/ unquoted equity March 31, 2018 : 5% (decrease) in the terminal growth shares and debentures rate would result in increase / (decrease) in fair value by ` 1.34/ (1.17) crores (31 March 2018 : ` 1.51/ (0.59) crore) WACC (pre-tax) March 31, 2019 : 20% 1% (March 31, 2018 : 1%) increase/ March 31, 2018 : 20% (decrease) in the WACC would result in decrease/(increase) in fair value by ` 1.71/ (1.96) crores (31 March 2018 : ` 1.03/ (2.00)) Long-term operating margin March 31, 2019 : 20% 1% (March 31, 2018 : 1%) increase/ March 31, (decrease) in the margin would result 2018 : 3.1% 14.2% in increase/(decrease) in fair value by ` 0.73/ (0.73) crores (31 March 2018: ` 1.24/ (0.47)) *There were no significant inter-relationships between unobservable inputs that materially affect fair values. f) Valuation processes The finance department of the Group includes a team that oversees the valuations of financial assets and liabilities required for financial reporting purposes, including level 3 fair values. External valuers are involved for valuation of significant assets, such as unquoted financials assets. Involvement of external valuers is decided by the valuation team. Selection criteria includes market knowledge, reputation, independence and whether professional standards are maintained. The Valuation team decides, after discussions with the company's external valuers, which valuation techniques and inputs to use for each case. The main level 3 inputs for used by the Group are derived and evaluated as follows: Discount rates are determined using a capital asset pricing model or based on weighted average cost of capital of counterparty, to calculate a post-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risk specific to the asset. Risk adjustments specific to the counterparties (including assumptions about credit default rates) are derived from risk assessment (based on review of financial condition, economic factors) by management. Earnings growth factor for unlisted equity securities are estimated based on market information for similar types of companies. Changes in level 3 fair values are analysed at the end of each reporting period during the valuation discussion between the valuation team and external valuer. As part of this discussion the team presents a report that explains the reason for the fair value movements. The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy together with a quantitative sensitivity analysis as at 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018 are as shown above. g) Financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost (` in crores) Particulars Carrying value Fair value Financial liabilities Debentures @ 8.45% 150.00 150.36 Debentures @ 8.70% 150.00 150.09 The fair values of non-current borrowings are based on discounted cash flows using a current borrowing rate. They are classified as level 3 fair values in the fair value hierarchy due to the use of unobservable inputs, including own credit risk. The management assessed that cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, trade payables, other current assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. The management has further assessed that borrowings availed and loans given approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the interest rates being variable or in case of fixed rate borrowings/loans, movements in interest rates from the recognition of such financial instrument till period end not being material. 268 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 51: Related Party Transactions (A) Name of related party and nature of its relationship: (a) Related parties where control exists (i) Holding company Twin Star Overseas Limited, Mauritius (Immediate holding company Volcan Investments Limited, Bahamas (Ultimate holding company) (b) Other related parties under IND AS-24 Related party disclosures with whom transactions have taken place during the year (i) Fellow Subsidiaries Cairn India Holdings Limited Sterlite Power Transmission Limited Twin Star Technologies Limited Sterlite Grid 1 Limited Twin Star Display Technologies Limited Vedanta Limited Fujairah Gold FZE Avan Strate Inc. (ii) Joint ventures Sterlite Conduspar Industrial Ltda Metis Eduventures Private Limited M.B Maanshaan Special Cables Co. Ltd (iii) Key management personnel (KMP) Mr. Pravin Agarwal (Vice Chairman & Whole-time Director) Dr. Anand Agarwal (CEO & Whole-time Director) Mr. A. R. Narayanaswamy (Non executive & Independent Director) Mr. Arun Todarwal (Non executive & Independent Director) Mr. C. V. Krishnan (Non executive & Independent Director) (upto 16 October 2017) Ms. Avaantika Kakkar (Non executive & Independent Director) (upto 22 May 2018) Mr. Sandip Das (Non executive & Independent Director) Mr Pratik Agarwal (Non executive Director) Mr. Kumud Srinivasan (Non executive & Independent Director) (from 22 May 2018) (iv) Relative of key management personnel Mr. Ankit Agarwal Mrs. Jyoti Agarwal Mrs. Ruchira Agarwal Mrs. Sonakshi Agarwal Mr. Navin Agarwal (v) Entities where key management personnel / relatives of key management personnel have significant influence (EKMP) Khaitan & Co. LLP Universal Floritech LLP Sterlite Tech Foundation (c) Additional related parties as per Companies Act, 2013 with whom transactions have taken place during the year (i) Key management personnel (KMP) Mr. Anupam Jindal (Chief Financial Officer) Mr. Amit Deshpande (Company Secretary) Annual Report 2018-19 269 270 (B) The transactions with related parties during the year and their outstanding balances are as follows:Joint Ventures Holding Company KMP Relatives of KMP Fellow Subsidiaries/EKMP S. Particulars 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March No. 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 1 Remuneration 31.06 27.26 3.60 3.04 Notes 2 Sitting Fees 0.29 0.12 3 Commission 0.75 0.63 4 Consultancy 0.45 0.40 5 Dividend (received) / paid 41.88 15.71 0.49 0.22 0.24 0.09 0.95 0.36 6 Investment during the year 5.00 9.60 7 Loans and advances given 0.11 0.35 6.28 40.85 8 Repayment of loans 1.37 3.27 17.30 9 Loan taken 7.50 10 Repayment of advances 0.17 11 Interest charged on loans 0.12 2.81 1.47 12 Interest payable on loans 0.70 13 Management fees received 13.24 1.99 14 Management fees paid 0.52 3.10 15 Purchase of fixed asset 26.76 16 Purchase of goods & services 7.31 74.86 17 Sale of goods & services 22.35 12.21 18.86 28.91 18 Contributions made for CSR 5.22 3.64 19 Rental income 0.06 0.08 20 Professional fees paid 0.27 Outstanding Balances 1 Loans/advance receivables## 1.92 0.37 40.09 34.19 2 Loans/advance payables## 8.28 3 Trade receivables 6.53 20.75 18.81 4 Trade payables 1.25 30.41 to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 5 Investment in equity shares,preference 35.30 19.60 shares & debentures 6 Corporate and bank guarantees given and 114.00 114.00 outstanding Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 (C) Disclosure in respect of material related party transaction during the year: ` in crores S. No. Particulars Relationship 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 1 Remuneration Mr. Pravin Agarwal KMP 14.34 13.72 Dr. Anand Agarwal KMP 12.40 10.04 Mr. Ankit Agarwal Relative of KMP 3.60 3.04 2 Sitting Fees Mr. Arun Todarwal KMP 0.09 0.05 Mr. A. R. Narayanaswamy KMP 0.07 0.04 Mr. Sandip Das KMP 0.07 0.01 Mr. Kumud Srinivasan KMP 0.03 3 Commission Mr. Arun Todarwal KMP 0.15 0.13 Mr. A. R. Narayanaswamy KMP 0.15 0.13 Ms. Avaantika Kakkar KMP 0.15 0.13 Mr. Pratik Agarwal KMP 0.15 0.13 4 Consultancy Mr. Sandip Das KMP 0.45 0.4 5 Dividend (received)/paid Twin Star Overseas Limited Holding Company 41.88 15.71 6 Investment during the year Metis Eduventures Private Limited* Joint Venture 5.00 9.60 7. Loans and advances given Twinstar Display Technologies Limited. Fellow Subsidiary 3.44 22.14 Sterlite Power Transmission Limited. Fellow Subsidiary 2.52 8.64 8. Repayment of loans Sterlite Power Transmission Limited Fellow Subsidiary 2.78 7.80 9. Loan taken Sterlite Power Transmission Limited. Fellow Subsidiary 7.5 10. Repayment of advances Sterlite Grid 1 ltd Fellow Subsidiary 0.17 11. Interest charged on loans Twin Star Display Technologies Limited Fellow Subsidiary 2.11 1.47 12. Interest payable on loans Sterlte Power Transmission Limited Fellow Subsidiary 0.70 13. Management fees received Twin Star Display Technologies Limited Fellow Subsidiary 1.99 Cairn India Holdings Ltd Fellow Subsidiary 13.24 14. Management fees paid Vedanta Limited Fellow Subsidiary 0.52 15. Purchase of fixed asset Sterlite Power Transmission Limited Fellow Subsidiary 26.76 16. Purchase of goods & services Vedanta Limited Fellow Subsidiary 0.79 1.87 Fujairah Gold FZE Fellow Subsidiary 4.52 70.62 Sterlite Power Transmission Limited Fellow Subsidiary 1.91 2.29 17. Sale of goods & services Sterlite Conduspar Industrial Ltda Joint Venture 14.18 12.21 M.B Maanshaan Special Cables Co. Ltd Joint Venture 8.17 Sterlite Power Transmission Limited Fellow Subsidiary 18.86 28.91 18. Contributions made for CSR Sterlite Tech Foundation EKMP 5.22 3.64 19. Rental income Universal Floritech LLP EKMP 0.06 0.08 20 Payment of professional fees Khaitan & Co. LLP EKMP 0.27 Annual Report 2018-19 271 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 (D) Compensation of Key management personnel of the company 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 (` in crores) (` in crores) Short term employee benefits 26.44 25.78 Long term & Post employment benefits 1.40 0.38 Share based payment transaction* 6.82 4.14 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 34.66 30.30 # #Includes interest & expenses incurred and recoverable. * Share-based payments includes the perquisite value of stock incentives exercised during the year, determined in accordance with the provisions of the Incometax Act, 1961. Note 52: Interests In Joint Venture and Associates Set out below are the details of Joint venture of the Group which in the opinion of management are material to the Group. The Group has a 58.05% ( 31 March 2018: 58.05%) interest in Sterlite Conduspar Industrial Ltda, a joint venture engaged in the manufacturing of optical fibre cables of some of the Group’s main product lines in Brazil. The Group’s interest in Sterlite Conduspar Industrial Ltda ('Joint Venture') is accounted for using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements. Summarised financial information of the joint venture, based on its financial statements, and reconciliation with the carrying amount of the investment in consolidated financial statements are set out below: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 (` in crores) (` in crores) Current assets 30.96 28.08 Non-current assets 10.58 15.94 Total Asset (A) 41.54 44.02 Current liabilities 16.51 45.50 Non-current liabilities 31.56 1.87 Total Liabilities (B) 48.07 47.37 Net Assets (A+B) (6.53) (3.35) Proportion of the Group’s ownership 58.05% 58.05% Carrying amount of the investment Summarised statement of profit and loss of the Joint Venture: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 (` in crores) (` in crores) Revenue 68.81 43.98 Other Income 0.18 0.28 Cost of raw material and components consumed 51.06 33.30 Depreciation & amortization 1.16 1.23 Finance cost 1.55 0.60 Employee benefit 5.75 4.06 Other expense 13.54 10.29 Loss before tax (4.07) (5.22) Income tax expense Loss for the year (4.07) (5.22) Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income for the year (4.07) (5.22) Group’s share of loss for the year (2.37) (3.03) Unrecognised share of loss of joint venture (2.37) (2.11) The group had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments relating to its interest in joint venture as at 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018. \ 272 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 53: Disclosure for Non-Controlling Interests This information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations. Financial information of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests is provided below: Proportion of equity interest held by non-controlling interests: Effective Effective Country of Name of the Company Principal activity ownership as on ownership as on incorporation 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Maharashtra Transmission Communication Infrastructure Limited (MTCIL) Power 29.51% 38.14% India Transmission Jiangsu Sterlite and Tongguang Fiber Co. Limited (JSTFCL) Manufacturing 25.00% 25.00% China of Optical Fibre Summarised statement of profit and loss for the year ended 31 March 2019: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 MTCIL JSTFCL MTCIL JSTFCL (` in crores) (` in crores) (` in crores) (` in crores) Revenue 4.52 461.32 1.70 372.16 Profit for the year (7.59) 69.11 (4.38) 125.88 Total comprehensive income (7.59) 69.11 (4.38) 125.88 Attributable to non-controlling interests (2.24) 17.28 (1.67) 31.47 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (17.15) (2.02) Summarised balance sheet as at 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018: 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 MTCIL JSTFCL MTCIL JSTFCL (` in crores) (` in crores) (` in crores) (` in crores) Non current assets 106.08 417.55 109.25 259.05 Current assets 7.74 266.67 7.16 106.90 Total Asset (A) 113.82 684.22 116.41 365.95 Non current liability (20.02) (17.61) (32.64) (14.31) Current liability (74.80) (294.79) (64.37) (42.20) Total Liability (B) (94.82) (312.40) (97.01) (56.51) Net Assets (A+B) 19.00 371.83 19.40 309.44 Accumulated NCI 2.68 92.72 4.92 77.04 Summarised cash flows 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 MTCIL JSTFCL MTCIL JSTFCL (` in crores) (` in crores) (` in crores) (` in crores) Net cash inflow from operating activities 18.59 201.52 8.29 111.34 Net cash inflow from investing activities (10.89) (162.16) (19.10) (115.25) Net cash inflow from financing activities (3.18) (7.61) 11.72 (2.93) Net increase /(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 4.52 31.75 0.91 (6.84) Annual Report 2018-19 273 274 Note 54: Statutory Group Information Net Assets, i.e total assets minus Share in total comprehensive Share in total comprehensive Share in profit and loss total liabilities income income Notes As % of Name of the Entity in the group As % of As % of consolidated As % of total consolidated INR Crores consolidated INR Crores other INR Crores comprehensive INR Crores net assets profit and loss comprehensive income income Parent Sterlite Technologies Limited Balance as at 31 March 2019 60.05% 1,089.77 79.39% 458.72 101.04% 80.40 82.01% 539.12 Balance as at 31 March 2018 70.05% 880.75 69.48% 252.99 169.62% (15.38) 66.92% 237.61 Subsidiaries Indian 1. Speedon Network limited Balance as at 31 March 2019 1.55% 28.06 0.07% 0.38 0.06% 0.38 Balance as at 31 March 2018 2.33% 29.26 -0.99% (3.59) -1.01% (3.59) 2. Maharashtra Transmission Communication Infrastructure Limited Balance as at 31 March 2019 -0.51% (9.28) -0.93% (5.35) -0.81% (5.35) Balance as at 31 March 2018 0.84% 10.51 -0.74% (2.71) -0.76% (2.71) 3. Sterlite Telesystems Limited Balance as at 31 March 2019 0.00% 0.01 -0.01% (0.04) -0.01% (0.04) Balance as at 31 March 2018 0.00% 0.02 -0.01% (0.03) -0.01% (0.03) 4. Sterlite Tech Connectivity Solutions Limited Balance as at 31 March 2019 0.00% 0.04 0.00% (0.01) 0.00% (0.01) Balance as at 31 March 2018 5. Sterlite Innovative Solutions Limited Balance as at 31 March 2019 0.00% 0.03 0.00% (0.02) 0.00% (0.02) to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Balance as at 31 March 2018 Foreign 1. Sterlite Global Ventures (Mauritius) Limited Balance as at 31 March 2019 0.24% 4.41 8.93% 51.61 7.85% 51.61 Balance as at 31 March 2018 0.31% 3.92 -0.01% (0.04) -0.01% (0.04) 2. Jiangsu Sterlite and Tongguang Fibre Co. Ltd. Balance as at 31 March 2019 18.89% 342.79 8.97% 51.83 7.89% 51.83 Balance as at 31 March 2018 19.19% 241.26 25.93% 94.41 26.59% 94.41 3. Sterlite (Shanghai) Trading Company Limited Balance as at 31 March 2019 -0.06% (1.01) 0.00% (0.02) 0.00% (0.02) Sterlite Technologies Limited Net Assets, i.e total assets minus Share in total comprehensive Share in total comprehensive Share in profit and loss total liabilities income income As % of Name of the Entity in the group As % of As % of consolidated As % of total consolidated INR Crores consolidated INR Crores other INR Crores comprehensive INR Crores Notes net assets profit and loss comprehensive income income Balance as at 31 March 2018 -0.04% (0.48) -0.04% (0.14) -0.04% (0.14) 4. Sterlite Technologies S.p.A (Italy) Annual Report 2018-19 Balance as at 31 March 2019 2.21% 40.12 -1.33% (7.66) -1.17% (7.66) Balance as at 31 March 2018 5. Metallurgica Bresciana S.p.A (Italy) Balance as at 31 March 2019 14.50% 263.22 1.90% 10.97 1.67% 10.97 Balance as at 31 March 2018 6. Sterlite Technologies UK Ventures Limited Balance as at 31 March 2019 0.10% 1.90 -0.06% (0.34) -0.05% (0.34) Balance as at 31 March 2018 0.22% 2.83 -0.14% (0.52) -0.15% (0.52) 7. Sterlite Technologies Europe Ventures Limited Balance as at 31 March 2019 0.00% (0.07) -0.01% (0.04) -0.01% (0.04) Balance as at 31 March 2018 0.01% 0.08 0.00% 0.01 0.00% 0.01 8. Elitecore Technologies (Mauritius) Limited Balance as at 31 March 2019 0.00% 0.06 0.01% 0.06 0.01% 0.06 Balance as at 31 March 2018 0.01% 0.13 -0.02% (0.06) -0.02% (0.06) 9. Elitecore Technologies Sdn Bhd. Balance as at 31 March 2019 0.21% 3.77 -0.12% (0.71) -0.11% (0.71) Balance as at 31 March 2018 0.42% 5.22 0.35% 1.29 0.36% 1.29 10.Sterlite Tech Holding Inc. Balance as at 31 March 2019 0.01% 0.10 -0.05% (0.30) -0.05% (0.30) Balance as at 31 March 2018 0.20% 2.55 -0.06% (0.23) -0.07% (0.23) 11.Sterlite Technologies Inc to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Balance as at 31 March 2019 0.02% 0.30 0.63% 3.66 0.56% 3.66 Balance as at 31 March 2018 -0.06% (0.73) -1.68% -6.13 -1.73% (6.13) 12. Share of Profit/(Loss) of Joint Venture Balance as at 31 March 2019 Balance as at 31 March 2018 -0.25% (0.92) -0.26% (0.92) Non controlling interest in all subsidiaries Balance as at 31 March 2019 2.78% 50.47 2.60% 15.04 -1.04% (0.83) 2.16% 14.21 Balance as at 31 March 2018 6.52% 81.95 8.18% 29.80 -69.62% 6.31 10.17% 36.11 FINANCIAL Total STATEMENTS Balance as at 31 March 2019 100.00% 1,814.70 100.00% 577.78 100.00% 79.57 100.00% 657.35 Balance as at 31 March 2018 100.00% 1,257.27 100.00% 364.13 100.00% (9.07) 100.00% 355.06 275 All eliminations and adjustments are netted off against balances of parent company for disclosure purpose. Associate company is not considered for consolidation as the operations of the associate company is insignificant for the Group Joint Venture with Metis Eduventures Private Limited is not considered for consolidation as the same is accounted as per Ind AS 109 (Refer note 2s(ii)) Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 55: Changes in Accounting Policies The Group applied Ind AS 115 for the first time by using the cumulative catch up transition method of adoption with the date of initial application of April 01, 2018. Under this method, Group recognised the cumulative effect of initially applying the Ind AS 115 as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as on April 01, 2018. For all open contracts as on that date, comparative prior period has not been adjusted. 01 April 2018 Particulars Notes (` in crores) Balances in retained earnings 875.61 Less: Adjustment on account of revenue recognition as per Ind AS 115 (i) (19.54) Add: Increase in Deferred Tax Assets (i) 6.83 Balances in retained earnings after restatement 862.90 Note (i) : Impact is mainly on account of : 1. Service warranty . As per Ind AS 115, service warranty has been considered as a separate performance obligation and accordingly contract price has been allocated to such separate performance obligation resulting in an impact on estimated revenue & warranty cost recognised. There was no such requirement under Ind AS 11 and accordingly provision for warranty was recognised basis percentage of completion of contract. 2. Impact of variable considerations As per Ind AS 115, variable consideration eg. liquidated damages and other penalties which are based on future events should be netted off against revenue and reassessed at every reporting period. Accordingly, such variable considerations have been adjusted against the contract price. Under the previous standard these were considered as a part of estimated contract costs . 3. Impact of bought out components Under previous standard cost incurred on bought out components was considered in the calculation of the percentage of completion of network integration projects. As per Ind AS 115, revenue with respect to bought out components should be recognised equivalent to cost incurred to faithfully depict performance if all the prescribed conditions are met. Accordingly on transition margin on cost related to bought out component was derecognised. 4. Revenue recognition on transfer of control Under the previous revenue recognition standards, revenue was recognised when the entity has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of goods. Under Ind AS 115, revenue is recognised when entity satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control of a promised goods and service to a customer. As a consequence revenue with respect to cost incurred on construction work in progress is recognised on transition. 5. Milestone based accounting As per Ind AS 115, there is change in the revenue recognition as compared to previous standard wherein revenue was recognised once milestones were achieved. 276 Sterlite Technologies Limited FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 The following table presents the amount by which each financial statement line item is affected in the current year ended March 31, 2019 by the application of Ind AS 115 as compared with the previous revenue recognition requirements. Line items that were not affected by the changes have not been included. As a result, the sub-totals and totals disclosed cannot be recalculated from the numbers provided. Balance Sheet (Extract) 31 March 2019 (without Increase/ (Decrease) 31 March 2019 (as adoption of Ind AS 115) reported) Current assets Inventories 701.97 (112.32) 589.65 Trade receivables 1,226.00 128.86 1,354.86 Contract assets 1,093.51 1,093.51 Other current assets 1,582.80 (1,189.73) 393.07 Equity Other Equity 1,641.96 (3.17) 1,638.79 Total Equity 1,722.47 (3.17) 1,719.30 Non-current liabilities Provisions 24.31 (23.30) 1.01 Deferred tax liabilities (net) 76.09 (1.70) 74.39 Current liabilities Trade payables 1,872.42 40.33 1,912.75 Contract liabilities 270.36 270.36 Provisions 28.49 (17.03) 11.46 Other current liabilities 426.95 (345.18) 81.77 Statement of profit and loss (extract) year ended 31 March 2019 31 March 2019 (without Increase/ (Decrease) 31 March 2019 (as adoption of Ind AS 115) reported) Revenue from operations 5,109.90 (22.64) 5,087.26 Total Income (I) 5,129.84 (22.64) 5,107.20 Cost of raw material and components consumed 2,628.67 (37.35) 2,591.32 Other expense 961.61 0.04 961.65 Total Expense (II) 3,997.42 (37.31) 3,960.11 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 1,132.42 14.67 1,147.09 (EBITDA) (I) (II) Profit before tax 848.87 14.67 863.54 Total tax expenses 273.03 5.13 278.16 Profit for the year 568.24 9.55 577.79 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 647.81 9.55 657.36 Presentation of assets and liabilities related to contracts with customers: The Group also has changed the presentation of certain amounts in the balance sheet to reflect the terminology of Ind AS 115: Contract assets recognised was previously presented as a part of other current assets. Contract assets are in the nature of right to receive consideration which arises when entity satisfies a performance obligation but does not have an unconditional right to consideration as it has not reached the contractual billing milestone. Contract liabilities recognised was previously presented as a part of other current liabilities. Contract liabilities represent deferred revenue arising from revenue from network integration projects contracts. It also includes advance received from customers. Annual Report 2018-19 277 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Note 56: Segment Reporting The Group has only one operating segment which is Connectivity and Network Solutions. Accordingly, separate segment information is not required to be disclosed. Geographical Information 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Particulars (` in crores) (` in crores) (1) Revenue from external customers Within India 3,280.66 1,620.36 Outside India 1,806.60 1,585.13 Total revenue per statement of profit and loss 5,087.26 3,205.49 (2) Non-current operating assets Within India 2,253.60 1,332.05 Outside India 633.72 259.05 Total 2,887.32 1,591.10 Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, capital work in progress, investment properties and intangible assets. (3) Revenue from external customers Revenue from two customers in India amounted to ` 1,293.15 crores (31 March 2018 is ` 360.02 crores). Note 57: Previous Year Figures The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 incorporate the impact of the change in accounting policies as mentioned in Note 55. Thus, current year numbers are not comparable to previous year numbers. As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the board of directors of Sterlite Technologies Limited For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP Pravin Agarwal Anand Agarwal Firm Registration No: FRN 012754N/N500016 Vice Chairman & Whole-time Director CEO & Whole-time Director Chartered Accountants DIN : 00022096 DIN : 00057364 Neeraj Sharma Anupam Jindal Amit Deshpande Partner Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Membership Number: 108391 Place: Pune Place: Pune Date: April 23, 2019 Date: April 23, 2019 278 Sterlite Technologies Limited FORM AOC-1 PART A Statement Containing Salient Features Of The Financial Statement Of Subsidiaries / Associate Companies / Joint Ventures As Per Companies Act , 2013 ` in crores Notes Profit Profit / Turnover Provision S. Country of Reporting Exchange Share Reserve Total Total / (loss) (loss) Proposed % of Name of Subsidiary Investment (Gross for No. Incorporation currency rate (INR) Capital & Surplus Liabilities Assets before after dividend Holding Annual Report 2018-19 Revenue) taxation taxation taxation 1 Speedon Network Limited India INR NA 1.55 9.18 41.36 52.09 0.02 26.23 0.62 0.24 0.38 100.00 2 Sterlite Telesystems Limited India INR NA 0.02 (0.14) 0.17 0.05 (0.04) (0.04) 100.00 3 Elitecore Technologies Mauritius MUR 1.97 0.14 0.40 0.37 0.91 0.94 0.07 0.02 0.05 100.00 (Mauritius) Limited 4 Elitecore Technologies Malaysia MYR 16.94 2.00 4.34 6.34 7.96 0.03 0.74 (0.71) 100.00 Sdn Bhd. 5 Sterlite Global Ventures Mauritius US$ 69.15 67.02 55.48 0.37 122.87 118.43 51.61 51.61 100.00 (Mauritius) Limited 6 Maharashtra Transmission India INR NA 28.20 (12.86) 98.48 113.82 4.52 (7.97) (7.97) 59.47 Communication Infrastructure Limited* 7 Jiangsu Sterlite Tongguang China RMB 10.29 154.52 217.28 312.41 684.21 461.32 80.96 11.85 69.11 75.00 Fiber Co. Limited 8 Sterlite Technologies UK UK GBP 90.15 0.04 (1.32) 22.36 21.08 19.15 (0.34) (0.34) 100.00 Ventures Limited 9 Sterlite Tech Holding Inc. America US$ 69.15 (0.53) 17.06 16.53 (0.30) (0.30) 100.00 10 Sterlite Technologies Inc America US$ 69.15 (2.47) 16.63 14.16 3.66 3.66 100.00 11 Sterlite Conduspar Brazil Real 17.62 19.14 (25.67) 48.07 41.54 68.81 (4.07) (4.07) 58.05 Industrial Ltda 12 Sterlite (Shanghai) Trading China RMB 10.29 1.53 (0.51) 1.06 2.08 7.41 (0.01) 0.01 (0.02) 100.00 Co. Limited 13 Sterlite Tech S.P.A. Italy EUR 77.60 40.22 4.00 337.94 382.16 373.28 (10.95) (3.28) (7.67) 100.00 14 Sterlite Innovative Solutions India INR NA 0.05 (0.02) 0.02 0.05 (0.02) (0.02) 100.00 Limited 15 Sterlite Tech Connectivity India INR NA 0.05 (0.01) 0.01 0.05 (0.01) (0.01) 100.00 to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 Solutions Limited 16 Metallurgica Bresciana Italy EUR 77.60 56.18 200.83 194.21 451.22 12.61 169.14 14.71 3.74 10.97 100.00 S.P.A. * The figures for this company have not been consolidated as it has been classified as 'Asset held-for-sale' under IndAS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 279 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 FORM AOC-1 PART B Statement Pursuant To Section 129(3) Of The Companies Act, 2013 Related To Associate Companies And Joint Ventures S. No. Name of Associate / Joint Ventures Sterlite Conduspar Industrial Ltda 1 Latest audited Balance Sheet date 3/31/2019 2 Shares of Associate/Joint Ventures held by the Company on the year end a Number NA b Amount of investment (At face value) 19.14 c % of holding 58.05 3 Description of how there is significant influence By way of onwership 4 Reason why the associate / joint venture is not consolidated Equity Method Of Accounting (Refer IND AS 28) 5 Networth attributable to shareholding as per latest audited Balance sheet (6.53) 6 Profit/Loss for the year (4.07) a Considered in consolidation (2.37) b Not considered in consolidation (1.71) Note:Only Direct Joint Venture /Associate Companies are considered. 1. Names of associate or joint ventures which are yet to comemnce operations :Nil 2. Names of associate or joint ventures which have been liquidated or sold during the year :Nil For and on behalf of the board of directors of Sterlite Technologies Limited Pravin Agarwal Anand Agarwal Vice Chairman & Whole-time Director CEO & Whole-time Director DIN : 00022096 DIN : 00057364 Anupam Jindal Amit Deshpande Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Place: Pune Date: April 23, 2019 280 Sterlite Technologies Limited Corporate Information Board of Directors Jitendra Balakrishnan Bankers Anil Agarwal CTO Connectivity Solutions Axis Bank Ltd. Pravin Agarwal Bank of Baroda Rajesh Gangadhar Dr. Anand Agarwal Citi Bank Head Wireless Broadband A.R. Narayanaswamy Corporation Bank Converged Platforms Sandip Das Deustsche Bank Arun Todarwal Phill Coppin Federal Bank Kumud Srinivasan Head Application Engineering FirstRand Bank Limited Pratik Agarwal HDFC Bank Ltd. Richard Eichhorn ICICI Bank Ltd. Chief Financial Officer Head SalesGlobal (Ex. India and IDBI Bank Ltd. Anupam Jindal China), Connectivity Solutions IDFC Bank Ltd. Company Secretary Rahul Puri IndusInd Bank Amit Deshpande Head Sales India, Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. Connectivity Solutions RBL Bank Limited Leadership Team Shinhan Bank Dr. Anand Agarwal Thomas Yang State Bank of India Group CEO and Whole-time Director Head Sales China, Union Bank of India Connectivity Solutions Anupam Jindal Yes Bank Ltd. Group Chief Finance Officer Swati Rangachari UNICREDIT, Italy Chief of Corporate Affairs BNL Paribas, Italy Ankit Agarwal UBI BANCA, Italy CEO, Connectivity Solutions Business Saurabh Kumar Head India Public Sales, Registered Office KS Rao Network Services E 1, MIDC Industrial Area, Waluj, CEO, Network Services Business Aurangabad, Maharashtra 431 136 Girish Gupta Anshoo Gaur Head India Pivate Sales, Locations CEO, Network Software Business Network Services Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Dr. Badri Gomatam Italy, Ivory Coast, Malaysia, Mexico, Nikhil Jain Group Chief Technology Officer Netherlands, South Africa, Sweden, COO Network Software UAE, UK, USA, Thailand, Indonesia, Gaurav Basra Juhi Hajela Philippines, Switzerland, Spain Chief Strategy Officer Head Corporate Communications Registrar and Transfer agents Anjali Byce Pankaj Priyadarshi Karvy Fintech Private Limited, Chief Human Resources Officer Head Operations Optical Fibre (Unit – Sterlite Technologies Limited) Manish Sinha Karvy Selenium Tower B, Venkatesh Murthy Chief Marketing Officer Plot No. 31 & 32, Financial District, Head Operations Optical Fibre Cable Gachibowli, Nanakramguda, Nischal Gupta Aldo Santus Serilingampally Mandal, Chief Transformation Officer Head Operations Italy, Hyderabad 500 032, India Akanksha Sharma Optical Fibre Cable Phone No.: +91 040 67161524 Head CSR and Sustainability E-mail: einward.ris@karvy.com Ambica Rajagopal Ayush Sharma Head Data Science & Head Programmable Networks & Data Management Intelligence Balram Sharma Head Supply Chain Management, Network Services Imprints Editorial Management Discussion Corporate Social Financials Juhi Hajela and Anaysis Responsibility Hemlata Chaudhary Khushboo Chawla Deepak Kumar, Jeesha Akanksha Sharma Navin Sharma, Prateek Jindal, Vishal Kumar Louette Pai Manpuria, Rahul Darak Brand Sachin Gawande, Sunil Jha Amit Jaurwal, Naveen Financial Discussion and Directors’ Report and Yogesh Deshpande Verma, Manish Sinha Anaysis Corporate Governance Hemlata Chaudhary Report Project Sponsors Project Management Amit Deshpande, Dr. Anand Agarwal Shweta Mali Risk Management Mrunal Dixit, Palash Mutha Anupam Jindal Manish Bhansali Rohit Kulkarni With Inputs From Gaurav Basra Vishal Aggarwal Sterlite Technologies Limited Godrej Millenium 9, Koregaon Road, Pune 411 001 Maharashtra, India Phone +91 20 30514000 Email: stl.communications@sterlite.com www.sterlitetech.com
