UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 PERIOD COVERED BY OUR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS From August 2018 to August 2019 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO August 13th, 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Logoplaste reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our main channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Gerardo Chiaia Logoplaste CEO 2 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 LOGOPLASTE’S VISION AND CORE VALUES Logoplaste’s Vision is to be the natural choice in the supply of rigid plastic packaging, delivering end-to-end solutions in a Sustainable and Partnership manner. In everything we do, and everywhere we operate around the world, Logoplaste has a set of well-defined Core Values, with Sustainability at the center: PARTNERS Our Core Values are reference points for all our actions and decisions. Our Core Values guide us in our relations with internal and external contacts. INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY QUALITY TEAMWORK SAFETY INTEGRITY 3 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 LOGOPLASTE’S SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT & & INNOVATION COMMUNITY ECONOMY “If you want to go fast, “We don't have to sacrifice “Innovation distinguishes go alone. If you want to a strong economy for between a leader go far, go together.” a healthy environment.” and a follower.” African Proverb Dennis Weaver Steve Jobs 4 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Logoplaste’s Commitments towards each pillar are: PEOPLE & COMMUNITY • Zero Tolerance towards discrimination, harassment, child labour and any form of forced labour • Assuring the highest Ethical Behaviour from Everyone at Logoplaste “If you want to go fast, • Promotion of a Safety Culture and responsible workgo alone. If you want to place, aiming to Zero Accidents go far, go together.” • Attract, Engage, Develop, Retain and Care for our Employees, so They feel at Home African Proverb • Being Part of and Supporting the Communities in which we are Privileged to operate in ENVIRONMENT & ECONOMY • To be THE Business Partner of choice • Continue to invest on our Pioneering Business Model of Wall-to-Wall (W2W) plants, delivering nil CO2 Emissions on bottle logistics • Work with Business Partners that share the same Ethical Values and Principles • Use strategic Supply Chain Partnerships to build a Cir“We don't have cular Economy by: to sacrifice a strong Developing packaging solutions that are fully economy for a healthy recyclable or reusable by 2025 environment.” Increasing the incorporation of recycled mate rials in all our packaging by 2025 Dennis Weaver Driving recycling activities and technologies • Reduce GHG Emissions and Operational Waste across all Logoplaste plants • Continue to promote a conscious and efficient use of Water INNOVATION • Work together with our Partners to implement Lightweight packaging programs • Integrate Biomimicry Thinking – Innovation inspired by Nature – to design end-to-end effective sustainable “Innovation packaging solutions distinguishes • Innovate, Advise and Support our Partners to provide between a leader packaging that incorporates recycled and/or renewable and a follower.” raw materials • Develop Upstream channels that can Underpin Both Steve Jobs Our Partners and Logoplaste Sustainability commitments 5 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 LOGOPLASTE’S CODES Logoplaste Group has a Global Code of Conduct that dards of ethical conduct transcends national boundaries. applies to every single employee of Logoplaste: all LoCompliance with the Code of Conduct is a term and goplaste employees, and third parties acting on behalf condition of employment with Logoplaste. of Logoplaste, are required to read and comply with the Logoplaste Global Code of Conduct. Logoplaste has also a Global Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Contractors as Logoplaste intends to work Although Logoplaste operates in many countries across only with suppliers who share an essential set of values the globe, and our colleagues are citizens of nations and principles in the area of Business Ethics, Human with varying laws, regulations and customs, Logoplaste’s Rights and Labour Practices, Occupational Safety and commitment to behave according to the highest stanHealth and Environmental Responsibility. 6 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 HUMAN RIGHTS working under their own free will, and are being properly compensated for their effort. Logoplaste recognizes the responsibility to respect employees’ human rights and demonstrate that we act acPRINCIPLE 1 cordingly. The Logoplaste Global Labour Practices and Logoplaste supports and respects the protection of inHuman Rights Policy is aimed at supporting and guiding ternationally proclaimed human rights; and our management and employees to achieve this goal. Logoplaste is committed to ensuring that we are not PRINCIPLE 2 complicit in any human rights violations and hold our Logoplaste makes sure that it is not complicit in human suppliers and partners/clients the same high standard. rights abuses. Logoplaste recognizes that in countries that are politAs stated in our Global Labour Practices and Human ically less stable, or where human rights are comproRights Policy, Logoplaste supports and respects the prinmised, dilemmas may arise, including whether or how ciples proclaimed in the Universal Declaration of Human it can continue to operate in that country with integrity. Rights and believes businesses should ensure that they Logoplaste will act in such a way that none of its operare not complicit in human rights abuses. ations knowingly contribute to human rights violations by others. Logoplaste Global Labour Practices and Human Rights Policy outlines standards to ensure that all LogoplasThrough our Global Code of Conduct, Logoplaste comte employees are treated with respect and dignity, are mits to: 7 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Act in full compliance with the existing legislation As described in our Global Quality, Environment and and regulations in the countries where it operates, Health and Safety Policy, at Logoplaste, we promote a promoting dignified labour conditions. health and safety culture founded on authenticity, empowerment and accountability by ensuring high stanProvide a safe, healthy and hygienic workplace envidards of health and safety management throughout all ronment, taking effective precautions to prevent pooperations. Our vision is to operate with health and safetential health & safety incidents, occupational injury ty as a core VALUE, not just a priority we are committed or illness, associated with or occurring in the course to the prevention of injury and ill health and believe that of work. Logoplaste will minimise or eliminate so far working safely is non-negotiable and no task is so imas is reasonably practicable, the causes of all material portant that it cannot be done safely. hazards in the workplace environment; Logoplaste takes several actions and measures to ensure Respect and promote respect for employees, ena healthy and safe environment: suring decent work conditions, not engaging in or tolerating the use of corporal punishment, mental or All our operational sites have conducted health and physical coercion or verbal abuse of employees; safety risk assessments and all the plants have a person responsible for health and safety matters. Prohibiting employees from engaging in any beThere are procedures in place to anticipate health haviour that is threatening, abusive, exploitative or and safety risks related to start-up of new operations sexually coercive, including inappropriate gestures, or change of operations. language and physical contact in the workplace. We provide protective equipment to all impacted employees, have mandatory health check-ups for all Logoplaste has a Global Employee Grievance (WhisLogoplaste employees and take preventive measures tleblow) Policy and mechanisms for doing so. No emfor stress and noise. ployee shall be subjected to discrimination or adverse All Logoplaste plants have specific procedures for treatment for participating in a grievance procedure. handling of chemicals or hazardous substances. Logoplaste provides a wide variety of mechanisms to We perform regular inspections to ensure safety of help employees address issues and concerns, including machines/equipment and have maintenance plans in SpeakUp Channels managed by an external company, place for all machines/equipment. available 24/7, free and confidential. We provide training on health and safety risks and good working practices not only to all our employees To date no cases of human rights violations have been but also for contractors working on our premises and reported. we keep records of the trainings. Logoplaste’s suppliers and contractors shall pledge to We record all the accidents and injury types (including support fundamental human rights, guaranteeing that first aid). As part of being proactive we also keep track their workers have the full enjoyment of all the rights and of the near misses and risk assessments performed. A duties set forth in national legislation and international Global Health and Safety Report is issued every month, conventions (including temporary workers and interns, with detailed information on number of accidents per migrants, vulnerable groups or other groups), through plant, type of injuries, number of lost hours, the total the signature our Global Code of Conduct for Suppliers recordable incidence rate (TRIR) by plant and at group and Contractor. level and number of near misses and risk assessments performed by plant. Logoplaste’s suppliers and contractors shall commit to treat their workers with dignity and respect, not tolerating acts of violence (physical or psychological), harassment or coercion – such as insults, threats, isolation, invasion of privacy or professional limitation – aimed at constraining a person, affecting his/her dignity or creating a hostile, humiliating or destabilising environment. 8 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 LABOUR regulations in the countries where it operates, promoting dignified labour conditions. As stated in our Global Labour Practices and Human Rights Policy, Logoplaste endorses the principles enPRINCIPLE 3 shrined within the Core or Fundamental Conventions of Logoplaste upholds the freedom of association and the the International Labour Organization. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Logoplaste expects its employees to treat each other with dignity and mutual respect. Employees are responPRINCIPLE 4 sible for complying with all of Logoplaste’s policies, proLogoplaste upholds the elimination of all forms of forced cedures and code of conduct. and compulsory labour; In the Global Code of Conduct, Logoplaste commits to: PRINCIPLE 5 Provide its employees with a contractual relation, Logoplaste upholds the effective abolition of child larecognised and defined according to local legislation bour; and and regulations. The labour relation cannot be forced or under the threat of any penalty which the employPRINCIPLE 6 ee has not accepted voluntarily; Logoplaste upholds the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Not engage in the use of child labour or forced labour, not to agree to the use of these practices by As stated in our Code of Conduct, Logoplaste commits third parties supplying products or providing services to act in full compliance with the existing legislation and to Logoplaste; 9 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Respect the freedom of association and to recoging around 8% of our total workforce. nise the right to collective bargaining, providing parallel resources for free and independent association. Ensure that union members and representatives of FORCED LABOUR workers are not subject to discrimination, and that Logoplaste will not engage in or support the use of such representatives have reasonable access to their forced or compulsory labour – such as prison labour, members in the workplace; debt bondage, trafficking or serfdom. Logoplaste will avoid working with suppliers or emGuide labour policies and procedures hiring, reployment agencies that are known to be making use of muneration, access to training, promotion, termiforced or compulsory labour in their operation. nation or retirement – in order not to engage in or support discrimination based on race, social origin, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, age, disCHILD LABOUR ability, political opinions or union membership; Logoplaste respects the rights of the child, including the right to education, the right to rest and play and the Ensure the well-being and development of the emright to have the child’s basic needs met. ployees, providing decent salaries and benefits, that Logoplaste will therefore not engage in or support the should always meet at least legal or industry miniuse of child labour, which means that Logoplaste will not mum standards, or collective bargaining agreements allow children to work within its facilities. adopted in each country Logoplaste operates in; Respect the working days of its employees, complyNON-DISCRIMINATION ing with applicable laws, collective bargaining agreeIn relation to the appointment or career prospects of ments and industry standards adopted in each counemployees, Logoplaste will pay attention only to the try where Logoplaste operates, in order to protect suitability of the candidate (education, personality, skills, its employees – maximum working hours per week, working experience, and other relevant attributes as overtime, breaks, holidays and maternity and paterniallowed under local law) and his or her legitimate dety leave. All overtime work shall be voluntary, responmands. sible and in compliance with Logoplaste’s business Logoplaste will take its decisions regarding present and needs, respecting the daily, weekly and annual limits future employees on the basis of objective criteria. adopted in each country where Logoplaste operates. Logoplaste respects cultural and individual diversity and promotes inclusiveness. It respects personal beliefs / persuasions of employees. Our Global Labour Practices and Human Rights Policy outlines: Logoplaste has a Global Recruitment Policy to ensure recruitment is fair and consistent. Logoplaste aims at all times to recruit the person who is most suited to the FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE RIGHT TO particular job. Recruitment will be solely on the basis of COLLECTIVE BARGAINING the applicant’s abilities and individual merit as measured Logoplaste respects the right of its employees to be repagainst the criteria for the job. Qualifications, experience resented in order to advance their legitimate interests. and skills will be assessed at the level that is relevant to This right includes the right of internal and/or external the job. employee representatives to be acknowledged as partLogoplaste is committed to applying its equal opporners in negotiations and consultations subject to local tunities policy at all stages of recruitment and selection. laws. Shortlisting, interviewing and selection will always be There are formal country collective agreements in Bracarried out without regard to gender, sexual orientation, zil, France, Portugal, Spain and Italy which cover around marital status, colour, race, nationality, ethnic or national 45% of our total workforce. There are country works origins, religion, belief or age. council in place in our plants in Poland, Netherlands and Furthermore, any candidate with a disability will not be in our plant Logoplaste Santa Iria in Portugal, representexcluded unless it is clear that the candidate does not 10 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 meet the minimum criteria outlined in the employee mechanisms for doing so. No employee shall be subjectspecification. Reasonable adjustments to the recruitment ed to discrimination or adverse treatment for participatprocess will be made to ensure that no applicant is dising in a grievance procedure. advantaged because of his/her disability. Logoplaste provides a wide variety of mechanisms to Job advertisements are posted internally wherever poshelp employees address issues and concerns, including sible and Logoplaste encourages its employees to apSpeakUp Channels (Whistleblow) managed by an exterply for new positions within the company and promotes nal company, available 24/7, free and confidential. mobility of its employees. To date there has been no grievances reported on child Logoplaste compensates its employees for extra or labour, forced labour, discrimination, harassment nor atypical working hours and Logoplaste has an Employee other violation of human rights and labour practices. Assignment Allowance Policy, designed to compensate There are no employees below 18 years old. Logoplaste employees that are required to work away from home in roles that are outside of their usual place As at Logoplaste, our team is our most valuable resource, of work or region. we are committed to providing our employees not only with fair remuneration and a safe working environment As Logoplaste believes it is important that employees but also with professional fulfilment, development, trainare treated fairly and receive prompt responses to probing and recognition. lems and concerns that may arise in the workplace, Logoplaste has a Global Employee Grievance Policy and Logoplaste is committed to the training and develop11 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 ment of all employees, at all levels: we believe that all convictions and/or association to trade union or othemployees have the potential to grow, both in their work er collective bargaining. role and at a personal level and shall endeavour to provide opportunities for this growth. • To respect the freedom of trade union membership Logoplaste has established a Performance Management and recognise the right to collective bargaining. System, to identify key individuals and reward, train, develop and promote our employees based on their merit • To respect the employees’, work day, guaranteeing and ability. compliance with legislation, regulations and collective bargaining of the sector in each country where Logoplaste promotes interactive communication sesthey operate, so as to protect their employees – the sions with employees, through the Focus Groups, remaximum number of weekly work hours, overtime garding working conditions and employee’s interests work, rest periods, holidays, parental leave. and preferences. Focus Groups are group interviews, where a facilitator ((plant manager or HR) guides the in• All overtime hours shall be performed, responsibly terview while a small group discusses the topics raised. and in line with the needs of the company’s activiEvery employee should be invited and participation in ty, respecting the daily, weekly and annual limits set voluntary. forth in local legislation. On a regular basis Logoplaste performs an Employee • To seek the well-being and development of their Climate Survey, to understand the views of its employees employees, beyond decent salaries and benefits, and their general satisfaction level and assess leadership in accordance with the standards adopted by each and management practices that contribute to perforcountry where they operate. mance. The survey assesses seven major areas: personal development, pride and fulfilment, communication, compensation, work life balance, training and safety and fairness. All countries and employees are covered by the Employee Climate Survey and the answers are confidential and anonymous. As set in Logoplaste’s Global Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Contractors, Logoplaste’s suppliers/contractors are expected: • To respect the legislation, regulations, rules and requirements applicable to the company in matters of labour code. • To not employ child labour or forced labour, nor condone such practices by third parties who supply them with products or provide services for them. When minors are employed, all legislation and regulations applicable to child labour shall be complied with. • To not discriminate in practices related to hiring, employment, access to training, career advancement or any other working condition, so that all workers enjoy equal opportunities and treatment, regardless of their ethnic origin, race, nationality, age, gender, religion, sexual orientation, physical abilities, political 12 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 ENVIRONMENT erations and targeting zero waste to the environment. We are committed to continuously reviewing and improving our environmental practices and performance to progress towards our vision. Technology plays an esPRINCIPLE 7 sential role in our practices, and via energy assessments, Logoplaste supports a precautionary approach to enviwe shall aim to work with equipment manufacturers to ronmental challenges; improve environmental performance. PRINCIPLE 8 Logoplaste undertakes initiatives to promote greater enOur 3 years Environmental plan targets: vironmental responsibility; and Energy: to identify the energy rating of all plant PRINCIPLE 9 equipment such as lighting, motors, compressors, Logoplaste encourages the development and diffusion chillers, ovens and to maintain a live inventory. of environmentally friendly technologies. Operation Clean Sweep: to minimise the risk of maLogoplaste has a Global Quality, Environment and rine pollution from polymer pellet or flake lost. Health and Safety Policy: we are committed to creating environmentally responsible operations and products Control of Waste: segregate and ensure correct disby continually improving the efficiency of our resources, posal of plant waste by category to enable it to be consumption of raw materials, energy, water, preventing recycled by a 3rd party (cardboard, paper, plastic) or and minimising emissions and discharges from our opused for energy recovery. 13 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Manufacturing sites are built, and machines/equipment Logoplaste has also a Global Water Policy: although Loare chosen taking in consideration several other requiregoplaste’s operations are not water intensive – water ments including dust/particle emissions, the noise level is mainly used for cooling purposes in a closed-loop, and its impact on employees and surrounding areas. cleaning activities and welfare we should continuously monitor and take actions to reduce the amount of waAll machines/equipment/buildings have maintenance ter we use and manage it responsibly in our operations, plans in order to guarantee they are kept in the best even where water is currently plentiful. conditions and therefore minimizing the noise level. The Global Water Policy aims at: The machines/equipment used for our type of industry/ • Ensure compliance with environmental laws and product don’t originate external discharge of dust/parregulations, this is non-negotiable ticles. • Always guarantee the provision of fully-functioning, safely managed WASH (WAter, Sanitation and HyAll Logoplaste plants have procedures in place for lagiene) services to all employees belling, storing, handling and transporting hazardous • Responsible use of water, including monitoring of goods and chemicals and response procedures in place water withdrawal with a focus on reduction of water for emergencies, like oil spills. • Systematic reporting and tracking of water-related risks to the company and local communities As recycling of plastics does not begin with collection • Monitor our water usage and discharge, as well but rather with the design of products. (products should as the potential effects on the surrounding environbe designed so they don’t hamper recycling), Logoplasment, to improve performance te uses design for recycling, innovative design tools like • Regular increase in water recycles and reuses biomimicry thinking – Innovation inspired by Nature – • Manage and reduce effluents and proprietary software to improve the environmental • Initiate incident investigation and corrective action profile of packaging. whenever needed, and report on non-compliance Logoplaste implements whenever possible lightweight Logoplaste takes several actions and measures in order / “rightweight” programs that reduce the weight of the to create environmentally responsible operations and packages, maintaining the mechanical performance and products: reducing the CO2. Logoplaste operates a wall-to-wall (W2W) business Logoplaste uses raw materials with established recymodel. In this business concept, our on-site facilities are cling streams: The main raw materials used in producfully integrated within our customer’s premises, supplytion are PET and HDPE and these materials have well ing “just-in-time” plastic packaging and by so doing, established recycling streams. removing the need of secondary packaging and all logistics associated with transport and delivery of empty Logoplaste develops packaging to raise awareness for bottles, avoiding CO2 emissions. the ocean plastic contamination problem, like the Ecover Ocean bottle, Fairy Ocean bottle and OceanBound WinEmployee’s awareness programs focused on reducdex bottle. Ecover Ocean bottle was the first ever bottle tion of energy and water consumption. For this purpose, made from ocean waste plastic. Logoplaste uses, among other communication tools, Logoplaste’s intranet, the LogoTV’s, “Have you Heard” Logoplaste works together with its customers to ine-mails, skype training and “message” posters strategicorporate recycled raw materials in their products in a cally placed. correct and balanced way. The technologies and equipment used by Logoplaste sites allow to accommodate As energy is one our main sources of direct GHG emisup to 100% recycled content with minor modifications sions, Logoplaste selects low energy consumption maand investment. chines/equipment/technologies when building a new plant or when acquiring new equipment/machines. Logoplaste designs and produces reusable packaging, when applicable. The EPAL and Vimágua reusable water 14 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 bottles were created to promote the consumption of tap for them, through operators licenced for that purwater everywhere and not just indoors. pose. • To correctly control waste arising from activities on Logoplaste engages with key actors in the supply chain their premises as well as Logoplaste, all waste shall be to develop, evaluate and validate new and/or alternative managed using approved waste management comraw materials and recycling technologies. For example, panies with appropriate records maintained. Logoplaste belongs to the advisory board of DEMETO project – chemical recycling process using microwave depolymerization. This chemical recycling will make part of the recycling chain (closing the loop and then contributing to a circular economy) and will be used for the opaque PET stream. The pilot plant is being finalized and test of full-scale plant is expected to happen in 2020. Logoplaste supports the implementation of Deposit Return Systems (DRS) for single-use plastic drinks bottles in the countries where Logoplaste operates, as these systems have proven to achieve high collection and low feedstock contamination. Logoplaste signed the New Plastics Economy Global Commitments common vision led by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation and made the following individual commitments: • Take actions to eliminate problematic or unnecessary plastic packaging by 2025 • Take actions to move from single-use towards reuse models, where relevant, by 2025 • 100% of plastic packaging to be reusable or recyclable by 2025 • Continue to grow the use of recycled content across all packaging we produce • Achieve or exceed the legal requirement on the use of post-consumer recycled content, working handin-hand with our Industrial Partners. As stated in Logoplaste’s Global Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Contractors, Logoplaste’s suppliers/contractors shall comply with all legislation/regulations applicable to them in matters of environment and take steps/actions that have in view the continuous improvement of the Environmental Performance of their company: • To use natural resources responsibly, promoting energy efficiency and waste reduction. • To minimise environmental impacts arising from their activities. • To promote the reuse and recycling of wastes generated, guaranteeing an appropriate final destination 15 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 ANTI-CORRUPTION part of the Induction Program, shortly after they begin work. Thereafter, all employees are required to complete additional annual training on these policies and must rePRINCIPLE 10 certify to their understanding and ongoing compliance. Logoplaste works against corruption in all its forms, inCompliance with these requirements is a condition of cluding extortion and bribery. employment. Logoplaste has a Global Code of Conduct, an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, an Anti-Money Laundering Policy and a Global Code of Conduct for Suppliers OUR CODE OF CONDUCT OUR ETHICS and Contractors that address principle 10. Logoplaste is committed to conduct itself by our values Prior to joining Logoplaste, we require that new emand principles, in our operations and business, always ployees certify (in a form), that they have read and fully recognizing our obligations to all those with whom we understood the Code of Conduct, the Anti-Bribery and have dealings. Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy and the Anti-Money Logoplaste’s reputation, as well as the trust and respect Laundering Policy, and that they will comply with it and of those we do business with, are extremely important. will report suspected violations. Logoplaste maintains and demands the highest ethical New employees must attend orientation sessions where standards in the development of its business. they will be briefed on, among other things, the Code of Conduct, the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption ComCOMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS pliance Policy and the Anti-Money Laundering Policy, as Logoplaste, as a global company, is committed to re16 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 spect the laws, regulations and comply with all applicaEmployees are responsible for ensuring their own comble business requirements where we operate. pliance with all Logoplaste policies and procedures, inLogoplaste and its employees are bound by the law. cluding the Logoplaste Global Social Media Policy. Compliance with all applicable laws and regulations must never be compromised. FRAUD, PROTECTION OF LOGOPLASTE’S ASSETS, Additionally, employees shall adhere to internal rules ACCOUNTING and regulations as they apply in each situation. Those Logoplaste commits to honesty and respect for our asinternal rules are specific to Logoplaste and may go besets and property. yond what is required by the law. Employees must never be involved in fraudulent or any other dishonest or misleading conduct involving LoCONFLICTS OF INTEREST goplaste property, assets or financial reporting and acEmployees are required to always act in accordance with counting. the highest standards of integrity and to the best interLogoplaste’s financial records are the basis for managests of Logoplaste. ing our business and fulfilling our obligations to various Conflicts of interest like third-party interests, personal stakeholders. Therefore, any financial record must be benefits, personal relationships or outside business acaccurate and in line with Logoplaste’s accounting stantivities can affect (or could appear to affect) Logoplaste’s dards. employee objectivity. Employees are expected to diliEmployees are responsible for safeguarding tangible gently avoid conflicts of interest. and intangible Logoplaste assets, including trademarks, know-how, confidential or proprietary information and INSIDER TRADING information systems. While performing their duties, employees may find, learn Employees shall seek to protect Logoplaste’s property or work with important Logoplaste non-public informafrom loss, damage, misuse, theft, fraud, embezzlement tion, such as sales, earnings, acquisitions, regulatory and destruction. matters, or other. It is every employee’s responsibility to To the extent permitted by applicable law, Logoplaste keep non-public information confidential. may monitor, inspect and record how its assets are used by employees, including inspection of all e-mail, data, PROPRIETARY AND CONFIDENTIAL equipment and files kept on Logoplaste network termiINFORMATION nals. Logoplaste values and protects our proprietary and confidential information, and we respect the proprietary and ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION confidential information of others. Logoplaste condemns and prohibits any form of bribery, Employees shall not disclose confidential information or corruption or illegal payments. allow such disclosure. This obligation continues beyond Employees must never, directly or through intermediarthe termination of employment with Logoplaste. ies, offer or promise any personal or improper financial Employees must use best efforts to avoid unintentionor other advantage, in order to obtain or retain a busial disclosure by applying special care when storing or ness or other advantage from a third party. transmitting confidential information. Furthermore, employees must never solicit or accept any In case any of our competitors, suppliers or customers, advantage in return for any preferential treatment of a share with Logoplaste confidential information, such inthird party. formation shall be treated with the same care as if it was All Logoplaste employees should be conscious that ofLogoplaste’s confidential information. fering or giving of improper benefits, to influence the Employees must not use any illegal or unethical means decision of others, may result in disciplinary measures, to obtain information from any competitor, customer or up to and including termination and referral to legal ausupplier, or disclosure any Logoplaste information. thorities if required. Proprietary or confidential information must not be Special caution and attention apply when dealing with shared or discussed outside Logoplaste, except where Government Officials (Government Official’ is defined in permitted or required by applicable law or regulation, the Logoplaste Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy). or order issued by a court of competent jurisdiction or Employees are responsible for complying with all Logorequested by an official agent. plaste policies and procedures, including the Logoplaste 17 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Global Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. tions of the countries in which it operates, including competition laws. HOSPITALITY GIFTS, MEALS, TRAVEL • To not damage the reputation of their competitors, AND ENTERTAINMENT directly or through insinuations. Logoplaste competes and does business based only on • To respect the confidentiality of confidential inforquality and competence. mation and Logoplaste’s intellectual property, Employees shall not be influenced by receiving favours, using such information only for the purposes authonor shall they try to improperly influence others by prorised by Logoplaste. viding favours. • To not offer nor accept any monetary contribution, Employees may only offer or accept reasonable meals offer, provision of services or other benefit or other hospitality and symbolic gifts which are apthat may be interpreted as an attempt to influence propriate under certain circumstances, transparent and the result of a business decision. appropriate to the business relationship, and recorded • To combat corruption, specifically, bribery, embezproperly identifying the recipient name, title, organizazlement, extortion or other forms of corruption tion, business purpose and date, and all attendees, and in their relations with third parties. any other pertinent data. • To not use any illegal or anti-ethical means to obEmployees shall never accept or offer any hospitality if tain information from any competitor, customer such behaviour could create the impression of impropor supplier or divulge any Logoplaste information. erly influencing the respective business relationship. Therefore, employees must follow basic rules, and always comply with the Hospitality guidance provided in the “Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy”: When in doubt, the employees shall seek guidance from their Manager, the Human Resources department and/ or Global Compliance Officer. Logoplaste has internal mechanisms to report irregularities or behaviours not in compliance with the principles outlined in Logoplaste Code of Conduct and Logoplaste Global Policies. We rely on our employees to practice sound decision-making behaviours that preserve an ethical workplace. Employees are responsible for their own decisions. No one, at any level, has the authority to tell an employee to do something unethical or illegal. If an employee is unsure of the proper course of action, he/she must address Human Resources and/or report through defined communication channels (described in the Global Employee Grievance Policy). Information provided to Human Resources is confidential and private, protecting all parties involved. To date no cases of ethical violations have been reported. Through our global Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Contractors, we also ask our suppliers/contractors to conduct their business with integrity, honesty and respect for all those with whom they interact: • To fully comply with the applicable laws and regula18
