UN Global Compact Communication on Progress SOS International 2018 www.sos.eu 1 Statement from the CEO SOS International is committed to support the network. We see CSR as a vital part of running a United Nations Global Compact initiative. sustainable business, and we are keen on continuing our positive development. This is our Communication on Progress (COP) report, which describes our way of continuIn 2019, I expect an increased focus on how ously implementing the 10 principles from the our supplier management and digital business United Nations Global Compact in our strategy transformation will have an impact on our CSR and operations. In this COP, we account for our focus areas. actions on continuous improvement of our social environment and employee engageI hope you will enjoy the report. ment, our carbon footprint and impact on the environment as well as our work on information Best regards, security and anti-corruption. Niels Krag Printz During 2018, SOS International has continued CEO, SOS International to demonstrate good results in our main Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) focus areas; 1) People & Health, 2) Climate & Environment, 3) Ethics & Security. This report includes SOS International’s mandatory CSR report in accordance with article 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. At SOS International, we are committed to sharing our knowledge on responsible business practices with our stakeholders and additional 2 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International 1 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International 2 3 SOS International How we work with Corporate Social Company Overview Responsibility (CSR) Gothenburg Oslo Stockholm Helsinki Aarhus Copenhagen SOS International was established in 1961 and is now owned by 13 of the largest insurance Our CSR committee has representatives from each of our Nordic locations. companies in the Nordic. SOS International is one of the leading assisSOS International has a comprehensive netAt SOS International, our vision is to be perThese three CSR signature areas are incorpotance organisations in the Nordic region. From work of qualified suppliers and partners all over ceived as the most trusted assistance partner. rated in our three business areas and activities alarm centres in Denmark, Sweden, Norway the world, and six strategic partner offices in Being a trusted assistance partner entails related to our employees, customers, end-usand Finland, SOS International provides acute high volume areas. Counting more than 1,200 commitment to the highest ethical standards ers, suppliers and society in general. This is assistance all over the world, night and day, all employees, SOS International represents 30 of business conduct, and that is why we take illustrated in SOS International’s value chain year round. nationalities and combined the employees CSR seriously. We want to be recognised as a on page four and five and some of these activispeak more than 37 different languages. socially and environmentally sound company. ties will be explained further in this report. SOS International offers a wide range of solutions in the form of worldwide medical and SOS International was established in 1961 and We are participating in the UN Global ComWe have a corporate CSR committee with travel assistance as well as roadside assisis now owned by 13 of the largest insurance pact, and the 10 universal principles from the representatives from each of our Nordic tance and healthcare solutions. SOS Intercompanies in the Nordic countries. UN Global Compact are an integrated part of locations, who work to implement and connational secures the value chain on behalf of our three CSR signature areas; tinuously improve our CSR strategy. A central the customers as a trusted partner and aims This COP report covers the entire SOS Interelement for the committee is to communicate to provide the optimal end-user experience national Group and presents our sustainability • People & Health and ensure employee engagement regarding while taking the total cost for the customers initiatives from our three business areas: • Climate & Environment our CSR initiatives. Stakeholder analysis and into account. As a trusted partner, quality and Travel, Roadside and Healthcare. • Ethics & Security stakeholder engagement provide the basis for compliance are also key parameters. our CSR strategy. 2 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International 3 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International Value Chain PREVENTING INCIDENT RESPONDING TO INCIDENT NETWORK ASSISTANCE FINANCIAL SETTLEMENT CROSS-FUNCTIONAL SUPPORT N/A • A good social environment and fair Supplier Code of Conduct on labour Segregation of duty creates a safe • Annual employee engagement employee conditions make our rights and gender equality to suppliers work-environment. survey. employees able to give the best such as hospitals or towing companies. • Monitoring annual sick leave possible service. • Implementing offers and social SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT, • A diverse SOS employee initiatives to improve work EMPLOYEE CONDITIONS AND composition makes us able to environment. GENDER EQUALITY meet the end-users with empathy, • Gender distribution target on 40% tolerance and understanding. of the underrepresented gender at board level and management level 1, and 50% on management level 2-4. The target has been met on level 2-4. • Roadside: CarConnect • Roadside: Increase in • Travel: Supplier Code of Conduct • Paperless office through • Focus on increasing the number • Travel: Cooperating with number of phone fixes which on climatic and environmental electronic invoicing has minimized of video meetings to decrease organisations on preventing reduces greenhouse gas impact to suppliers e.g. airline the use of paper. the number of business travels injuries. emissions. companies, towing network • Electronic invoicing has minimized which reduces greenhouse gas • Travel: Multiple channels of and hospitals. the number of local printers, which emissions. communication, e.g. Video • Roadside: has increased office air quality and • Focus on reducing energy CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT Doctor, reduces travelling to • Increase in repairs on spot and reduced noise pollution. consumption. see a doctor or repatriation. phone fixes which reduces green • Waste sorting to reduce house gas emissions. environmental impact. • Supplier Code of Conduct to • Climate Days to reduce environtowing companies on climatic mental impact and increase and environmental impact. the employees’ awareness. • ISO 14001-certified. Ensuring personal data security in our • Ensuring end-users’ data right. Supplier Code of Conduct on human • Only sharing necessary personal • Ensuring a safe workplace. services. • Collecting end-user consents. rights and anti-corruption to suppliers data on our end-users with the • Focus on information security • ISO 27001-certified. e.g. hospitals, airline companies and insurance companies. and the protection of personal data • Digitally integrated systems to towing companies. • Strengthening cost-control e.g. through ISO 27001. ensure correct end-user coverage. procedures at our service offices. • Mandatory e-learning for SOS HUMAN RIGHTS AND • Controlling the incident process employees on information security ANTI-CORRUPTION as soon as possible to ensure and anti-corruption. correct payments. • Not accepting facilitating payments. 4 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International 5 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International 4 5 CSR Governance Overview People & Health Foundation CSR Signature Area CSR Committee 5.1 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 1-6 The well-being of the employees is essential As part of the well-being of our employees, to the success of our business. At SOS InterSOS International is fully committed to renational, we see a safe workplace as a human specting human rights and labour rights. Our right, and we focus on creating a healthy and efforts, which comply with UN Global ComPeople & Health Corporate safe work environment where discrimination pact principles 1 to 6, include: CSR is not tolerated. committee • Codes of Conduct and policies applicable SOS International is for everyone. Respect, to employees and suppliers. UN GLOBAL COMPACT diversity and understanding is a great part of • Equal opportunities for everyone. · Human Rights Climate & our everyday lives at work and of the servic• Proactive approach to creating a healthy · Labour Environment es we deliver. We are proud of our more than and safe work environment. · Environment 1,200 employees who represent 30 different • Proactive approach to preventing incidents · Anti-corruption nationalities and speak more than 37 different in our services. Corporate languages when assisting end-users all over CSR the world every day 24/7. Ethics & activities Security Human Rights and Labour Rights • Principle 1 • Principle 4 Businesses should support and respect the elimination of all forms of forced and the protection of internationally compulsory labour; proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 5 • Principle 2 the effective abolition of child labour; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses • Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in • Principle 3 respect of employment and occupation Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 6 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International 7 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International ...diversity is a strength because it gives us a long line of different competences and makes SOS International an agile company with an adequate foundation and scope for future growth and innovation. 5.2 CODE OF CONDUCT AND POLICIES 5.3 EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR EVERYONE At SOS International, we have a governance 5.3.1 Risk of limited diversity structure of corporate values, CSR principles, At SOS International, we strive for equal policies and processes. Our Compliance Board opportunities for everyone. A lack of diveris responsible for overseeing the governance sity among our employees will make it more structure at SOS International including endifficult for SOS International to provide the suring policy compliance, maintaining current best service possible. Our risk assessment policies and approving new policies. indicates that having a balanced and diverse composition of employees, such as different Some of the most important policies related to genders or ethnicities, creates the best founthe rights and well-being of our employees are: dation and opportunity for us to live up to our values; responsive, advanced, caring and • Company Code of Conduct inside. This diversity is a strength because it • Personal Data Policy gives us a long line of different competences • Duty of Care Policy and makes SOS International an agile compa• Information Security Code of Conduct ny with an adequate foundation and scope for future growth and innovation. These policies outline measures designed to prepare, plan and care for staff to work and How we make sure to minimise the risk of a operate in a safe and secure manner both at limited diversity is formulated in our Gender the home office and abroad. The policy hierarEquality Policy: chy is combined with a structure of processes, roles and responsibilities, guidelines In order to be an attractive career choice for and instructions. both genders and to develop and attract the best candidates for the company, SOS International: Furthermore, we make an effort to ensure that our suppliers treat their employees in line • Has defined objectives for the equal distriwith the principles of the UN Global Compact. bution of both genders at management level This is done through our Supplier Code of • Ensures that the objectives are considered Conduct in which it is stated that we are comin the SOS Corporate Recruitment Policy mitted to the protection of human rights and • Makes career opportunities visible for the labour rights. underrepresented gender 8 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International 9 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International Our targets and latest results related to our Gender Equality Policy We have once again met our target for Level 2-4: Other managers Level 0: Board level * 100% 90% Our target in 2018 was that there should be 80% minimum 40 percent of the underrepresented 70% gender on our management levels 0 and 1, and 60% 50% 50 percent on level 2-4. 40% Target underrepresented 30% gender 40% At our Board level, we did not quite meet our 20% 10% target in 2018, but we came closer with the 15% 25% 25% 30% 0% Board consisting of 30 percent of the under2015 2016 2017 2018 represented gender compared to 25 percent in 2018. Level 1: Group Management Regarding Management level 1 (Group Management), it is important for SOS Internation100% 90% al to ensure that both men and women are 80% represented in the final field of candidates. 70% The target for management level 1 was not 60% 50% quite met. A reason why is that we have not 40% Target underrepresented had any changes in the management com30% gender 40% position in 2018. However, the final decision 20% 10% when hiring a new member in Group Manage40% 33% 33% 33% 0% ment is based on the right mix of competenc2015 2016 2017 2018 es regardless of gender. In order to achieve our policy goals and ensure Level 2-4: Other managers We have once again met our target for Level the employment of the best-qualified people, 2-4: Other managers. a number of actions are carried out: 100% 90% • Set internal targets for the share of the 80% The gender composition for all new hires in underrepresented gender. 70% 2018, regardless of employee/management • Make an effort to make SOS International 60% 50% Target underrepresented level in the organisation: attractive to managers of all genders, e.g. 40% gender 50% by encouraging equal opportunities for Target 30% Gender composition for new hires in 2018 career development. 20% Men 10% • Establish requirements for gender 45% 43% 60% 53% Women 0% representation in recruitment procedures; 2015 2016 2017 2018 we go for the best candidate regardless 44% men of gender. Status Status Status Status 56% • Ensure equal pay for all genders who Dec 2015 Dec 2016 Dec 2017 Dec 2018 women undertake the same job/have the same responsibilities. * The owners choose their own representative at the General Meeting election, while four of the members are chosen by the SOS employees. The gender composition is hence relying on the Board of Directors and the employees, and SOS International is therefore not fully able to • Ensure that recruitment agencies present influence the gender composition of the members. candidates of all genders. 10 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International 11 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International To minimise the risk of sickness and injuries in Definition on Duty of Care: 2018, we have a catalogue of various initiatives Duty of Care refers to the legal, ethical, and offers available to the employees or moral responsibility or obligation of companies and organisations towards their employees to maintain their safety and well-being. 5.4 HEALTHY AND SAFE WORK ENVIRONMENT 5.4.1 Risk of sickness and injuries Prevention of sickness and injuries for the peoIn 2018, the sick leave percentage was on the ple working at SOS International is pivotal for same level as in 2017. We will keep focusing on the sustainable development of our business. a healthy work environment through the initiTo minimise the risk of sickness and injuries in atives listed above, as well as by ensuring that 2018, we have a catalogue of various initiatives employees are given the opportunity to influand offers available to the employees, ence health and safety issues in our local work for example: environment committees. • “Duty of Care” initiatives with a broad range The result of our preventive activities at the of security measures for employees and workplace is partly reflected in the annual Emrelevant consultants. ployee Engagement Survey (EES). The survey • Employee councils with local shows a satisfaction score of 68 for the second representatives. year in a row which means that we have man• Workplace risk assessments. aged to sustain the increase from 2017. Based • SOSialise – employee organisation for all on our EES, each department creates a list of our Nordic SOS employees arranging social actions in order to ensure continual focus on events and sport events. employee satisfaction, and we can see that • First aid training offered to employees. these actions in specific departments have • Safety measures such as available helped in 2018. In 2019, we will continue to defibrillators both inside and outside our pay great attention to this matter and work office buildings. on ways to increase the overall satisfaction • Numerous employee offers including across our departments in order for us to flu vaccines and smoking cessation training move closer to our 2020 ambition. • Health checks for employees working night shifts. Furthermore, we also have a line of local initiaEmployee Engagement Survey (EES) tives such as: Year • A health ambassador sharing tips and tricks 2016 2017 2018 2020 to a healthier work day. (target) • In-house massage partially financed by SOS. 65 68 68 71 • Serving healthy and varied food in the SOS International canteen. Satisfaction score 12 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International 13 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International 6 Climate & Environment 6.1 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 7-9 6.1.1 Risk of impacting the climate and environment Natural disasters and extreme weather conditions due to climate changes increasingly afAt SOS International, we are aware of the risk fect our business, for example when assisting of our business model’s impact on the climate end-users travelling to areas where flooding, and the environment e.g. through CO2 emishurricanes and forest fires have become an sions or pollution. Among others, this is due to increasing problem. our Roadside business which entails numerous kilometres driven on the road in CO2 emitting roadside assistance vehicles. Our ways of handling this risk and continually improving Environment our environmental performance are stated in our Environmental Strategy. In this strategy, it • Principle 7 is formulated that we strive to do so by: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to • Developing services and products environmental challenges; according to our environmental impact • Principle 8 assessment. undertake initiatives to promote • Measuring and monitoring our carbon 5.5 PREVENTION OF INJURIES AND greater environmental responsibility; footprint and continuously working to DAMAGES IN OUR SERVICES and make data measurable in order to improve our green accounts further. To prevent and minimise both unfortunate that our employees are educated correctly • Principle 9 • Improving our waste disposal encourage the development and situations and crisis situations from occurand know how to act when travelling abroad. arrangements and ensuring the safe diffusion of environmentally friendly ring, SOS International provides end-users One way we ensure this is through SOS Comtechnologies handling of chemicals. with check lists and useful advice when petence, aimed at our doctors, which makes travelling abroad. sure that they have the right prerequisites for Our policies regarding our influence on the travelling to a given country. Furthermore, our climate and the environment are stated in When assisting end-users all over the world, ways of ensuring the well-being and safety At SOS International, we pay close attention to our Travel Policy, Environmental Policy in our it sometimes includes sending employees of our employees when travelling abroad are the impact we have on the climate and the enRoadside business and our abovementioned to high-risk areas. We have an obligation to stated in our Duty of Care Policy. vironment, and we are committed to managing Environmental Strategy. risk minimise these situations by making sure this impact where it is significant and relevant. 14 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International 15 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International 6.3 GREEN ACCOUNTS The corporate Green Accounts at SOS Intertravel has increased by 20 percent compared national is divided into: to 2017, but per employee it has only increased by 13 percent. This increased amount • Energy consumption from heat and of air travelling reflects the high number of electricity cross-Nordic projects. We are aware of this • Carbon footprint from business air travel increase and will focus on our carbon foot• Corporate use of video meetings print from internal travels in 2019. The CO₂ emissions from our consumption of At SOS International, we will continue to work heat and electricity at the Copenhagen office in compliance with our Travel Policy, which have increased by 6 percent from 2017 to emphasizes the importance of reducing the 2018, but when taking into account the innumber of trips and using video conferencing creased number of employees, the CO2 emiswhen possible. sions have only increased by 2 percent. Total tonnes CO2 from energy So far, it is not possible to monitor the enerconsumption gy consumption from our remaining offices because we are on rented premises, but in 229 208 214 199 6.2 WASTE MANAGEMENT 2019, we will work on our ability to monitor and report this. At SOS International, we want to decrease In 2018, the proportional amount of recycled our pollution and CO2 emissions from the waste was more than 37 percent. In 2019, The number of video meetings carried out waste we produce. A way we do this is by we will work on increasing the proportional at SOS International has decreased by 25 sorting our waste. The waste disposal aramounts of recycled waste as well as expandpercent compared to 2017. The magnitude of rangements at for instance the Copenhagen ing the waste management system at SOS CO2 emissions from our internal business air 2015 2016 2017 2018 office include several types of waste categoInternational. ries, including bio waste. This focus on waste continues to result in procurement choices of biodegradable products. The development of video meetings and business travel 8.750 Waste Management* 371 5.784 6.549 307 0,9 % 61,5 % Residual Residual (municipality) 256 (waste company) 1.780 227 37,6 % Recycling (waste company) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 * To be able to compare the waste proportions, the amount of residual waste handled by the municipality is converted from litre to kilograms using a waste coefficient and must therefore be read with some reservations. Video meetings Tonnes CO2 emission from business travel 16 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International 17 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International 6.4 ISO 14001 CERTIFICATION In our Roadside business, we hold an ISO 14001 The effect of these initiatives is reflected in certificate on Environmental Management. the positive development in the use of phone fix and Repair on Spot, contributing to a decrease in the CO2 emissions from our Roadside business area in 2018. In our Roadside business area, we also offer CarConnect, which means that a car owner is notified when his or her car needs to be fixed at a workshop in order to keep the car from breaking down. With this service, we mitigate potential CO2 emissions by not potentially having to send out a roadside assistance vehicle, and the end-user does not end up on the The ISO 14001 certificate underlines the side of the road with a broken-down car. efforts that are carried out every day to improve the environmental performance in our services. SOS International e.g. monitors and 6.5 CLIMATE DAYS IN SOS INTERNATIONAL develops services according to environmental and climatic impact and strives to reduce Our organisation and employees care for the the company’s carbon footprint. This is for environment. May 7-9, 2018 were marked as instance reflected in the amount of CO2 emitClimate Days at SOS International. The purted per driven kilometre in Norway, which has pose of the Climate Days was to create awaredecreased in 2018 compared to 2017. ness about SOS International’s environmental profile and to engage the employees in our Another way of reducing our CO2 emissions environmental work. is by focusing on using Phone Fix and Repair on Spot. Phone Fix entails advising and guidExamples of how our employees contribute to ing the end-user to fix the problem over the our environmental activities: phone instead of sending out a roadside assistance vehicle, and in 2018, we have continued to educate our employees on how to assist the end-users over the phone. Repair on Spot means that we repair the vehicle on site instead of towing it to a workshop. In 2018, we have, among other things, equipped the Norwegian roadside assistance network with chargers for electrical cars and cils ut pen educated the Swedish roadside assistance g s p ro Plantin network on how to handle the increasing number of electrical vehicles. These initiatives help make it possible for SOS International to repair an increased number of electrical vehicles on Waste sort in g the spot. 18 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International 19 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International 7 Ethics & Security 7.1 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE 10 • Sponsorship & Donations Policy • Conflicts of Interest Policy Business ethics, security and principles on • Gift & Representation Policy anti-corruption are basic components of our • Supplier Code of Conduct management system, governance structure and policies. The Sponsorship & Donations Policy underlines the importance of evaluating sponsorships and donations according to the contents Business ethics, security and principles on of the sponsorship. Our Gift & Representation Policy describes how to avoid receiving or givanti-corruption are basic components of our Anti-corruption ing gifts or representation arrangements that management system, governance structure are or could be perceived as being a reward in • Principle 10 exchange for a certain service. and policies. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including exortion and bribery. From our Conflicts of Interest Policy: At SOS International, we continually improve where we, among other things, have focused “A conflict of interest occurs when an employour procedures to ensure no corruption, on fraud. This improvement of our cost control ee’s obligation to promote the interests of SOS bribery, or fraud. One of the ways we do this processes has ensured at high level of supplier 7.1.1 Risk of fraud International conflicts with their own personal is through our cost control processes at our compliance with our policies. SOS International will not tolerate any interests such as financial interests, or when strategic partner offices. New ways of autoform of corruption or bribery. To mitigate the interests of SOS International as a company mating and digitising these processes are beAnother way SOS International has ensured the risk of for example financial fraud in our conflict or could potentially conflict with the ing developed continually, and in 2018 we were compliance with our policy on anti-corrupsupply chain, and to ensure that we coninterests of a customer, partner or supplier. able to strengthen them further. This has for tion is by conducting mandatory compliance tinue to comply with the policy of no corConflicts of interest must never adversely affect example been carried out in connection with e-learning for our employees to ensure that ruption or bribery, our anti-corruption and the performance of the services provided by the establishment of new agreements with we continue to stay compliant. bribery principle is implemented in our: SOS International.” our strategic partners in Turkey and Thailand, 20 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International 21 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International Audit Committee Group Management Data Protection Compliance board Officer (DPO) Medical/Healthcare Information Technical Compliance Board Security Board Compliance Board 7.2 PRIVACY RIGHTS AT SOS INTERNATIONAL At SOS International, we are respecting our At SOS International, we strive to ensure 7.2.1 How SOS International manages end-users’ data security as well as their ownthat our end-users understand and are fulthe risk of data breach ership of their own personal data. Supplying ly informed on how we treat their personal our end-users with information security is data. A way to inform our end-users on this Being an assistance organisation requires policies on information security. A way to have their human right. This has always been a part matter is by obtaining consents from them. working with a substantial amount of personal an impact is for example through our mandaof our company DNA, and the General Data Our policies on how to work with information data. This entails a risk of data breaches which tory Supplier Code of Conduct, which contains Protection Regulation (GDPR) has given us an security are stated in our Information Security we wish to mitigate in order to be the most an appendix on our instructions for the suppliopportunity to further increase our focus on Code of Conduct and our Personal Data Poltrusted assistance partner. In order to mitiers’ processing of personal data. this matter. icy along with general principles and specific gate this risk, we are certified in ISO 27001 on requirements according to the categories of Information Security Management and have In 2018, we have continually worked to mitiThe new regulation from the European Union information and personal data in question. an internal Information Security Board to govgate the risk of data breaches which include an increased the existing requirements on the Furthermore, we have appointed a Data Proern our information security activities. increased focus on decreasing the disclosure protection of personal data. SOS International tection Officer (DPO) who is responsible for of personal data to third party. Furthermore, has used this opportunity to conduct a review advisement on GDPR and supervision on how SOS International’s certified information seSOS International´s mandatory compliance of implemented initiatives, which include asSOS International complies with the data procurity management system is an assurance to e-learning courses have been updated and all sessments of for example processes and routection regulations. our end-users, customers, and other stakeSOS employees have completed the course on tines, as the new regulation has set increased holders that we are committed to: information security in order to ensure that all requirements in relation to: employees know and follow SOS Internation• Ensure data protection by continually al’s information security rules at all times. • IT design and IT systems improving security • Contracts • Ensure 24/7 operation setup through The result of our focus on information security • Consents and privacy notices resilient business continuity management is that the amount of personal data we store • IT security • Mitigate information security risks and use in our assistance work has decreased • Accountability, including documentation in 2018 which contributes to minimising the and risk assessments As a participant of UN Global Compact, we risk of breaches and thereby secures our strive to impact our network with our end-users’ right to data security. 22 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International 23 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International 7.3 COMPLIANCE TRAINING Other mandatory compliance e-learning security. The result of the training in 2018 is courses include main contents such as: that the employees have obtained even more knowledge on our compliance rules. • Confidentiality • Communication and contact with external Our efforts in 2018 show that we are comauthorities mitted to ensure benign social conditions and • Management system a healthy work environment, to take care of • Code of Conduct and policies our climate and environment and to ensure • CSR transparent business processes in which no corruption and the individual’s right to own The purpose of the compliance training at data are pivotal. This makes SOS InternationSOS International is first and foremost al a sustainable company and a trusted assisstrengthened awareness, commitment and tance partner. 24 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International 25 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International www.sos.eu 26 / 24 UN Global Compact / SOS International
