WAY BEYOND Reso ct s urces m p a i s i t ive o GOOD P Putting more into society Corporate Responsibility and the Report 2018 environment than we take out Neg ativ nd e im Dema pac ts 2 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 WELCOME TO OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FOR 2018 We are making great progress on This is SIG’s second full Corporate Responsibility Key for icons our journey to go Way Beyond Good (CR) Report. It has been prepared in accordance Selected data points indicated We want to hear – to put more into society and the with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) by this icon have been externally from you Standards: Core option, describing our environment than we take out. management approach and performance on our assured with limited assurance by We welcome stakeholder PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH feedback on our CR Here we report on what we have most material environmental and social issues. Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (see approach, performance achieved in 2018 and explain some We publish a full GRI report every two years. Our page 86). Their assurance statement and reporting. of the challenges we must work first full report was for 2016 and we published can be found on page 84. Please contact through to reach our ambitious an interim performance update in 2017. Specific achievements where Ingo Büttgen, goals for 2020 and beyond. This document acts as our Communication on SIG is leading the industry are Head of Corporate Progress in relation to the 10 principles of the highlighted with this icon. Communication, at United Nations Global Compact (see page 70) waybeyondgood@sig.biz. Key challenges are signposted and shows how we are contributing to the United with this icon. Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (see page 14). Scope of report Structure of the report Unless otherwise stated, data covers the The report is structured around the focus 2018 calendar year and all our global operations areas of the responsibility roadmap we are except our joint ventures in the Middle East undation Foundation using to drive progress towards our commitment and Japan. Our Whakatane paper mill in to go Way Beyond Good. New Zealand is excluded from our reporting RI GRI on responsible sourcing. Relevant material issues, GRI indicators and 01 101 GRI INDICATORS SDGs are shown at the start of the section on undation eneral Foundation General each focus area. Details on reporting boundaries, sclosures Disclosures together with an index of conformance with RI RI GRI GRI GRI GRI GRI the GRI Standards, can be found in About our 01 02 101 102-50 102-51 102-52 102 reporting (see page 67). eneral General anagement sclosures Management Disclosures pproach Approach RI RI GRI GRI GRI GRI GRI 02 03 102-53 102-54 102-56 102 103 WE SUPPORT SIG supports the SDGs anagement Management onomic pproach Economic Approach RI RI GRI GRI 03 00 103BEYOND 200 WAY RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING onomic Economic vironmental Environmental 3 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 CONTENTS WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING Message from our CEO 5 Overview 24 Overview 42 Overview 54 Determining report Our journey Going Way Beyond Good Going Way Beyond Going Way Beyond Good content 68 Way Beyond Good 6 with Cartons for Good 25 Good with FSCTM 43 with SIGNATURE PACK 55 United Nations Our business 7 Understanding our Our supply chain 44 Our life-cycle Global Compact: value chain impacts 26 approach 56 Responsibility built in 9 Responsible suppliers 45 Communication Environmental footprint 27 Our packs 58 on Progress 2018 70 External perspectives Sustainable from our Responsibility Employees 31 raw materials 47 Filling machines & Global Reporting Advisory Group 12 technical service 64 Initiative Index 72 Health & safety 35 Energy sourcing 49 Driving the net Product safety 66 Greenhouse gas Governance & ethics 38 Sustainable logistics 51 positive agenda 13 emissions basis Communities 39 of reporting 82 Listening and responding to Assurance stakeholders 15 statement 84 Our priorities 17 Key performance indicators 86 Our roadmap: Progress in 2018 19 How to navigate the report Use the tabs at the bottom of each page to move between the main sections of the report. The navigation buttons enable you to: Return to the start of the report Return to last page viewed Go back one page Move forward one page WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 4 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 WAY BEYOND We are leading the industry by pioneering sustainable innovations GOOD to deliver scalable, systemic net positive impacts – for society, the environment and our business. There is an incredible level of commitment throughout the organisation as we drive progress towards our ambitious goals to go Way Beyond Good.” Rolf Stangl Chief Executive Officer Our ambition Put more into society and the environment than we take out IN THIS SECTION Message from our CEO Our journey Way Beyond Good Our business Responsibility built in Rolf holds a combifit pack External perspectives from our Responsibility specially printed to present Advisory Group our Corporate Compass, which Driving the net positive agenda includes bold commitments on Listening and responding to stakeholders responsible company, sourcing Our priorities and products. Our roadmap: Progress in 2018 WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 5 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 What it means to go MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO Way Beyond Good I am incredibly proud of the progress these solutions as they seek to enhance their We built our innovative mobile Cartons for We are going Way Beyond Good by own environmental credentials with consumers Good filling machine this year and delivered it to partnering to create a net positive we have made since we embarked food supply system that will nourish and regulators. Bangladesh, where it has already begun helping on our responsibility roadmap in a growing global population while farmers preserve surplus food and providing 2016. Our pioneering innovations are Our Way Beyond Good ambitions and activities children with school meals. I’m extremely putting more into society and the showcasing the role of SIG solutions in are increasingly central to our business. The environment than it takes out. proud of this project and everyone involved in level of investor interest in this during our Initial delivering food in a safe, sustainable taking an idea we had and turning this vision Our ambition is to become net positive Public Offering shows just how important it is and affordable way. into something that is creating real benefits for in the long run. In simple terms, this to SIG’s success now and in the future. And it is communities within a very short space of time. means we are working to reduce Over the last three years, we have achieved a really encouraging to have gained such strong any negative impacts and increase host of industry firsts. First to enable customers buy in from stakeholders both within and outside I’m equally proud of the programmes that have the positive impacts we have on the to include the FSCTM label on any of our packs. the business. been triggered by employees taking the initiative. environment and society. Ultimately, First to offer an aseptic carton linked to 100% Our people – their expertise and enthusiasm – we want to create a net positive impact There is an incredible level of commitment renewable plant-based materials.1 First to are essential to achieve our ambitions and I am overall across our value chain. In doing throughout the organisation. The Board is source all the energy that we use to make pleased that engagement levels have significantly so, we are not only benefiting people driving our Way Beyond Good agenda and the our packs from renewable sources. First to improved this year. Over 77% of employees took and the planet, we are also investing in first meetings with our external Responsibility achieve certification to the new ASI standard the time to respond to our latest survey and we the success of our business now and Advisory Group have given us further impetus for responsible aluminium sourcing. And, are using their feedback to help us improve. in the future. and motivation by challenging us to think big. most recently, first to offer a market ready We have also created a team of experts Way Beyond Good is founded on our strong We align our efforts with the principles alternative to plastic straws for use with from across the business to help us deliver commitment to corporate responsibility. of the Net Positive Project by focusing on aseptic carton packs. transformative change and reinforce the SIG supports the United Nations Sustainable our material impacts, targeting systemic Sustainability is ingrained in SIG’s strategy connection between Way Beyond Good and Development Goals and remains dedicated to change and regenerative outcomes, and and this has strengthened the way we source, SIG’s core business. upholding the principles of the United Nations being transparent about our progress Global Compact. and the challenges we face along the way. produce and sell. The environmental credentials But this is not just a top down initiative. SIG of our carton packs are inherently strong and we people are getting involved all over the world We have made excellent progress on our journey The graphic on the following page have led the industry with even more sustainable with projects like the eco-canteen for a local to go Way Beyond Good. But we want to do even illustrates what Way Beyond Good means innovations, such as our SIGNATURE PACK which school in Thailand and a reward scheme more to support the transition to a net positive to the environment, society and SIG. hit the supermarket shelves in 2018. More and Features later in this report explore what for recycling in Brazil. I’m delighted that our food supply system. I look forward to reporting more customers are asking for and taking up this means in practice. refreshed engagement programme will give on our progress next year. them – and us – more opportunities to have a We also invited our NGO partners to GRI INDICATOR positive impact in their communities. We will discuss what it means to be net positive amplify our impact through our newly formed in a series of interviews posted on our Way Beyond Good Foundation, which will SIGnals blog. GRI initially focus on our flagship Cartons for 102-14 Good project. Rolf Stangl Chief Executive Officer 1 Via a mass balance system WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 6 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 OUR JOURNEY WAY BEYOND GOOD Ourdream More Green product Every consumer in the world Our business Gold shows SIG customers for EcoPlus portfolio offers extra with an SIG pack in their hand and a smile on their face, is a responsible and sustainability every single day partner credentials DEC SIGNATURE s mpact LIN PACK Positive i ING RES OUR CES AND ECO-S YSTEM x5 S SERV ICES 1.7 more climate-related 2016 2017 2018 2020 2030 Earths disasters used since 1970 Natural FSCTM label possible 100% 100% Our net every resources NEXT STEPS ON ROADMAP TO BE DEVELOPED positive on any PLUS FSCTM labelled certified materials certification year SIG pack certification packs to help forests and ambition ecosystems thrive 82% 100% 100% 100% plant-based plant-based* renewable renewable 50% energy for EcoPlus SIGNATURE production pack sourcing spend with Partner to create Climate suppliers that share our PACK 100 Partner net positive approach a net positive food change -58% -4 5 % to increase -50% supply system 1 carton that will nourish /3 collection life-cycle CO2 operational and recycling value chain a growing global CO2 since 2016 environmental impacts population while food -28% -50% wasted 1 billion life-cycle CO2 Way Beyond Good Foundation operational CO2 -25% putting more into society and the more people CO2 /litre of food by 2030 Communities established x2 packed to cut climate impacts across environment than it takes out Joined UN Global impact of our value chain community x2 Compact Cartons for Good programmes prevents food loss and feeds schoolchildren societal benefits to help communities thrive ES OURC FOR RES D MAN ING DE S REA INC Negative i mpacts * Via a mass balance system WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 7 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 OUR BUSINESS We partner with our customers plastic bottles or cans. And we are leading our to bring food products to consumers industry with a range of innovations that enable customers to make even stronger sustainability around the world in a safe, claims about their choice of packaging. sustainable and affordable way. That’s our purpose and it underpins For every product in our portfolio, we offer customers a menu of features to choose our net positive ambition. from that can enhance the credentials of their packaging in the eyes of consumers – from FSCTM labelling (see page 43) to polymers linked to 100% forest-based materials (see page 55). This is not just marketing speak. We have a long history of engineering precision at SIG and we apply this rigour to sustainability too. The environmental credentials of our solutions are backed up by independent life-cycle OUR SOLUTIONS AND PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE assessments and recognised external standards MARKETS SOLUTIONS (see page 56). SIG Combibloc (‘SIG’) is a leading systems and Our unique technology and outstanding solutions provider for aseptic packaging. We innovation capacity enable us to provide a OUR ORGANISATION deliver innovative packaging solutions that complete range of packs, flexible filling machines enable businesses to satisfy growing demand and solutions for operating smarter factories We have over 5,000 employees and operate around the world for high-quality, sustainable (see more on our website). in more than 60 countries. Previously entirely and convenient food and beverage products. privately owned, SIG’s parent company, SIG We sell solutions. This means analysing Combibloc Group AG, is now listed on the SIX We serve major food and beverage brands and customers’ needs and looking for opportunities Swiss Stock Exchange following an Initial Public contract packers in the Americas, Asia-Pacific, to support them. Many of our customers are Offering in September 2018. Questions from Europe, and the Middle East and Africa. Our targeting improvements in the sustainability of potential investors on environmental, social and undation Foundation Foundation packaging is primarily used for long-life milk their products and operations, and we receive governance topics underlined how important and dairy products, as well as non-carbonated regular requests about the sustainability claims SIG’s responsibility commitment is to the success RI GRI GRI soft drinks such as fruit juices, and liquid and they can make by choosing our packs. This 01 101 101 GRI INDICATORS particulate foods such as soups and sauces. makes the strong environmental credentials of the business. of our solutions an increasingly important eneral General General Our products and services include sleeves, selling point. sclosures Disclosures Disclosures spouts and caps for our packs, filling machines RI GRI GRI GRI GRI GRI GRI and technical service (see page 8). In addition, All our aseptic carton packaging solutions have 02 102-1 102 102-5 102 102-6 102-7 our paper mill in New Zealand produces liquid a significantly lower environmental footprint anagement Management Management packaging board used in our sleeves. than other comparable alternatives, such as pproach Approach Approach RI GRI GRI 03 103BEYOND WAY 103 RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING onomic Economic Economic 8 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 OUR BUSINESS OUR REVENUE SIG is a leading systems and solutions provider for aseptic packaging. 2016 2017 2018 OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION €1,723.8 m €1,664.1 m €1,676.1 m >35bn PACKS Find out how we’re strengthening the We produce aseptic carton packs, packs environmental made primarily from renewable produced credentials of our forest-based liquid packaging board, in 2018 with thin polymer and aluminium packs. See page 58 OUR MAIN SITES barrier layers to help protect the food inside. Carton sleeves are delivered in flat-packed format for efficient Headquarters and Sleeves production Sleeves Paper Joint transport and formed into carton production plant and filling machine production mill venture packs using our filling machines at for closures assembly plants plant customers’ factories, where our caps and closures can also be added. Germany China Germany Wittenberg Suzhou Linnich 1,180 FILLING MACHINES Find out how we’re Austria making our filling Saalfelden Customers use our aseptic filling SIG filling machines more Switzerland machines to form, sterilise and fill machines Neuhausen Japan eco-efficient. our cartons with food products, in use United Arab Emirates Tokyo See page 64 Dubai and seal the filled cartons ready for worldwide distribution and storage. Our highly Thailand Saudi Arabia Rayong efficient machines offer the flexibility Riyadh to fill packs in a range of different formats and volumes using a variety of opening solutions, with a very low waste rate. Brazil Curitiba 550 TECHNICAL SERVICE Find out how our technical service Foundation Foundation Foundation Foundation We provide service and maintenance service solutions are helping New Zealand support for customers throughout engineers GRI GRI GRI GRI customers operate Whakatane the life of our filling machines. Our more sustainably. 101 101 101 GRI INDICATORS101 technical service engineers offer See page 64 advice, training and support to General Disclosures General Disclosures General Disclosures General Disclosures optimise the efficiency and reduce the environmental impacts of our GRI GRI GRI GRI GRI GRI GRI GRI customers’ filling lines and factories. 102 102 102-2 102 102-3 102 102-4 102-7 Management Management Management Management Approach Approach Approach Approach GRI GRI GRI GRI WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS 103 103 REPORTING 103 103 Economic Economic Economic Economic 9 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 OUR CORPORATE COMPASS RESPONSIBILITY BUILT IN INN OVA TE SM AR N TE R RU SO NG LU TI LO O E N TH ON PURSUE A NET-POS CTS TI BI O ODU R ITIVE PR AM PR Our net positive commitment is n S  olutions selling – The environmental credentials of our COR OM H N IT PA VE LE PO AM N reinforced by SIG’s purpose, built into solutions add value to customers and consumers, and W HE ENTIRE LIFE-C IB Y RA CROSS T BI S NS are becoming increasingly central to our selling. We are TE TI our strategy and managed through YCLE ON TY A FO PO training our sales teams to explain how our solutions can OT BILI RESPO our core business functions. PR ES help customers meet their sustainability needs, starting NSI INA IN BL with our European sales, service and marketing teams. T EC STA IN STRATEGY n  roduct innovation – Environmental performance is P SU one of the core value drivers for our product innovation, Our Corporate Compass is the strategy that alongside product safety and commercial considerations guides our business decisions at every level, (see page 58). with SIG’s purpose and values at its core. The Compass includes bold commitments on being n M  anufacturing – The safety of our people (see a responsible company, sourcing responsibly page 35) and our products (see page 66) is critical to and creating responsible products (see graphic). our manufacturing operations, as well as managing environmental impacts from production (see page 27). These long-term commitments support our ST RI VE ES goals around business growth, people and n Procurement – Working with responsible suppliers FO R RESP ONSIBLE SOURCING RV IC CE SE customer. and sourcing raw materials sustainably is central to RT IFI ED CT SA ND SUS DU They are accompanied by a roadmap of targets procurement at SIG and forms part of our training for TAI NAB LE SUP PLY OF ALL MATERI ALS, PRO that drive progress on our journey to go everyone involved in this function (see page 41). AMBITION Way Beyond Good (see page 19). n  uman resources – One of our three strategic corporate H goals is to foster a winning team. Engaging and supporting EMBEDDING CR INTO CORE our employees is essential to do this and our new Human BUSINESS PROCESSES Resources strategy is closely aligned with the Employees Key business risks related to CR topics focus area of our responsibility roadmap (see page 31). Supply – risks to our ability to new regulations on packaging Management of corporate responsibility (CR) topics is embedded within relevant functions n R  isk management – We have implemented a risk supply our customers, including products or recycling of beverage and processes to make sure CR is a core part management process led by the Group General Counsel as a result of employee action or cartons, and climate-related risks of our decision-making in every aspect of the and approved by the Board of Directors, which sets out interruptions in the supply chain undation Image – risks to our reputation, business. For example: a structured process to systematically manage risks Compliance – risks of nonincluding as a result of unethical RI (see Annual Report). We are working to ensure that our compliance, including in relation behaviour or defects in product 01 GRI INDICATORS most material CR risks are fully integrated into corporate to ethical, environmental and quality and safety risk management processes. CR topics are integral to health and safety laws eneral five of the 11 key risks we have identified for the business Human resources – risks to Environment – risks related sclosures (see box). Our approach to managing these risks our ability to attract and retain RI GRI GRI is outlined in the relevant sections of this report. specifically to environmental new talent, including loss of 02 102-15 102-16 Responsibility for each key risk is allocated to individuals, compliance, including meeting key personnel who report back to our Group Risk Manager. anagement pproach RI 03 WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING onomic 10 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 GOVERNANCE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Our CEO and Group Executive Board (GEB) are ultimately accountable for our CR performance and delivering on our External Responsibility Group Executive Board (GEB) Way Beyond Good commitments. GEB meetings include Advisory Group Role: Accountable for Responsibility Roadmap standing items on responsibility topics and there is a Role: Provide dedicated GEB member sponsor for each of the priority strategic roadmap workstreams. The GEB is advised by our external input in the Responsibility Steering Group (RSG) Responsibility Advisory Group (see page 11) and GEB development of Role: Ensures alignment and cross-functional collaboration in the implementation SIG’s CR agenda members sit on our Responsibility Steering Group (RSG). of SIG’s Way Beyond Good commitments and Responsibility Roadmap and provide Responsibility for implementing each individual focus feedback area of the roadmap lies with the relevant functions of on SIG’s Chair: approach and Head of Corporate Responsibility the business. Progress is reviewed by our RSG – made performance up of the GEB and other senior representatives from key Team Beyond President functions and regions. The RSG convened three times President President Chief and Role: Identify in 2018 and will continue to meet twice a year to ensure Chief Chief Chief and and Supply General ways to reinforce Executive Market Financial General General alignment and collaboration across the business as we Officer Officer Officer Chain Manager Manager Manager the connection implement our roadmap. Officer Asiabetween Way Americas Europe Pacific Beyond Good In 2018, we restructured the RSG to make sure it continues and the core to represent our evolving business. Our joint venture in business, and to Chief Operating Officer SIG Combibloc embed a more the Middle East and Africa is now included alongside our Senior Vice President Global Technology Obeikan (Middle East & Africa Joint Venture) transformational other regions. We have also added members from our new approach across Investor Relations team and from the Way Beyond Good the company to Foundation we have established to channel our community help us achieve Vice President Global Marketing Director Investor Relations our net positive investment (see page 39). ambition The RSG is supported by Team Beyond, a newly formed Vice President Global Sourcing & Head of Corporate Communications group of experts from various functions. Team Beyond Procurement has been tasked with identifying ways to reinforce the connection between Way Beyond Good and SIG’s core business, and to embed a more transformational Vice President Group Human Resources Managing Director Way Beyond Good approach across the company to help us achieve our Foundation net positive ambitions. Responsibility leaders from each function and region also support implementation of our responsibility roadmap. Responsibility leaders from functions/regions Role: Responsible for implementing the strategy & delivering must wins GRI INDICATOR GRI 102-18 WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 11 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 INTEGRATING EXTERNAL INSIGHT RESPONDING TO RAG FEEDBACK Our independent Responsibility Advisory Group (RAG) has an integral role in defining SIG’s CR RAG FEEDBACK OUR RESPONSE approach, providing valuable external perspectives and challenging us to continually improve. IMPACT Identify where SIG can have the We have identified our most significant biggest impact and how SIG’s impacts through a materiality Comprised of external CR experts, the RAG provides solutions fit in the context of assessment, and we ran a workshop to strategic input to our Group Executive Board global challenges. Seek and create examine which of our roadmap focus and Responsibility Steering Group through direct broader ripple effects beyond areas have the most potential to drive interaction with our C-suite. SIG’s own business, even if they progress towards our net positive start small. commitments and create ripple effects. Features throughout this report explain how each focus area contributes to going Way Beyond Good and what this means for SIG, the environment and society. We also include context on global challenges by highlighting how we are contributing to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (see page 14). TRANSFORMATIONAL Address the language gap between We have created Team Beyond to ATTITUDE SIG’s bold net positive ambitions promote a more transformational attitude and some of the more reactive across the business (see page 10). We terminology that implies the focus have also redefined our material issues is on managing negative impacts. and accompanying management approaches to help us increase our focus on opportunities to create positive impacts on society and the environment (see page 17). In March 2018, the RAG met in person for the first BUSINESS LINKS Connect Way Beyond Good more We have further embedded time to provide feedback on our approach and AND DISRUPTIVE closely to the business and management of CR topics into our core CHANGE purpose, and use this to consider business (see page 9). Part of Team performance directly to our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Finance Officer and our Chief Market ways to change or improve SIG’s Beyond’s remit is to identify ways to business. Explore opportunities reinforce the connection between Officer (see photo). The meeting was facilitated by the to create disruptive and systemic Way Beyond Good and SIG’s core Group CR team. The table summarises the key points change, for example through a business. We are engaging with partners we captured from their feedback together with focus on solutions that are scalable and peers to seek opportunities for our responses. and stand on their own, as a means systemic change by driving the net The RAG met again in December to hear how we to effect change. positive agenda beyond our own are responding to their feedback and share their business (see page 13). views on our progress (see page 12). WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 12 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 EXTERNAL PERSPECTIVES FROM OUR RESPONSIBILITY ADVISORY GROUP We asked each member of our Responsibility Advisory Group to share their views on our approach to going Way Beyond Good. Greg Norris Chair Gail Klintworth Erin Meezan Co-Director of Sustainability and Health Partner of the think tank, Vice President and Chief Sustainability Initiative for NetPositive Enterprise (SHINE) SYSTEMIQ Officer at Interface, Inc “Becoming net positive is the highest “SIG’s 2030 goals are very ambitious “SIG’s ambitious Way Beyond Good ambition a company can set and and the company is uniquely commitment sets the company apart SIG’s comprehensive approach in positioned within the industry because from many others that still just focus pursuit of this goal is trailblazing. it is small enough to disrupt the on reducing negative impacts. We The company has come a long way in the past year with market yet big enough to have a real impact. need more companies to embrace this net positive approach a broad portfolio of initiatives across a range of impacts. if we are going to address global challenges like sustainable The company has made great progress in reducing its own development and climate change. SIG is targeting deep systemic change to achieve long-term net footprint and delivered some pioneering sustainable product positive impacts across the value chain and it is determined to do innovations. The next challenge is to lead the industry in making There are still only a small number of companies worldwide that this in a rigorous and credible way. The stakeholder meeting the these sustainable innovations the default option for customers. have set science-based targets on greenhouse gas emissions and company held on biodiversity in Gimo, Sweden, is a great example SIG is one of them. As a pioneer, SIG has an opportunity to create Like others, SIG is still working to understand what net positive of how SIG is taking a leadership role in the debate about what net a much bigger ripple effect by engaging others in its sector and means and I would like to see a stronger focus on the potential positive means in practice. beyond and showing them what is possible. positive social impacts that its packaging solutions can play in For a company of its size, SIG is pursing major impact. I’m hopeful delivering nutrition and tackling food waste. SIG is on a journey I’m impressed by how quickly SIG has moved on sourcing more that this will come to fruition and inspiring widespread employee and I am delighted to be on this journey with them because they sustainable materials and its 2030 goal to source all materials participation will give the company a huge boost towards its are really committed. from certified sources is commendable. As a company that makes Way Beyond Good ambitions. things, this is SIG’s biggest impact and it’s exciting to see it tackling Way Beyond Good is not a public relations exercise. SIG’s leaders the big, hard stuff head on. The Responsibility Advisory Group is providing an opportunity want to fundamentally change the way the business works for deep engagement with the company and it’s really unusual to because they really believe it must put more into the environment The participation of the executive management team in the see the CEO so engaged. He and other SIG representatives at the and society than it takes out. This level of commitment from Responsibility Advisory Group is indicative of SIG’s level of meetings listen carefully to what we have to say and it’s great to the top is extremely powerful and the company can also build commitment and we are not just there to validate their approach, see some of our ideas already being implemented.” momentum from the bottom up by making Way Beyond Good a they have been very open to constructive criticism. One challenge reason for its employees to come to work every day.” is to develop metrics that will enable the company to inspire others by demonstrating measurable progress towards its net positive ambition.”  December 2018 WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 13 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 DRIVING THE NET POSITIVE AGENDA SIG is one of a leading group of with industry peers and other partners to foster PROMOTING POSITIVE companies that have made the bold recycling and the environmental benefits it can BIODIVERSITY DECISIONS commitment to become net positive. bring (see page 58). THROUGH LCA We aim to inspire others to join the We are also part of the Science Based Targets We also partnered with peers through movement to catalyse efforts to tackle Initiative (SBTI), which aims to cut greenhouse the Alliance for Beverage Cartons and the gas emissions enough to prevent the worst Environment (ACE) to develop recommendations global challenges, and create more effects of climate change. Our emissions on how LCA can be improved to better address benefits for people and the planet. reduction targets were approved by the SBTI the United Nations Sustainable Development “The Net Positive Project is a global in 2018 (see page 27). Goal 15 to protect life on land. COLLABORATING WITH collaboration of NGOs and corporates ACE teamed up with the United Nations PARTNERS AND PEERS working to define the net positive concept MEASURING NET POSITIVE Environment Programme (UNEP) Life Cycle and develop resources to enable more As a member of the Net Positive Project, we organisations to take up this approach. IMPACTS Initiative and World Wildlife Fund (WWF) to are part of a dedicated group of pioneering gather a multi-disciplinary group of international SIG is playing a pivotal role in shaping Quantifying overall net positive impacts is companies and non-governmental organisations experts in forestry, ecosystem science and LCA the direction of the group, engaging with challenging because there are no established working together to drive the net positive in Gimo, Sweden. The three-day workshop, held other members to make sure we are methodologies to do so. We are working with agenda. in October 2018, included a forest visit to study working on the things that will have the partners to explore ways to measure these responsible forest management. In 2018, the group established guidance on biggest impact. impacts. implementing the net positive principles, looking The resulting Gimo Recommendations are SIG has made a significant contribution We have contributed to the Net Positive Project’s specifically at issues such as carbon, water designed to empower decision makers across to the development of resources, such work to develop a methodology for consistently and social impacts. It also consulted other the value chain to protect and restore life on as principles to define a net positive measuring both positive and negative impacts stakeholders on what net positive means for land by providing clear guidance for enhancing approach and a maturity model to enable on society and the environment. We are also them to understand opportunities to broaden LCA impact modelling to better address impacts organisations to gauge progress on their supporting the Forest Stewardship Council’s the net positive movement. on biodiversity. journey towards becoming net positive. Bonn Initiative to quantify the positive We held a workshop with one of the project’s Insights from the company are helping contribution that FSCTM certified forests can The recommendations build on existing guidance NGO founders, Forum for the Future, to examine to make sure these tools are robust make to mitigating climate change. from UNEP and the Society of Environmental what it means for SIG to go net positive, and and will work in practice.” Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC), as well as the In 2018, we published the first ISO-conformant identify which of our roadmap focus areas have ISO 14040 standard on LCA. They make clear Zoe Le Grand life-cycle assessment (LCA) for a mass balance the most potential to drive progress towards that life-cycle information addressing biodiversity Forum for the Future product (our SIGNATURE PACK), which enables our Way Beyond Good commitments and create should drive decisions across the value chain environmental impacts to be counted from mass wider ripple effects. that restore and protect biodiversity-related balance materials rather than just the physical outcomes. To extend impacts through our value chain, we contents of a product (see page 57). We are also are encouraging our suppliers to commit to applying an LCA approach to measure the value becoming net positive (see page 44) and working chain impacts of our business (see page 26). WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 14 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 CONTRIBUTING TO THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE GETTING OUR PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS INVOLVED We are determined to play our part in supporting These are closely aligned with the significant Our people have a central role to play in helping the United Nations Sustainable Development impacts we identified through our materiality us drive progress towards our net positive Goals (SDGs). Capturing the opportunities we assessment (see page 17). This targeted approach commitments. We asked them how we are doing have to support these global goals – and manage – focusing on the biggest risks to people or on corporate responsibility as part of our 2018 related risks – can have a positive impact not just the environment and the greatest benefits our employee engagement survey. on people and the environment, but also on our products and partnerships can have – is in line Employees agree that SIG is exceptionally “It was great to see companies in long-term business success. with the new guidelines for business reporting committed to sustainable products and the paper, packaging and consumer on the SDGs from the Global Reporting Initiative We are focusing on four of the 17 SDGs where environmentally friendly production. They goods industries talking with ecologists and the United Nations Global Compact. we can make the biggest contribution to tackling would like to see us further enhance our and NGOs about how to measure global challenges by supporting systemic change Our activities in several areas are also relevant contribution to communities and society, and and address impacts on forest at scale. These are: to some of the other SDGs. For example, our we are increasing our focus on this through our ecosystems. We left the meeting with commitment to employee health and safety Way Beyond Good engagement programme. better tools for informed and effective and fair labour practices for people in our decision making, as well as clear SDG12 to ensure sustainable A network of Way Beyond Good champions supply chain is informed by SDG 8 on decent recommendations about improving consumption and production at every major location across the business is work for all. the relevance of life-cycle assessments patterns helping us raise awareness of responsibility by better integrating biodiversity Based on an analysis by the Forest Stewardship topics and get employees and local communities impacts. This work has the potential CouncilTM (FSCTM), we are supporting progress involved. In 2018, the champions ran a to inspire other sectors to play a role SDG13 to take urgent action to towards 11 of the SDGs (and 35 of the number of activities to spread the word about in conserving the world's forests.” combat climate change and its accompanying targets) by promoting the use our Cartons for Good flagship project and impacts of FSCTM certification. By the end of 2018, we extended their remit to work with other Martha Stevenson 70 companies had joined the FSC’s Vancouver employee volunteers as part of local action WWF Declaration that we launched with other leading groups to increase the impact of our Way Beyond SDG15 to protect, restore businesses in 2017 to pledge support for the Good engagement programme (see page 39). and promote sustainable use SDGs via FSCTM certification. of terrestrial ecosystems, Our new methodology for measuring the sustainably manage forests, impact of our local community engagement combat desertification, and halt includes criteria related to alignment with the and reverse land degradation SDGs. Through our Cartons for Good project, and halt biodiversity loss we are also exploring the potential to support other global sustainable development goals, SDG17 to strengthen the such as SDG 1 on poverty and SDG 2 to reduce means of implementation and hunger, by creating a new model that applies revitalise the global partnership our technology and expertise to enable for sustainable development communities to reduce food loss by preserving surplus harvests locally, and providing school meals to encourage children to stay in school (see page 25). WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 15 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 LISTENING AND RESPONDING TO STAKEHOLDERS Foundation Foundation Foundation Foundation GRI GRI GRI GRI We engage in dialogue with 101 101 101 101 GRI INDICATORS stakeholders to understand what matters most to them andGeneral we Disclosures General Disclosures General Disclosures General Disclosures respond to their feedback.GRI GRI GRI GRI GRI GRI GRI GRI 102 102 102-40 102 102 102-42 102-43 102-44 Management Management Management Management Approach Approach Approach Approach GRI GRI GRI GRI HOW WE ENGAGE WITH 103STAKEHOLDERS 103 103 103 Economic Economic Economic Economic STAKEHOLDER HOW WE ENGAGE KEY TOPICS AND CONCERNS OUR RESPONSE GRI GRI GRI GRI CUSTOMERS n 200 Customer questionnaires200 200 200 Customers want us to meet their requirements We use established industry platforms, such as n R  egular interactions with customers through sales on a broad range of responsibility issues and help SEDEX and EcoVadis, to demonstrate compliance Environmental and service Environmental Environmental Environmental them achieve their social and environmental with customer requirements (see page 24) and goals. Recyclability of products, recycling support their goals through product innovation GRI GRI GRI GRI infrastructure and plant-based polymers were (see page 53). 300 300 300 300 high on our customers’ agenda in 2018. In 2018, we engaged closely with customers Social Social Social Social to understand their needs and also partnered with several customers on recycling initiatives GRI GRI GRI GRI (see page 62). 400 400 400 400 EMPLOYEES n Biennial global employee survey Feedback from our second global survey showed We are using employee feedback to make SIG a n Regular day-to-day dialogue improved employee engagement and highlighted better place to work (see page 31). several areas where we are working to improve. n Formal appraisals n Consultation with employee representatives INVESTORS n Quarterly reporting and investor calls Investors seek sustainable, long-term returns We have integrated responsibility into our corporate and we received many questions related to strategy to grow our business sustainably, and environmental, social and governance topics address the issues raised by investors through our from potential investors during the Initial Public responsibility roadmap. Offering process in 2018. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 16 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 STAKEHOLDER HOW WE ENGAGE KEY TOPICS AND CONCERNS OUR RESPONSE SUPPLIERS n Regular engagement Suppliers want to know what our requirements We communicate our ethical supplier standards and n Compliance assessments and audits are on responsibility so they can understand how work with suppliers to source raw materials from to meet them. responsible sources (see page 41). SUSTAINABILITY n Responsibility Advisory Group (RAG) Experts want us to show we are managing our We revised our materiality assessment in 2018 EXPERTS n  egular conversations with experts from academia, R most material issues, setting ambitious targets and we have set ambitious targets through our and reporting transparently on our performance, responsibility roadmap. We have established a clear institutes, government and non-governmental following recognised international standards. governance structure for responsibility as a whole. organisations n P  articipation in multi-stakeholder initiatives, Independent experts on our Responsibility We use international protocols and standards in the including the Net Positive Project and Science Based Advisory Group met twice in 2018 to provide management of specific focus areas. We engage IFEU Targets Initiative feedback on our approach (see page 11). to conduct third-party life-cycle assessments (LCAs) of our products (see page 56) and we are drawing on n E  ngagement with the Institute for Energy and our expertise in LCAs in our engagement with others Environmental Research (IFEU) to drive the net positive agenda (see page 13). We also report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Standards and we get key data assured externally to enhance transparency. See page 11 for our response to the RAG’s feedback. POLICYMAKERS n Engagement through trade associations The range of topics covered by regulators is Existing and emerging regulations feed into our AND broad. Hot topics include responsible production, identification of material issues and we address REGULATORS sustainable consumption, waste and recycling, topics relevant to public policy through our roadmap. and contributions to broader global goals, such Our response to specific regulatory priorities is as the United Nations Sustainable Development detailed in the relevant sections of this report. Goals. LOCAL n Way Beyond Good engagement programme Issues raised by communities are generally locally We have strengthened our focus on community COMMUNITIES n Family days and open days at our sites specific. engagement this year, with a new target to increase AROUND SIG the positive impact we have on communities PRODUCTION n Recycling initiatives (see page 39). SITES We are also enhancing our social impact in communities through our flagship project, Cartons for Good (see page 25). WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 17 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 OUR PRIORITIES OUR MATERIAL ISSUES AND SIGNIFICANT IMPACTS Insights from stakeholders and our business KEY 100 help us identify the issues that are most Diversity & equal Material opportunity Tackling important – or material – to SIG and where issues climate Fair labour Responsible change we have the most significant impacts. S  ignificant practices suppliers In early 2018, we refreshed our materiality assessment to impacts Minimising Recycling review our CR priorities, based on research into external Additional production Sustainable & circular perspectives representing a range of stakeholder groups strategic topics waste Thriving raw economy forests materials and insights from within the business. Responsible Occupational health water use & safety Based on this assessment, we have refined the list of Employee reward & Safe our most material issues – those that are most important recognition nutrition IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS to stakeholders and have most influence on business success – as well as identifying which of these represent Sustainable product our most significant environmental, societal and innovation Preventing Privacy economic impacts. food & data Talent waste protection Fair business development The matrix (right) shows the results, which were validated principles Employee internally by our Responsibility Steering Group and our 50 engagement Group Executive Board, and externally by our NGO partners. See page 68 for more on our materiality Thriving Litter-free process and definitions of each material issue. communities oceans Efficient filling machines KEY TRENDS Eco-efficient transport Several issues have increased in significance to our business and our stakeholders, including recycling and circular economy – and the emerging issue of marine Employee Foundation Foundation litter – with high-profile NGO campaigns, new regulations, well-being customer demands and growing consumer GRI interest. GRI 101 Two issues were ranked as material for the first time: 101 GRI INDICATOR diversity and equal opportunity and efficient filling General General machines. Others have been grouped or refocused Disclosures Disclosures to better reflect our net positive approach. GRI GRI GRI GRI An explanation of why each issue is material is102 102 102-47 102-49 0 included in the relevant sections of this report. 0 50 100 Management Management Approach Approach INFLUENCE ON BUSINESS SUCCESS GRI GRI 103 103 WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY Economic Economic SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING GRI GRI 18 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 DEFINING FOCUS AREAS FOR OUR ROADMAP Our responsibility roadmap was built around the We have used the latest findings to bolster our efforts and, in most material issues identified in our previous some cases, refine our roadmap targets to reflect emerging issues and areas that have risen in importance to stakeholders. The assessment, together with some additional topics table shows a simplified mapping between our material issues, we consider strategic to the business. additional strategic topics and roadmap focus areas. STAKEHOLDER MATERIAL ISSUES ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC TOPICS ROADMAP FOCUS AREA FIND OUT MORE RESPONSIBLE n Talent development Employee wellbeing Employees Page 31 COMPANY n Employee engagement n Employee reward & recognition n Diversity and equal opportunity n Occupational health and safety Health and safety Page 35 n Tackling climate change Environmental footprint Page 27 n Minimising production waste n Fair labour practices Fair business practices Governance and ethics Page 38 Thriving communities Communities Page 39 RESPONSIBLE n Responsible suppliers Responsible suppliers* Page 45 SOURCING n Sustainable raw materials Sustainable raw materials Page 47 n Thriving forests n Tackling climate change Energy sourcing Page 49 Eco-efficient transport Sustainable logistics Page 51 RESPONSIBLE n Sustainable product innovation Packs** Page 58 PRODUCTS n Recycling and circular economy n Efficient filling machines Preventing food waste Filling machines & technical service Page 64 n Sustainable product innovation n Safe nutrition Product safety Page 66 *Roadmap focus area formerly titled Ethical supplier standards ** The focus area on Packs now includes the previously separate focus area on Recycling WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 19 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY ROADMAP PROGRESS IN 2018 FOCUS AREA 2020 GOAL PERFORMANCE RATING 2018 PROGRESS ENVIRONMENTAL Put a science-based CO2 reduction target in place We have established CO2 reduction targets, approved by the Science Based Targets FOOTPRINT covering our entire value chain (by 2018) Initiative, covering our entire value chain. These are the targets shown below to reduce Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions and to reduce Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions per litre of food packed. Reduce Scope 1, 2 and 3* greenhouse gas emissions We have reduced our Scope 1, 2 and 3* emissions by 10% per litre of food packed from the by 25% per litre of food packed by 2030 2016 baseline. Reduce Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by We have reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 45% from the 2016 baseline. 50% by 2030 – and by 60% by 2040 Cut operational greenhouse gas emissions rate** We have reduced our operational greenhouse gas emissions rate by 73% since 2014, (Scope 1 and 2) by more than 50% (from 2014) largely as a result of the transition to 100% renewable energy. Reduce energy rate** by more than 35% (from 2014) Our energy rate remained fairly static in 2018 and has increased by 11.1% overall from 2014. We aim to increase our focus on energy efficiency in 2019, having prioritised emissions reductions through the transition to renewable energy over the last two years. Reduce waste rate** by more than 45% (from 2014) Despite efficiencies through our waste reduction programmes, our waste rate has decreased by just 1.6% since 2014 due to more frequent changes to production lines to meet customer demand. Achieve compliance with ISO 50001 at our European We have achieved certification to the revised ISO 50001 standard at our three European production plants*** and revised ISO 14001 standard sleeve production plants and to the revised ISO 14001 standard globally, with audits at our at all production plants Linnich site and the Suzhou assembly plant in 2018. EMPLOYEES Increase employee net promoter score year by year Our net promoter score has significantly improved from –16 in 2016 to –1 in 2018, with 33% of survey participants this year saying that they would strongly recommend SIG to friends and family as a good place to work and 34% that they would not. Achieve a sustainable engagement score above We increased our sustainable engagement score to 78% (up from 74% in 2016). This is just industry benchmark one point below the benchmark of 79% for global manufacturing companies. Achieve cultural entropy level below 10% TARGET DISCONTINUED We no longer separately track cultural entropy (a measure of how well our people share SIG’s cultural values) among our leaders because we believe sustainable engagement and net promoter scores provide a better indication of overall engagement levels among all our employees. * Target covers the three most material Scope 3 categories: from goods and services, use of our products (filling machines) and end of life treatment (cartons). ** Energy, emissions and waste rates are per million square metres of sleeves produced and exclude energy use at our closure production plant in Switzerland and our paper mill in New Zealand. *** This target has been revised to correct an error in the previously published wording as the ISO 50001 target only applies to European production plants. KEY: MORE WORK TO DO ON TRACK COMPLETED WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 20 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 FOCUS AREA 2020 GOAL PERFORMANCE RATING 2018 PROGRESS EMPLOYEES Maintain voluntary turnover below 5% The voluntary turnover rate was 4% in 2018. Make our training and development investment We provided an average of 30.4 hours of training per employee in 2018, exceeding the above industry benchmark industry benchmark of 24.0 hours. Establish a diversity and inclusion strategy Diversity and equal opportunity was identified as a material issue for the first time in 2018 and steering group and we have set a new target to strengthen our focus in this area. HEALTH & Zero lost-time case rate Our lost-time case rate increased by 29% to 0.49 during 2018. We are targeting SAFETY improvements by continuing to embed and extend our behaviour-based safety programme and life-saving rules across our sites. Achieve a life-critical safety elements score All our production sites maintained a minimum score of 96% in our annual assessment of 100% at all production sites of the way they manage life-critical safety elements. Maintain a health rate of more than 97% We are increasing our focus on improving employee health and wellbeing by addressing the root causes for occupational illness and this will inform the development of a leading indicator to monitor the health rate of our employees. In 2018, we began to integrate ergonomics into our behaviour-based safety system at one of our biggest production sites in Linnich, Germany. GOVERNANCE Mandatory annual Code of Conduct training We are continuing to develop e-training on the SIG Code of Conduct and exploring options & ETHICS for all employees to reach people without computer access at work. In-depth training on specific areas of compliance During 2017 and 2018, we trained over 230 employees in high-risk roles on various topics, for high-risk roles every two years including our new Gifts Policy. SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) Nine of our 17 sites with over 40 employees have successfully completed SMETA audits, at all large sites with more than 40 employees including our New Zealand paper mill which completed a SMETA audit for the first time in 2018. COMMUNITIES Double the impact of community engagement We have refined our target to focus on our impact rather than the number of programmes* programmes. Our methodology shows we have more than doubled the societal impact from our community programmes around the world since the 2016 baseline. Launch a global flagship project using our expertise Our flagship project Cartons for Good began in Bangladesh in late 2018 and the first packs to support communities of food were distributed to schools in early 2019. * Wording changed to make target more meaningful. KEY: MORE WORK TO DO ON TRACK COMPLETED WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 21 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING ROADMAP PROGRESS IN 2018 FOCUS AREA 2020 GOAL PERFORMANCE RATING 2018 PROGRESS RESPONSIBLE Include new social responsibility requirements Social responsibility requirements were included in 100% of our contracts with SUPPLIERS in 100% of contracts with suppliers of our key suppliers of key raw materials in 2018, either through the SIG Business Ethics Code raw materials for Suppliers or an equivalent code. Audit 10% of high-risk suppliers each year We audited 14% of high-risk significant suppliers (one of seven) in 2018. Provide regular training (at least every two years) on Everyone in our global, regional and local procurement teams (for both direct and ethical supplier standards and sustainable sourcing to indirect suppliers) was trained on their role in implementing our new Responsible all employees who interact frequently with suppliers Sourcing Directive in 2017. Further training is planned for 2019. SUSTAINABLE 100% FSCTM labelled packs (work with customers to By the end of 2018, we had increased the share of packs sold with the FSCTM logo RAW include the FSCTM logo on 100% of the packs we sell) on them to 96%. MATERIALS 100% A-materials from certified sources In 2018, 45% (by spend) of the liquid packaging board, aluminium and polymers we purchased in 2018 were linked to certified sources. The minimum supply of liquid packaging board made with wood from FSCTM certified forests and other controlled sources was 86% (down from 89% in 2017). We used certified plant-based polymers for our SIGNATURE PACK (via a mass balance system) and we became the first in our industry to begin implementing the new ASI Performance Standard and Chain of Custody certification for responsible aluminium sourcing. ENERGY 100% renewable energy and Gold Standard CO2 offset We have completed the switch to 100% renewable energy – electricity and gas – at SOURCING for all non-renewable energy (at production plants) our production plants worldwide, investing in renewable energy projects certified to the GoldPower® standard to offset CO2 where it is not feasible to source renewable energy directly. SUSTAINABLE Increase the rate of full truck loads delivered The rate of full truck loads delivered declined slightly to 91% due to increased LOGISTICS to customers demand from customers for smaller loads and shorter delivery times. Ensure logistic partners use trucks that meet We engaged with our logistics partners to emphasise our expectations on Euro 6 emissions standards for 100% of outbound environmental performance and they used Euro 6 trucks for 75% of outbound road road transport from our production plants in Europe transport from our European production plants, up from 60% in 2017. KEY: MORE WORK TO DO ON TRACK COMPLETED WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 22 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS ROADMAP PROGRESS IN 2018 FOCUS AREA 2020 GOAL PERFORMANCE RATING 2018 PROGRESS OUR PACKS Create a 100% renewable aseptic pack SIGNATURE PACK 100 is the first aseptic pack that is 100% linked to renewable forest-based material (using a mass balanced approach). This represents an important step towards our target to create an aseptic carton pack that contains 100% renewable materials. Offer a carton made of 50% recycled content We are working with suppliers to identify how much content in our packs can be defined as recycled and to explore how we can integrate more recycled materials into our packs in future. Ensure environmental performance is one of the We have developed a system to track how many of our innovation projects include core value drivers of our product innovations environmental performance as a core value driver. Partner with stakeholders to support collection We have refined our approach to drive local programmes where we can have the and recycling of beverage cartons biggest impact and we have worked with partners to launch major new initiatives in Europe and Brazil. FILLING Reduce energy use by 20% per hour of runtime We have re-opened the concept phase for our next generation filling machine to MACHINES in our next generation filling machine realign the project focus according to actual market demands. This will help us & TECHNICAL achieve our targets to reduce energy, hydrogen peroxide and water use. SERVICE Reduce hydrogen peroxide use by 35% per hour of runtime in our next generation filling machine Reduce water use by 25% per hour of runtime in our next generation filling machine Support sustainability improvements for at least We have continued to expand our range of technical service solutions to support 50% of our customers through technical service sustainability improvements for our customers and we are introducing new criteria to help us measure progress towards this goal. Our initial analysis shows that 20% of our customers have been reached since 2016. PRODUCT All production plants certified based on ISO 9001:2015 We achieved group-wide certification to the revised ISO 9001:2015 standard. All our SAFETY and all sleeves and spout production plants certified sleeves and spout production plants maintained their BRC packaging certification based on BRC Packaging Issue 5 with AA Grade at A or AA Grade. KEY: MORE WORK TO DO ON TRACK COMPLETED WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 23 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 RESPONSIBLE Being a responsible company is part of everything we do: it’s in our COMPANY DNA. Integrating responsibility into our strategy gives us a competitive edge, and delivers value for our customers and investors. This is fundamental to achieve our growth targets and sustain our business in the long term.” Samuel Sigrist Chief Financial Officer 2030 goal Halve environmental impacts and double societal benefits IN THIS SECTION Overview Going Way Beyond Good with Cartons for Good Understanding our value chain impacts Samuel holds a Cartons for Good Environmental footprint pack designed by children of our Employees employees to tell the story of our Health & safety flagship project that is helping Governance & ethics communities turn food loss into nutritious school meals. Communities WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 24 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 RESPONSIBLE -45 % SIG ranked in the top 1% of around 30,000 COMPANY OVERVIEW participating companies in the latest assessment of our environment, social, We have cut our Scope 1 ethical and supply chain and Scope 2 greenhouse Being a responsible company is essential to earn the trust policies and performance gas emissions by 45% of our customers and other stakeholders – and underpins by EcoVadis in 2017 since 2016 our efforts to go Way Beyond Good. Minimising environmental impacts, keeping our employees safe at work, respecting and supporting our people and communities, and behaving ethically in everything we do. These are all fundamental 5 corporate responsibilities that we take very seriously and our commitment to CR is recognised by external benchmarks such Our CO2 reduction as EcoVadis. targets have been approved We are building on these strong foundations to create systemic by the Science and regenerative net positive impacts for climate change, natural Based Targets of our plants achieved resources, people and communities. Our goal is to halve our Initiative a zero lost time case environmental footprint and double societal benefits across rate in 2018 and we continued to roll out our our value chain by 2030, while meeting business growth and behaviour-based safety earnings targets. programme globally We are developing methodologies to help us understand and measure the positive and negative impacts we have at each stage of the value chain – on the forests and communities 78 that provide our main raw materials, on our employees and people who work in our supply chain, on customers who use our solutions to deliver food, and on consumers We launched our % who use our products and dispose of them in Cartons for Good recycling bins. We increased our project in Bangladesh This will help us target our efforts to support to help communities sustainable engagement preserve surplus food score to 78% in our transformative change to create a global food delivery to provide school 2018 employee survey system that is fit for the future, and not only protects (up from 74% in 2016) meals for children but regenerates valuable natural resources for generations to come. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 25 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 AWAITING NEW LOGO Going Way Beyond Good with CARTONS FOR GOOD Cartons for Good, launched in 2018, is an to feed themselves and their families, ambitious initiative to apply our technology stifling their potential. and expertise to help communities reduce We created a unique mobile filling solution to food loss, support farmers’ livelihoods, and take to remote rural locations so excess crops promote children’s nutrition and education. can be turned into meals and preserved in Through this flagship project, we are SIG’s long-life carton packs. Farmers are paid exploring new models with the potential for their produce, providing them with muchto support global sustainable development needed income, and the packs of food are goals through our packaging solutions, used by local schools to provide a healthy, hot expertise and partnerships. meal for children every day. The idea was born out of our Global The mobile filling unit arrived in Bangladesh Leadership Meeting in 2016, when we were at the end of 2018. Surplus vegetables have looking at ways to make a positive impact already been cooked and preserved in SIG on society and the environment. We wanted packs, and the first meals were distributed to use our expertise to help communities to BRAC schools in early 2019. After use, the preserve surplus food locally. packs are sent for recycling locally. We partnered with Forum for the Future Find out more about our Cartons for Good and BRAC, an international development journey and watch accompanying videos on organisation, to help us realise this ambition our website. in a region where we could make a big difference. We are piloting the project “There used to be wastage of surplus crops in Bangladesh, where nearly 20% of the from our farming land, but this will now be population is undernourished and almost put to use with Cartons for Good. We can use half of the children are underweight but the extra money from selling the surplus for food is still needlessly wasted. next year’s farming and SIG is taking care of Every harvest produces more food than children by giving them school meals.” farmers or communities can eat immediately, Samsul Alam but they have no way to preserve surplus Farmers’ Community Representative crops for future use so some of this food goes to waste. At the same time, many children drop out of school because they need to work WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 26 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 UNDERSTANDING OUR VALUE CHAIN IMPACTS We look at our impacts OUR ENVIRONMENTAL programmes (see page 39). We are continuing to – good and bad – across IMPACTS explore how to measure wider societal impacts Measuring environmental and establish a baseline for our 2030 goal to the value chain to drive progress towards SIG’s biggest environmental impacts occur double societal benefits. impacts outside our factory gates and we have made our goal to halve our good progress in understanding our value chain Support for local communities is just one of the Measuring the environmental impacts of our operations environmental impacts. ways we have a positive impact on people’s lives. is relatively straightforward but this becomes much more environmental footprint Delivering societal benefits is inherent in SIG’s complex when looking across the whole value chain. and double societal An estimated 59% of our value chain greenhouse purpose to partner with our customers to bring benefits by 2030. gas emissions lie in the supply chain, from the food products to consumers around the world In line with established practices, we measure our value extraction and processing of raw materials. chain greenhouse gas emissions following the Greenhouse in a safe, sustainable and affordable way. We are A further 32% come from the transport of Gas Protocol and use this to set corporate reduction also exploring new models for our technology materials to SIG, distribution of products targets. However, this system is not well suited for taking to reduce hunger, and improve nutrition and to customers, use of filling machines in our into account positive impacts at different stages of the education for children through our flagship customers’ factories, and recycling or disposal product life-cycle and the narrow focus on climate impacts Cartons for Good project. makes it difficult to identify and measure other impacts of packs after use. Our own operations account We strive to have a positive impact on our own and any potential trade-offs that may occur. For example, for 8% of our value chain emissions. See a full employees by supporting their development, by switching from fossil-based feedstocks to renewable breakdown on page 28. rewarding them fairly and keeping them safe feedstocks, there may be implications for land use. Our focus is on creating a positive environmental and healthy at work. This has ripple effects in To address these issues, we are applying the life-cycle impact (handprint) as well as reducing our our communities, for example by promoting assessment (LCA) approach that we use to measure the negative impact (footprint). We need to safe attitudes and better health at home. impacts of our products – across a range of different understand and measure both to get a full Our commitment to fair labour practices and impact areas – to the value chain impacts of our business. picture of our progress in becoming net sourcing materials from certified responsible LCA following ISO standards is an accepted method positive. We are building on our extensive sources helps to ensure the rights of workers, to measure and improve on environmental footprints experience with life-cycle assessments (LCAs) communities and indigenous people are of products, but scaling this approach to cover the and other relevant expertise to develop new respected. environmental footprint of a whole business is challenging. methodologies to measure environmental Managing value chain environmental impacts can Over the last two years, we have been developing and impacts (see box). also bring societal benefits by helping to improve testing our method for corporate footprinting – including air and water quality, tackle climate change and adapting our greenhouse gas emissions inventory OUR SOCIETAL IMPACTS preserve valuable ecosystems. for this purpose. This work will help us measure our environmental footprint across the value chain so we can Quantifying societal impacts is more challenging focus on our most material impacts, while monitoring any because metrics are less well defined than for potential trade-offs in other areas. environmental impacts and can be difficult to We are also working with the Net Positive Project and measure. We have made progress this year others to develop methodologies to measure both positive by developing a methodology to measure and negative environmental impacts (see page 13). the impact of our community engagement WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING Foundation Foundation 27 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 GRI GRI 101 101 OUR GOALS Foundation General Disclosures GRI ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Foundation General Disclosures GRI TARGET Put a science-based CO2 reduction target in place covering our entire value chain 101 102 101 102 (by 2018) Foundation Foundation OUR APPROACH See page 56 for more on how we reduce COMPLETED General Management Disclosures Approach MATERIAL General Management Disclosures Approach ISSUES impacts across the product life-cycle. n TACKLING CLIMATE CHANGE GRI GRI n GRI GRIMINIMISING PRODUCTION WASTE Why is this material for SIG? In 2018, the Science Based Targets Initiative Reduce Scope 1, 2 & 3* greenhouse 101 102 103 101 102 103 Climate change and depleting natural approved the targets we have set to cut gas emissions by 25% per litre of food our Scope 1 and 2 operational greenhouse packed by 2030 SIGNIFICANT IMPACT resources are among the biggest global General Management ENVIRONMENTAL General n Management gas emissions, and to decouple value chain ON TRACK Economic Disclosures Approach Economic Disclosures Approach challenges the world faces. Stakeholders (TACKLING CLIMATE CHANGE) emissions from growth by reducing our Scope GRI GRI expect businesses to support global efforts GRI GRI 1, 2 and 3 emissions per litre of food packed.* Reduce Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas 102 103 200 102 103 200 GRI INDICATORS to tackle climate change and do their bit to conserve natural resources. We are well We chose ‘per litre of food packed’ as our emissions by 50% by 2030 – and by 60% by 2040 Management Management placed to contribute, not only by reducing our comparator for this intensity target, rather Economic Economic Environmental Approach Environmental Approach ON TRACK own value chain footprint, but by supporting than revenue or number of packs produced, GRI GRI GRI GRI GRI thriving forests and helping customers deliver to better reflect our corporate purpose to Cut operational greenhouse gas 103 300 200 103 300 200 302 -1 302-3 302-4 food in a sustainable way. get food products to consumers around the emissions rate** (Scope 1 and 2) by more world in a safe, sustainable and affordable Our efforts to promote responsible forestry than 50% by 2020 (from 2014) Economic Social Environmental Economic Social Environmental way – regardless of the size of the pack or our are particularly important to mitigate climate COMPLETED company turnover. GRI GRI GRI GRI GRI risks in our supply chain and offer a significant 200 400 300 200 40-10 300 305 305-2 305-3 opportunity for us to have a positive impact on To meet this value chain target we are focusing on resource efficiency in our products (see Reduce energy rate** by more than climate change by helping to create resilient 35% by 2020 (from 2014) Environmental Social Environmental Social ecosystems and maintain relevant carbon page 58), making our filling machines more MORE WORK TO DO stocks. efficient (see page 64) and supporting GRI GRI GRI GRI GRI programmes to increase collection and Reduce waste rate** by more than 300 400 40-0 300 305 4 305-5 306-2 Minimising our environmental impacts is also important to meet customer requirements and recycling of used beverage cartons (see 45% by 2020 (from 2014) page 58). The main contribution to meeting MORE WORK TO DO Social Social ensure compliance with relevant regulations. KEY POLICIES this target will come from our suppliers and We aim to lead by example on this and use GRI n SIG GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT, GRI we are engaging with our larger suppliers on Achieve compliance with ISO 50001 HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY what we learn from our own experience at our European production plants*** 400 400 to share best practices with suppliers and their climate strategies and encouraging them and revised ISO 14001 standard at all to cut their emissions. We aim to demonstrate customers. Using resources efficiently also production plants by 2020 RELEVANT SDGs leadership in this area by spending 50% of makes good business sense. Put simply, waste COMPLETED our sourcing expenditure with net positive costs money – whether it’s a waste of energy, suppliers by 2030. See page 41 for more on materials or any other resource. responsible sourcing. * Target covers the three most material Scope 3 categories: from goods and services, use of our products (filling machines) and end Management overview Our own operations make up a relatively small of life treatment (cartons). proportion of our value chain environmental ** Energy, emissions and waste rates are per million square We are committed to reducing the metres of sleeves produced and exclude energy use at our footprint. But we believe it is important to lead closure production plant in Switzerland and our paper mill in New environmental impacts of our company, our by example and minimise the impacts that we Zealand. sourcing and our products to tackle climate *** This target has been revised to correct an error in the have most direct control over. change and conserve natural resources. previously published wording because the target on ISO 50001 compliance only applies to European production plants. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 28 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 All our production, assembly and research and OUR VALUE CHAIN CARBON FOOTPRINT (THOUSAND TONNES OF CO2 EQUIVALENT) development sites, and our paper mill in New Data from previous years has been restated according Zealand, have environmental management systems 2016 2017 2018 to our recalculation policy and to include Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our paper mill in New Zealand which were certified to the international ISO 14001 standard. previously reported separately. Scope 1 99.5 103.6 92.5 In addition, our sites in Linnich, Wittenberg Location-based emissions based on the electricity grid and Saalfelden have implemented an energy Scope 2 (market based) 98.3 19.9 16.7 average amount were 93.9 thousand tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2018. management system in accordance with ISO 50001. For production (excluding paper mill) 78.4 0.0 0.0 Scope 3 categories include goods and services, energy These systems promote continuous improvement production, transportation, travel, use of our products (filling machines) and end of life treatment (cartons). in the management of environmental impacts. Scope 3 1,381.4 1,324.9 1,381.9 For more on the basis of reporting for greenhouse gas We also aim to conserve natural resources by emissions and a detailed list of what is included in each Total 1,579.1 1,448.4 1,491.1 Scope 3 category, see page 82. minimising production waste and contributing to the circular economy (see page 59). We consider waste an unnecessary cost to our business and the environment, and we aim to make our VALUE CHAIN EMISSIONS RATE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS RATE FROM PRODUCTION** (SCOPE 1, 2 AND 3* GRAMS CO2 (TONNES CO2 EQUIVALENT/MILLION M2 manufacturing processes lean and efficient. EQUIVALENT/LITRE OF FOOD PACKED) OF SLEEVES PRODUCED) We have a range of initiatives to reduce waste at our production plants by using more efficient processes 79 ** Emissions rate from production and increasing opportunities to reuse and recycle 105 70 72 is per million square metres of sleeves produced and excludes materials. Where it is not feasible to reuse or recycle 96 95 energy use at our closure waste, we work with our waste management service production plant in Switzerland and our paper mill in New providers to choose the next best option, such as Zealand. 2017 data has been energy recovery. 24 restated due to a previous 21 reporting error. PERFORMANCE IN 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Cutting climate impacts across the value chain We are making strong progress towards our greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets with a SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS BY 45% reduction in our total Scope 1 and 2 emissions 2016 2017 2018 CATEGORY IN 2018 13% since 2016. We have also cut our Scope 1, 2 and 3 n PURCHASED GOODS AND SERVICES emissions per litre of food packed by 10% since 12% *T he value chain emissions rate and associated target cover our most significant Scope 3 emissions – from our supply n END OF LIFE TREATMENT OF PRODUCTS 2016 and we are working towards a 25% reduction chain, use of our filling machines and recycling or disposal n USE OF PRODUCTS by 2030. of packs. n UPSTREAM TRANSPORTATION n DOWNSTREAM TRANSPORTATION In 2018, our operational (Scope 1 and 2) greenhouse n FUEL AND ENERGY RELATED ACTIVITIES 6% gas emissions from production plants totalled n OTHER (WASTE AND BUSINESS TRAVEL) 61% 30,973 tonnes of CO2 equivalent. Scope 1 emissions 4% from the use of natural gas and liquefied petrol 3% gas in our production of sleeves and closures are compensated through Gold Standard certificates 1% (see page 49). The total compensated in 2018 WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 29 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 was 25,469 tonnes of CO2 equivalent. We have cut OPERATIONAL ENERGY USE FROM PRODUCTION our operational greenhouse gas emissions rate from production by 73% from the 2014 baseline as a result Reusing heat from production (GWH, BY TYPE) of our investment in renewable energy and efficiency processes at Saalfelden, Austria 312 323 324 measures. This means we have exceeded our 2020 target to halve this rate two years early. Our production plant at Saalfelden, Austria, has a well-established 291 276 This rate for production excludes Scope 1 and 2 system to reuse the heat generated in the coating process by emissions from our closure production and our paper redirecting it into the site’s central heating system. But it was going mill in New Zealand, which supplies some of the liquid to waste in the warm summer months when the heating was off. packaging board to our production plants, because We have installed a new the mill is treated as an internal supplier rather than system to divert the part of our production facilities. In 2018, Scope 1 and 2 waste heat to generate emissions from the mill totalled 78,210 tonnes of CO2 hot water for the printing equivalent, a 12% decrease from the previous year. presses used in another Following our initial reported estimates in 2016, our part of the production process. This will save Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions data has now been around 450,000 KWh of independently assured for the first time in 2018. Our total natural gas per year. Scope 3 emissions have remained almost flat since 2016, despite increased output as a result of business growth. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 We are targeting Scope 3 reductions through our n NATURAL GAS n LIQUIFIED NATURAL GAS continued focus on sourcing sustainable raw materials n ELECTRICITY (NON-RENEWABLE) n ELECTRICITY (RENEWABLE) (see page 47), developing and selling more sustainable In 2018, we continued to implement a range of initiatives products (see page 53), and partnering to increase to reduce energy use across our sites, including a heat recycling of used beverage cartons (see page 58). recovery system at Saalfelden (see case study). The 2MW combined heat and power (CHP) plant at ENERGY RATE FROM PRODUCTION* (TONNES CO2 EQUIVALENT/MILLION M2 OF SLEEVES PRODUCED) Reducing emissions from production Linnich produced more than 19,000 MWh of energy We have achieved significant reductions in for our production in 2018, improving efficiency by our operational emissions from production over 22% compared with separate generation of heat 203 217 210 by completing our transition to 100% and electricity. 189 181 renewable energy for production in 2018 – an industry However, our energy rate in production remained fairly first (see page 49). static in 2018 and has increased by 11.1% overall from Rooftop solar panels in Suzhou (see page 30) and 2014. One of the main reasons was a delay in optimising Rayong (see page 50) have increased our on-site capacity the operation of the CHP plant in Linnich. We ran a series 2014 2015 2016** 2017** 2018 to generate renewable energy. We buy GoldPower® of energy workshops at our European sites in 2018 and standard certificates to compensate for any remaining we will enhance our focus on energy reduction next year non-renewable energy required for production to drive progress towards our 2020 target to reduce our * Energy rate is per million square metres of sleeves produced and (see page 50). energy rate by more than 35% (from 2014). excludes energy use at our closure production plant in Switzerland and our paper mill in New Zealand. The transition to renewable energy has been our main A new system introduced to improve the efficiency of ** E nergy rates for 2016 and 2017 have been recalculated due to focus over the past two years in our efforts to reduce the gas boiler at our New Zealand paper mill will reduce a reporting error. operational greenhouse gas emissions, but we remain energy use by an estimated 33,000 GJ and save over committed to reducing energy use too. €130,000 in energy costs per year. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 30 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Minimising production waste more frequent changes to our production lines We also obtained global certification to the ISO The amount of waste generated from our production plants has remained fairly flat over to meet customer demand for different formats and smaller batches. 14001 environmental management standard. For this, different sites are selected for audit New technology centre the past few years, with a total of 51,045 tonnes Less than 1% of our global waste went to each year. Both sites selected in 2018, Linnich in China achieves and the Suzhou assembly plant, achieved of waste produced in 2018. Most of this waste is made up of offcuts of the raw materials we use landfill in 2018. A small proportion of the waste we generate (2,806 tonnes in 2018) is certification to the latest version of ISO 14001. highest green building to manufacture our packs. made up of hazardous waste, such as inks, Our other sites will be certified to the new version by 2020. Meeting the requirements of standard Waste reduction initiatives include a recycling oil and contaminated cans, which we dispose of responsibly. the revised standards will support our efforts to system at our production plant in Suzhou, improve our energy and waste rates. China, that enables us to reuse the pre-melted polyethylene that was previously wasted every Managing operational environmental We also integrate environmental considerations time we stopped the production line. impacts into the design and development of new In 2018, we achieved certification to the latest facilities, such as our new technology centre in Despite efficiencies, our waste rate has version of the ISO 50001 energy management China which has been certified to the highest decreased by just 1.6% since 2014. One of the standard at all three of our European production standard for green buildings (see case study). main reasons is that we have needed to make plants in line with our 2020 target. PRODUCTION WASTE BY TYPE* WASTE RATE FROM PRODUCTION* (TONNES OF NONOur new technology centre in Suzhou, (THOUSAND TONNES, BY TYPE) PRODUCT OUTPUT/MILLION M2 OF SLEEVES PRODUCED) China, has achieved the Platinum * Production waste and waste rate excludes Standard – the highest level – of 37 37 our production plant the internationally recognised LEED 35 35 35 in Switzerland and 50.5 49.9 51.6 51.0 (Leadership in Energy and Environmental 50.0 our paper mill in New Zealand. Waste rate Design) certification for green buildings. from production is per million square metres The 17,500m2 building includes rooftop of sleeves produced. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 solar panels and energy-saving features, such as LED lighting and sensors to make sure lights and air conditioning are only on in rooms that are being used. It optimises use of natural light PRODUCTION WASTE BY and minimises water use through reuse DISPOSAL METHOD IN 2018 systems and rainwater harvesting. The site also has facilities such as cycle racks n REUSED OR RECYCLED and public transport links to promote n ENERGY RECOVERY 97.4% more sustainable commuting. n LANDFILL SIG is the ninth industrial company 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 in China to earn the LEED Platinum 0.5% Standard and the technology centre n RAW AND LAMINATED CARTON n POLYETHYLENE achieved the second highest score of n HAZARDOUS WASTE n ALUMINIUM (<1%) 2.1% any building in the country. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING oundation 31 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 GRI 101 oundation General Disclosures GRI EMPLOYEES 101 102 OUR APPROACH We aim to reward everyone at SIG fairly based on General Management Disclosures Approach MATERIAL ISSUES n TALENT DEVELOPMENT OUR GOALS what they do and how they do it. We benchmark n EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Why is this material for SIG? salaries with other companies to check we offer GRI competitive reward packages in each of our 102 103 n EMPLOYEE REWARD AND RECOGNITION We are creating positive impacts for our people 2020 TARGET markets. Terms and conditions of employment, n DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY and communities by providing jobs, investing Increase employee net promoter score including pay, are negotiated through collective Management Economic Approach in training and development, and fostering a year by year bargaining with recognised trade unions for ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC TOPIC more inclusive culture. Fostering a winning GRI ON TRACK a significant portion of our employees (see team, one of the three main business goals 103 200 EMPLOYEE WELLBEING in our Corporate Compass, is essential to the page 38). Employee benefits vary by region Achieve a sustainable engagement and include retirement benefits, health and life SIGNIFICANT IMPACTS success of our business. To do this, we need to Economic Environmental score above industry benchmark insurance, and parental benefits and leave. N/A engage, reward and develop talented employees GRI with diverse perspectives to help us support ON TRACK The SIG Code of Conduct includes a strict 300 200 GRI INDICATORS customers across different markets. policy against discrimination on any grounds Achieve cultural entropy level and we aim to create an inclusive workplace ocial Environmental Management overview below 10% where a range of nationalities and cultures are TARGET DISCONTINUED1 represented, and where everyone is treated GRI GRI GRI We want to be the best employer in the industry with respect and has equal opportunities 400 300 102-08 401-1 and beyond. We aim to create an environment regardless of their age, gender, ability and where all of our more than 5,000 employees Maintain voluntary turnover below 5% cultural background. ocial worldwide are engaged in the business, fairly ON TRACK rewarded and recognised for the work that GRI GRI GRI 400 404-1 405-1 they do, given equal opportunities regardless of Make our training and development PERFORMANCE IN 2018 their background and able to develop their full investment above industry benchmark potential at SIG. ON TRACK Engaging employees KEY POLICIES Our Learning Centre provides a wide range of In 2018, over 77% of our employees – almost n SIG CODE OF CONDUCT training modules from basic know-how to expert Establish a diversity and inclusion 3,900 people – responded to our second n HUMAN RESOURCES FRAMEWORK skills and leadership development. Employees strategy and steering group biennial employee survey. We held discussions identify training and development opportunities MORE WORK TO DO with our people beforehand to help us refine RELEVANT SDG through regular discussions with their manager the survey questions and we have extended the and as part of the annual appraisal process topics covered. for all managers and office workers, as well 1 W  e no longer separately track cultural entropy among our leaders because we believe sustainable engagement and Overall, we increased our sustainable as some production staff (where agreed with net promoter scores provide a better indication of overall engagement score2 to 78% (up from 74% workers’ councils). We encourage managers to engagement levels among all our employees.  he sustainable engagement score is based on responses to T in 2016). This is just one point below the seek 360° feedback from others to support their 2 a series of questions designed to measure motivation to work benchmark of 79% for global manufacturing personal development and we have a talent and hard, an environment that supports productivity and support for personal wellbeing. companies and we are making good progress succession management programme to create a towards our target to exceed the industry pipeline of people with career potential. benchmark in our next survey in 2020. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 32 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Our net promoter score has significantly OUR WORKFORCE NEW HIRES improved from -16 in our last survey in 2016 to -1 in 2018. The 2018 score is based on 33% ASIA PACIFIC AMERICAS EUROPE TOTAL ASIA PACIFIC AMERICAS EUROPE TOTAL of survey participants saying that they would Total number Total number strongly recommend SIG to friends and family 1,796 616 2,808 5,220 120 143 179 442 of employees: of new hires: as a good place to work and 34% that they would not.3 male 1,452 461 2,359 4,272 male 91 108 111 310 The results of the survey were reviewed in depth female 29 35 68 132 female 344 155 449 948 by the Group Executive Board to understand aged up to 30 60 63 72 195 people’s views and consider measures to achieve Employees with a aged 31 to 50 57 77 95 229 tangible improvements for employees across 1,457 589 2,606 4,652 the business. Local results were shared with permanent aged 50 + 3 3 12 18 contract: managers to help them explore the feedback Rate of new in their teams, develop tangible actions and 8% 24% 7% 10% male 1,193 446 2,186 3,825 hires: deliver solutions together. We have developed female 264 143 420 827 male 8% 24% 5% 8% a new toolbox to support our analysis and communication of the results, enabling us to female 11% 24% 16% 16% aged up to 30 183 211 288 682 give managers more detailed – but still entirely aged up to 30 33% 30% 25% 29% confidential – feedback to help them make aged 31 to 50 1,117 345 1,363 2,825 aged 31 to 50 5% 22% 7% 8% meaningful improvements for their teams. aged 50 + 157 33 955 1,145 aged 50 + 2% 9% 1% 2% At a global level, the 2018 survey showed significant improvements in overall engagement Full-time 1,449 589 2,472 4,510 levels, but also highlighted several areas employees: EMPLOYEE TURNOVER where we can improve, for example by: better male 1,193 446 2,137 3,776 ASIA PACIFIC AMERICAS EUROPE TOTAL explaining our long-term strategic goals and how individuals can contribute to achieving them; female 256 143 335 734 Total providing more support for career development employee 8% 20% 8% 10% and recognising individual contributions to the Part-time turnover 8 0 134 142 employees: company’s success; and increasing engagement Voluntary to create a diverse and fair work environment. male 0 0 49 49 employee 5% 7% 3% 4% We are already implementing initiatives to turnover rate support improvements across all these areas, as female 8 0 85 93 Total detailed in the relevant sections of this report. Employees employee 120 115 212 447 with a fixed339 27 202 568 turnover: term contract: aged up to 30 13 40 38 91 male 259 15 173 447 aged 31 to 50 88 68 114 270 3 “ On a scale from 0 (not at all likely) to 10 (extremely likely), how likely is it that you would recommend SIG to your friends and female 80 12 29 121 aged 50 + 19 7 60 86 family as a good place to work?” was rated with a 9 or 10 by 33% of the respondents (“promoters”) and 34% gave a score male 92 74 149 315 between 0 and 6 (“detractors”). The employee net promoter thereof 0 16 129 145 score is calculated by subtracting the total detractors from the Apprentices female 28 41 63 132 total promoters. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 33 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Over the past two years, we have responded to Training and development AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING* employee feedback from the previous survey in We provided more than 158,400 hours of 2016 by focusing on the way we lead, innovate 2015 2016 2017 2018 training in 2018. This is an average of 30.4 and manage change. hours per employee, exceeding the industry Management 39.3 41.0 36.0 34.0 Our new ‘C Time’ and ‘T with the C’ meetings benchmark of 24 hours per person. We offer Non-management 37.2 33.9 31.7 29.9 give employees an opportunity to hear from our over 100 eLearning training modules on the SIG CEO and other C-suite executives directly, and Learning Centre, including on-demand videos Total 37.5 34.6 32.1 30.4 ask about the issues that matter most to them. teaching technical skills. * Average hours of training for previous years have been restated due to improvements in our reporting on this topic. Quarterly team meetings, with video messages In 2018, 2,879 (55%) of our employees had from the CEO, are designed to improve annual appraisal interviews and we introduced We are strengthening our talent and people in our finance teams to develop their engagement and understanding of the company a mid-year review to give employees and succession management programme with skills by working abroad. strategy. Employees can also suggest questions managers an opportunity to capture feedback a new career framework to help people In 2018, 158 managers completed face-tofor the CEO via our intranet and the most and identify development opportunities more achieve their potential and develop their face and online training to develop their popular ones are answered each month. frequently. We also encourage managers to careers at SIG. We also aim to fill positions leadership skills through the SIG Leadership We are getting our people more involved in obtain 360° feedback from superiors, peers, internally and support employees in exploring Campus. The focus is on transformational innovation across the business. Teams can employees and others (such as customers) to new opportunities within the business. leadership and ensuring that leaders promote pitch ideas to our Innovation Board, which gain a broader perspective on their performance For example, we organised an exchange emotional engagement, high performance awards funding to take the winning ones and identify more effective development plans. programme between Mexico and Brazil for standards and a positive working culture. forward. At our production plant in Neuhausen, Switzerland, employees can submit their suggestions for improving our processes through a new feedback mechanism. In Saalfelden, Austria, executives consulted with employees at all levels to identify new ways for SIG to be an ‘organisation of the future’. We also improved the way we manage change (see our 2017 CR Performance Update for more on this). “We use team meetings to present our “I went to ‘C-Time’ and ‘Tea with the C’ “The quarterly team meetings provided own ideas. In addition, the meetings with questions about our staff detailed information about SIG’s future provide employees with answers to their development programme. We got much plans and deeper insights into the questions, which is also very important. valuable information and also gained company. This kind of communication I already feel closer to the company and new insights. The events showed me helps us to move forward. The event I know better now where the journey is how we can learn from the experiences shows that the common efforts of all heading in the coming years.” of other sites.” employees help to achieve SIG’s goals.” Vinícius Vale Anuluk Janyao Christian Kranepuhl Junior Internal Communication Analyst, EHS Supervisor, Production Preparation Ink Store, Curitiba (Brazil) Rayong (Thailand) Wittenberg (Germany) WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 34 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 We also offer apprenticeships to help young WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT people develop skills. In 2018, we had 145 apprentices across four countries. Recognising 2018 and rewarding Reward and recognition In 2018, we took steps to make our reward Senior management 17% performance system more transparent and consistent across Management 17% in Brazil the organisation by grading different roles and All employees 18% we will roll out standardised pay bands based Through the SIG+ Recognition and “I joined SIG straight from school as an on these grades in 2019. Reward Programme in Brazil, employees apprentice in mechanical maintenance at We have also increased our focus on recognising at SIG regardless of their nationality or can nominate colleagues who have gone the Saalfelden production plant in Austria. employees for their efforts in response to ethnic background. above and beyond for recognition that That was nearly 15 years ago. employee feedback from our previous survey. translates into points and prizes. Engineering and manufacturing industries are The apprenticeship gave me great handsFor example, a new programme at our site in traditionally male dominated and our workforce Points are awarded for demonstrating on experience in each area of production. Cluj, Romania, recognises a ‘Team of the month’ reflects this context, with women representing SIG’s values or leadership principles, Since then, I have worked my way up by asking them to present their successes only 18% of our employees and 17% of or for projects that have made a real through roles in quality assurance and to colleagues and we have introduced a new managers. We aim to encourage more women difference to our business. The points hygiene management. I’m now Head of recognition and reward programme in Brazil to join our business and support their career can be exchanged for products on the Quality Management for the whole plant. (see case study). progression into management to develop a more SIG website and dinner out to say thank diverse pipeline for our senior leadership roles. you for putting in the extra effort. SIG has helped me develop every step of the way. As an apprentice, I was Diversity and inclusion Currently, our Group Executive Board is all male. Standout individuals and teams are welcomed with open arms and I learned Diversity and inclusion has increased in Diversity in nationalities is also important to recognised at an annual awards a lot. My managers have been very importance for our business and our support our global business. In 2018, we brought celebration. We said a SIG+ thank you to supportive in helping me advance my stakeholders. In 2018, we set a new 2020 together people from SIG locations around more than 680 people in Brazil in 2017 career and I received extensive internal roadmap target to develop a strategy and the world and new recruits with international and 2018 and we are extending the and external training whenever I took on created a new position in our Human backgrounds to form a new global marketing programme to North America in 2019. a new role. Resources team to drive progress in this area. team to serve our diverse customers. I now manage my own team and I make it We have started to review how well our existing HR and recruitment processes Wellbeing a priority to help them develop. We speak regularly about what they need and how I and tools promote diversity and inclusion Together with our wider commitment to can help. My door is always open. at every level of the business. This input will corporate responsibility, employee wellbeing inform the development of our diversity has been identified as a key driver to improve SIG has a lot to offer and I am constantly and inclusion strategy, which will be overseen engagement levels. developing myself further. Of course it is by a dedicated steering group to be We are increasing our focus on this issue challenging, but I feel very happy in my appointed by 2020. by defining what wellbeing means for our current role and I am excited to see where We also included diversity questions in our employees. This is part of our broader focus on the future will lead me.” employee survey to understand how we are health and wellbeing (see page 35). In our latest Michael Herzog doing from our employees’ perspective. Of employee survey, 74% of responses on work-life Head of Quality Management, those surveyed, 82% agreed that people are balance were positive and 83% on health and Saalfelden (Austria) treated fairly at SIG regardless of their gender safety were positive. and 86% agreed that people are treated fairly WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 35 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 HEALTH & SAFETY OUR APPROACH PERFORMANCE IN 2018 MATERIAL ISSUE n OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR GOALS Why is this material for SIG? Focusing on lost time cases Health and safety is vital to our employees and 2020 TARGET Several of our sites finished the year with zero SIGNIFICANT IMPACTS N/A a prerequisite for any responsible company. lost time cases – our production plants in Zero lost-time case rate By preventing injuries and promoting health Neuhausen (Switzerland) and Suzhou (China), MORE WORK TO DO GRI INDICATORS and wellbeing, we can also support the our assembly plants in Suzhou and in Linnich success of our business by reducing lost time, (Germany), and our paper mill in Whakatane enhancing productivity and improving employee Achieve a life-critical safety elements (New Zealand). engagement. score of 100% at all production sites GRI However, our overall lost-time case rate ON TRACK 403-2 By focusing on safe behaviour at work, we are increased by 29% to 0.49 during 2018, with a not just fulfilling a fundamental responsibility total of 20 lost time cases worldwide. Corrective as a good employer, we are also empowering Maintain a health rate of more than action plans have been put in place at sites that KEY POLICIES employees to adopt safer behaviour at home 97% need to improve engagement on health and n SIG GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT, MORE WORK TO DO and instil safer attitudes among their families safety. HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY and communities. We are targeting improvements across all RELEVANT SDG Our increasing focus on health will enable our sites by continuing to embed and extend our people to lead fuller, more productive lives both − and behaviour-based safety for employees. behaviour-based safety programme and lifeat work and at home. We are also using our These focus on tackling unsafe behaviours that saving rules across our sites. expertise and experience to join forces with our we have identified as the root cause of almost customers to enhance health and safety in our all incidents at SIG. Embedding behaviour-based safety own operations and theirs. Health and safety management systems at all By the end of 2018, we had established our sites align with the internationally recognised behaviour-based safety programmes at all Management overview OHSAS 18001 and ISO 45001 standards. These our production sites, except Wittenberg which Nobody comes to work to get hurt. That’s the help us identify and manage risks, and promote will follow in 2019. These programmes are basic principle that underpins our approach continuous improvement. All incidents must run by steering committees that include both to occupational health and safety. We expect be reported following our standard operating management and employees. The process everyone at SIG to take care of their own safety procedure and we issue an alert across the begins with an in-depth analysis of previous and the safety of those around them, and we business in cases where an incident could recur. safety incidents to support continuous provide regular safety training to help them improvement in the adoption of safe behaviour do this. to avoid future incidents. Our programmes to embed a Take Care We encourage colleagues to learn from each culture centre around our life-saving rules − other by recognising and reporting at-risk for everyone working with us or visiting our sites behaviours so we can raise awareness and remove potential barriers to people working safely. Our paper mill at Whakatane introduced WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 36 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 TOTAL LOST-TIME CASES the behaviour-based safety programme was AND LOST-TIME CASE RATE Our life-saving rules first introduced. In August 2018, Saalfelden celebrated one year without lost-time cases by n LOST TIME CASES n LOST TIME CASE RATE (PER 200,000 HOURS WORKED) rewarding employees with fluorescent helmet Rule 1: Work with a valid work and backpack covers to help them stay safe permit when required when cycling. 0.55 0.62 Rule 2: Check equipment is isolated 0.49 We are also developing an initiative to encourage 0.38 before work begins leaders and employees to make a personal Rule 3: Obtain a permit for entry commitment to care about their safety and the into a confined space safety of those around them. It will be piloted in 26 Rule 4: Use fall protection when Whakatane in 2019 through workshops using 23 mindfulness techniques to build awareness working at height 20 Rule 5: Wear a seatbelt in motor about how safe behaviour fits with participants’ personal values. 16 vehicles when provided Identifying and managing key risks The Golden Rule: Intervene Our life-saving rules continue to play a critical to stop work if conditions or role in addressing the biggest risks to our behaviour are unsafe people. We have continued to keep these at top of mind for employees through a range of communications, including workshops, toolbox talks, signs – and a video for staff 2015 2016* 2017* 2018 at Whakatane. a new CARE initiative this year to Collect, * Data on lost time cases and lost time case rate have been restated for 2016 and Analyse and Reduce Exposure to safety risks. In 2018, we set up subject matter expert groups 2017 due to inconsistent reporting at one site, which has now been rectified. It encourages open and honest conversations to identify and manage other key safety risks, about safety, within a no name and no blame such as working at height, ensuring safety TOTAL LOST-TIME CASES devices are regularly tested and maintained, BY REGION AND GENDER IN 2018 culture. and isolation of dangerous energy sources Our site in in Curitiba, Brazil, launched its using lock out, tag out, try out procedures. behaviour-based safety programme in 2018 LOST-TIME CASES LOST-TIME CASES Each group is led by a different site and shares (PER 200,000 by asking employees to vote on its name. Over best practices with colleagues around the world HOURS WORKED) 60% of them voted and the winning name was to educate people about key risks and how to SIGA-ME – a combination of SIG + AME (love) – 1 male 0.30 male manage them. Americas o show that we want people to love working at 0 female 0 female SIG and care about safety. This builds on our previous initiatives to tackle specific risks, such as injury to hands and fingers. In 2019, we will also extend our focus on 1 male 0.07 male Three years ago, 48% of injuries were to hands Asia Pacific behaviour-based safety to our technical service or fingers. In 2018, it was just 25%, following 0 female 0 female engineers who provide support at customers’ a €2 million investment in safety mechanisms, sites worldwide. 18 male 0.80 male regular audits and training to make sure they Europe Changing attitudes takes time, but we are are being used appropriately, and a sustained 0 female 0 female already starting to see results at the sites where communications campaign. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 37 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Our production sites, where the majority of INJURIES BY TYPE IN 2018 (%) employees work and most incidents occur, maintained a minimum score of 96% in our n HAND OR FINGER n HEAD annual assessment of the way they manage n FOOT OR LEG n OTHER life-critical safety elements. Promoting good health As part of our net positive approach, we 25% focus on improving employee health and 35 % wellbeing by addressing the root causes for occupational illness with greater emphasis on work-life balance, a healthy work environment, 5% mindfulness, happiness and smart time management to combat stress. This holistic approach will inform the development of a 35% leading indicator to monitor the health rate of our employees. Our focus is on musculoskeletal health issues, such as back problems, as these can be an Understanding and enhancing employee health indicator of wider health and wellbeing with in Linnich root causes ranging from poor ergonomics to workload and stress. We are applying the Health is a very personal thing. That’s why, when we set out to support health behaviour-based model we use for safety to this improvements for our people, the first thing we did was ask them how we could help. health issue, with an initial focus on ergonomics. In March 2018, we surveyed employees in Linnich, Germany, to get a better understanding In 2018, we began piloting this approach as part of their health needs. Based on more than 350 responses, 34% suggested doing sport, of a broader employee health programme at 31% pointed to better posture at work and 30% recommended a healthy food when asked Linnich (see case study). what they would advise a colleague to do to improve their health. Other sites also continued to encourage Two-thirds said that opportunities to do sports would be the best way to promote health employees to stay fit and healthy through a during work time and 21% suggested inspiring and entertaining training activities. We are range of local initiatives. For example, energy using this input to design and test a tailored health programme at Linnich before we expand drinks with high sugar content are no longer this approach to further sites around the world. offered in the canteen at Neuhausen to promote healthier diets. Colleagues in Mexico ran in an An important aspect of this is integrating ergonomics into the site’s behaviour-based safety annual corporate 5km race (see photo), and 150 programme, with observers trained to spot poor ergonomics, such as bad posture when working or lifting. We are also developing advanced training on ergonomics to help people employees in Europe took part in an 80,000km improve their posture. challenge to walk, run and cycle far enough to do a virtual tour of SIG sites around the world. New programmes to support more sport and activity at work include encouraging people to hold meetings on the move, while going for a walk. More than 160 employees have also taken up our offer to lease an electric bike through the company to get more exercise by cycling to work and we train them to do so safely (see photo). WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING Foundation38 SIGFoundation Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 GRI GRI 101 General GOVERNANCE 101 General & ETHICS Disclosures Disclosures GRI GRI 102 102 OUR APPROACH PERFORMANCE IN 2018 MATERIAL ISSUE n FAIR LABOUR PRACTICES OUR GOALS Management Approach Management Approach Why is this material for SIG? Raising awareness Strong governance and ethics is fundamental to 2020 TARGET During 2017 and 2018, we provided in-depth GRI ADDITIONAL GRI STRATEGIC TOPIC FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES protect our reputation as a responsible company compliance training for around 230 employees 103 n 103 and provides a robust platform on which to build Mandatory annual Code of Conduct in high-risk roles across Asia, Europe and the training for all employees Foundation Economic SIGNIFICANT Foundation Economic IMPACTS our net positive impacts. Upholding labour rights Americas on various topics, including data MORE WORK TO DO N/A is an important aspect of respecting human protection, fraud, insider trading and our new GRI GRI rights, a topic of significant stakeholder concern. Gifts Policy. We are continuing to develop 101 200 101 200 GRI INDICATORS Implementing fair labour and business practices In-depth training on specific areas of e-training on the SIG Code of Conduct and is essential to comply with regulations and compliance for high-risk roles every exploring options to reach people without General Environmental General Environmental two years Disclosures Disclosures maintain stakeholder trust. computer access at work. ON TRACK GRI GRI GRI GRI GRI Management overview -16 102-17 102-41 Reporting concerns 102 300 102 300 102 We expect everyone at SIG to be guided by our SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit The number of concerns reported remains very values and comply with the SIG Code of Conduct (SMETA) at all large sites with more Management Social Approach Management Social Approach than 40 employees low and in 2018 new posters were issued across in everything they do. our sites to update contact details for reporting GRI GRI GRI GRI GRI ON TRACK The SIG Code of Conduct covers topics such as concerns and raise awareness of our hotline. 400 103 400 103 205-2 412-1 412-2 discrimination and harassment, and emphasises The few concerns reported in 2018 related our zero tolerance policy on bribery and team. Alternatively, they can contact our 24-hour to HR issues, non-compliance with internal Economic Economic KEY POLICIES corruption in any form. It is part of our induction external ethics and compliance hotline to voice processes and conflict of interest. Each concern GRI SIG CODE OF CONDUCT n GRI for all new employees and is communicated to concerns confidentially and – where permitted was assigned to an investigation officer who 200 200 n GIFTS POLICY everyone on our website in 14 languages. by local legislation – anonymously, by email or examined the case and proposed an appropriate We offer in-depth training for people working phone in their local language. response. This included disciplinary action in Environmental RELEVANT Environmental SDG in high-risk roles (such as sales, purchasing and one case where concerns were substantiated in For SIG, fair labour practices include zero finance) to help them understand how to apply 2017, but no cases resulted in disciplinary action GRI GRI tolerance of forced, compulsory or child the SIG Code of Conduct to real-life dilemmas in 2018. 300 300 they may face. Further guidance is provided in labour, and respecting the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We consult our accompanying Gifts Policy and we require Upholding labour rights Social Social with employees and their representatives on people working in management and high-risk issues such as pay, health and safety, and Nine of our 17 sites with over 40 employees have GRI GRI roles to record any potential conflicts of interest. now completed SMETA audits. Our New Zealand working conditions. Globally, around 60% of our 400 400 We encourage people to speak up if they have employees are covered by collective bargaining paper mill completed its first SMETA audit in any concerns about unethical behaviour and we agreements. 2018. All our production sites were audited in make it clear that we will not retaliate against 2016 and the next audits of these sites are due We also extend our requirements on fair labour anyone reporting a concern. Employees can in 2019. Compliance on fair labour practices practices to suppliers through the SIG Code of seek advice or raise concerns through their line was also part of our assessments and audits of Business Ethics (see page 45). managers or the Global Legal and Compliance suppliers in 2018 (see page 45). WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 39 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 COMMUNITIES OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES N/A OUR GOALS Championing Cartons Why is this strategic for SIG? We are enhancing our positive social and 2020 TARGET for Good ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC TOPIC n THRIVING COMMUNITIES environmental impacts in communities through Our Way Beyond Good champions ran Double the impact of community our engagement programme and, with Cartons a series of local campaigns to promote engagement programmes* SIGNIFICANT IMPACTS for Good, we are leading the industry with our flagship Cartons for Good project in COMPLETED N/A an innovative model that has the potential to 2018. Imaginative events included a ‘Who deliver disruptive change and strengthen our wants to be a cardboard millionaire?’ GRI INDICATORS contribution to the SDGs. Supporting thriving Launch a global flagship project using quiz game in Whakatane, New Zealand, N/A communities helps us strengthen our business our expertise to support communities and a partnership with a school near our by being a good neighbour and an employer COMPLETED Saalfelden site in Austria. of choice, enhancing our corporate image and RELEVANT SDG They also ran a drawing competition exploring new models and markets. * Wording changed to make target more meaningful. for the children of our employees. The children were read a story – about a Management overview farmer called Rakib, who brings his Our support for local communities is channelled through our new Way Beyond Good Foundation. leftover pumpkins to SIG so that they through our Way Beyond Good engagement Members of our GEB sit on the Foundation’s can be used to feed local schoolchildren programme. This is run by local action groups Board of Trustees and projects will be – and asked to draw pictures based on of employee volunteers led by our network nominated by an advisory council of employee what they heard. of Way Beyond Good champions. We focus representatives from different regions. We used their drawings to create on projects that meet the needs of local a unique design for the Cartons stakeholders, harness the skills of our people for Good packs that and have a positive impact in communities. PERFORMANCE IN 2018 will be distributed We have developed a methodology for to schools in Launching Cartons for Good measuring the impact of our community Bangladesh and programmes, based on an assessment by In 2018, we launched our Cartons for Good publish an illustrated the employees and communities involved. It flagship project (see page 25). children’s storybook. takes into account contributions to the SDGs, Our engineers developed a downsized, mobile The storybook is who benefits from the project and the type of filling machine designed to be easy to operate available on our impact it has, such as improving education or and maintain locally to support the Cartons website. supporting recycling. for Good project. It was shipped from our Each local team has an allocated budget each production site in Linnich to Bangladesh in late year to run community projects. In future, 2018 where farmers were immediately able to additional investment in community projects, supply surplus from their harvests of crops such including Cartons for Good, will be funded as cauliflower, cabbages and tomatoes. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 40 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 IMPACT OF OUR COMMUNITY PROJECTS 2016 2017 2018 “The eco-canteen is a great way to bring recycling to life by showing Number of projects children – and their parents – what 13 19 32 happens to the cartons after they drink their milk. Helping children understand Total impact score* 9,879 14,596 23,833 how recycling can help the environment *Based on the methodology developed by SIG. is really important because they are the consumers of tomorrow.” The filling machine is being used locally to cook engagement day will support community meals Chatramon Intason and preserve food in SIG combisafe packs, around the world. School Director at Nikomsangtoneang specially branded for Cartons for Good through We also aim to increase the impact of our Rayong 10 School a children’s drawing competition run by our community engagement programmes through Way Beyond Good champions (see case study). our Way Beyond Good Foundation, founded in In early 2019, we celebrated the official October 2018 with an initial grant of €330,000 inauguration of the project together with our from SIG. project partner, BRAC, and the first packs of food were distributed to schools. “We believe that good nutrition Enhancing the impact of our and clean water should be community programmes available to everyone and In 2018, we changed our target from doubling the number of community programmes to that natural habitats need doubling their impact by 2020 to help us to be preserved for future create a more meaningful difference in generations. Together with local communities. partners, our purpose is to School ‘eco-canteen’ gives used cartons a new lease We have established a baseline for this target, with the total impact score across all projects identify, drive and promote of life in Thailand activities and projects that in 2016 adding up to 9,879. In 2018, the score In 2018, we showcased how companies and communities can come together to turn waste increased to 23,833, with projects such strengthen civil society and into value through an innovative ‘eco-canteen’ made almost entirely from used beverage as our ‘eco-canteen’ in Thailand scoring very create positive impacts for cartons at a school in Thailand. highly (see case study). This means we have the environment.” We teamed up with Kasetsart University, the food manufacturer Ampol Foods and the achieved our target to double the impact of Way Beyond Good Fiber Pattana recycling plant to design and rebuild the canteen at the Nikom Sang Ton Eang our community programmes by 2020. Foundation mission statement primary school near our production site in Rayong, Thailand. Way Beyond Good local action groups will help More than 1.4 million recycled cartons went into the canteen, used to make the roof tiles, us drive progress and run a global engagement wall panels, tables and chairs. The 170 children at the school can now drink their milk day each year to encourage people to volunteer from cartons in a canteen made of cartons, taking a clear message on recycling home their time to projects that share a common to their families. theme across the company. In 2019, the first WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 41 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 RESPONSIBLE “We want to partner with suppliers that share and contribute to our SOURCING net positive ambition. Sourcing raw materials from certified responsible sources enables us to deliver significant environmental and societal benefits, while securing a reliable supply for our business and our customers.” Ian Wood Chief Supply Chain Officer 2030 goal All raw materials from certified sources and 50% of total sourcing spend on net positive suppliers IN THIS SECTION Overview Going Way Beyond Good with FSCTM Our supply chain Responsible suppliers Ian holds a combidome pack Sustainable raw materials specially printed to show our Energy sourcing commitment to source FSC™ Sustainable logistics certified liquid packaging board. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 42 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING OVERVIEW 96 % We have now sold 101bn packs with the FSCTM By sourcing renewable, recyclable raw materials from certified label and the share of responsible sources, we are cutting the environmental footprint SIG packs sold with the of our packs, promoting thriving forests and supporting the label reached 96% by transition to a circular economy. the end of 2018 SIG has pioneered the use of third-party verified certifications within our industry to demonstrate that key materials used to make our cartons 1st are sourced responsibly. In 2009, we were the first to achieve 100% global coverage of Forest Stewardship Council (FSCTM) Chain of Custody certification for liquid packaging board. Last year, our European sleeve and spout production SIG is the first in the plants achieved ISCC PLUS certification for the plant-based polymers industry to achieve used in SIGNATURE PACK 100 that are linked to 100% forest-based certification to the material.1 And we are now one of the first companies in the world to new ASI Performance achieve certification to the new Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) Standard for responsible 100 % standard for responsible aluminium sourcing. aluminium sourcing This year, we became the first beverage carton manufacturer to switch all the energy used to produce our packs – both electricity 100 and gas – to renewable sources, either sourced directly or Our social responsibility indirectly through GoldPower® certified renewable energy projects. Our additional focus on sustainable logistics also supports our commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions % requirements are now included in 100% of our contracts with suppliers of key raw materials across the value chain. All of the energy we use in Strict social, environmental and ethical standards apply to production now comes from every supplier we work with and we have strengthened our renewable sources, either directly or indirectly through procedures to check compliance among our significant GoldPower® certified suppliers. Ultimately, our aim is to partner with suppliers renewable energy projects that support our net positive ambition. Trademark licence code: FSC™ CO20428 1 Via a mass balance system. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 43 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Going Way Beyond Good with FSC TM Over 96% of SIG packs carried the FSCTM We encourage customers to put the FSC label by the end of 2018. With this label on their packs to raise awareness of little label, we are helping forests and sustainability. As people get used to seeing communities thrive, and tackling some of the label on more of their favourite food the biggest global challenges we face.2 and drinks, they start looking for it on other products too. Retailers, in turn, are stocking The NGO-backed FSC certification helps a wider range of FSC certified products – forests remain thriving environments for from printer paper to garden furniture. generations to come by setting strict standards for responsible forest management that Partnering with both suppliers and customers support biodiversity and ecosystem functions, is essential to fulfil our FSC commitments. prevent deforestation and degradation, and We also work closely with the FSC to develop respect the rights of local communities and the certification scheme and, through its indigenous peoples. Forest managers must Vancouver Declaration, we joined other meet and maintain these standards to retain leading companies committing to contribute to their certification. global sustainable development goals through our use of forest materials. Forest-based liquid packaging board makes up around 70-80% of each SIG pack on By supporting FSC certification and calling average. Sourcing this from suppliers certified on others to do so, we aim to work together to the FSC Chain of Custody standard helps to drive progress towards sustainable us produce our packs sustainably and production and consumption through market promotes more sustainable production transformation. among our suppliers. Responsibly managed forests also help to store carbon, regulate the climate and provide a renewable alternative to fossil-based feedstocks. When consumers scan the shelves of their local store, the FSC label tells them that the paper used in the packaging of the product they are buying comes from responsiblymanaged forests and other controlled sources. 2 In December 2018. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 44 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN We spend over €1 billion a year with Direct suppliers provide the raw materials we wood), polymers, aluminium, ink and solvents. identified in the supply chain. These significant approximately 6,000 suppliers around use in our carton packs. Indirect suppliers We source these ‘A-materials’ from around 40 suppliers account for around 60% of our total provide the secondary packaging used to suppliers, ranging from local paper mills that procurement spend. the world on the goods and services transport and display our packs (such as source wood from their own forests to major we need to make our products and In our Global Assembly business, which makes corrugated cardboard and wooden pallets) and multinational mining and chemical companies. run our business. our filling machines, key suppliers are identified a range of other products and services, including Our own paper mill in New Zealand also supplies based on criteria such as level of turnover or energy, logistics, IT, catering and cleaning. Global some of our liquid packaging board. single source category. Assembly suppliers provide the metals and GRI INDICATORS We work particularly closely with a group of just components used to assemble and maintain our Where feasible, we also aim to source locally over 200 suppliers (both direct and indirect) that filling machines. within each region to support local economies are considered most significant to our business and communities, and reduce environmental GRI Around 54% of our procurement spend goes – based on their potential to affect our ability impacts from transporting goods over long 102-9 on the raw materials for our packs: liquid to meet customer needs, the high volumes distances. packaging board (a stiff paper board made from we purchase from them, or sustainability risks WHERE OUR RAW MATERIALS COME FROM Encouraging our Sweden suppliers to go Finland net positive Scotland We want to go net positive across our Belgium value chain and that means working with USA Netherlands suppliers that can help us achieve this France Germany ambition. Our goal is to channel 50% of China our procurement spend with net positive South Korea suppliers by 2030. KEY We are exploring how to define net Thailand positive suppliers in parallel with our Liquid work to understand how to measure packaging overall net positive impacts (see page 26). board Brazil We are already working closely with one of our biggest suppliers of liquid Polymer packaging board, Stora Enso Consumer Board Division, as a fellow member Aluminium of the Net Positive Project. New Zealand WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING General Disclosures GRI 45 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 102 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIERS Management Approach GRI 103 Economic OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES n RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIERS OUR GOALS GRI n FAIR LABOUR PRACTICES Why is this material for SIG? 200 Managing supply chain risks by ensuring we 2020 TARGET Environmental SIGNIFICANT IMPACTS work with responsible suppliers is an important N/A Include new social responsibility foundation for our ambition to have a net GRI requirements in 100% of contracts with positive impact on society and the environment suppliers of our key raw materials 300 GRI INDICATORS across our value chain. ON TRACK Social Stakeholders increasingly hold companies accountable not just for their direct impacts on Audit 10% of high-risk suppliers GRI GRI GRI society and the environment, but for indirect each year 400 308-1 414-1 impacts in their supply chain too. The ethical ON TRACK requirements demanded by our customers often include criteria that extend beyond our own KEY POLICIES Provide regular training (at least operations to our supply chain. n SIG BUSINESS ETHICS CODE every two years) on ethical supplier FOR SUPPLIERS Demonstrating that we work with responsible standards and sustainable sourcing to n RESPONSIBLE SOURCING DIRECTIVE suppliers enables us to meet these requirements all employees who interact frequently n SUPPLIER QUALIFICATION and avoid ethical breaches in our supply chain with suppliers (EQUIPMENT) PROCESS that could affect our reputation or cause ON TRACK disruptions to supply. RELEVANT SDGs Management overview self-assessments, external certifications and dealing with both direct and indirect suppliers We expect all our suppliers to comply with the common industry tools such as SEDEX or – on responsible sourcing. Some are trained to SIG Business Ethics Code for Suppliers, which is EcoVadis. We also conduct our own on-site conduct high-level responsibility checks during based on the Ethical Trading Initiative Code and audits of some high-risk suppliers. their regular visits to suppliers’ sites and we sets out our requirements on business integrity, We accept significant suppliers that comply with also have a team of experts to conduct in-depth labour, safety and environmental issues. Our our standards for up to two years before they audits. By 2020, we aim for all significant direct buyers are responsible for ensuring suppliers are reassessed. We work with others to help suppliers to be audited by SIG or a third party. sign up to the SIG Business Ethic Code, or them improve through corrective action plans. If In our Global Assembly business, the Supplier demonstrate an equivalent code is in place, as suppliers fail to respond to our requests or show Qualification (Equipment) process sets out part of all new or renewed contracts with SIG. no willingness to improve, we may terminate our how we screen all new suppliers through selfAll suppliers are screened on social and business relationship with them. assessments and how the Supplier Management environmental criteria as part of our onboarding Our Responsible Sourcing Directive describes (Equipment) team follows up to requalify key process. We conduct more in-depth evaluations how we assess our suppliers’ performance on suppliers based on responsibility criteria. of our significant suppliers’ transparency responsibility criteria. We train everyone in our and performance through a combination of global, regional and local procurement teams – WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 46 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 PERFORMANCE IN 2018 Integrating responsibility in our Those rated as ‘CSR accepted’ – 40% of RATING DIRECT SIGNIFICANT SUPPLIERS supplier management direct significant suppliers and 75% of indirect ON ETHICAL STANDARDS (%) All of our contracts with suppliers of key raw significant suppliers – are expected to submit n CSR COMPLIANT n CSR ACCEPTED materials explicitly included either the SIG plans outlining their steps to achieve certification n HIGH RISK n UNDER REVIEW Business Ethics Code for Suppliers or an to recognised standards or third-party equivalent code in 2018. assessments. Any business with suppliers failing to respond or provide appropriate information We have begun monitoring suppliers’ acceptance 21% is put on hold while we investigate. In 2018, of the SIG Business Ethics Code through our we terminated our relationship with one of our 35% new procurement software, which is used to significant suppliers that refused to sign up to request information and self-assessments from the SIG Business Ethics Code and we put our suppliers and record their compliance. We are business with another on hold until the now also assessing indirect suppliers’ compliance supplier agreed to comply with our code. alongside direct suppliers. We have also begun to roll out our responsibility At the start of 2018, 16 significant suppliers had 4% 40% been identified as high-risk. Since then, two of requirements among our Global Assembly them have provided evidence of third-party suppliers. All 78 of the key suppliers in this assessments (SMETA or EcoVadis), three have part of the business have signed up to the signed up to the SIG Business Ethics Code and SIG Business Ethics Code or equivalent, or four have been delisted. Of those removed from RATING INDIRECT SIGNIFICANT SUPPLIERS have achieved certification to recognised ON ETHICAL STANDARDS (%) our approved supplier list, three were delisted external standards. for commercial reasons and one because it did n CSR COMPLIANT n CSR ACCEPTED not sign up to the SIG Business Ethics Code. n HIGH RISK n UNDER REVIEW Monitoring and improving supplier performance In line with our target to audit 10% of highrisk suppliers each year, we audited one of 3% Over the past two years, we have screened all the remaining seven high-risk suppliers. The new and existing direct significant suppliers for 22% audit identified several opportunities for minor environmental and social risks and 72% have improvements, but none of the findings were responded to our requests for information. considered critical. Based on our assessments, 21% of our direct significant suppliers and 3% of our indirect significant suppliers are rated as CSR compliant (see charts). This means they have demonstrated 75% compliance with our responsibility requirements through recognised external standards such as the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) within the last two years. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 47 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 SUSTAINABLE RAW MATERIALS OUR APPROACH PERFORMANCE IN 2018 MATERIAL ISSUES n SUSTAINABLE RAW MATERIALS OUR GOALS n THRIVING FORESTS Why is this material for SIG? Liquid packaging board Sourcing more renewable, forest-based 2020 TARGET We have now sold over 101 billion FSC labelled SIGNIFICANT IMPACTS materials that are certified as responsibly packs. During 2018, 92.5% of the packs we sold n ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIETAL AND 100% FSCTM labelled packs (work with managed contributes to our efforts to mitigate worldwide carried the FSC label and the share ECONOMIC customers to include the FSC logo on and adapt to climate change, and support reached 96% in December. (SUSTAINABLE RAW MATERIALS, 100% of the packs we sell) THRIVING FORESTS) thriving forests. ON TRACK Since 2016, customers have been able Through FSCTM certification, we are helping to put the FSC label on any of our packs GRI INDICATORS forests – and the communities that depend on 100% A-materials from certified – we were the first carton provider to them – thrive. By sourcing more sustainability sources make that possible – and we are encouraging certified raw materials, we are enhancing MORE WORK TO DO more of them to do so. In August 2018, for the GRI the environmental credentials of our packs first time, all the packs sold in China carried the 301-1 and creating broader net positive effects by FSC logo. increasing demand for these feedstocks. This in certifications in our industry and beyond. turn can lead to suppliers making them more In 2018, the minimum supply made with wood KEY POLICIES widely available for our industry and beyond. Since 2009, we have maintained FSC Chain of from FSC certified forests and other controlled n LIQUID PACKAGING BOARD, Custody certification at our production sites A sustainable supply of our key raw materials is sources remained high, but decreased slightly POLYMER AND ALUMINIUM also critical for us to continue meeting customer and sales offices. All our liquid packaging board from 89% to 86%. To help us reach our 100% PURCHASING POLICIES needs now and in the future. Our business is comes from paper mills certified to the FSC target, we are encouraging our liquid packaging modelled on a long-term return on investment, Chain of Custody standard. board suppliers to increase the supply of FSC RELEVANT SDGs with many customers using a SIG filling machine material and to engage with their own suppliers – We are implementing the new Aluminium – and the packs that go with it – for decades. mostly privately-owned operations in Scandinavia Stewardship Initiative standard for responsible This makes it all the more important to secure a – to explain the benefits of certification. aluminium sourcing through a similar Chain reliable supply of materials that is sustainable in of Custody certification and a Group-wide the long term. Polymers Performance Standard. SIG is the first in the industry to do so. Our SIGNATURE PACK is the first Management overview aseptic carton that is 100% linked We are also using certified renewable polymers Environmental and social requirements for to plant-based materials. The for our SIGNATURE PACK (see page 55) as we our main raw materials are defined in our polymers are linked to plant-based materials explore ways to use more responsibly-sourced purchasing policies for liquid packaging board, via a mass balance system and certified to the renewable materials in our packs. These aluminium and polymers. We use certifications ISCC (International Sustainability & Carbon polymers are certified to the ISCC PLUS and to trace our raw materials back to responsible Certification) PLUS standard or the alternative TÜV SÜD CMS71 standards. sources and independent auditors check TÜV SÜD CMS71 scheme. In 2018, several compliance. SIG is supporting the development customers launched products with SIGNATURE of such certifications and driving wider use of PACK (see page 60). WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 48 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 SOURCING OUR A MATERIALS 2016 2017 2018 Raw materials purchased (tonnes of liquid 550,000 533,000 550,000 packaging board, aluminium and polymers) % from renewable sources (by volume) 70% 71% 72% “Aluminium is a critical material for the % from certified sources (by spend) 39% 47% 45% packaging sector and ASI’s Certification programme provides a platform to recognise and collaboratively foster However, rolling out this plant-based ethical, environmental and social topics. global supply chain efforts towards solution across our product range enhanced sustainability. SIG’s ongoing We led the industry in achieving global is challenging due to the associated the corrugated cardboard and pallets used actions to responsibly source raw certification to the ASI Performance Standard price premium. This must be balanced with our to transport our products. In 2018, around 95% materials are now being extended to at company level, together with ASI Chain of purpose to help customers deliver food in an of the corrugated cardboard boxes we used aluminium, one of the world’s most Custody certification at our production site in affordable as well as a sustainable way. in Europe were from FSC certified sources widely used metals. With the first ASI Saalfelden, Austria. More of our production sites (up from 81% in 2016). We have also switched to Certifications already announced, we As a result, we anticipate there will be a are aiming to achieve this certification soon. FSC certified suppliers for the cardboard boxes look forward to an acceleration of efforts continued need for fossil-based polymers The certification will enable customers to trace we use in Brazil from 2019. in the packaging sector in the coming for several years to come and we want to the aluminium foil in SIG packs through the ensure they are produced responsibly. With All the pallets we use to export products from months and years, with the support of value chain – from responsible sourcing and no suitable recognised certification for fossilour European factories are made from FSC SIG and other ASI members.” processing of the raw material to responsible based polymers, this represents a significant certified wood. But sourcing certified options in Dr Fiona Solomon production of the finished packs – once ASI challenge to our 2020 goal to source 100% of other regions is more challenging, particularly in CEO, Aluminium Stewardship Initiative Chain of Custody certification is achieved at our A-materials from certified sources. Asia where pallets are often made of plastic or every stage of our supply chain. rubber rather than wood. Aluminium We are encouraging suppliers to work towards ASI certification to help create the necessary Ink In 2018, we became the first in supply of aluminium foil from certified sources. the industry – and one of the first There is currently no external certification for the Prior to the launch of the ASI standard, we companies in the world – to achieve inks we use to print customers’ designs on our partnered with one of our suppliers, Amcor, to certification to the new standard from the packs so we are planning to develop our own understand whether the supply chain was ready Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) to responsibility requirements for the suppliers of to meet the requirements through third-party enhance traceability and responsibility in the these ingredients. As a first step, we conducted assessments. The Amcor site we source from aluminium supply chain. an assessment of potential environmental and has now achieved the ASI Chain of Custody social risks in the ink supply chain in 2018. We Sourcing certified aluminium has not previously certification. are also continuing to engage with suppliers been possible as there was no appropriate about the potential to introduce more plantcertification available. The ASI certification now Secondary packaging based solvents and other components in the offers a way to audit the aluminium supply chain We are also working with suppliers to use more printing process to support our move away against strict standards on a broad range of certified materials in our secondary packaging – from fossil-based materials. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 49 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 ENERGY SOURCING OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUE n TACKLING CLIMATE CHANGE Why is this material for SIG? SIGNIFICANT IMPACT We are leading the industry in sourcing all our n ENVIRONMENTAL energy for production from renewables. The most (TACKLING CLIMATE CHANGE) significant environmental impact of our operations used to be the greenhouse gas emissions from GRI INDICATORS the energy we use in production. Switching to N/A renewable energy has significantly cut the carbon footprint of our operations. This effectively KEY POLICIES eliminates greenhouse gas emissions from n RESPONSIBLE SOURCING DIRECTIVE manufacturing our packs, supporting our efforts to tackle climate change and setting a strong example RELEVANT SDGs for others to target 100% renewable energy. Our support for renewable energy projects that are certified to the recognised GoldPower® standard also delivers wider positive social impacts as well as environmental savings. Management overview We purchase renewable electricity from the grid in Europe and Brazil, using guarantees of origin (or equivalent) to verify the energy is generated from renewable sources. In markets where this is not a viable option – and for the natural gas we use worldwide – we source renewable energy indirectly by investing in local renewable energy projects. OUR GOALS These projects are certified to the GoldPower® standard which verifies that they will not only deliver 2020 TARGET measurable greenhouse gas emissions reductions, but also create benefits for local communities, 100% renewable energy and Gold such as air or water quality improvements, or job Standard CO2 offset for all non-renewable energy (at production plants) opportunities. We are also pursuing options to COMPLETED generate renewable energy on our own sites by, for example, investing in rooftop solar installations. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 50 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 PERFORMANCE IN 2018 Going 100% renewable Landfill gas from decomposing waste includes Harnessing solar power on site in Thailand large amounts of methane, a potent greenhouse Our production plant in Rayong, Thailand, Not only is this supporting SIG’s efforts to In 2018, we became the first in the gas. Preventing this gas from escaping into the is harnessing the power of the sun with go Way Beyond Good, it’s also contributing industry to produce all our packs using atmosphere helps to avoid harmful climate a massive new rooftop solar installation to Thailand’s target to meet 40% of the 100% renewable energy – electricity impacts. The switch to renewable gas will save covering an area of more than 17,660m2. country’s electricity requirements from and gas – at production sites worldwide. an estimated 28,600 tonnes of CO2 equivalent renewable energy sources by 2036. With 9,048 individual photovoltaic panels, We made the switch to 100% renewable emissions per year. the 3.3 MWp system is one of the largest To further enhance our positive impact electricity in 2017 and we are now sourcing in the country and is capable of producing for communities, the supplier of our solar renewable alternatives for the remaining energy Investing in on-site renewable electricity up to 4,431 MWh of power per year. It panels has also installed 7kWp of solar used in production that comes from natural will contribute around 10% of the site’s panels on the roof of a local school free We initially followed a similar model to offset gas. This means we have met our 2020 goal two total energy use, saving on energy costs of charge as part of our agreement. the CO2 emissions from electricity used at our years early. and avoiding around 2,240 tonnes of That’s enough to power the school. production sites in China and Thailand, investing All other remaining greenhouse gas emissions in GoldPower® certified renewable energy CO2 equivalent emissions per year. from production, such as small amounts projects because purchasing green electricity released in the printing process, are also from the grid is not a viable option in these being offset. countries (as it is in Europe and Brazil). Now, we are looking for opportunities to source Sourcing renewable alternatives for gas more renewable electricity directly by investing Finding renewable alternatives for gas was in on-site installations. In 2018, we completed challenging because the market for renewable a 3.3 MWp rooftop solar installation at our biogas is not yet well established. production plant in Thailand (see case study). Our new technology centre in China is also With no viable option to source renewable enabling on-site solar power generation by a biogas directly, we are instead sourcing it 1MWp installation (see page 30). These projects indirectly by supporting GoldPower® certified provide a valuable blueprint for developing projects to construct and operate waste-toon-site renewable energy capacity at our other energy systems in China, Thailand and Turkey production plants. that capture gas generated at landfill sites and use it to produce renewable energy. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 51 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 SUSTAINABLE LOGISTICS OUR APPROACH MATERIAL ISSUES N/A Why is this strategic for SIG? ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC TOPIC A focus on sustainable logistics is part of our n ECO-EFFICIENT TRANSPORT holistic approach to reduce our environmental footprint and support our net positive ambition SIGNIFICANT IMPACTS throughout the value chain. N/A We deliver billions of carton sleeves to our customers every year. Although environmental GRI INDICATORS impacts from transport are not material N/A compared with other stages of the life-cycle (see page 56), eco-efficient transport is still of KEY POLICIES strategic importance for SIG because it helps us n RESPONSIBLE SOURCING DIRECTIVE minimise the cost of our logistics and reduce our total value chain greenhouse gas emissions. RELEVANT SDGs By encouraging our logistics partners to use more fuel-efficient trucks to deliver our products, we are also supporting wider greenhouse gas emissions reductions as they will use the same trucks to deliver other products too. how they will help us achieve our goals for eco-efficient transport. We also check for OUR GOALS Management overview intermodal transport (using multiple modes The delivery of goods and materials from our of transportation) options where feasible to 2020 TARGET suppliers to our plants is managed by our improve efficiency. procurement teams as part of SIG’s contracts Sending our sleeves in flat-pack format Increase the rate of full truck loads with relevant suppliers. We also reduce impacts significantly reduces the amount of space delivered to customers from inbound logistics by sourcing locally required to transport our products to customers MORE WORK TO DO where possible. relative to comparable plastic, metal or glass Our Supply Chain Management team manages packaging. This reduces the number of journeys Ensure logistic partners use trucks that required. meet Euro 6 emissions standards for our outbound logistics, working with logistics 100% of outbound road transport from providers to balance costs and environmental We aim to further reduce environmental impacts our production plants in Europe considerations with the need to deliver our from transport by packing our products in a MORE WORK TO DO products to customers when they need them – space-saving way and filling each truck as fully whether it is by truck, by sea or, for very urgent as possible to reduce the number of journeys orders, by air. As part of our tender process, required, as well as encouraging suppliers to use we ask our logistics providers to demonstrate more fuel-efficient vehicles. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 52 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 PERFORMANCE IN 2018 Improving eco-efficiency Using more efficient vehicles EMISSIONS FROM OUTBOUND LOGISTICS THOUSAND TONNES OF CO2 EQUIVALENT In 2018, emissions for our outbound logistics We encourage logistics providers to use more totalled 43,860 tonnes of CO2 equivalent efficient vehicles to reduce fuel costs and emissions. This is a 3% reduction compared with transport emissions. The Euro 6 emissions 2016. standard is a useful benchmark to gauge 45 45 44 fuel efficiency. Filling trucks fuller A full truck that meets the requirements of the Trucks delivering our products make outbound latest Euro 6 standard uses nearly two litres journeys of around 8 million kilometres a month less diesel – and saves around 3.2kg of CO2 from our factories. We aim to fill them as fully as equivalent emissions – per 100km journey possible to make the most of each journey. compared with a truck complying with the previous Euro 5 standard. In 2018, around In 2018, we began rolling out a new stacking 75% of our deliveries in Europe were made process that enables even more products using Euro 6 trucks, up from 60% in 2017. to be delivered in each truck load, starting with deliveries from our plant in Wittenberg, We made environmental criteria a priority in Germany. By fitting over 10% more sleeves our latest tender for new contracts with sea 2016 2017 2018 per pallet, this is expected to save 7.8kg of freight logistics providers, requiring them to CO2 equivalent emissions per 100 kilometres provide information on their greenhouse travelled. gas emissions performance to inform our TRUCK UTILISATION RATE RATE OF FULL decision making. TRUCK LOADS DELIVERED TO CUSTOMERS (%) We increased the rate of full truck loads delivered to customers every year from 2012 to 2017. However, in 2018, this trend levelled off, with an average truck utilisation rate of 91% for 92% 93% 91% delivery trucks dispatched from our production plants worldwide, largely as a result of customer demand for express deliveries and orders in smaller quantities. 2016 2017 2018 WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 53 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 RESPONSIBLE “We are constantly innovating to offer customers the most PRODUCTS sustainable solutions on the market. Designing, producing and marketing responsible products is critical to meet customer and consumer needs – and to fulfil our purpose.” Markus Boehm Chief Market Officer 2030 goal Offer customers the most sustainable food packaging solutions – compared to carton or other materials IN THIS SECTION Overview Going Way Beyond Good with SIGNATURE PACK Our life-cycle approach Our packs Markus holds our SIGNATURE PACK 100, Filling machines and technical service the world’s first aseptic carton pack Product safety linked to 100% plant-based materials (via a mass balanced system). WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 54 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 RESPONSIBLE >35bn PRODUCTS OVERVIEW SIG products have an important role to play in helping customers packs produced in 2018, helping customers deliver nutrition to consumers around the world in a –58 % The carbon footprint of our deliver nutrition to people around the world in a safe, sustainable SIGNATURE PACK 100 is 58% safe, sustainable and and affordable way. lower than our standard affordable way packs in the world’s first Our aseptic carton packs enable food and beverages to retain their ISO-conformant life-cycle nutritional value over long periods of time without the need for assessment of a mass refrigeration. All our production plants are certified to strict product balance product2 safety and quality standards to make sure the food inside our packs stays safe. 4,850 Our standard carton packs have significantly lower environmental impacts than alternative packaging solutions and our SIGNATURE –80 PACK 100 has raised the bar in the industry as the first aseptic % carton pack that is linked to 100% plant-based material,1 Our innovative RS structure has saved reducing climate impacts and supporting a transition to a more than 4,850 tonnes circular economy. Customers in several markets are already of polymer since its using this latest innovation to enhance the sustainability introduction in 2016 The new eco-mode for credentials of their own products. our filling machines cuts energy use during We take a holistic view across the entire life-cycle to help us production breaks by 80% develop the most sustainable food packaging solutions on the market. We are driving progress towards this ambition through product innovation in our packs, filling machines and technical service, together with our efforts to source Together with industry partners, we launched responsibly (see page 41), reduce our own environmental a new platform called impacts (see page 27) and support recycling after use. EXTR:ACT to coordinate With all our product innovations, we must balance and drive solutions to enhance collection and sustainability with cost so we can continue supporting recycling of beverage our customers by helping them deliver nutrition in an cartons in Europe. affordable way. 1 Via a mass balance system. 2 Based on Europewide LCA – available at www.sig.biz. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 55 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Going Way Beyond Good with SIGNATURE PACK The world urgently needs to sever ties By supporting a transition from fossil to with fossil-based materials to preserve plant-based raw materials, mass balancing finite natural resources and tackle can be a key driver in creating more climate change. We believe plant-based sustainable production – and, over time, alternatives hold the answer. could see fossil resources replaced entirely with renewable alternatives. When managed responsibly, plant-based resources can be continually renewed The plant-based feedstock comes from tall and plants help to prevent a build-up of oil, a residue extracted from wood in the greenhouse gases in the atmosphere by paper manufacturing process. We chose absorbing CO2 as they grow. it because it’s a by-product from another industry rather than an agricultural crop Our SIGNATURE PACK 100 is the world’s first requiring land and resources that could be aseptic carton pack linked to 100% plantused to produce food. This use of industrial based renewable materials, with a life-cycle residues supports SIGNATURE PACK’s carbon footprint 58%3 lower than one of contribution to a circular economy. And our standard cartons. like all SIG cartons, SIGNATURE PACK is It’s made possible through an innovative mass fully recyclable. balance approach for the polymers used in the Residues (wood chips) from the sawn log pack. Plant-based raw materials are mixed in industry make up around 30% of the liquid with conventional fossil-based raw materials packaging board used in the pack. All the to produce polymers to the grade we need. liquid packaging board comes from sources External certifications ensure that enough that meet strict criteria for responsible forest renewable material is fed into the mix to management, adding to SIGNATURE PACK’s make the amount of polymers we use in our contribution to thriving forests (see page 47). SIGNATURE PACK 100 and SIGNATURE PACK Full Barrier cartons. We opted for a mass balance approach because it supports a broader transition from fossil to plant-based raw materials within the conventional and highly efficient polymer industry. 3 Based on Europewide LCA – available at www.sig.biz. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 56 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 OUR LIFE-CYCLE APPROACH We consider the environmental We are continually working to improve the Independent life-cycle assessments (LCAs) show Reducing the environmental footprint of our impacts of our packaging solutions environmental credentials of our products that our products’ biggest environmental impacts own operations and logistics, as well as through innovation in our packs, our filling come from the extraction and processing of supporting efforts to improve recycling rates, at every stage of their life-cycle (see machines and our technical service solutions. fossil-based polymers and aluminium in our also contribute to cutting the overall life-cycle graphic) to drive progress towards supply chain. That’s why our efforts to source impacts of our products. our net positive ambition. more sustainable raw materials are so important. OUR PRODUCT LIFE-CYCLE: MINIMISING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AT EVERY STAGE CLIMATE IMPACT AT EACH STAGE OF THE LIFE-CYCLE* 60% 8% 16% 6% 10% Design Sourcing Manufacturing Transport Manufacturing Manufacturing Filling Recycling Minimising the We use mainly We make our sleeves, We reduce transport We improve the We make sure all life-cycle impacts renewable materials spouts and caps emissions by efficiency of our our packs are of our products in our packs, we using 100% delivering our carton filling machines with designed to be fully starts with design. purchase all our liquid renewable energy sleeves in flat-packed every new generation, recyclable, and Environmental packaging board from and have a range form and filling and our technical we partner with factors are core value suppliers that require of programmes to trucks fuller for fewer service teams help stakeholders to drivers in our product their wood supplies minimise waste and journeys and less fuel customers minimise raise consumer development and our to meet strict criteria energy use at use (see page 51). use of energy and awareness and standard procedures for responsible forest our ISO 14001 Our lightweight packs other resources support efforts mandate that new management, and certified plants also help customers needed to use our to improve local packaging designs we use recognised around the world cut emissions existing machines collection and must demonstrate external certifications (see page 27). from distributing (see page 64). recycling optimised resource to trace raw materials their products and (see page 58). use compared with back to responsible avoid the need for previous models sources (see page 47). refrigeration. (see page 58). * Indicative figures referring to the climate impact of an average SIG pack for 1L in EU28 based on our LCA tool. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 57 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 How our cartons compare HOW OUR STANDARD CARTON PACKS COMPARE WITH OTHER PACKAGING SOLUTIONS4 Cartons offer significant reductions in life-cycle environmental impacts compared with other Liquid dairy Non-carbonated soft drinks Food types of packaging − such as glass, HDPE or kg CO2 equivalent per packaging kg CO2 equivalent per packaging kg CO2 equivalent per packaging PET bottles, pouches and cans − for a range of required for 1000L UHT milk required for 1000L non-carbonated required for 1000L food products, including long-life food, UHT milk and soft drinks non-carbonated soft drinks. LCAs show that climate change and fossil -70% resource use are the biggest impacts from “The demand for mass packaging. The life-cycle carbon footprint -45% -63% -61% balance polymers of a carton is 28% to 70% lower than the -34% -58% from SIG could act as alternatives and cartons use between 41% a driver to achieve a and 68% fewer fossil fuel resources. Our latest -39% -40% more significant physical product innovations offer significant further -28% share of plant-based improvements (see charts). input materials for the production of polymers. In 2018, the environmental benefits of To model the examined SIGNATURE PACK were confirmed by the world’s 85.46 129.18 155.16 87.72 121.18 144.67 295.25 224 378 540 580 609 products strictly on their first critically reviewed ISO-conformant lifephysical properties would cycle assessment (LCA) to take into account the fail to acknowledge this inclusion of materials via a mass balance system. Beverage HDPE-bottle PET-bottle Beverage Monolayer Multilayer Disposable Aseptic Pouch Pot Can Glass function of the mass carton carton PET bottle PET bottle glass bottle carton The LCA was conducted by IFEU (see quote). It balance approach.” showed significant reductions in environmental impacts by substituting fossil polymers with mass HOW OUR LATEST PRODUCT INNOVATIONS COMPARE WITH OUR STANDARD CARTON PACKS5 Frank Wellenreuther balanced plant-based polymers made from tall Project manager, IFEU oil (a residue of paper manufacturing). Standard EcoPlus SIGNATURE PACK SIGNATURE PACK 100 SIG pack 1L Liquid Dairy Full Barrier 1L Liquid Dairy All these results are based on Europe-wide LCAs 1L Liquid Dairy with cCap 1L Liquid Dairy with cCap carried out by independent experts using the with cSwift with cSwift ISO 14040 international standard and critically reviewed by an independent panel. Detailed Life-cycle carbon 63 45 35 26 LCAs are available on our website. footprint in g CO2 equivalent for 1 litre pack format % reduction in n/a –28% –45% –58% carbon footprint compared with standard SIG pack 4 These calculations follow the UBA method which was updated in 2016/2017. 5 Reference: SIGNATURE PACK ISO LCA CB-100732 from March 2018. EU28 average. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 58 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 OUR PACKS OUR APPROACH Our standard procedures mandate that new MATERIAL ISSUES n SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT INNOVATION packaging designs must demonstrate optimised OUR GOALS n RECYCLING & CIRCULAR ECONOMY Why is this material for SIG? resource use compared with previous models, while continuing to deliver the quality and 2020 TARGET Helping our customers deliver nutrition in functionality that customers and consumers SIGNIFICANT IMPACT sustainable packs is at the heart of our purpose n ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, ECONOMIC demand. Create a 100% renewable aseptic pack and our net positive ambition. (SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT INNOVATION, MORE WORK TO DO RECYCLING & CIRCULAR ECONOMY) With growing stakeholder interest in the Unlike most plastic packaging, our cartons are impacts of packaging, the strength of our packs’ mainly made from renewable materials and environmental credentials is an increasingly we are exploring ways to increase our use of Offer a carton made of 50% recycled GRI INDICATOR renewable content further. Some of the content content important differentiator across our markets. in our packs uses waste materials from other MORE WORK TO DO Our sustainable product innovation enables us to help customers respond to new regulatory industries and, to promote further use of GRI materials, we make sure all our packs are fully requirements and meet their own targets for Ensure environmental performance 301-1 recyclable by design. is one of the core value drivers of sustainable packaging. our product innovations SIG is also well positioned to support the Recycling our cartons keeps high-quality KEY POLICIES ON TRACK n GLOBAL R&D PROCESS HANDBOOK transition to a circular economy. Separating renewable materials from certified sources in n STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE recyclable packaging from household waste is circulation and we see a strong opportunity to TO IMPROVE USED BEVERAGE perhaps the most tangible aspect of this for Partner with stakeholders to support our customers and the environment by CARTON COLLECTION AND support collection and recycling consumers and we are partnering with others collaborating with stakeholders to enhance the RECYCLING IN REGIONS of beverage cartons to make sure more materials are recovered rate of cartons that are collected and recycled MORE WORK TO DO after use – not just from SIG packs, but from across our markets. RELEVANT SDGs other packaging too. We can also bring additional The raw materials from used cartons can be societal benefits through the development separated and recycled to make new products directly or through industry organisations. of recycling programmes that support people – from cardboard boxes to roof tiles, aluminium By working together, we aim to enhance the in need. engine parts and plastic buckets. However, rate of carton packs that are recycled overall in in practice they are not all recycled because each region by strengthening programmes for Management overview consumers don’t always separate used cartons collecting and segregating household waste We are systematically integrating environmental from household waste and local infrastructure is for recycling, and raising awareness of the need factors, alongside product safety and commercial not always in place to collect and recycle them. to recycle. considerations, as core value drivers in our Recycling rates, regulations and infrastructure This year, we have refined our approach to help product development to promote sustainable for collection and recycling of carton packs can drive progress in this area. We have established product innovation and support the principles of vary widely from one country to another – and a system to work with teams in each of our the circular economy (see graphic on page 59). In from one municipality to another. That’s why regions to identify which individual countries are 2018, we developed a system to track how many we manage this issue at a local level and in most in need of support to boost recycling rates of our innovation projects include environmental partnership with other stakeholders – either – based on criteria such as national recycling performance as a core value driver. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 59 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 SUPPORTING THE PRINCIPLES OF THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY6 rates, business volume and market share, risk assessments and customer requirements. This structured approach will help us target our efforts where we can make the most impact. DESIGN OUT WASTE REGENERATE NATURAL SYSTEMS KEEP PRODUCTS AND MATERIALS IN USE In each priority country, we will work with local The first step in the circular economy is The use of renewable materials supports Recycling supports the circular economy stakeholders to develop a strategy to implement to use resources as efficiently as possible the circular economy by preventing by reusing materials from products that tailored solutions. We have created a mapping and minimise the amount of materials depletion of finite resources and helping are no longer needed and making them questionnaire and we have begun to provide needed to create products. to regenerate natural systems. available to create new products. online training for local teams to help them do this. We aim to complete the process of identifying priority countries and developing suitable local strategies in 2019. Those countries HOW WE CONTRIBUTE that already have a strategy in place will continue implementing it with partners. OPTIMISING USE OF MATERIALS USING RENEWABLE CONTENT FROM PROMOTING RECYCLING AND USING RESPONSIBLE SOURCES WASTE MATERIALS IN OUR PACKS Our new RS structure has saved more than 4,850 tonnes of polymer since it was SIG packs are made up of 70-80% All our packs are designed to be introduced in 2016 and its predecessor renewable paper board on average from fully recyclable and we partner with saved around 130,000 tonnes of material suppliers whose wood supplies meet stakeholders to support efforts from 2007 to 2015.7 We have also reduced strict criteria for sustainable forestry to increase recycling rates. the amount of polymers used in management. EcoPlus increases this We also use by-products from other our caps and spouts. to 82% and SIGNATURE PACK is linked industries to make our packs, such to up to 100% renewable material. as wood chips and residues from paper production. TRANSITION TO RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES The circular economy model is underpinned by the transition to renewable energy sources. HOW WE CONTRIBUTE USING RENEWABLE ENERGY IN PRODUCTION We use 100% renewable energy to produce our packs, either directly from renewable sources or, where this is not feasible, indirectly by supporting renewable energy projects certified to the recognised GoldPower® standard (see page 49). 6 Principles set out by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation. 7 Calculations based on packaging specifications and sales numbers. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 60 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 PERFORMANCE IN 2018 Optimising use of materials In 2018, we continued to roll out our combibloc RS structure to further pack formats. Not only is it more robust, improving stability during processing and distribution by our customers, it’s also lighter to transport and cuts the carbon footprint of our packs by 5% for 1 litre packs and 6% for 200ml packs.8 Since the new structure was first introduced in 2016, it has saved more than 4,850 tonnes of polymer. Increasing use of renewable content “The SIGNATURE PACK from SIG is a great Our standard cartons are made of match for our Arla® BIO Weidemilch. 70-80% renewable materials on Consumers that choose our pure Arla® average. EcoPlus increased this to BIO Weidemilch also have an increasingly 82% and now SIGNATURE PACK is linked to up strong interest in sustainable packaging. to 100% renewable materials (see page 55). With the value-added pack from SIG, In 2018, Arla Foods Germany became the first we can demonstrate our commitment company to opt for our SIGNATURE PACK from to transparency and our holistic SIG, choosing this solution for its organic milk approach to sustainability across the (Arla® BIO Weidemilch) to demonstrate the value chain. We are happy to be the first SIGNATURE PACK won the brand’s commitment to sustainability as it strives company to use SIGNATURE PACK and prestigious German Packaging to increase the market share of its organic dairy to be able to offer consumers in Germany Award for sustainability, products. Arla’s organic milk cartons now carry this solution.” the Environmental Award of the Year at the Gulfood a clear message to consumers: buying this pack Elise Bijkerk Manufacturing Industry promotes the use of renewable raw materials to Marketing Director, Arla Foods Germany Excellence Awards in 2018, protect fossil resources while making a positive and the WorldStar Packaging impact in reducing the CO2 level compared with Award 2019 in the category Packaging & Materials Components (announced at the end of 2018 ahead of the award ceremony in May 2019). 8 C  alculation based on SIG life-cycle assessment tool from cradle to factory gate, EU28. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 61 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 a standard carton pack. nutpods® is the first customer in North America Heat&Go eliminates aluminium foil in a full-barrier to take up SIGNATURE PACK, opting for the full barrier version which includes an aluminium layer aseptic carton solution for use with a wider range of products. Using Research has shown that consumers, particularly in Asia, are looking for ready-to-drink polymers linked to plant-based renewable materials beverages that can easily be heated and consumed on-the-go. in their packaging complements the company’s commitment to deliver plant-based alternatives to A microwavable aseptic carton pack was the obvious choice for hot beverages. But the dairy coffee creamers. “We are so excited to extend our aluminium foil in the cartons made this impossible. Until now. We also continue to offer EcoPlus – our plant-based story into our new plantOur new Heat&Go pack eliminates the need for the foil by using an enhanced barrier film aluminium-free aseptic carton made of 82% based packaging. One of our five to protect the contents from oxygen ingress, flavour migration and water, together with renewable liquid packaging board. Suitable for core company values is to reduce our a pigmented laminated layer to block light. It is suitable for still drinks, juices and liquid products such as milk that don’t require a fullimpact on the environment wherever dairy beverages. barrier solution, EcoPlus offers 28% lower lifewe can. Our consumers depend on Removing the metal foil means the carton can be safely heated in the microwave. It also cycle CO2 emissions than our standard packs. us to bring them not only the highest reduces the life-cycle climate impact of the pack by up to 28%.9 When promoting the new Sales of EcoPlus increased by more than 12% quality products with the best taste, Heat&Go pack to customers, we are emphasising the dual value drivers of enhanced in 2018, compared with the previous year. This but also to be stewards of our category convenience and sustainability. increase was fuelled by growing demand for more with regard to the environment and the SIGNATURE PACK is one of the South Korea’s Seoul Dairy Cooperative is the first customer to use Heat&Go – launching the environmentally friendly packaging solutions. ways we can continue to lead.” pack with a nutritionally-rich, morning soy milk drink with chickpea protein, designed to be served as a warm, on-the-go breakfast. Exploring an aluminium-free full-barrier Madeline Haydon solution Founder & CEO, nutpods 9 Calculation based on SIG life-cycle assessment tool from cradle to factory gate. Developing a 100% renewable pack that maintains the full barrier properties required to preserve certain food products is much more challenging because it is difficult to find a renewable material to replace the razor-thin layer of aluminium foil that protects contents from light, oxygen and odours. The innovative solution we have developed for our new microwavable Heat&Go packs eliminates the need for aluminium foil (see case study). This technology offers potential to further reduce the carbon footprint of our full-barrier packs as we continue to explore options for developing a 100% renewable full-barrier solution. In the meantime, our recent certification to the new Aluminium Stewardship Initiative standard will enable us to demonstrate to customers that the WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 62 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 aluminium in our packs is sourced responsibly (see page 48). SIG leads the industry with the first paper straw solution for beverage cartons Using waste materials in our packs SIG is the first in the industry to offer the closed straw hole of SIG’s aseptic The feedstock used to produce some of a market-ready alternative to plastic cartons. The wrapper for the straw has the materials that go into our packs uses bystraws to be attached to beverage also been redesigned to help prevent litter products from other industries, such as wood cartons. This will help customers address by remaining attached to the pack to be chips and tall oil that might otherwise be burnt growing consumer concerns about the recycled along with the rest of the carton. to generate energy. impact of plastic straws on the environment The new paper straws will be made of and new regulations targeting straws and We are convinced that our use of these materials paperboard from FSCTM certified forests or other single-use plastics. to create new products is a much better way to other controlled sources. Customers can support the circular economy by retaining their already include the FSC label on any SIG The issue natural and economic value as a resource for carton and they will be able to add the label Recent high-profile campaigns have shone a to the paper straws once the manufacturing longer, particularly as our cartons can then be spotlight on the proliferation of plastic straws partner has achieved FSC Chain-of-Custody recycled into new products again after use. found during coastal clean-ups and their certification, which is expected during the However, it is unclear whether these materials potential to harm marine wildlife first half of 2019. can be considered as recycled content in our when discarded as litter. Our paper straw solution became available packs based on current definitions. We are Many consumers and companies are to customers in early 2019. Nestlé is the working with suppliers to understand and first customer to introduce the solution and increasingly reluctant to use them and measure how much content in our packs can policymakers are also taking action. In 2018, has already tested the market launch in the be defined as recycled and to explore how Rio de Janeiro became the first city to ban Dominican Republic. we can integrate more recycled materials into the use of plastic straws and the EU is our packs in future. The initial volume of paper straws will be mandating member states to ban these However, we are constantly looking for new limited during the launch phase as SIG ramps and other single-use plastic items over ways to reduce our impact, and to help our up capacity with its manufacturing partner. Partnering to increase recycling of time, following a consultation period. customers meet their own sustainabiilty carton packs targets. We welcome international efforts to tackle the critical challenge of single-use Exploring further innovations We monitor rates of recycling for beverage Our response plastic pollution and we are determined The solution will not work with all our cartons across Europe through the European We welcome the EU single-use plastics to do everything we can to be part of packs because the dimensions of some Alliance for Beverage Cartons and the directive and share its ambition to transition the solution. cartons are such that a straight straw Environment (ACE). In 2018, recycling rates in the to a circular economy. that will fit on the side for distribution will EU continued to rise to 48% and we welcomed Our paper straw solution SIG does not make plastic straws, but some not reach the corners when drinking the the introduction of mandatory separate contents. To overcome this challenge, of our portion-size packs are designed to be We have been investing in research and collection of packaging waste as part of the new we are continuing to invest in new ways used with a straw to offer a convenient, development of plant-based alternatives to EU Packaging and Packaging Waste Directive. easy-to-use solution for people on the go to apply this alternative straw solution to plastic straws. Our new paper straw solution Together with ACE industry partners, we have and help children and the elderly get a wider variety of packaging formats. is renewable and recyclable. launched a new platform called EXTR:ACT to essential nutrition. The plastic straws can be recycled together with carton packs when We worked closely with a manufacturing coordinate and drive solutions to enhance they are pushed inside the pack after use. partner to develop an innovative paper straw that is robust enough to pierce WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 63 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 collection, sorting and recycling of beverage packs from our flagship Cartons for Good project cartons throughout Europe. In Germany, we will be sent for recycling locally (see page 25). are investing with industry partners in a new recycling facility for the polymer and aluminium Raising consumer awareness of recycling components of beverage cartons. And in China, We continued to contribute to a range of we partnered with others in our industry on initiatives to raise awareness of recycling among two newly-formed committees to support consumers in 2018. In Brazil, we have launched government information campaigns and an innovative programme with social enterprise recycling projects. SO+MA House that encourages people in lowMany of our customers are also targeting income communities to recycle by enabling them improvements in recycling rates for their to use their waste packaging as currency to pay products’ packaging and we are exploring ways for food and other products (see case study). to support them. In Brazil, there is a particular To educate children about the importance of urgency for our customers to support recycling recycling, we partnered with customers in Brazil programmes in order to comply with a regulation to sponsor a play that was performed at schools on reverse logistics that requires consumer in the city of Araguari and to train 50 teachers companies to invest in projects that guarantee in the city of Feira de Santana. In Austria and the return of a certain amount of consumer Germany, we got children involved through waste. In 2018, we ran a seminar to inform games and activities to sort waste and make customers about this regulation and offer advice useful new products out of used cartons. on how they can fulfil their obligations through impactful programmes. Around 100 people In Indonesia, we are working with one of our attended and the online webinar had more than customers to raise awareness of the recyclability Turning waste into essentials for low-income 1,700 views. of our packs through a programme called ‘Thanks To Nature’. We also engaged with the communities in Brazil We have developed an innovative model, in community near our Rayong site in Thailand to partnership with the NGO Recicleiros, for We’re partnering with social enterprise, SO+MA, to offer loyalty points with a difference in build a school canteen out of recycled cartons programmes to help cities improve recycling the Brazilian city of Curitiba. Opened in December 2018, SO+MA House rewards people for (see page 40). rates by investing in segregated waste collection recycling their waste. Over half a tonne of packaging was collected for recycling in the first services what they would have spent on fees two weeks. to dispose of waste in landfills. More than The idea is simple. People take used packaging to the house – an old shipping container 600 municipalities applied, pilot programmes – and they are awarded loyalty points based on the weight of waste they have collected. are being planned in two cities and three They can then exchange their points for food and other essential products and services, or more were selected to participate in 2018. use them to pay for a training course to learn a new skill. With incentives like this, why not Our customers can choose to invest in these recycle? programmes as a way to meet their obligations Everyone wins. The environment benefits by avoiding impacts from landfill and making on reverse logistics. more materials available to be used again. Low-income communities can improve their We are partnering with customers to support quality of life through opportunities to save money on essentials and learn new skills. targeted programmes in countries such as And our customers are earning brand loyalty to boost sales in the region by getting involved Indonesia and Nigeria where national recycling and donating products. rates are currently very low. In Bangladesh, the WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 64 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 FILLING MACHINES & TECHNICAL SERVICE OUR APPROACH SIG filling machines often remain in use for MATERIAL ISSUES n SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT INNOVATION decades at customer facilities. We offer a range OUR GOALS n EFFICIENT FILLING MACHINES Why is this material for SIG? of technical service options to help optimise the technical and resource efficiency of our 2020 TARGET Our machines play an essential role in helping filling machines, and minimise downtime for SIGNIFICANT IMPACT our customers package billions of packs of food n ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, ECONOMIC repairs. These range from routine servicing Reduce energy use by 20% per hour in aseptic conditions every year, ready to deliver (SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT INNOVATION) plans to performance-based packages where of runtime in our next generation valuable nutrition safely to consumers. we share responsibility with the customer filling machine Customers want to manage resource to meet an agreed level of operational or MORE WORK TO DO GRI INDICATORS N/A consumption and running costs associated with technical efficiency. the use of our filling machines in their factories. Our focus on the operational efficiency of our Reduce hydrogen peroxide use by Many of them also have objectives to cut the 35% per hour of runtime in our next KEY POLICIES customers’ production lines is closely linked n GLOBAL R&D PROCESS HANDBOOK environmental footprint of their operations. We generation filling machine n POLICY ON REUSE AND DISPOSAL can help them do both through our eco-efficient with eco-efficiency because optimising process MORE WORK TO DO OF USED EQUIPMENT design of new machines, as well as through efficiency also minimises resource use and technical service for existing machines and best associated running costs. For example, regular maintenance helps reduce waste of resources Reduce water use by 25% per hour of RELEVANT SDGs practice sharing which helps us strengthen runtime in our next generation filling customer relationships. such as energy and water – as well as the packs machine and the food products that go into them – MORE WORK TO DO Management overview by preventing faults that could stop production or generate faulty packs that can’t be sold. We pride ourselves on offering Support sustainability improvements highly-efficient filling machines with We have refined our approach this year to for at least 50% of our customers the lowest waste rate in the industry – conduct an in-depth analysis of individual through technical service 0.5% or less on average. customer needs to understand how we can ON TRACK help them improve efficiency. This includes We aim to improve efficiency with each new engaging with customers about how we can generation by reducing the amount of resources support their environmental objectives, not needed to run the machines at our customers’ just through technical service of our machines and their parts are recycled or disposed of factories. This includes energy for heating and but by advising on environmental and technical responsibly at end of life. Our policy on reuse sealing the packs, and compressed air, hydrogen improvements across their factories. We and disposal of used equipment includes peroxide and water used in the sterilisation and are adding new criteria into our customer responsibility requirements for waste service. packaging process. relationship management tool to identify Our Global Research and Development team which of our services can offer measurable tests out new technologies for our next improvements in environmental performance. generation filling machines and the Global As part of our commitment to responsible Engineering & Application team focuses on products across the life-cycle, we also work with product developments for our existing filling customers to ensure that our filling machines machines operating in our customer’s plants. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 65 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 PERFORMANCE IN 2018 selling cleaning machines that we developed Sharing our expertise with customers We have re-opened the concept phase to save water, energy and time used for manual cleaning. We train customer technicians on how to use Remote service decreases for our next generation filling machine to Our new eco-mode solution is being piloted SIG machines efficiently at our training centres around the world. downtime and travel realign the project focus due to changes in market demands. The feasibility phase will to help customers avoid wasting energy when Downtime in production wastes time, When visiting customers’ facilities, our start in 2019. It will include a new system to there is a pause in production but the filling money and resources. When problems arise, engineers don’t just help customers with the further reduce food waste and other features machine is still on. This standby mode can customers want solutions fast and 83%10 said efficiency of our machines, they also look out designed to reduce resource consumption and reduce energy use by around 80% during they would be interested in remote service to for opportunities for customers to improve help us achieve our targets. production breaks, while remaining sterile cut response times. efficiency and reduce environmental impacts and ready for a quick restart. One of the first In the meantime, we are helping customers across their factories. In response to growing We’ve launched a new solution that uses customers to pilot the solution in Europe improve the efficiency of the SIG machines they customer interest in this type of service, we state-of-the-art technology to enable our demonstrated savings of up to 1,000 kWh of are already using in their factories through are developing a checklist to help our technical engineers to ‘see’ the problem remotely electricity in 2018. our Technical Service solutions. In 2018, we service teams do this in a more systematic way. through video glasses worn by personnel began introducing new criteria to help us on site. This avoids the need to travel to Maintenance for optimum efficiency We have also begun to offer consulting measure progress towards our goal to support customer sites to diagnose issues and means services to advise customers on measures for we can fix more problems on our first visit by sustainability improvements for at least 50% Our technical service engineers provide regular optimisation of processes across their sites. taking the right parts with us. of our customers through technical service. maintenance of our filling machines to improve For example, in 2018 we began a project with Our initial analysis shows that 20% of our efficiency and reduce downtime. Our remote service solution gives customers a customer in the US to analyse their entire customers have been reached since 2016. In 2018, we started a new digital solution production process from upstream processes quick access to our global experts – and helps project in partnership with GE Digital, which to production planning, warehousing, us reduce time and environmental impacts Enhancing efficiency through from travel. improves preventative maintenance by predicting maintenance and quality processes. machine upgrades when a machine may need servicing or a 10 Based on 76 customers surveyed. We offer a range of upgrade kits that can be part may need replacing. The digital solution retrofitted to existing machines to enhance monitors and analyses performance data THE FILLING PROCESS efficiency, such as vacuum pumps to reduce from our machines to enable us to schedule Our flat-packed The formed cartons Our customers’ food Filled cartons are sealed The filled cartons the amount of compressed air needed in maintenance at the right time to optimise the cartons (‘sleeves’) are sterilised with product, sterilised above the product level are bundled production. life of machine parts while avoiding downtime. are pushed into a small amount of using ultra-high to reduce the risk of in secondary shape and the base vaporised hydrogen temperature (UHT) contamination from packaging ready In 2018, we introduced a new technical service The system will also enable our engineers to is sealed using heat peroxide (35% equipment, is food getting caught for distribution to solution that helps to avoid food waste and work more efficiently by giving them real-time to melt the polymer concentration in pumped in to fill the in the sealed seam. retail outlets. reduce downtime when switching between data on the maintenance each machine needs layers together. water) and then sterilised cartons Optional closures, such different foods and beverages to be packaged. and supporting the transition from paperdried. inside the aseptic as caps or spouts, may based ways of working to smart digital tools. zone of the machine. be applied to the filled Rather than wasting any food left in the tank, this keeps it sterile during production changeWe aim to roll out digital services on a global cartons. overs so it can be filled into saleable packs. basis, with pilot customers selected in 2018. We also began marketing a conversion kit that We are also continuing to explore the potential cuts water use by an estimated 50-60% in our to develop a global certification programme to medium format third generation machines and show that the environmental performance of a we plan to develop a similar solution for our filling machine has been checked or improved small format machines. We have now begun through regular preventative maintenance or technical upgrades. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 66 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 PRODUCT SAFETY OUR APPROACH annually to support the implementation of these MATERIAL ISSUES n SAFE NUTRITION systems and reinforce a culture of product quality OUR GOALS Why is this material for SIG? through regular communication. The message is clear: make sure no defects leave our plant. 2020 TARGET SIGNIFICANT IMPACTS The core function of our aseptic packaging n SOCIETAL, ECONOMIC solutions is their ability to conserve food quality Our quality management procedures help us (SAFE NUTRITION) All production plants certified based on to deliver nutrition to consumers in a healthy identify, address and monitor potential risks ISO 9001:2015 and all sleeves and spout and safe way. We play an important role in to product safety in our own production production plants certified based on GRI INDICATOR supporting sustainable development by helping processes and SIG filling operations in our BRC Packaging Issue 5 with AA Grade customers deliver nutrition safely to people customers’ factories. ON TRACK around the world. We conduct internal audits of quality and safety GRI The safety and quality of our own products are 416-1 criteria at our sites every year to identify and critical for us to be able to fulfil this role and address any potential risks. As part of our PERFORMANCE IN 2018 customers – and consumers – expect our packs commitment to product safety through the KEY POLICIES to protect the food inside effectively without value chain, we extend quality requirements to Certifying our quality management n PRODUCT SAFETY POLICY & posing any safety risks. With strict customer suppliers of the materials that go into our packs systems PRINCIPLES requirements and regulations to meet, the safety and we monitor their compliance through our In 2018, we completed our transition to the and quality of our products are fundamental to supplier audit process (see page 45). revised ISO 9001:2015 standard, achieving RELEVANT SDG our licence to operate. Our production plants are also audited annually group-wide certification for our quality to retain their certification to the British Retail management systems. Management overview Consortium (BRC) packaging standard. This Five of our production plants achieved AA Grade Aseptic processing helps to retain more standard, required by many of our customers, certification to the revised Issue 5 of the BRC colour, flavour and nutrients in food products makes sure appropriate processes are in place packaging standard in the latest round of audits than other sterilisation techniques and our to ensure no foreign bodies enter our packs in 2017/18. Two retained their A grade status aseptic carton packs store high-quality food during production and prevent any defects that and are working towards AA Grade. for long periods of time without the need for could affect the quality of the food inside. This year, we extended our annual internal refrigeration or preservatives. We also emphasise quality by design, working quality assessments for production sites to our Ensuring the quality and safety of our products with customers to make sure product quality New Zealand paper mill for the first time in its is essential as defects in our packs could lead to and safety are maintained when our packs role as an internal supplier of liquid packaging contamination of the food inside. For example, are assembled and filled in their factories. board for our packs. The site also achieved AA if a carton is not sealed properly, the food inside This includes training for customer teams and Grade in its BRC audit. will not be preserved effectively. maintenance of the filling machines by our The six production sites that make our products We have robust quality management systems, technical service engineers. We regularly assess for the US market have been approved by the certified to the international ISO 9001 standard, the health and safety impacts of all our products US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and at all our production plants and research and and services and use our management systems in 2018 we received FDA approval for our new development centres. We train production staff to support continuous improvement. small format filling system. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 67 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 ABOUT OUR REPORTING This appendix explains how we identified our material issues and determined the content of this report, maps our reporting against the United Nations Global Compact principles and the Global Reporting Initiative Standards, and provides an external assurance statement and a summary of our key performance indicators. IN THIS SECTION Determining report content United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2018 Global Reporting Initiative Index Greenhouse gas emissions basis of reporting Assurance statement Key performance indicators WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 68 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 DETERMINING REPORT CONTENT We updated our materiality Identifying our material topics Our Responsibility Steering Group and to report on – as noted in our index of reporting assessment in 2018 to determine the and impacts Group Executive Board reviewed the findings against the GRI Standards (see page 72) – and of our materiality assessment, and validated the level of coverage and boundaries for each. issues that are most important to our We worked with expert sustainability consultants the prioritisation of topics and most We also report on some additional strategic business and our stakeholders – and to identify the CR topics that are relevant to our significant impacts. We also obtained external topics that are included in our responsibility identify where we have the most industry. Some new topics were added to the list validation through a review by informed roadmap (see page 18). in 2018. Others were grouped or refocused to significant impacts. The resulting sustainability experts. better reflect our net positive approach. material issues influence the focus areas for our responsibility roadmap We used a variety of internal and external Defining reporting boundaries inputs to assess the importance of each issue Foundation and the content for our reporting. The table below defines our most material to different stakeholder groups and key areas issues and the boundaries of where each impact GRI of our business. We also analysed where we occurs within or outside the organisation. It 101 GRI INDICATOR have the greatest impact on the economy, also highlights the six material issues where we environment and society. General believe our activities have the most significant Disclosures The results were plotted on a materiality matrix environmental, economic and societal impact. GRI GRI GRI (see page 17) and we set a threshold to identify Our material issues determine the content of our 102 102-46 102-47 our most material issues as those scoring 80% reporting, including which of the GRI Standards or above on either or both axes. Management Approach GRI MATERIAL ISSUE DEFINITION BOUNDARIES SIGNIFICANT 103 OUTSIDE ORGANISATION IMPACT Economic WITHIN SUPPLIERS CUSTOMERS CONSUMERS ORGANISATION GRI 200 DIVERSITY Efforts to prevent discrimination on any grounds and create an inclusive workplace where a range & EQUAL of nationalities and cultures are represented, and where there are equal professional opportunities n Environmental OPPORTUNITY regardless of gender, age or disability. GRI TALENT Investing in and developing employees to create a workforce that meet the needs of the business n 300 DEVELOPMENT now and in the future. Social EMPLOYEE Efforts to listen to employees and respond to their views to sustain strong levels of job satisfaction, n ENGAGEMENT motivation and engagement in the business. GRI 400 EMPLOYEE REWARD & Ensuring the company offers fair pay, rewards employees based on performance and is transparent about remuneration practices. n RECOGNITION WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 69 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 MATERIAL ISSUE DEFINITION BOUNDARIES SIGNIFICANT IMPACT OUTSIDE ORGANISATION WITHIN SUPPLIERS CUSTOMERS CONSUMERS ORGANISATION OCCUPATIONAL Efforts to eliminate all serious accidents and manage occupational health and safety risks to ensure n HEALTH & SAFETY that employees do not come to any harm while at work. FAIR LABOUR Efforts to uphold labour rights, including preventing modern slavery (human trafficking, forced PRACTICES and compulsory labour, bonded labour and slavery) and preventing the use of child labour in the n company’s operations. RESPONSIBLE Efforts to ensure that suppliers uphold appropriate standards on sustainability issues such as n SUPPLIERS ethical conduct, labour practices, and environmental and health and safety management. SUSTAINABLE Efforts to use raw materials from responsible and sustainable sources, including upholding RAW MATERIALS indigenous rights and ensuring a security of supply of raw materials. n n l THRIVING Efforts to use pulp and paper products from responsible and sustainable sources that promote FORESTS thriving forest ecosystems and support the people who depend on these. n n n l SAFE NUTRITION Efforts to support the delivery of safe nutrition by providing high-quality products to ensure the quality, hygiene and safety of the food contained in the company’s packaging. n n l SUSTAINABLE Investing in research and development to better meet the needs of consumers and customers, PRODUCT including enhancing the environmental credentials of the company’s packaging products and filling n n l INNOVATION machines. EFFICIENT FILLING Efforts to minimise customers’ environmental impacts by ensuring that the company’s filling n MACHINES machines are energy and water efficient and do not produce excessive waste. RECYCLING Efforts to support the principles of a circular economy by designing out waste, ensuring that the & CIRCULAR company's products are easily and fully recyclable, ensuring/improving recyclability of plastics, ECONOMY supporting the development of appropriate infrastructure to collect and recycle the company’s n n n n l products after consumer use, keeping products and materials in use by using recycled content, transitioning to renewable sources and regenerating natural systems. TACKLING Efforts to mitigate climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions associated with the CLIMATE CHANGE company’s value chain (through, for example, energy efficiency and use of renewable energy) and n n n n l efforts to adapt to a changing climate to ensure continuity of production and supply. MINIMISING Efforts to reduce and recycle waste from the company’s operations. PRODUCTION n WASTE WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 70 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT: COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 We support the United Nations This report is our annual Communication on Global Compact’s 10 principles on Progress for 2018. The table below sets out our approach to upholding each of the principles, human rights, labour, environmental highlighting specific progress and outcomes in protection and anti-corruption. 2018 where applicable. For more information on our commitment to support the United Nations Sustainable GRI INDICATOR Development Goals, see page 14. GRI 102-11 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE OUR APPROACH FIND OUT MORE Principle 1: Businesses should We are committed to respecting human rights in our business and our supply chain through the SIG Code of Conduct and SIG Code of Conduct support and respect the protection the SIG Business Ethics Code for suppliers. of internationally proclaimed human SIG Business Ethics Code rights Regular Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) Members Ethical Trade Audits (SMETA) of our business help to ensure that See pages 38 and 45 we uphold high standards on human rights. All our production sites were audited in 2016 and the next audits of these sites are due in 2019. Our New Zealand paper mill also completed a SMETA audit in 2018. Principle 2: Businesses should make SIG Business Ethics Code sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Businesses should uphold We respect the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining, and the SIG Business Ethics Code requires suppliers to SIG Business Ethics Code the freedom of association and the uphold these rights too. A significant proportion of our employees are covered by collective labour agreements and, in Europe, effective recognition of the right to many are represented by works councils. collective bargaining WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 71 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE OUR APPROACH FIND OUT MORE Principle 4: Businesses should uphold We do not tolerate forced, compulsory or child labour and we require the same commitment from suppliers SIG Business Ethics Code the elimination of all forms of forced through the SIG Business Ethics Code. and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold We do not tolerate discrimination of employees or suppliers’ workers based on race, religion, national origin, sex, sexual SIG Code of Conduct the elimination of discrimination in orientation, disability, age or any other relevant category. respect of employment and occupation SIG Business Ethics Code In 2018, diversity and inclusion has emerged as a material issue for SIG for the first time and we have set a target to establish a See page 31 strategy and steering group to strengthen our approach in this area. Principle 7: Businesses should We comply with applicable environmental legislation across our operations and we require our suppliers to do the same. We SIG Code of Conduct support a precautionary approach to take a precautionary approach to environmental challenges such as climate change by proactively identifying and managing environmental challenges SIG Business Ethics Code emerging risks. This applies across our value chain and specific policies also address environmental risks associated with sourcing of our three key raw materials: liquid packaging board, polymers and aluminium. Liquid Packaging Board Purchasing Policy Principle 8: Businesses should undertake Environmental responsibility is an integral part of our business strategy. We aim to minimise our environmental SIG Code of Conduct initiatives to promote greater impacts and we are striving for a net positive footprint by contributing more to the environment than we take environmental responsibility SIG Business Ethics Code out across our value chain. See pages 27-30, 41-52, In 2018, our greenhouse gas reduction goals were approved by the Science-Based Targets Initiative, we completed the switch 53-65 to 100% renewable energy at our production sites worldwide and our new technical centre in China achieved platinum certification to the LEED sustainable building standard. We demand high standards of environmental responsibility from our suppliers. The SIG Business Ethics Code requires suppliers to run their business in a way that protects and preserves the environment. We also encourage suppliers to adopt their own net positive commitment and one of the main suppliers of liquid packaging board for our packs, the Stora Enso Consumer Board Division, is a fellow member of the Net Positive Project. We are partnering with peers and stakeholders to improve infrastructure for collecting and recycling beverage cartons after use, and in 2018 we announced several major new initiatives in Europe and Brazil. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage Our corporate purpose sets out our commitment to partner with customers to deliver food and beverages to consumers See pages 53-65 the development and diffusion of across the world in a sustainable way. Our goal is to offer the most sustainable food packaging solutions on the market. environmentally friendly technologies In 2018, independent life-cycle assessments showed that our SIGNATURE PACK, the world’s first aseptic carton linked to up to 100% forest-based renewable material,1 has a significantly lower carbon footprint than our standard packs. Our combibloc RS structure, launched in 2016, reduces the amount of polymer needed to make our packs and we have introduced further technical upgrades to improve the environmental performance of filling machines in our customers’ factories. Principle 10: Businesses should work We have zero tolerance for bribery or corruption in any form. Our anti-corruption policy is included in the SIG Code of Conduct against corruption in all its forms, SIG Code of Conduct and reinforced through training. including extortion and bribery See page 38 In 2017 and 2018, we completed training on our new gifts policy for around 230 employees in high-risk roles. We encourage people to report any concerns about bribery, corruption or any other ethical issues via our ethics and compliance hotline. We investigate any suspected breaches and take disciplinary and other appropriate actions accordingly. 1 Via a mass balance system WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 72 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX Foundation GRI This report has been prepared in accordance with 101 GRI INDICATOR the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. The index below shows which indicators are General Disclosures material to SIG, which are reported and where to GRI GRI find more information. 102 102-55 Management Approach GRI SIG MATERIAL TOPIC GRI No. DISCLOSURE WHERE TO FIND IT IN THE REPORT/OMISSIONS 103 Management Approach 103 Economic Talent development 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and See Determining report content, page 68. its Boundary GRI Employee engagement 200 Employee reward & recognition 103-2 The management approach and its See Employees on page 31 for policies, commitments, goals, resources and specific actions. Environmental components Responsibilities: The Global Human Resources team is responsible for managing our approach and delivering our goals in these Diversity and equal areas, and our newly appointed Group HR Manager Corporate Social ResponsibilityGRI will help to drive progress. opportunity 300 Grievance mechanism: We are always open to employee feedback and employees can report concerns through their supervisors or the Ethics & Compliance Hotline. Social 103-3 Evaluation of the management We evaluate our performance through our biennial company-wide employee survey and regular dialogue with our people. approach GRI 400 Occupational health 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and See Determining report content, page 68. and safety its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its See Health and safety, page 35 for policies, commitments, goals, resources and specific actions. components Responsibilities: The Group Executive Board reviews a dashboard of health and safety metrics each month and safety performance is highlighted by the CEO on a quarterly call with executives. Grievance mechanism: We are always open to employee feedback and employees can report concerns through their supervisors or the Ethics & Compliance Hotline. 103-3 Evaluation of the management We evaluate how effectively our sites manage health and safety through annual self-assessments, based on OSHAS 18001 approach and audited by our Group Corporate Responsibility team. The team monitors health and safety performance monthly using a dashboard of metrics that includes both lagging indicators (such as the lost-time case rate) and leading indicators (such as implementation of safety programmes). WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 73 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 SIG MATERIAL TOPIC GRI No. DISCLOSURE WHERE TO FIND IT IN THE REPORT/OMISSIONS Tackling climate change 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and See Determining report content, page 68. Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our paper mill in New Zealand are reported separately its Boundary and included in the Scope 3 total as the mill is treated as an internal supplier. Minimising production waste 103-2 The management approach and its See Environmental footprint on page 27 and energy sourcing on page 49 for policies, commitments, goals, resources and components specific actions. See also the related topics (below) of Sustainable raw materials, Sustainable product innovation, and Recycling and circular economy, which support our efforts to mitigate and adapt to climate change. Responsibilities: Dedicated environmental teams at each production plant are responsible for raising awareness and promoting initiatives to improve energy efficiency and reduce waste, with support and oversight from the Group Corporate Responsibility team. Our Global Sourcing and Procurement team is responsible for energy sourcing. See also the related topics (below) of Sustainable raw materials, Sustainable product innovation, and Recycling and circular economy. Grievance mechanism: Concerns related to any responsibility issues can be reported through our Ethics & Compliance Hotline. 103-3 Evaluation of the management The Group Corporate Responsibility team monitors performance related to our operational environmental footprint using approach a dashboard of metrics that is reviewed monthly by the Group Executive Board. These include lagging indicators (such as energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and waste, and associated rates) and leading indicators (such as the number and status of environmental projects, the effectiveness of environmental training and the timely completion of actions following environmental audits). Our performance on energy sourcing is reviewed quarterly by the VP of Global Sourcing and Procurement who reports to the Responsibility Steering Group. Fair labour practices 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and See Determining report content, page 68. its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its See Governance and ethics on page 38 and Responsible suppliers on page 45 for policies, commitments, goals, resources and components specific actions. Responsibilities: Responsibility for fair labour practices lies with our Global Human Resources team in our own operations and with the Global Sourcing and Procurement in our supply chain. Global Legal and Compliance team is responsible for ethics and governance, and leads investigations into any reported concerns with support from Global Human Resources and Internal Audit. Grievance mechanism: Employees can seek advice or raise concerns through their line managers, the Global Legal and Compliance team or anyone within or outside our business can raise concerns confidentially (and anonymously where permitted by local legislation) via our 24-hour external ethics and compliance hotline. 103-3 Evaluation of the management Our commitment to fair labour practices is evaluated through Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) Members Ethical Trade approach Audits (SMETA) at our sites and assessments of our global policies and performance by EcoVadis. This topic is also part of supplier assessments and audits of high-risk suppliers and performance (see responsible suppliers below). Responsible suppliers 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and See Determining report content, page 68. its Boundary Sustainable raw materials Thriving forests 103-2 The management approach and its See Responsible suppliers on page 45 and Sustainable raw materials on page 47 for policies, commitments, goals, resources components and specific actions. Responsibilities: The VP of Global Sourcing and Procurement is responsible for the management of our responsible sourcing activities, implemented by his team and supported by the Global Corporate Responsibility team. Global Category Leads and Regional Strategic Sourcers are responsible for the implementation of our requirements on responsible sourcing in our local procurement processes and for monitoring suppliers’ compliance. Responsible sourcing for our machine assembly division is managed by the Global Head of ESP who reports to the Global Assembly & SCM Director. Grievance mechanism: Concerns related to any responsibility issues can be reported through our Ethics & Compliance Hotline. 103-3 Evaluation of the management We evaluate our suppliers’ policies and performance on CR topics through assessments and audits of high-risk suppliers. Our approach performance in this area is reviewed quarterly by the Vice President of Global Sourcing and Procurement who reports to the Responsibility Steering Group twice a year. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 74 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 SIG MATERIAL TOPIC GRI No. DISCLOSURE WHERE TO FIND IT IN THE REPORT/OMISSIONS Sustainable product 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and See Determining report content, page 68. innovation its Boundary Efficient filling machines 103-2 The management approach and its See Our Packs on page 58 and our Filling machines and technical service on page 64 for policies, commitments, goals, components resources and specific actions. Responsibilities: Sustainable product innovation in our packs is led by our Global Technology team, with support from our Global Marketing team and our Chief Market Officer who sits on the Group Executive Board. The technology and sourcing divisions work closely together to source suitable materials to help make our products more sustainable. Our Global Technology team is responsible for sustainable product innovation in our filling machines. Grievance mechanism: Concerns related to any responsibility issues can be reported through our Ethics & Compliance Hotline. 103-3 Evaluation of the management We evaluate performance through internal audits and regular reviews of progress by our Responsibility Steering Group and our approach Group Executive Board. Recycling and circular 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and See Determining report content, page 68. economy its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its See Our packs on page 58 for policies, commitments, goals, resources and specific actions. components Responsibilities: Design for recycling and recycled content is led by our Global Technology team as part of our focus on sustainable product innovation, with support from our Global Marketing team and our Chief Market Officer who sits on the Group Executive Board. See also Sustainable product innovation above. Our Regional Presidents for Americas, Asia Pacific and Europe, who sit on our Group Executive Board, are responsible for driving and monitoring progress on supporting collection and recycling of used beverage cartons. The development and rollout of this approach is led by the Regional President for Europe. Grievance mechanism: When partnering with stakeholders to implement local collection and recycling initiatives, we make sure these include grievance mechanisms for those involved to raise any concerns. Concerns related to any responsibility issues can also be reported through our Ethics & Compliance Hotline. 103-3 Evaluation of the management We will evaluate progress on recycling through a range of indicators, including the percentage of priority countries with a approach recycling strategy and suitable stakeholder partnership or industry collaboration in place to help improve recycling rates. The effectiveness of our approach is monitored through internal audits and as part of the Group Executive Board’s regular review of performance against our responsibility roadmap. See also Sustainable product innovation above. Safe nutrition 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and See Determining report content, page 68. its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its See Product safety, page 66 for policies, commitments, goals, resources and specific actions. components Responsibilities: Designated quality management and product safety representatives in each location and department are responsible for implementing our quality and safety management systems, under the guidance of the Head of Global Quality Management Responsibility. Grievance mechanism: We welcome customer feedback and any customer complaints or critical incidents are escalated to management through our integrated complaint and claim management system, and our CEO is kept informed. 103-3 Evaluation of the management Product quality is closely monitored through our global quality and product safety management reporting system and the approach Group Executive Board receives a monthly report on our quality management. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 75 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 TOPIC No. DISCLOSURE MATERIAL REQUIRED REPORTED REASON FOR WHERE TO FIND IT IN THE REPORT (Y/N) FOR CORE (Y/N/ OMISSION PARTIAL) General Disclosures 102 Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation Y SIG Combibloc Group AG and its affiliates (together “SIG”) 102-2 Activities, brands, products, Y Y SIG’s primary brand as an integrated packaging systems supplier is the SIG brand. and services Our primary products and services are food and beverage carton packages and closures, filling machines and secondary packaging machines (downstream), and technical services including spare parts. We combine and apply our various products and services into integrated customer solutions. See Our business, page 7. 102-3 Location of headquarters Y Y Neuhausen, Switzerland. See Our business, page 8. 102-4 Location of operations Y Y See Our business, page 8. 102-5 Ownership and legal form Y Y The parent company of the SIG Group is SIG Combibloc Group AG, with domicile in Neuhausen, Switzerland. Since 28 September 2018, it has been listed on the SIX Swiss Stock Exchange. Prior to that it was owned by Onex Corporation, a Canadian private equity firm. 102-6 Markets served Y Y See Our business, page 7. 102-7 Scale of the organisation Y Y See Our business, page 7. 102-8 Information on employees and Y Y We have more than 5,000 employees around the world and a small number of other workers contractors also work regularly at our sites, mainly for catering, cleaning and security. See Employees, page 32. 102-9 Supply chain Y Y See Our supply chain, page 44. 102-10 Significant changes to the Y Y There was a significant change to the ownership of our organisation in the organisation and its supply chain reporting period (see 102-5 above). 102-11 Precautionary Principle or Y Y See United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress, page 71. approach 102-12 External initiatives Y Y We support the United Nations Global Compact (see page 70) and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (see page 14). SIG is a member of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX), is rated Gold by EcoVadis, and is certified to recognised standards such as ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. We also participate in certifications initiatives run by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), and International Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC). 102-13 Membership of associations Y Y At corporate level SIG is a member of various industry associations and advocacy organisations. Key organisations include: Alliance for Beverage Cartons and the Environment (ACE); Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), The Consumer Goods Forum; European Bioplastics Association; European Organisation for Packaging and the Environment (EUROPEN); Flexible Packaging Europe (FPE); Forum for the Future; Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) International; The Net Positive Project; The Science Based Targets Initiative; Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper Industry (TAPPI). In addition, SIG is member of numerous national alliances and initiatives in our core markets. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 76 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 TOPIC No. DISCLOSURE MATERIAL REQUIRED REPORTED REASON FOR WHERE TO FIND IT IN THE REPORT (Y/N) FOR CORE (Y/N/ OMISSION PARTIAL) Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decisionY Y See Message from our CEO, page 5. maker 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and N P Not required A list of key business risks related to CR topics is reported. opportunities for core See Responsibility built in, page 9. Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and Y Y See Responsibility built in on page 9 and Governance and ethics on page 38. norms of behaviour 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and N Y See Governance and ethics, page 38. concerns about ethics Governance 102-18 Governance structure Y Y See Responsibility built in, page 9. 102-19 to N N Not required for 102-39 core Ethics and integrity 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Y Y See Listening and responding to stakeholders, page 15. 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Y Y See Governance and ethics, page 38. 102-42 Identifying and selecting Y Y We identified relevant stakeholders and considered the topics that are most stakeholders important to them through our materiality process. The list of stakeholders we engage most with is included in Listening and responding to stakeholders, page 15. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Y Y See Listening and responding to stakeholders, page 15. engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Y Y See Listening and responding to stakeholders, page 15. Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the Y Y Parent company: SIG Combibloc Group AG, Switzerland (prior to September 2018, consolidated financial statements the parent company was SIG Combibloc Group Holdings S.à r.l., Luxembourg) Subsidiaries: SIG Combibloc Holdings GP S.à r.l, SIG Combibloc Holdings S.à r.l., SIG Combibloc PurchaseCo S.à r.l., SIG Schweizerische Industrie-Gesellschaft GmbH, SIG Combibloc US Acquisition Inc., SIG Combibloc US Acquisition II Inc., SIG Combibloc Argentina S.R.L., Combibloc S.R.L., Whakatane Mill Australia Pty Ltd., SIG Austria Holding GmbH, SIG Combibloc GmbH, SIG Combibloc GmbH & Co. KG, SIG Combibloc Bangladesh Ltd., SIG Beverages Brasil Ltda., SIG Combibloc do Brasil Ltda., SIG Combibloc Chile Ltda., SIG Combibloc (Suzhou) Co. Ltd., SIG Combibloc s.r.o., SIG Combibloc S.à.r.l., SIG Combibloc GmbH, SIG Combibloc Holding GmbH, SIG Combibloc Systems GmbH, SIG Combibloc Zerspanungstechnik GmbH, SIG Euro Holding GmbH, SIG Information Technology GmbH, SIG International Services GmbH, SIG Combibloc Kft., SIG Combibloc India Private Ltd., P.T. SIG Combibloc Indonesia, SIG Combibloc S.r.l., SIG Combibloc Korea Ltd., SIG Combibloc Malaysia SDN. BHD, SIG Combibloc México, S.A. de C.V., SIG Combibloc B.V., Whakatane Mill Ltd., SIG Combibloc Sp. z o.o., SIG Combibloc Services S.R.L., OOO SIG Combibloc, SIG Combibloc S.A., SIG Combibloc AB, SIG allCap AG, SIG Combibloc Services AG, SIG Combibloc Procurement AG, SIG Combibloc Receivables Management AG, SIG Technology AG, SIG Combibloc Taiwan Ltd., SIG Combibloc Ltd., SIG Combibloc Ltd., SIG Combibloc Inc., SIG Holding USA, LLC, SIG Vietnam Ltd. Joint ventures: SIG Combibloc Obeikan Company Ltd., SIG Combibloc Obeikan FZCO, DNP SIG Combibloc Co., Ltd. 102-46 Defining report content and topic Y Y See Determining report content, page 68. Boundaries WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 77 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 TOPIC No. DISCLOSURE MATERIAL REQUIRED REPORTED REASON FOR WHERE TO FIND IT IN THE REPORT (Y/N) FOR CORE (Y/N/ OMISSION PARTIAL) 102-47 List of material topics Y Y See Our priorities on page 17 and Determining report content on page 68. 102-48 Restatements of information Y Y Some data from previous years has been restated as we have strengthened our reporting systems or in line with our recalculation policy (see page 86). In addition, we have restated two of our targets, one as a result of an error in the previously published wording (see page 27) and one to make the target more meaningful (see page 39). 102-49 Changes in reporting Y Y We have reviewed and updated our list of material issues, based on our latest materiality assessment. See Our priorities, page 17. 102-50 Reporting period Y Y See Welcome to our Corporate Responsibility Report, page 2. 102-51 Date of most recent report Y Y See Welcome to our Corporate Responsibility Report, page 2. 102-52 Reporting cycle Y Y See Welcome to our Corporate Responsibility Report, page 2. 102-53 Contact point for questions Y Y See Welcome to our Corporate Responsibility Report, page 2. regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance Y Y See Welcome to our Corporate Responsibility Report, page 2. with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index Y Y See this GRI content index. 102-56 External assurance Y Y See Welcome to our Corporate Responsibility Report, page 2 and Assurance statement on page 84. 201: Economic Performance Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated NM N N Not material and distributed 201-2 Financial implications and other NM N P Not material We have identified risks and opportunities for our business due to climate change risks and opportunities due to that could substantively impact our operations and have a strategic or financial climate change implication. These include physical and transition risks such as the impact of changing consumer demands for packaging, more extreme weather patterns affecting forest resources and the availability and price of raw materials such as energy and water. Opportunities include consumer and customer demand for non fossil raw materials and reduced exposure to fossil fuel price increases from reduced energy demands. 201-3 to NM N N Not material 204 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks NM N N Not material related to corruption 205-2 Communication and training NM N P Not material See Governance and ethics, page 38. Number and percentage of employees that about anti-corruption policies and received training on anticorruption has not been recorded. procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption NM N Y No significant risks of corruption and no cases of corruption were identified in 2018. and actions taken Anti-competitive 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive NM N Y No legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly Behaviour behaviour, anti-trust, and practices in 2018. monopoly practices WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 78 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 TOPIC No. DISCLOSURE MATERIAL REQUIRED REPORTED REASON FOR WHERE TO FIND IT IN THE REPORT (Y/N) FOR CORE (Y/N/ OMISSION PARTIAL) 301: Environmental performance Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume M Y Y See Our packs on page 60 and Sustainable raw materials on page 48. 301-2 Recycled input materials used M N N Not required for core 301-3 Reclaimed products and their NM N N Not material packaging materials Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the M Y Y See Environmental footprint, page 29. organisation 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the NM N N Not material organisation 302-3 Energy intensity M Y Y See Environmental footprint, page 29. 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption M Y Y See Environmental footprint, page 29. 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements M N N Not required of products and services for core Water 303 NM N N Not material We use relatively little water in our operations and water use is not considered a material impact for SIG. However, we recognise that water is an increasingly important issue for stakeholders, particularly in water-scarce regions. Our production processes do not require water, except at our paper mill in New Zealand, so our main focus for reducing water use is on improving the efficiency of our filling machines (see page 64). Biodiversity 304 NM N N Not material Our own operations do not have a significant impact on biodiversity, and we minimise any potential impacts through our environmental management systems. The main biodiversity impact of our business is in the forests we source raw materials from and we manage this by setting strict standards for suppliers through FSCTM certification (see Sustainable raw materials, page 47). In 2018, we also worked with peers to develop recommendations on how life-cycle assessment can be used to better address land use impacts on biodiversity (see Driving the net positive agenda, page 13). Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions M Y Y See Environmental footprint on page 28. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG M Y Y See Environmental footprint on page 28. emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG M Y Y See Environmental footprint, page 28. emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity M Y Y See Environmental footprint on page 28. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions M Y Y See Environmental footprint on page 28. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 79 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 TOPIC No. DISCLOSURE MATERIAL REQUIRED REPORTED REASON FOR WHERE TO FIND IT IN THE REPORT (Y/N) FOR CORE (Y/N/ OMISSION PARTIAL) Emissions 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting NM N N Not material substances (ODS) 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur NM N N Not material oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and NM N N Not material destination 306-2 Waste by type and disposal M Y Y See Environmental footprint, page 30. method 306-3 Significant spills NM N N Not material 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste NM N N Not material 306-5 Water bodies affected by water NM N N Not material discharges and/or runoff Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with M Y Y No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Compliance environmental laws and environmental laws and regulations in 2018. regulations Supplier Environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were screened M Y Y See Responsible suppliers, page 45. Assessment using environmental criteria 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in M N N Not required for the supply chain and actions taken core 400: Social Performance Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee M Y Y See Employees, page 32. turnover 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time M N N Not required employees that are not provided to for core temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave M N N Not required for core Labour/Management 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding M N N Not required Relations operational changes for core Occupational Health 403-1 Workers representation in formal M N N Not required and Safety joint management–worker health for core and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, M Y P Occupational See Health and safety, page 36 and 37. occupational diseases, lost days, diseases not and absenteeism, and number of yet reported. work-related fatalities Health rate metric is currently in development WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 80 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 TOPIC No. DISCLOSURE MATERIAL REQUIRED REPORTED REASON FOR WHERE TO FIND IT IN THE REPORT (Y/N) FOR CORE (Y/N/ OMISSION PARTIAL) Occupational Health 403-3 Workers with high incidence or M N N Not required and Safety high risk of diseases related to for core their occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered M N N Not required in formal agreements with trade for core unions Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year M Y Y See Employees, page 33. per employee 404-2 Programmes for upgrading M N N Not required employee skills and transition for core assistance programmes 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving M N N Not required regular performance and career for core development reviews Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and M Y Y See Employees, page 34. Opportunity employees 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and M N N Not required remuneration of women to men for core Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and NM N Y No reported incidents of discrimination in 2018. corrective actions taken Freedom of 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which NM N N Not material Association and the right to freedom of association Collective Bargaining and collective bargaining may be at risk Child Labour 408-1 Operations and suppliers at NM N N Not material significant risk for incidents of child labour Forced or Compulsory 409-1 Operations and suppliers at NM N N Not material Labour significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour Security Practices 410-1 Security personnel trained NM N N Not material in human rights policies or procedures Rights of Indigenous 411-1 Incidents of violations involving NM N Y No reports of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people in 2018. Peoples rights of indigenous peoples WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 81 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 TOPIC No. DISCLOSURE MATERIAL REQUIRED REPORTED REASON FOR WHERE TO FIND IT IN THE REPORT (Y/N) FOR CORE (Y/N/ OMISSION PARTIAL) Human Rights 412-1 Operations that have been subject NM N Y Human rights criteria are included in SMETA audits of our production sites. See Assessment to human rights reviews or impact Governance and Ethics, page 38. assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights NM N P Not material The SIG Code of Conduct, and accompanying training, addresses various aspects policies or procedures of human rights that are relevant to SIG's operations. See Governance and Ethics, page 38. 412-3 Significant investment agreements NM N N Not material and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community NM N N Not material engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes 413-2 Operations with significant actual NM N N Not material and potential negative impacts on local communities Supplier Social 414-1 New suppliers that were screened M Y Y See Responsible suppliers, page 45. Assessment using social criteria 414-2 Negative social impacts in the M N N Not required supply chain and actions taken for core Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions NM N N Not material Customer Health 416-1 Assessment of the health and M Y Y See Product safety, page 66. and Safety safety impacts of product and service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance M N Y See Key Performance Indicators, page 86. concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services Marketing and 417-1 Requirements for product and NM N N Not material Labelling service information and labelling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance NM N N Not material concerning product and service information and labelling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance NM N N Not material concerning marketing communications Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints NM N N Not material concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Socioeconomic 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and NM N Y No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and Compliance regulations in the social and regulations in the social and economic area to report. economic area WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 82 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BASIS OF REPORTING SCOPE 1 & 2 EMISSIONS (TONNES CO2 EQUIVALENT) SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS (TONNES CO2 EQUIVALENT) 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 99,450 103,586 92,488 1 Purchased goods and services 905,769 810,522 839,591 Scope 2 (market based) 98,319 19,894 16,696 3 Fuel and energy-related activities 44,063 45,729 44,392 4 Upstream transportation and distribution 90,852 86,312 87,225 SCOPE 1 AND 2 SCOPE 3 5 Waste generated in operations 582 605 598 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for Scope 1 Building on a materiality assessment of our and Scope 2 are reported following the GHG 6 Business travel 7,893 9,142 16,118 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in 2016, we protocol. Data on Scope 1 and 2 emissions cover have refined our data collection and calculation 9 Downstream transportation and distribution 49,286 49,554 50,775 production plants worldwide, which use the procedures to meet the requirements of the majority of energy in our business. Data excludes GHG Protocol. We reported the resulting Scope 11 Use of sold products 131,512 161,853 165,942 energy use and emissions from machine 3 emissions in 2017, together with a recalculated assembly plants, development departments and baseline for 2016. These figures were used to 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products 151,412 161,179 177,239 offices. define our value chain emissions reduction target and baseline, which have been approved 12 Biogenic carbon 118,846 124,199 126,891 Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity by the Science Based Targets Initiative. are reported using a market-based approach. We also report Scope 2 emissions according to To help us further improve the accuracy of our we use and converted using IPCC 2013 to waste that is incinerated for energy recovery. the location-based approach using grid average reporting, we have a policy for recalculating our conversion factors. Biogenic carbon emissions can be released emission factors for each country (see page 28). GHG emissions. This is designed to distinguish from the liquid packaging board in our cartons, The reporting boundary for our Scope 3 GHG changes that reflect actual reductions in the depending on their treatment after use, and Throughout this report, the data relating to emissions is the same as for our Scope 1 and totals from changes that are simply data these are reported separately. emissions from energy use are accurate to Scope 2 reporting. It covers all production improvements. within a tolerance of 0.5 thousand tonnes. facilities under SIG’s operational control, The following categories included in SIG’s Scope The inventory boundaries of SIG’s GHG excluding smaller production units such as our 3 emissions: accounting were chosen considering all the spare parts plant in Neuss (Germany), joint relevant GHG Protocol standards. SIG’s GHG ventures and offices (unless they are directly Category 1: Purchased goods and services accounting includes all six GHGs covered by attached to a production facility). Category 1 emissions account for the largest the Kyoto Protocol as required by the GHG For emissions related to recycling, we use the share of SIG’s value chain GHG emissions. This Protocol: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), A 0:100 allocation as recommended by the GHG category includes all materials used to produce nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), Protocol, which means that recycled materials and ship our cartons (including closures and perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur hexafluoride such as production waste (category 5) or used straws), the materials used to produce the liquid (SF6), and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3). These products (category 12) are cut off at the sorting packaging board that goes into our packs, and are typically included in the emission factors plant/next processing step. The same applies the materials used to manufacture our filling WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 83 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 machines. Services, ICT and items such as office Category 6: Business travel Category 12: End-of-life treatment of sold equipment are excluded as they represent a very products Category 6 includes flights, public transport, small share in this category. and the use of company cars and rental cars Used beverage cartons usually end up in for business travel. Data on business travel is household waste streams, which differ locally. Category 3: Fuel and energy-related well documented in Europe but less so in other For each country that SIG cartons are shipped activities regions. Therefore, the number of employees to, we collect data covering recycling rates, Category 3 covers the upstream emissions per region is used as a basis for extrapolation. landfill rates (managed or unmanaged) and occurring related to purchased electricity and Flights are relatively well documented and incineration rates (with or without energy energy carriers at the production facilities that account for almost 90% of emissions from recovery). The amount of waste is allocated are in scope. Small amounts of diesel are also business travel. to different forms of treatment based on the purchased to fuel trucks and cars, and the weight of sold packages per country and the related emissions are captured in Category 6 Category 9: Downstream transportation rates for the respective country. Major amounts on business travel (below). and distribution of biogenic greenhouse gas emissions relate to the different end-of-life treatments from the Category 9 covers transportation of SIG carton Category 4: Upstream transportation liquid packaging board and are determined and packs from our plants to customers’ facilities and distribution reported separately. which are not purchased by SIG, the distribution Category 4 covers all transportation activities of filled packs from customers’ facilities to SIG filling machines are generally in use for for materials delivered to the production retailers, and onward transportation from decades and used filling machines are mainly plants and all purchased outbound transports. retailers to end consumers. Distribution of filled refurbished or recycled so their contribution to Intercompany transportation is considered packs includes only the emissions related to the this category is considered to be negligible. to be negligible. SIG packs are shipped as SIG products. Pallets, trays or foil are therefore empty sleeves to SIG customers. This is usually omitted due to their small share. managed by SIG’s Supply Chain Management (SCM). In some cases, SIG customers arrange Category 11: Use of sold products these transports themselves. The resulting Category 11 covers the use of SIG’s filling emissions are reported in Category 9. Deliveries machines and applicators to mount closures other than packed sleeves (straws, closures to the filled cartons, which occur in customers’ and machines) do not contribute significantly facilities. All new and refurbished filling machines to this category and are not reported. that are manufactured and sold at SIG for the reporting year are characterised by average Category 5: Waste generated in operations electricity demand and the need for pressurised Category 5 includes emissions related to air, steam and hydrogen peroxide for the recycling, thermal treatment or landfill of waste estimated lifetime capacity of the machine/device from our operations (measured as non-product using the emission factors of the reporting year. output) and hazardous waste. All production Filling machines that are installed in SIG service wastes (>95 %) undergo further treatment and centres for demonstration purposes are not recycling as they are well sorted. Transportation included. Emissions from the use phase of our related emissions related to of waste material cartons relate primarily to the contained product from our plants to waste processing facilities and are excluded. are included. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 84 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 ASSURANCE STATEMENT INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S REPORT ON A LIMITED Responsibilities of the Executive Directors Requirements to quality control for audit ASSURANCE ENGAGEMENT ON SUSTAINABILITY The executive directors of the Company are firms (IDW Qualitätssicherungsstandard 1: INFORMATION responsible for the preparation of the Report Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis – IDW QS 1) – and in accordance with the principles stated in the accordingly maintains a comprehensive system Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global To SIG Combibloc Group AG, Linnich of quality control including documented policies Re-porting Initiative (hereinafter: “GRI-Criteria”) and procedures regarding compliance with We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the disclosures denoted and for the selection of the disclosures to ethical requirements, professional standards and with “ ” in the sustainability report of SIG Combibloc Group AG, Linnich be evaluated. applicable legal and regulatory requirements. (hereinafter: “the Company”), for the period from 1 January to 31 December This responsibility of the Company’s executive 2018 (hereinafter: “Report”). Our engagement in this context relates solely to the directors includes the selection and application Practitioner’s Responsibility disclosures denoted with the symbol “ ”. of appropriate methods of sustainability Our responsibility is to express a limited reporting as well as making assumptions and assurance conclusion on the disclosures estimates related to individual sustainability denoted with “ ” in the Report based on the disclosures, which are reasonable in the assurance engagement we have performed. circumstances. Furthermore, the executive directors are responsible for such internal Within the scope of our engagement we did control as they have considered necessary to not perform an audit on external sources of enable the preparation of a Report that is free information or expert opinions referred to from material misstatement whether due to in the Report. fraud or error. We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Independence and Quality Control of As-surance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): the Audit Firm Assurance Engagements other than Audits We have complied with the German professional or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, provisions regarding independence as well as issued by the IAASB. This Standard requires that other ethical requirements. we plan and perform the assurance engagement to allow us to conclude with limited assurance Our audit firm applies the national legal that nothing has come to our attention that requirements and professional standards – in causes us to believe that the disclosures particular the Professional Code for German GRI INDICATOR denoted with “ ” in the Company’s Report for Public Auditors and German Chartered the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 Auditors (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer have not been prepared, in all material aspects, und vereidigte Buchprüfer”: “BS WP/vBP”) in accordance with the relevant GRI-Criteria. This GRI as well as the Standard on Quality Control 1 does not mean that a separate conclusion is 102-56 published by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer expressed on each disclosure so denoted. (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany: “IDW”): WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 85 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 In a limited assurance engagement the Assurance Conclusion assurance procedures are less in extent than Based on the assurance procedures performed for a reasonable assurance engagement and and assurance evidence obtained, nothing has therefore a substantially lower level of assurance come to our attention that causes us to believe is obtained. The assurance procedures selected that the disclosures denoted with “ ” in the depend on the practitioner’s judgment. Company’s Report for the period from 1 January Within the scope of our assurance engagement, to 31 December 2018 have not been prepared, we performed amongst others the following in all material aspects, in accordance with the assurance procedures and further activities: relevant GRI-Criteria. n O  btaining an understanding of the structure Intended Use of the Assurance Report of the sustainability organisation and of the stakeholder engagement We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with the Company. The n Inquiries of personnel involved in the assurance engagement has been performed preparation of the Report regarding the for purposes of the Company and the report preparation process, the internal control is solely intended to inform the Company as to system relating to this process and selected the results of the assurance engagement. The disclosures in the Report report is not intended to provide third parties n Identification of the likely risks of material with support in making (financial) decisions. misstatement of the Report under Our responsibility lies solely toward the consideration of the GRI-Criteria Company. We do not assume any responsibility towards third parties. n  nalytical evaluation of selected disclosures A in the Report n  omparison of selected disclosures with C Munich, 20 March 2019 corresponding data in the consolidated PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH financial statements and in the group Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft management report n E  valuation of the presentation of the selected disclosures regarding sustainability performance Hendrik Fink ppa. Juliane v. Clausbruch Wirtschaftsprüfe (German Public Auditor) WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING 86 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The table below provides a summary of the key performance indicators we use to measure our performance on our most material issues. The data shown here has been assured with limited assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (except where otherwise noted). MATERIAL ISSUE METRIC 2015 2016 2017 2018 RESPONSIBLE Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions (thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent) 1 21.3 29.0 34.5 30.9 COMPANY Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions (market based) (thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent)1 80.7 78.4 0 0 Tackling climate change Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions rate (tonnes CO2 equivalent/million m of sleeves produced) 2 2, 4 70 72 24 21 Change in Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions rate (% change from 2014 baseline)2, 4 –11.3 –8.9 –69.4 –73.4 Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions (million tonnes CO2 equivalent)4, 5 1.4 1.3 1.4 Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions rate (grams CO2 equivalent/litre of food packed)3, 4 105 96 95 Operational energy use (GWh) 1 276 312 323 324 Energy rate (MWh/million m2 of sleeves produced)2, 4 181 203 217 210 Change in energy rate (% change from 2014 baseline) 2, 4 –4.2 7.2 14.8 11.1 Waste rate (tonnes non-product output/million m2 of sleeves produced)2 37 35 37 35 Minimising production waste Change in waste rate (% change from 2014 baseline) 2 5.7 0 4.0 –1.6 Occupational health Lost time cases4 23 26 16 20 and safety Lost time case rate (per 200,000 hours worked) 4 0.55 0.62 0.38 0.49 Sustainable engagement score (% favourable responses) 74 78 Employee engagement Employee Net Promoter Score (% promoters minus % detractors) –16 –1 Talent development Training and development investment (average training hours/employee) 4 37.5 34.6 32.1 30.4 Fair labour practices Plants completed SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit 7 8 9 Diversity & equal opportunity Diversity of governance bodies and employees See page 34 RESPONSIBLE A-materials from certified sources (% by spend) 27 39 47 45 Sustainable raw materials SOURCING Energy in production plants from renewable sources or compensated using Gold Standard CO2 offset (%)1 23.1 22.6 58.4 100 Thriving forests Packs sold labelled with FSCTM logo (%) 42 56 80 93 Responsible suppliers New suppliers screened using social responsibility criteria (%) 100 100 100 RESPONSIBLE Sustainable product Impact mitigation potential of innovations related to current standard product See 2016 CR Report: See 2017 CR Update: See pages 57-656 innovation page 45 pages 20-226 PRODUCTS Recycling and SIG packaging portfolio that is recyclable (%) 100 100 100 100 circular economy Efficient filling machines Sustainability improvements through technical service products (% of SIG customers supported since 2016) 20 Significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed 100 100 100 100 for improvement (%) Safe nutrition Non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 0 0 0 (number of incidents) 1 Excludes emissions from our paper mill in New Zealand. 3 Includes most material Scope 3 categories only: goods and services, use of reporting systems or in line with our recalculation policy (see relevant sections of 2 Sleeves production only. Excludes our paper mill in New Zealand and our products (filling machines) and end of life treatment (cartons). report for explanation). our closures plant in Neuhausen. 4 Data from previous years has been restated as we have strengthened our 5 See page 82 for a breakdown of Scope 3 categories. 6 Not assured. WAY BEYOND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE ABOUT OUR GOOD COMPANY SOURCING PRODUCTS REPORTING
