COMPANY PROFILE Outsource Technique limited is an Electrical/Telecommunication contracting and supplies company established in the year 2006 .The main goal of the company is to provide our clients with high quality installations and products,consistently bearing in mind the client's budget and requirements. We provide a full in house engineering and contracting service for all our customers and all work is carried out by our qualified and experienced staff, thereby ensuring customer peace of mind. We pride ourselves on our flexibility, professionalism, experience and safety record, gained over the years we have been in business Our Professionals are in the Forefront of New Technologies, Client Dedication, and uphold the Highest Professional Standards in the Practice of Telecom Engineering About OTL Our Mission is.. To provide a world class differentiated service, focused on adding value to customers in a professional and dynamic manner. Our Vision is.. Obtain a leader position in the engineering industry, by identifying and satisfying the requirements of all stakeholders Our Values.. Commitment to excellence, quality and innovation Development of long-term relationships with customers and employees Conduct business in a responsible and sustainable way Value and respect the contribution of team members Encourage collaboration in every action Maintain company principles with strong emphasis on team effort. OTL Advantages Communications Quality • Wide Experience in Telecommunication • Project Management & Timely Delivery Industry • Local Market Experience • Proven Track Record • Impeccable Quality Standards • Multivendor Experience • Strict Compliance with SLAs Response time • Large Number of Resources • Cost effective • Turn-Key Services & Solutions. • Qualified & Certified Resources Mobile Networks 2G/3G Indoor Building Solutions (Active/Passive) Microwave Communication Antennae Line Equipment Wireless Drive/Walk Test Testing & Measurement Equipment Outside/Inside Plant Development & Maintenance of FTTH Networks Managed Services (Operations & Maintenance of Mobile & Fixed Networks) Our Services & Solutions Our Services Our Clients Get in touch Outsource Technique Limited P.O.Box 12702-00100 , Nairobi, Kenya info@otl.co.ke Nairobi +254 20 2461136/7 Mob: +254710607340 +254733150010 www.otl.co.ke COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) YEAR 2018 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER See attached below HUMAN RIGHTS One of OTL’s objectives is to provide a work environment that is conducive to achieve both personal and professional growth. The Company maintains a work environment that is free of illegal drugs, alcohol, firearms, explosives, or other improper materials. OTL ensures workers are provided with safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. We have also separated ablution rooms for both ladies and gents. OTL also Protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. Apart from the presence of security personnel, there are CCTV surveillance within the compound that can record such unethical behaviors. We provide Proper Protective Gears to our staffs working in the field including safety harness for those working at height. Staffs are trained on Health and Safety, equipment they use to execute works, scope of works they do and soft skills. We provide First Aid equipment at sites and transport vehicles We ensure that employees take up leave days to rejuvenate. We also grant sick leaves to allow a staff seek medical attention. We ensure that ALL our staffs are registered with NHIF and the company remits such payments to the relevant body to allow them access medical attention at any time. Our workforce is based on gender equality in the ratio of 2/3 of women vis a vis men. LABOUR OTL engages workers who are over 18 years of age on application based on the available vacancies and no child or forced labour is entertained. The workers are paid decently much more than the government’s prescribed minimum wages. The salaries are processed and banked to staffs accounts promptly per month. OTL offers job opportunities to both ladies and men without any form of discrimination. This is majorly based on qualification but with consideration of gender balance as well as persons with disabilities. We ensure to adhere to the prevailing stipulated rates, taxes, employee benefits such as NHIF, NSSF remittances. For Termination and Dismissal, we have put a policy in place to ensure that this is done in a fair and sober manner while we embrace Fail Forward model which helps organizations to learn, innovate, and build resilience from such mistakes. OTL is committed in the development of safety systems, hazard identification and risk management. OTL recognizes the importance of Occupational Health and Safety systems and undertake job safety analysis and hazard identification as a mandatory step prior to undertaking any work. Being fully aware of our corporate responsibilities and in order to ensure the highest level of professionalism in the day to day running of the company, OTL has a number of Management Systems in place. They include a Quality Management System, Occupational Health and Safety Programme, Safety Management System, and Environmental Protection Systems. ENVIRONMENT OTL is committed to: Prevent pollution through our business activities and complying with all relevant environmental legislation and other requirements relating to our business activities. Embed sustainability principles and practices in all aspects of our operations; Provide training in partnership with our client (Safaricom Ltd) to our staffs for the low carbon economy by incorporating green skills and skills for sustainability to meet the needs of industry and community; Engage actively with all stakeholders, suppliers, industry partners and community organizations to build their environmental sustainability capabilities contribute positively to the environment; We partner with our client (Safaricom) and other vendors to offer an e-waste take-back & electronic recycling service that meets local needs and Environmental legal requirements on e-waste. We have subcontracted Garbage.Com company to manage our waste materials. We have supplied dust bins in ALL our offices and compound to manage wastes. Ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health Carry out energy audits and recommend environment friendly fittings and appliances e.g. LED lighting, Intelligent lighting, including occupancy and daylight level sensors. e.t.c. The need to reduce energy costs is a crucial business practice for successful organizations, and energy audits have begun to play a more significant role in managing energy expenses .We offer our clients analysis of energy usage followed by a report which will detail ways of reducing energy costs. We also offer to our clients renewable energy; free sources of energy that are naturally replenished e.g. Solar, Wind, e.t.c. ANTI CORRUPTION Outsource Technique ltd values its reputation and is committed to maintaining the highest level of ethical standards in the conduct of its business affairs. The actions and conduct of the firm’s staff as well as others acting on the firm’s behalf are key to maintaining these standards. These have been well stipulated in our policy shared with both staffs and stakeholders. The firm prohibits the offering, giving, solicitation or the acceptance of any bribe or corrupt inducement, whether in cash or in any other form: to or from any person or company wherever located, whether a public official or public body, or a private person or company; by any individual employee, director, agent, consultant, contractor or other person or body acting on the firm’s behalf; in order to gain any commercial, contractual, or regulatory advantage for the firm in any way which is unethical or to gain any personal advantage, pecuniary or otherwise, for the individual or anyone connected with the individual. Assess the risk of corruption when doing business MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOMES Some of the compliances have compelled us to install surveillance cameras within our compounds which have helped us to curb thefts, misconducts, e.t.c. We managed to curb thefts mores especially when one of the employees was caught stealing on camera. We also ensured equal opportunities regardless of tribe, gender, age, colour. This has brought in cohesion in our dynamics. Gender equality is in the ratio of 2/3 of women vis a vis men. Implementation of Occupational Health & Safety (OHSAS) has reduced work injuries and zero deaths. This has enabled availability of workforce. We have managed to reduce the number of accidents from 5 to 2 annually with zero fatalities. We have new policies that we have introduced in regards to Anti-corruption to keep the values and reputation of the company in maintaining the highest level of ethical standards in the conduct of its business affairs.
