GLOBAL COMPACT ATG® Ceylon (Pvt) Ltd. 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Katunayake, Sri Lanka www.atg-glovesolutions.com 1 CONTENT 1. About this report 2. The intelligent Glove Solution 3. ATG and sustainability 4. Chairman´s message 5. Managing Director´s message 6. ATG Top view 7. Sustainability reporting – Path we have thread 8. Scope and boundary 9. ATG Value chain 10. Strategy identification 11. Stakeholder interaction 12. Materiality assessment 13. The business 14. Internalization of interaction findings 15. Enterprise risk management 16. Commitments and external initiatives 17. Performance monitoring 18. Human resources dimensions 19. Our concern for the Environment 20. Concern of energy usage with environmental impact 21. Contribution to the collective action 22. Social investment and philanthropy 23. Audit process 24. Contribution towards sustainable development goals 25. Our people and our communities 26. GRI content index tool www.atg-glovesolutions.com 2 1. ABOUT THIS REPORT We are pleased to Support the GRI as a comprehensive, This report is not externally assured. However, ATG intends internationally recognized format for reporting data on to seek external assure of its next sustainability report. Economic, Environmental and Social performance. This report is intended to supplement our Annual COP The PDF version can be downloaded from the company report which provides an overview of our 2018 June to website. ATG is committed to producing a COP Report 2019 July Corporate Sustainability goals. to communicate the impact of its operations and its contributions towards the goal of sustainable development. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards and The GRI content as they have suggested. ATG Lanka (Pvt) Ltd Manufacturing Spur Road 7, IPZ Phase 2 Site Address KatunayakeSri Lanka Tel : +94 11 48 38 900 Fax : +94 11 22 53 887 Email : info@atg-glovesolutions.com 2. THE INTELLIGENT GLOVE SOLUTIONS Bringing out this Intelligent Glove Solutions to protect Our subsequent efforts in developing the product one’s hands happens due to the deliberate efforts of a through innovation are strengthened by collaboration with wide range of personnelabout 4000 of them – working university personnel, specialized industries & experts in in tandem guided by the common set of following values. the field. • Innovation • Quality Throughout this entire process there is one aspect • People & planet which is never compromised – Quality, Quality of Data • Long-term partnership gathered, Quality of Opinions Solicited, Quality of Suppliers, Raw Materials, etc. and of course the Quality These four values remain inseparable from each other of the Final Product. as we keep on manufacturing pairs of gloves one after another and all this happens within a sustainable It is quite strange; but we have found out that this framework. obsession with quality quite readily blends with our concern for People and the Planet. When the quality is The seeds for the total process get started when the right there will be less burden on People and the planet product service insight is identified. We then put on the which ultimately leads to Long-term Relationships. customer’s shoes and identify, • What he would be expecting from the product This process of ours at ATG is almost congruent with • Key gloves suitability sustainable development and it comes quite naturally to • Unmet needs us. The Safety and Comport we offer to our customers’ • Users experience hands will never allow them to take their hands away • The competition from us. That is the level of Long-stem Relationship we • The level of service build up with them. 3. ATG AND SUSTAINABILITY ATG is all about sustainability. ATG provides the desired protection. Sustainability of the human being depends on the use of Thus, ATG ensures sustainability of humankind by hands which help the human being from the time spent protecting the most important asset needed for a human on the mother’s lap trying regulate the flow of milk to being’s livelihood. the time spent on the death bed trying to indicate ones needs or feelings. Even the feet are very often protected ATG always concern the consequences on the business by the dress, hands are not protected the same way. throughout the planet and trying to leave a very small footprint on the world by considering all aspects of three When hands are to be used in abrasive situations that dimensions of sustainability, Social, Environment and could jeopardize their safety. Economical. 3 4. CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE In 2018 we started a new journey towards sustainability by gathering all strategical practices on social, environmental and economical areas in addition to involvement in basic social responsibility issues by participating in Global Compact’s 10 principles since 2003. At the moment we are thinking on our commitment to initiate sustainability throughout all dimensions in ATG business with respecting our responsibilities on society and environment as well. John Taylor Chairman While we have advanced in our manufacturing We reinforce this commitment by periodically briefing all capabilities, geographical spread of these capabilities officers who would be externally subjected to prompting as well as the market spread of our products, we have towards corruption and also by scrutinizing and auditing always aligned these to the social responsibilities we of interactions with external agencies. Our commitment should shoulder as a responsible corporate citizen. This towards social investments and philanthropy has been consideration stems from our belief that a corporate bearing fruits with our identifying and fulfilling the entity cannot exist independent of its social environment. communities’ need for clean water, health care products, etc. We have set ourselves the objective of formalizing We have enshrined these social responsibilities into our this further by incorporating a foundation which will Real Time Strategic Planning Model which is depicted be dedicated for this purpose. We are always seeking elsewhere in this COP. To assist in taking these social to act accordingly to protect our environment from all responsibilities into the corporate fabric of ATG we have kind of negative consequences that could lead from evaluated the relevance of the individual criteria to each our entire business. Therefore we encompassed with a and every stage in our value chain and the personnel perfect environmental management policy to save our manning these stages made aware of the resulting environment along with the way of ATG carbon neutral involvement. While the human resource function business implementations. overlooks the relevance and applicability of labor related criteria at recruitment phase, all functional heads ensure Our commitment to these Advanced Criteria and that these criteria are equally well served during the Corresponding results is periodically brought to the focus subsequent phase of the individual’s employment at ATG. of the Board which is expected to prompt future action along the same guidelines. Our strongest belief that We have committed ourselves to the fulfillment of Stakeholders’ Engagement at the multitude of stages Human Right criteria at ATG and this commitment in our interactions with them has helped us to maintain again stems from the Social Responsibility aspect of mutually fruitful relationships for the sustenance of the our strategic planning model. When it comes to the Planet we share. Environment related aspects of our operations, we established ISO 14001 based Environment Management Our understanding that the Planet is gradually becoming System in 2007 which certification had been continuously a more & more difficult place to habitat prompts us audited and sustained up to date. We have been to commit more and more resources to these Global continuously demonstrating our robust commitment to Compact Principles. We will not fail in our commitments the system through substantial investments of resources to this endeavor. – manpower, financial – targeting improved environmental performance. Through the continuous efforts that our team has given to establish the sustainable business practices within the group while producing sustainable products and pursuing social responsibilities together with the business, we certified with ISO 26000 in 2018 for our commitment to John Taylor Chairman sustainable development and social responsibility. ATG Group of Companies Our commitment to the eradication of corruption of all types in the Sri Lankan business environment. www.atg-glovesolutions.com 4 5. MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE Whenever I see Sri Lankan Landscape while returning from an overseas visit, my mind gets inundated with ideas to implement different sustainability projects to enrich the lives of the Sri Lankan Community. This desire helps me to look favorably at the sustainability projects brought to me by the staff themselves. Fazal Abdeen Managing Director We have evinced a keen enthusiasm about the If I were to tread a bit more on the path we have satisfaction and well-being of all our stakeholders from already carved out for ATG, we have adopted system the very beginning. It is this enthusiasm which drove us oriented approaches in respect of our efforts in fulfilling towards different types of certifications – from ISO 9001, expectations of our customers, the environment and our CE mark to ISO 14001, etc., all of which were indicative employees. Wherever such a system approach is not of how we respond to the needs of our different practical, we listen to the corresponding stakeholder/s stakeholders. themselves and set out our action plan for the same. Just as much as we, in our normal manufacturing arena, It is our belief that when corporates could respond adopt a pulling model rather than a pushing model, even to a stakeholder requirement within a shorter time in respect of fulfilling or responding to the stakeholder span, with lesser involvement of individuals, such requirements we adopt a pulling model. Thus is the responses would not need a systems approach and challenge, I, as Managing Director in charge of Operation this prompts us to respond to the requirements of our have to-day; fulfilling the consumer requirements brought extended stakeholders fast and have a separate unit to us by my colleague overlooking Marketing within the within the company for the purpose. So this report is framework determined by the Social Responsibility Path primarily about how we have been responding to these we have selected for ourselves. This framework has stakeholder expectations through that unit. We firmly only been expanding during the last thirteen years of believe that fulfilling the expectations of our stakeholders our existence; expanding in respect of both breadth of is also a journey without a finish line and hence we coverage and depth of application. prepare ourselves for the future accordingly. But I enjoy facing the challenge; after all what is business It is to the credit of Global Compact Initiative that we are management if not for successfully facing the challenges being kept on track on this difficult journey and to the presented to you. Of course, the circumstances are credit of my colleagues that we have been able to cope changing in that, earlier we had to face the challenges with the relevant expectations thrown at us by personified stakeholders while to-day we have at least one stakeholder it is difficult to personifythe environment. In providing the required leadership (to meet this challenge) to my team at ATG in addition to the set of values we cherish and expressed elsewhere in this document, I also adhere strictly to three fundamental principles which I practice and expect from my Fazal Abdeen colleagues; Managing Director ATG Group of Companies • Practice the technologies studied to the highest level possible • Sincerity of intentions in all our dealings • Never be casual about Failures. 5 6. ATG TOP VIEW Through our considered development of a focused product range, ATG is able to satisfy a wide variety of needs in the hand protection arena while reducing the need for multiple products for a given application. We have worked diligently to introduce an all-encompassing cleanliness program to ensure that our products are free from harmful substances, further Andrew Goth Director Global Product Strategy “We should never forget that we don’t own the planet, we are simply custodians that have a responsibility to take care of it for future generation to enjoy. These are values very close to our heart at ATG and we are pleased to see these values become an increasingly important aspect of our customers purchasing decision. Today sustainability is an important part of our marketing strategy which we look to integrate into all we do” David Staniforth Director Global Marketing “A critical goal within the Sales Group is to utilize training based resources to educate our markets on sustainability best practices, focusing upon proper application based product selection and maximizing product useful life.” Kyle Browning Director Global Sales “To create an Environmental friendly and economically viable system with International Standards of Human Rights for the betterment of the Social Development” Upali Karunathilake Director General www.atg-glovesolutions.com 6 “Pursuing sustainable business practices through enhancing product life cycle with the concept of circular economy is the backbone of business continuity while leaving a smaller footprint on the World” Sunil Mendis Director Research & Development “We practice the Quality as a habit to thread our sustainability path through transparency, accountability and responsibility” B.W.B Sisirakumara Director Quality Assurance “Adoption of the state of the art technology simplifies the process of setting up resource efficient manufacturing practices should be the key parameter when manufacturing designing” Kosala Nawarathne Director Engineering “Almost all quality improvement and sustainability practices expose via simplification of design, manufacturing, layout, processes and procedures “ Damitha Abeykoon Director Process Control “Adoption of the state of the art technology simplifies the process of setting up resource efficient manufacturing practices should be the key parameter when manufacturing designing” Sudath Fernando Director Finance Bandara Dissanayake Director IT “Our digital future is about enabling better productivity and decision making to enjoy a better quality of life” 7 7. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING – PATH WE HAVE THREAD Since 2003, we have been evaluating our commitment appraisals, training up to the termination step. When we to the 10 Principles of Global Compact Minimum are talking about the social responsibility we’re ISO 26000 Requirements and reporting on the same. certified in 2018. With the submission of each successive report, we have In respect of environment related principles, we have maintained our levels of compliance and/or improved our been an ISO 14001 certified company since 2007, as a performance. result of which we evaluate how, when, where and to what extent our activities could impact the environment. Since of late we have realized the rationale of blending While we monitor 34 environment related parameters, these ten principles into our strategy formulation and we review adherence to our Environment Policy and the implementation processes which undoubtedly enhances system every six months. We are also planning to actively the sustainability of these principles in the continuum of support development and diffusion of environmentally the management fabric. friendly technologies by looking outside our corporate entity’s environments. It is a given fact that we do not employ child labour, forced or compulsory labour and our non-discrimination Totality of our business related practices are completely principle is enforced throughout the entirety of human devoid of corrupt practices of all types and forms and we resource management process stemming from do not hesitate to make these sentiments of ours public identification of a need through recruitment, performance whenever needed. 8. SCOPE AND BOUNDARY We are, today a much larger entity than when we commenced our first submission to the Global Compact Framework. But we have endeavored to bring about expansion within the framework of Global Compact’s principles and we believe we have succeeded in this. The subject matter for this report is ATG Group of Companies which includes; • ATG Ceylon • ATG Occupational • ATG Knitting • ATG Lanka Stores • ATG Hand Care And all the processes carried out at these units and their respective locations. 8 9. ATG VALUE CHAIN The below figure indicate how these dimensions have become material down the ATG’s value chain. ATG Value Chain Human Resources Process Design Product Design Manufacturing Post Sale Service Global Compact Infrastructure Distribution Consideration Finance Research Logistics Marketing Sales √ √ √ √ √ 1 Diversity and equal opportunity √ √ √ √ √ √ √ 2 Effluents and waste √ √ √ √ 3 Employment Equal Remuneration for women and √ √ √ √ 4 men √ √ √ √ 5 Forced or compulsory labour Freedom of Association and Collecti√ √ √ 6 ve Bargaining Assessments √ √ √ 7 (Human Rights) Human Rights Grievance Mecha√ √ √ 8 nism Labour Practices Grievance Mecha√ √ √ 9 nism √ √ √ 10 Local Communities √ √ √ √ 11 Non-discrimination √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ 12 Occupational Health and Safety √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ 13 Training and Education √ 14 Child Labour √ √ √ √ √ 15 Emissions √ √ √ √ √ 16 Energy √ √ √ √ √ 17 Environmental Compliance Environmental Grievance Mecha√ √ √ √ √ 18 nism √ √ √ 17 Labour-Management Relations Suppler Assessment for Labour √ 18 Practices Suppler Assessment for √ 19 impact on society Suppler Assessment for Env Asst √ √ 20 9 10. STRATEGY IDENTIFICATION As demanded by Global Compact Advanced Furthermore, at ATG we follow a Real Time Strategy Requirements, the Global Compact requirements have framework wherein Social Responsibilities and Human been strategized into all the ATG’s key processes. This Energy play two key roles. incorporation has been brought about by been conscious of Global Compact requirements in the management of all Our understanding and belief is that observance of Global the assets which are been utilized at ATG. Compact principles 1-6 will definitely enhance the degree of our ability to harness Human Energy and our Social Whether it is in the recruitment of staff or procurement of Responsibilities cannot exist without our observance of machinery and equipment we observe the corresponding Global Compact Principles 7-9. As such, our Real-Time Global Compact principles; for example, if its human Strategy Model ensures that we remain committed to and resource we observe Global Compact principles 1-6 and observing Global Compact Principles by incorporating the if it its machinery and equipment we would evaluate it in relevant aspects into the Strategic Planning Methodology terms of Global Compact principles 7-9. itself that is depicted below. 10 11. STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION While ATG involves with its main stakeholders in a number of modes of engagement, ATG is planning a more transparent formal, all-inclusive methodology for engagement with all stakeholders. The current status of stakeholder interaction and plans for stakeholder engagement are indicated in the following table. Stakeholder Modes of Engagement Current Status Plans for Future A & A Exhibition Global Exhibitions End user trainings Customer Customer Survey Sustainability forum for Complaint handling customers Complaint Handling procedure End user trainings Customer Survey Joint Council Meetings Joint council meetings Informal get together Employee engagement Trips Study Employees Attitudinal Training Programs Open door policy Implement full-fledged OHS system Open door policy Facilitation of different types Community Through employees from Receive many requests Independent Sustainability different communities scatfrom community for supStakeholder Engagement tered around country port which are fulfilled Study Shareholders Meeting frequency at least A dedicated sustainability Shareholder Meetings once a year oriented meeting 11 Stakeholder Modes of Engagement Current Status Plans for Future Regulators & Periodical evaluation of All environmental complianGovernment Authorities environmental adherence ce certifications in place Extend sustainability awaInteractions with factory Currently president of reness programs within the operator community at the the association & deeply Zone zones involved Suppliers of Materials and Services Evaluate on Environmental Environmental Screening Evaluation on performance Performance once in two on other CSR parameters years Business Partners Interactions with factory Currently president of Extend sustainability awaoperator community at the the association & deeply reness programs within the Zones involved zone Media Engagement study on idenOnly a casual occasional Formal Engagement Study tified criteria interaction on identified criteria NGOs & Pressure groups Engagement Study on casual occasional Evaluation on performance identified criteria interaction on other CSR parameters 12. MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT While ATG is alive to the many methods – Surveys, materiality of different issues before the next COP is Engagement Exercises, Benchmarking, etc. that could submitted. be used to evaluate the materiality, ATG has identified a preliminary set of issues to be monitored at the After having submitted COPs on Global Compact’s ten beginning. principles during the last 14 years with no issues to be raised on Human Rights compliance and Labor related While we believe a fair number of issues will be relevant compliance ATG considers that these would not be to different steps in ATG’s values chain, we intend to material in to-day’s context. carry out a more precise and focused assessment of the 12 12. MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT As such the key issues identified for monitoring are listed below. • Energy consumption • Solid waste management • OHS Practices • Product Integrity • Social Investment • Water consumption • Effect on biodiversity • Work place grievance Process • New Employee Engagement • Training of Employee 13. THE BUSINESS The map given below indicates the location of our Primary Sales Partners that ensures us, in partnership, to ensure proximity and presence of our gloves world-wide Our product integrity is reinforced by the markings on the gloves which carry the relevant quality certification. 13 14. INTERNALIZATION OF INTERACTION FINDINGS Interaction finding/GC Criteria Need for Health & Safety consideration Mode of Internalization Implementing an ISO 45001:2018 based Management System We are pleased to Support the GRI as a comprehensive, The framework for such a Healthy and Safe Work place In respect of this interaction finding, ATG has already is already in place. The clean, orderly laid out factory established an OHSAS Policy which is displayed and been premises equipped with all relevant fire hazard focused institutionalized. equipment is an indication to the employees that they are entering a Safe Work Place. Regular training has been ATG has already measured the CO2 levels, illumination provided to selected staff in respect of firefighting and levels and noise levels at different work areas and is in the first aid. Emergency response plans had been prepared process of establishing the required documented work for a selected set of emergencies as a part of the processes required for a Healthy and Safe Work Place. Business Continuity Plan. 15. ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT As a part of the formulation of the company Business scanning from internal and external environments, Continuity Plan, a comprehensive Risk Assessment with different probabilities for periodicity and impacting Study covering all the operational units of the Company different vulnerabilities of different processes within the was carried out. Different units were assessed in framework of controls already in place. Findings from respect of a selection of 36 threats selected from this Risk Assessment was used to, (a) Identify the need for greater controls (b) Carry out a Business Impact Assessment (c) Identify Business Continuity Strategies depending on the Risk Appetite of ATG. These strategies were converted into a full-fledged This plan is exercised with drills planned and carried out Business Continuity Plan with Process Continuity Sheets to match an identified schedule. for all ley functional areas, Emergency Response Plans for a set of identified emergencies and other related This whole exercise was carried out by Mr.Somarathna management procedures to keep the Business Continuity Consultants’ Director who is the only Master Business Plan alive. Continuity Professional certified by the Disaster Recovery Institute International of USA in South Asia. 14 COMMITMENTS AND EXTERNAL INITIATIVES To ensure a common operating practice based on qualitative and environmental matters, ATG uses the recognized international standards. ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and ISO 45001 Integrated management Systems are certified In 2018, ISO 26000, the guideline for Corporate Social Responsibility, was adopted to provide structure to the sustainability journey. *ISO 26000 is not subjected to certification. It provides guidelines only 15 16. PERFORMANCE MONITORING Performance Indicator 2019 Number of international human right abuses 1 Nil complained by stakeholders. 2 Number of Employee councils held during the year with • ATG Representation 09 • BOI Participation 03 Number of issues related to wages/salaries/benefits raised at such 3 Nil Employee Council Number of Employees whose original identity documents are retained 4 Nil by ATG Number of employees whose cash deposits/other financial securities 5 Nil are retained by ATG (outside in relation to their list of duties) 6 Age analysis of all employees Number of Employee councils held during the year with • Age 18 to 25 45.9% • Age 26 to 40 48.2% • Age over 40 5.9% 7 Number of instances where child labor issues had been detected Nil 8 Number of Significant Environmental Aspects • Air 08 • Land 10 • Water 18 • Noise 06 • Resource Consumptions 25 Number of environmental management programs at different stages 9 06 of implementation 10 Number of training sessions/drills held in respect of such ERPs 16 • Outside Training sessions • Drills 06 • In House Training 12 Number of emergencies against which emergency response plans 11 are available. 12 Number of Environmental incidents 13 Number of Environmental Characteristics periodically monitored 34 14 Male Female Ratio 63:37 Local Presence 15 Local persons in employment in units 116 16 Foreign persons in employment in units 35 17 Paper-Kg 210 18 Polythene usage in tons 475 Electricity 19 • Electricity from CEB (GJ) 21311.07 20 • Energy from Fuel Oils (GJ) 19455.65 21 • Energy from LPG (GJ) 61875.7 22 • Solar Energy (GJ) 717.48 Water Consumption 23 • Recycled for manufacture (m3) 19147 Emission and Waste 24 Greenhouse gases from different sources 7631.96 25 Electronic waste (no’s) 679 17 26 Any spills of oil chemicals NIL 27 Solid waste generated (MT) 383 Compliance: Any fines & sanctions in respect of environmental non 28 NIL compliance Occupational Health and Safety 29 • Injury rate % 0 30 • Absentee rate % 0 31 Number of fatalities NIL 18 17. HUMAN RESOURCES DIMENSIONS Having reported on the first six Principles of UN Global Once a need is identified for a unit of human energy, this Compact for the last 14 years, ATG is in a position to look need is followed up till it’s acquired, assigned the relevant forward to enhancing compliance of its Human Resource role and provided with the ability to perform. Principles to the next level of advancement. ATG has had no issues of significance in respect of these principles Recently, we achieved the high grade of ISO 26000 since 2003. guidelines It provides guidance on how businesses and organizations can operate in a socially responsible way. The Human Resource Management dimension plays a key This means acting in an ethical and transparent way that role in our Real Time Strategic Planning Model because contributes to the health and welfare of society. we consider this also as the most significant form of energy which will drive ATG. Age Analysis of all Employees MANAGEMENT OF STRESS DUE TO ANXIETY Since we believe that our colleagues need to have peace of mind to perform, we eliminate all aspects which could deprive them of that peace of mind – stress arising due to issues related to • Coming to work • Returning from work • Uncertainties about health & medical expenses • Special needs during pregnancy & delivery • Special needs from family issues like a death in the family and • Issues related to infrastructure at home. We have taken steps to release this stress almost completely as indicated below, (i) Provide individual transport in way of 4 wheel and 2 wheel vehicles. (ii) Provide common company transport to everybody else (iii) 24 hour insurance for all employees (iv) Special medical insurance for senior workers. (v) Additional snacks for pregnant mothers as recommended by the Company Sister (vi) Monetary gift to the mother after delivery (vii) Death donation when an immediate family member expires (viii) Complete coverage of expenses from mortuary to grave in the case of a death of a member 19 MANAGEMENT OF STRESS RELATED TO WORK ATG has also taken steps to release the stress of its staff members through a variety of mechanisms as follows. (i) Birthday celebration Each member is given a birthday gift which is planned once a week (ii) ATG organises an annual trip and a sports meet to develop the camaraderie of workers (iii) ATG also provides for small lunch time entertainment called „Dessert“ where there would be story telling, songs, etc. for 20-30 minutes to release the stress from the morning session. (iv) ATG has provided a special aesthetically designed space called „Ketapath Pavura“ for employees to pin their creations in way of poems, short stories/articles, etc. (v) ATG also publishes a company magazine called „Athwesma“ meaning „The Glove“ (vi) ATG also ensures that the mental stress of parents living in distant places about the place where their children work is released by bringing them to ATG premises to see the environment in which their children work. MANAGEMENT OF PERFORMANCE RELATED ASPECTS establish this Human Resource Management System, we Almost all employees are subjected to a performance appraisal every year, the outcome of which is shared with This component may be knowledge, a skill or process the individual appraised. ability. If there is a need for imparting knowledge, ATG sends the individual for a training program; if it is the The appraisal process has got streamlined and been enhancement of a skill that is necessary he/she will be carried out in an easy and friendly fashion. We have guided in developing the skill and if it is a process ability started measuring the percentage of employees need it would be enhanced by collaborative learning. subjected to performance appraisal. Training programs to enhance the thinking processes, The outcome of this performance appraisal provides us attitudinal training, etc. are periodically organized. We have the opportunity of providing the necessary components of had 2823.5 hours of training in 2018 which has increased the particular competence required for his/her position in to 2933.5 hours in 2019. the overall operation. WAY FORWARD As we have been alive to the significance of people in intend to introduce an Employee Engagement Evaluation our overall processes ever since the inception of ATG, also to our calendar of events so that we could be more we have identified the need to convert the currently proactive in our human resource related initiatives. active individual processes related to Human Resources to a more effective management system in line with the robust commitments and strategies linked with the human resource element especially so as People form an important aspect of our values and Human Energy is one of the key pillars in our real time strategy model when we 20 18. OUR CONCERN FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Through the past few years ATG has done more and more back in 2006. It was this rationale, which prompted us to to establish the consistence sustainability of the business. look at the Environment Management System which we always preserved through our journey of expansion during With considering current situation in the Sri Lanka and the last few years. global impacts on the environment of the planet and people, we have implemented lot of long term projects Our ISO 14001 Environment Management System is quite and business practices to help people and heal the a robust system in this 10th year of its existence and the environment as a leading glove manufacturing company system been audited once every six months by an outside in the world. This is not only for the corporate social audit company. Any non-conformity gets addressed responsibility but also every person in world should be within mutually agreeable time frames. responsible to save the planet for a better future. As we expanded, we always looked at ways and means It was in the context of our concern for the Environment of preserving the environment and protecting the that we embarked on our journey towards ISO 14001 way environment from what we dispose within the business. STATE OF ART OF WASTE WATER TREATMENT With the concept of circular economy we, ATG always stress to ATG since past few years. But we understood try to optimize the entire process up to the final end of the bad consequences on disposal method of incineration disposal. Even though we treated considerable amount very well therefore we signed to develop solid waste of waste water every day at a highest technological level, management principles within business by giving proper generating of solid waste at different stages was a huge solution encompassing with below areas, • Optimization of existing processes to diminish the sludge generation • Implementation of high tech AOP systems with zero sludge generation • Discontinue using of all environmental hazardous chemicals from entire process • Producing of recycled products from solid sludge The process at ATG Knitting which made a significant A simple study of the process indicated that if already contribution to the environmental pollution was the dyed yarn were used, instead of dyeing the liners knitted dyeing of liners knitted. with normal yarn, overall throughput time could be reduced along with reductions in chemical usage and water consumption. This simply implementation saves WATER 2.5 million L/month TIME 6500 hours/month DIE POWDER 5000 kg/month Furthermore, by incorporating with RO processes as a tertiary treatment at the end of the treatment plant, we have achieved a total re-use percentage more than 30% of total usage. 21 EFFLUENT TREATMENT AND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT Based on the findings of life cycle analysis of solid sludge treatment process to make raw materials but not to generated from entire water treatment processes we incineration as much as possible. identified that incineration is not the best solution to dispose our sludge because the solid sludge already At the end of optimization we were succeeded convert embedded with good mechanical properties which sludge into different types of raw material according convinced us to use that sludge as valuable raw sludge category. materials. At the moment we are reprocessing more than 40% of Therefore under the established solid waste entire sludge generation within water treatment process management policy we concluded to convert our sludge and consume reprocessed material in below areas, Manufacturing of upcycled rubber products within factory boundary Delivering as raw materials to outside manufacturers Exporting 22 19. CONCERN OF ENERGY USAGE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Having controlled what is almost entirely within our Here we have already planned to move on the way of control we now plan to control what is not entirely within using of renewable energy instead fossil fuels and take our control. climate actions according to commitment of global goals. We have also taken steps to reduce the energy usage within the factory by several means amongst which the following standout, • Modification of oven duct systems to minimize heat loss and hence reduce LPG consumption • Introduce CFL & LED lamps instead of normal fluorescent lamps • Introduce variable speed drives to reduce electricity consumption • Introduce Ultra-low frequency wave treatment for boiler water treatment • Monitoring and controlling stack emissions of generators & boilers regularly CARBON FOOTPRINT AND CLIMATE ACTION We need to mention here that the quality of exhaust We calculated the Greenhouse gas emissions based on through the stack from both generators & boilers are energy consumption from below energy sources, periodically monitored by external parties and maintained at optimum levels. • Electricity • LP Gas When we generate electricity using our standby • Diesel generator we would directly emitting GHGs per every • Furnace Oil kWh we generate while when we use main grid electricity we will be generating greenhouse gases While these figures indicates where ATG is in respect of indirectly. Greenhouse Gas emissions, more accurate calculations may be warranted as ATG moves towards reducing GHG emissions. We have moved to use renewable energy instead using of fossil fuels. Implementation of solar electricity project within ATG group has succeeded to cut down entire CO2 emission alarmingly within the business in each year. CONTRIBUTION FROM RENEWABLE ENERGY USAGE For the last year 2018, only ATG Ceylon (Pvt) Ltd has cut down more than 150tons of CO2 furthermore we hope to increase that level more with proposed expansion of solar electricity project. 23 CONTRIBUTION TO INCREASE FOREST COVER We have established “ATG Plantation” project last year saves 28tons of CO2 each year by giving continuous 2018 and its very first project successfully completed by contribution to control global warming rising. planting 1000 trees around dambulla district. The project WAY FORWARD Now that we have reasonable amount of data about measuring the related aspects. Throughout this we intend our environment related interactions we set ourselves to measure all emissions of direct, indirect and accounted the strategic objectives and timelines for the future. carbon footprint as well from our use of energy. We intend to use 2015 as our baseline and continue 20. CONTRIBUTION TO THE COLLECTIVE ACTION Operating in industrial zones dedicated for exports we In these associations ATG engages itself in voicing are naturally inclined to contribute to the collective voice. their own concerns and also contributing to the We have been participating in the Zonal Manufacturers concerns’ of collective significance. It is ATG’s forthright Association ever since we started operating in the pronouncements for the well-being of the collective particular zone. manufacturers/exporters base which prompt the concerned membership to have ATG to provide leadership ATG’s Managing Director – Operations is the current to the Associations. President of Katunayake BOI Zone Manufacturer’s Association and he has held that post even earlier. These partnerships and leaderships provide ATG the ATG is also a member of other trade associations like opportunity to present its voice in respect of issues of Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, Exporters Association of common relevance and this makes a contribution towards Sri Lanka. policy advocacy and formulation. 24 21. SOCIAL INVESTMENT AND PHILANTHROPY Our Strategic Planning Model blends very well with our her enhanced desire to perform is the return on the two values, People and the Planet. If we are to value investment made. People and the Planet and if we are to expect Human Energy and Social Responsibilities to support us in our Our Philanthropy starts at the workplace itself. actions as expected in our Real Time Strategy Model, we, We have provided 24-hour insurance to all our employees obviously need to invest in them. and there is special medical insurance for senior workers. Every worker is provided with transport ranging from So for us at ATG, Social Investments & Philanthropy are individual vehicles to a very senior member of the staff to very near and dear. All this makes us strongly believe that company transport for everybody. what we are talking about is really an investment as there is always a benefit side also to these expenditures. For all pregnant staff members’ additional snacks as recommended by the Company Sister are provided. The ability to provide support to one’s neighborhood Birthday gifts are given to each and every employee. elevates the status of the individual immensely – even When an employee gives birth to a baby a Rs. 50,000/= according to Maslow’s Motivation Theory – and his/ delivery gift is provided. 22. AUDIT PROCESS Currently our external audit processes do look after We have planned audits in respect of the following the financial management system and the ISO 14001 aspects for the period June, 2018 to July 2019 so that Compliant Environmental Management System. ATG could report on the same in our next COP. In respect of the Environmental Management System, • Human Rights related Processes the environmental aspects, identified environmental • Labor Relations related Processes objectives and their achievements are been audited and • Occupational Health & Safety related Processes corrective/preventive action would be initiated in respect • GHG Emissions Estimation Processes of any non-conformities detected. Furthermore, the system is being subjected to internal audits as well and Our strong belief in Planet and People as two key corrective actions will be initiated in respect of any noncomponents of our set of Values and the Roles of Social conformity detected. Responsibilities and Human Energy in our Real Time Strategy framework will make these audit processes a Stringent financial management system audits are carried firm pre-requisite in our journey towards Greatness. out annually by external auditors and their brief includes a request to audit financials in respect of external transactions with agencies where there is a possibility for corruption with special care. 23. CONTRIBUTION TOWARDS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Working with an overseas customer base from the We have set ourselves the objective of contributing to the beginning, itself ATG has been concerned about following nine Development Goals. Sustainable Development Goals throughout its existence. A few examples of what we have done in respect of each of these are given below, Gym facilities to ATG employees Provide Healthy B’ fast & Lunch to all Employees Completed 06 projects of Providing Clean water and Sanitation for community 25 We promote innovation as we value Innovation, in our industry where we lead and all our efforts are brought to fruition due to the infrastructure we enjoy. Supplier sustainability assessments Supplier Audits Code of ethics Employee Satisfaction Survey Water recycling Solid waste recycling Energy efficient process Started measuring GHG emissions Solar Panels introduced CO2 Capturing & Reforesting Code of Ethics Code of Ethics Code of Ethics UN Global Compact Membership Commitment to global goals “ATG Plantations “Projects 24. OUR PEOPLE AND OUR COMMUNITIES “True to our values we vow to remain people centric and continue helping our communities to thrive” 26 ATG GROUP SPONSORS YOUNG RESEARCHER’S PHD AT CAMBRIDGE M.I Haseemdeen, young scientists involved in Cancer research, at the prestigious university of Cambridge, England. ATG offered a full scholarship of £ 84000 to Haseemdeen to complete his two years at University SPENDING TIME ON EVENTS AND RAISING FUNDS ARE NOW A PART OF THE COMPANY CULTURE. THE FINAL GOAL OF EACH PROJECT IS TO MAINTAIN OUR ACTIONS ON A LIFELONG PERSPECTIVE. ATG PROMOTE MULTI RELIGIOUS HARMONY IN WORK PLACE We have a dynamic and diverse workforce representing all religious and ethnicities. Company has nurtured a culture of offending the same degree of recognition and respect all faiths in order to maintain a pleasant work environment. 27 ATG PROMOTE MULTI RELIGIOUS HARMONY IN WORK PLACE The program which serves to use religion as a platform to promote harmony in workplace and also spark an intellectually stimulation conversation about how persons of different faiths can work in harmony by keeping an open mind of other perspectives. ATG DONATES MEDICAL EQUIPMENT TO NEGOMBO HOSPITAL ATG made donation of Medical equipment to the Negombo district general hospital to upgrade it emergency care unit In 2017 the company fully renovated the Negombo Hospital’s Maternity Wards at cost of Rs.13 Mn. 28 DONATION OF PHOTOCOPY MACHINE TO IKIRIYAWATTA VIDYALAYA Our education initiatives are focused towards uplifting education in the country, especially to the underprivileged children. RUGBY TO BE PROMOTED IN OUTSTATION SCHOOLS ATG signed up as the official Jersey sponsor of Colombo Synergy Rugby Academy for year 2019 CSRA is one of the pioneering Academies in the island focusing on the development & promotion of the sport in Sri Lanka. As such, the ATG Group generously extends its support to sportsmen and women from all over the country 29 INDUSTRIAL WASHING MACHINE TO MAHARA PRISON ATG the company took the effort to reach out and empower one of the most marginalized communities in society – prisoners. The Mahara prison houses approximately 1400 male inmates ranging from ages 16 to 80. The capacity of the washing machine is 100 kilos. 30 25. GRI CONTENT INDEX TOOL No. Section included Page reference Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Chairman’s Message 04,05 A Word from Mr. Fazal Abdeen – Managing Director Organizational Profile G4-3 Introduction 01 G4-4 The Intelligent Glove Solutions 01 G4-5 Introduction 01 G4-6 Introduction 01 The Intelligent glove solutions G4-7 Introduction 01 G4-8 The Business 13 G4-9 Performance Monitoring 16-18 G4-10 Performance Monitoring 16-18 G4-12 ATG Value Chain 09 G4-13 Strategy Identification 10 Sustainability Reporting G4-14 Enterprise risk Management 08 G4-15 Stakeholder Interaction 14 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Scope and Boundary 08 G4-19 Materiality Assessment 12 G4-20 Materiality Assessment 12 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24-27 Stakeholder Interaction 11 Report Profile G4-28-33 Introduction 01 Governance G4-34 ATG Top View 06 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Innovation, Quality, People and Planet – Long term relationship 03 31 No. Section included Page reference Environmental Aspects Materials G4-EN1 Performance Monitoring 14-18 G4-EN2 Energy G4-EN3 Performance Monitoring 16-18 G4-EN4 Performance Monitoring 16-18 G4-EN6 Performance Monitoring 16-18 G4-EN7 Concern of energy usage with environmental impact 23 G4-EN11 Contribution to increase forest cover 24 Water G4-EN8 Performance Monitoring 16-18 Emission G4-EN-15-21 Performance Monitoring 16-18 Carbon footprint and climate action 23 Effluent and Waste G4-EN22-23 Performance Monitoring 16-18 Effluent treatment and solid waste management 22 Social Aspects Employment; Labour practices and decent works G4-LA1 Contribution to sustainable development goals 25 G4-LA2 Human Resources Dimensions 19 Performance Monitoring 16-18 Commitments and External Initiatives 15 Social Investments & Philanthropy 25 Employment: occupational Health & Safety G4-LA4 Internalization of interaction findings 14 G4-LA6 Performance Monitoring 16-18 Employment: Training & Education G4-LA9-10 Performance Monitoring 16-18 G4-LA12 Human Resources Dimensions 19 Performance monitoring 16-18 Human Rights: Child Labor G4-HR5-6 Performance Monitoring 16-18 Society: Local Communities G4-SO1 Contributing towards Sustainable Development Goals 25 32 33
