Communication on Progress of AMGI Communication on Progress of AMGI AYA MYANMAR GENERAL INSURANCE (2019 2020) 2019-2020 Page 1 Communication on Progress of AMGI Content Pages Statement of Commitment -------------------------------------------------------3-4 Profile of AMGI -------------------------------------------------------5-6 Awards & Certificates -------------------------------------------------------6-8 Implementation on Human Right Principles -------------------------------------------------------9 11 Labor Principles -------------------------------------------------------12 15 Environmental Principles ------------------------------------------------------16 Anti-corruption Principles ------------------------------------------------------17 18 2019-2020 Page 2 Communication on Progress of AMGI STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT AYA Myanmar General Insurance has been a member of United Nation Global Compact (UNGC) since the 1st September 2015, and this year is our 5th year as delighted member of United Nations Global Compact. This year has seen drastic changes in the Myanmar Insurance Industry due to liberalization of the market to allow foreign insurance companies to enter the market through both joint-venture operations and 100% foreign owned companies. As per the regulatory requirement, AYA Myanmar General Insurance has established two subsidiaries; AYA Myanmar General Insurance and AYA Myanmar Life Assurance conducting general and life insurance respectively. This annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) is for AYA Myanmar General Insurance Co. Ltd, which reflects the sustainability of our doing business to meet the fundamental responsibilities in the key areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption advocated by United Nations Global Compact. I am also pleased to confirm that both of our companies reaffirm for the membership and continuously support the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact as our governing policy. Since inception in 2013 as AYA Myanmar Insurance, we committed our business approach in accordance with our corporate values which is the highest satisfaction of our customers and all-time observation of ethical behavior respect for society, the law and environment. We, AYA Myanmar General Insurance, continuously initiate and support in social welfare and development programs for the environment and society. Along with the changes and development of our company we will continue to uphold our core policies which are necessary for our environment, employees and our community and also to maintain the sustainable development of our company. As part of our core values which centers on human capital development, we create employment opportunities for young employees in Myanmar along with development programs to become talented and skilled human resources for insurance industry. With the vision of nurturing young workforce into future leaders of the company, AMI aims to lead in driving social and economic development of Myanmar. As Human Capital is our most valuable assets, we use the strength of young and energetic employees combined with experienced management teams to achieve sustainability and achieve organizational core values. We are committed to invest in the future of our employees, providing employees with a supportive environment that enhances their performance and development. We provide 2019-2020 Page 3 Communication on Progress of AMGI our employees a propitious working environment that they can learn varieties of skills from different types of work functions. It is also important to us that we continue to evolve our people programs and processes to make AMGI an even more progressive and inclusive company. At AMGI, employees are our most valuable assets. In 2018, we enhanced our learning and development programs, leadership training and performance management practices. We are focused on moving towards a workforce culture that truly values and rewards behaviors that drive business results, requiring an ongoing commitment to enhance and strengthen our leadership and human resource practice. AMGI works on the principle that an employee’s career success and the success of the company go hand in hand. Discussions with employees about their career path and promotions from within give employees incentive to stay with the company and continually grow. Internal and external training, industry conferences, and college tuition reimbursement not only equip employees with valuable skills, but send the message that they are valued. By giving effective training programs for all levels of employees, to fulfill one of our missions of excellent services, technology and best underwriting practices. As for the consecutive 5th Year submission and newly as AYA Myanmar General Insurance, we will continue embedding Ten Principles of UNGC in our strategic management, showing our strong commitment and strengthening to continue a long run member of United Nation Global Compact. Sincerely Yours, Myo Min Thu Managing Director AYA Myanmar General Insurance 2019-2020 Page 4 Communication on Progress of AMGI A Brief Profile of AMI AYA Myanmar General Insurance has been a leading insurer in Myanmar for both Life and General Insurance since inception in 2013. AMI (AYA Myanmar Insurance Co Ltd) has established two subsidiaries “AYA Myanmar General Insurance Co Ltd” conducting General Insurance Business and “AYA Myanmar Life Assurance Co Ltd” conducting Life Insurance Business respectively in Myanmar with the approval of the Ministry of Planning and Finance of Myanmar. The new subsidiaries were issued with operating licenses from the Insurance Business Regulatory Board under Ministry of Planning and Finance effective 1st April 2019. AMGI remarkable growth has earned the firm the reputation of being one of the most leading insurance companies in the industry. We are committed to helping individuals and families in Myanmar to live in healthier and happier lives. We aim to deliver high quality service and innovative products through internal and external distribution channels to assist both individual and corporate customers to protect their assets from the uncertainties of tomorrow. We also engage in talented workforce with both domestic and international exposure, and maintain human capital development as our utmost priority in order to ensure long term sustainable growth of the company and the industry for the benefit of all stakeholders. As your Partner for Life, AYA Myanmar General Insurance aims to ensure the country’s key lifelines by providing professional and reliable service, footed on a rock-solid financial background. We have also protected and secured lives, businesses and futures of our customers through our annual claim payments. Through our experience, we understand the needs of our clients and aim to play an integral role in assuring their futures. We are beyond an insurance company; we form a part of shaping Myanmar’s future. The company also gives priority to corporate governance. AYA Myanmar General Insurance provides a wide rate of services nationwide through our business channels Head office in Yangon, Regional Offices in Mandalay, Nay Pyi Taw and more than 50 AYA Bank Branches across Myanmar with equal and mobilized career opportunities to over 520 employees. With the integration of core insurance system in 2017, recognizes adoption of innovative Digital Technology is helping to make different. In 2019, AYA Myanmar General Insurance has been working on to enhance customer experience by adding features that would provide customer satisfaction and operational efficiency. We are also looking for ways to reach customers more intellectually with the meritbased approach relying on full potential to access the targeted developments. 2019-2020 Page 5 Communication on Progress of AMGI On 31 July 2019, the Government of the Union of Myanmar Planning and Finance, announcement No. (4/2019), which announced the right to operate joint venture with the domestic general insurance companies and the foreign general insurance companies. With the approval of the Ministry of Planning and Finance of Myanmar, AYA Myanmar General Insurance Company Limited has entered into a joint venture agreement with Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance Inc. As a young and emerging market like Myanmar, joint venture between AYA Myanmar General Insurance and Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance Inc will bring a host of benefits to the economy and the industry through job creation, human capital development and transfer of knowledge. 2019-2020 Page 6 Communication on Progress of AMGI 2019-2020 Page 7 Communication on Progress of AMGI 2019-2020 Page 8 Communication on Progress of AMGI H UMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES AYA Myanmar General Insurance Company Ltd (AMGI) acknowledges and respects the principles contained in the International Bill of Human Rights, and the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at work. We are fully committed to observing, supporting and respecting the protection of international proclaimed human rights. AMGI is in full compliance with the labor laws and regulations applicable to our activities. Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of international proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure Businesses are not complicit in human right abuses. AMGI create employment opportunities for young employees along with development program to become talented and skills human resource for insurance industry and with the vision of us leading roles to drive social and economic development in Myanmar. We have been giving opportunities to those who are seeking to improve themselves through internship programs prior to full employment. This will provide them with resumebuilding experiences in steadily growing Insurance Industry. Through these programs, we aim to develop potential young talents as future leaders in various aspects of the organization. We also make sure there is no discrimination within the organization. Gender equality has been maintained during the recruitment process, at work place, in wages and training. Management has not company any incidents of harassment at work place. We recognize that having the right culture and people in place is crucial to our business. Building on our open collaborative, innovative and entrepreneurial culture, we continued to step up on staff communication and employee engagement through various initiatives. These include the Annual Staff Regional Meeting, Annual Staff Party, as well as quarterly Management meetings. We will continue to sharpen our focus on people development through job satisfaction and job enlargement, performance management as well as manpower planning to groom a new generation of innovative and collaborative staffs. We 2019-2020 Page 9 Communication on Progress of AMGI will be resolute in upholding human rights in everything we do and will not tolerate such discrimination within the employees. Ever since becoming a member of UNGC, AMGI have been embedding the principles of human rights in all our operational procedures and processes. Another one of our CSR activities , AYA Myanmar General Insurance every year on donate in Yankin Children Hospital, all AMGI staffs also actively involved in various activities such as blood donation, cleaning of hospital compound and providing lunchboxes to patients and their families. AYA Myanmar General Insurance Company was held Plastic Campaign in collaboration with Plastic Campaign Team on May 4th 2019 and participates actively in Campaign. AMGI organized a road safety campaign with the title, “Limit your Speed, Value your Life”, together with the Ship for Southeast Asian and Japanese Youth Program Myanmar (SSEAYP) group at Yangon Tollgate. The purpose of the campaign is to reduce the motor accidents that are happening daily on Yangon-Mandalay Highway Road and to provide awareness on information regarding speed limit in highway roads. AMGI donated cash and other household necessities to Ayeyarwady Foundation to help the flood victims. Besides, AMGI has also initiated the disaster management program and created emergency shelters at Mawlamyine City in order to help flood victims and landslide in Mawlamyine Divisions. AMGI will continue to lead and involve in recovery and reconstruction work throughout the Mawlamyine Divisions. Currently, we are providing the society in all possible ways and intend to provide more in future to the areas as needed. Regional Meeting, 2019 2019-2020 Page 10 Communication on Progress of AMGI AMI 6th Anniversary Donation, 2019 Plastic Campaign: May 4th, 2019 2019-2020 Page 11 Communication on Progress of AMGI L abor Principles We are committed to providing opportunities for our people to develop, achieve their professional aspirations, and enjoy successful and rewarding careers within the company. This commitment is reflected in our human resources policies, systems and activities across our offices. We believe in creating a conducive and rewarding work environment for our employees. We are committed to ensuring that our people are consulted about any changes to the business that will have an impact on their employment. Our Policies and practices comply with the Myanmar labor laws and regulations. AMGI is also continuously reviewing the Policies to ensure we have updated and transparent guidelines. Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. AMGI employees are not discriminated against because of gender, race, origin, background, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, disability or age,with the guideline of Labor Law of Myanmar. AMGI does not use or employ child labor under any circumstance, as defined in the international Labor Organization Convention 182, Article 3 (Worst Forms of Child Labor). 2019-2020 Page 12 Communication on Progress of AMGI AMGI is in a progress of educating the labor rights in the supply chain and then they will have to sign in the commitment which will be attached with the service or product contract. We aim to be an employer of choice and we provide a pro-active environment with the respect of labor rights and the improvement of working conditions. Employees can report and discuss the grievances to their Head of Department, upper management and the Human Resources Manager. AMGI offer structured internal and external training and development programmers designed to help people at all levels meet those standards and achieve their full potential. We aim to develop our people by giving them access to learning opportunities and empowering them to manage their own careers within the company. We are giving and providing our employees with effective different types of training program according to the organization needs. AMGI’s primary purpose is the enhancement and enrichment of each member of staff through organization, job and personal development. AMGI seeks to provide learning opportunities for all staff so that by performing their individual jobs effectively, they can contribute to AMGI’s Mission, Vision and Values. And also to be able to draw the effective training plans in accordance with organizational development and capacity building. Training or Development Programs will be set as Annual/Quarterly Trainings  Ad-hoc Training Programs  Other Career Development Training Programs Annual/ Quarterly Trainings are classified as follows: (a) Orientation Training (b) Fresher/Refresher Development Training (c) Supervisory Development Training (d) Emerging Leaders Training (e) Grooming Top Leaders Training (f) Personal Grooming Training (g) Staff Dialogue Section (h) Town hall Meeting (i) Cross-Section Meeting (j) Regional Meeting 2019-2020 Page 13 Communication on Progress of AMGI Ad-hoc Training Programs is based on the needs of respective departments, new product launching, new SOP. Career Development Training Program is held to select the talented employees among others and to strengthen the capacity development within the organization. 2019-2020 Page 14 Communication on Progress of AMGI 2019-2020 Page 15 Communication on Progress of AMGI E Principle 7: nvironment Principles Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. AYA Myanmar General Insurance commitment to the environment is outlined in the environmental aspects of our Health and Safety. We are motivated and highly committed to protecting and making a positive impact on the local environment, while conducting our daily business activities. In order to promote the sustainable development of economic society, we keep improving the regional environmental quality and strengthen the environmental awareness to all staffs. We have achieved energy reduction through design initiatives when renovating or relocating offices and behaviors. Encourage and remind all staffs to turn off Light and Air Condition units after work. We have created digital platform and continue expanding all of our work flows, procedures, processes and reporting systems to become paperless office. Paper usage significantly reduces since company started introduces paper less system and files saving and sharing in server. We try to minimize environmental impact arising from activities by preventing or minimizing pollution and efficient use of natural resources. 2019-2020 Page 16 Communication on Progress of AMGI Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and briber AMGI committed transparency, accountability and integrity in principle and practice. AMGI has implemented a number of policies and disciplinary actions such as whistle blower policy and anticorruption law which are communicated to employees and suppliers via standard internal communication tools. AMGI communicated to organize awareness programs for staff and suppliers on Anti-Corruption law and avoid the corruption on procedures to handle such cases. Corruption is a crime not only punishable with imprisonment but also can destroy our company's integrity and as such we take our legal responsibility seriously. If any violation found, we will take necessary action according to the relevant policies in place to carry out thorough investigation and never hesitate to take appropriate action accordingly regardless of any level of stakeholder involvement. No illegal payment form of bribery from customers, suppliers, and business partners. Independent customer service department always communicate with our customer and checking for any corruption or bribery from our employee. Our management team and finance team regularly check all transactions for signs of any unusual payments and expenses. They also monitor whether gifts received from outside are proper. We hired Internal Audit to check regular in all transaction and also audited by External Audit team to detect the corruption. Our internal and external audit committee regularly reviews company transactions for signs of any irregular payments. If there is any case of customer complaint about corruption, our management team takes immediate action to investigate the incident by interviewing all respective personnel, by detail checking of all documents and by reviewing the CCTV records. Based upon the result and report of our inspection team, the management makes careful review of the case and takes necessary actions accordingly. 2019-2020 Page 17 Communication on Progress of AMGI 2019-2020 Page 18
