2018 STAYING AHEAD TELENET SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STAYING AHEAD TABLE OF CONTENTS FO RE W O RD BY T HE CHAIRM AN AND T HE CEO 04 COMPANY PRO FILE 06 OUR SUS TAINAB ILI T Y P O LIC Y 07 OUR MOS T IMP O RTAN T SUS TAINAB ILI T Y PRO GR A MS COMMITMENT COMMITMENT TO OUR TO OUR CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES 14 17 COMMITMENT TO COMMITMENT TO FAIR, SOCIETY AND LOCAL OPEN AND TRANSPARENT COMMUNITIES BUSINESS PRACTICES 21 26 OUR SUS TAINAB ILI T Y PERFO RM ANCE IN A NU T SHELL 34 SUS TAINAB ILI T Y REP O RT ING 2018 36 CONTENTS STAYING AHEAD FOREWORD BY THE CHAIRMAN AND THE CEO Dear customer, Dear partner, Dear shareholder, Research shows that people’s quality of life increases when feeling connected to their family and friends. When getting in the flow at work. When engaging with the community around them. Telenet strives to play a key role in enabling this better quality of life. It is our purpose to stay one step ahead in the digital world, connecting people and creating experiences for a better quality of life. That is what we and provide our society with solutions for the future, stand for. That is what we keep front and center when addressing the issues of tomorrow. Just imagine making decisions. a future with smart cities, more environmentally friendly mobility solutions and affordable health care Powerful trends drive change services. Think about flexible working environments Our business environment is changing at an and memorable entertainment experiences at home. unprecedented pace. It is clear that the recipes Digitalization will power the engine of innovation and applied in the past will not solve tomorrow’s issues in a boost economic growth in the years to come. volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous world. Powerful trends, like climate change, globalization A new three-year strategic plan: and digitalization are redefining our behaviors, needs Poised to win in the Belgian market and expectations. 2018 marked the end of our previous three-year strategy on which we delivered according to plan. We Our belief: are now starting a new business cycle and are writing a Digital technology will improve the quality of life new chapter, building on the previous ones. Every industry, every individual, every society is We will continue to invest to provide our customers touched and changed by digitalization. Sometimes we with leading connected entertainment, easy-to-use do not even notice these changes; sometimes they business solutions, innovative digital services and an are truly disruptive. Our fundamental belief is that amazing customer experience. We believe we are poised technology changes our lives for the better. We are to win in the Belgian market by pursuing our 2019-2021 committed to push the boundaries of digital technology strategy that is built on four cornerstones: > I 4 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS 1 I Continue to lead via superior connectivity and started a detailed review of these material issues, platforms: Having upgraded around 95 percent of based on an analysis of several Environmental, Social nodes in its HFC network and having fully completed and Governance (ESG) benchmarks and an exhaustive the modernization of the acquired mobile network, research on our stakeholders’ expectations. Telenet will soon be ready to provide download speeds This resulted in a reviewed materiality matrix that of at least 1Gbps in its fixed network, complemented reflects our stakeholders’ interests and that is fully in line with a top mobile network across Belgium. Against with our current corporate and business reality. the backdrop of continued growth in both fixed and Our sustainability program closely ties in with our mobile data traffic, we are confident we can continue to company’s purpose and is built on four pillars: (I) Amazing innovate in the Belgian telecoms landscape. Customer Experience, (II) Great Workplace, (III) Digital Society and (IV) Responsible business practices. 2 I Accelerate growth in the business segment: Over the past three years, Telenet has further Our efforts are recognized: Golden Award strengthened the foundations to grow in the business in the RobecoSAM Sustainability Yearbook 2019 market through the acquisition of the local ICT Our contribution to society is demonstrated by our rankintegrator Nextel. This acquisition will drive future ing in the annual RobecoSAM Dow Jones Sustainability growth, expanding to adjacent value-added ICT Index. This ranks companies that are best equipped services and addressing the increasing customer need to recognize and respond to emerging opportunities for one-stop-shop solutions. and risks resulting from global sustainability trends. In 2018, Telenet topped the ranks for the sixth time 3 I Leverage our strong brands and amazing customer as sustainability leader in the global media industry, experience by creating ecosystems: In the residential outperforming peers on economic, environmental and market, Telenet aims to leverage its strong brands and social metrics. In February 2019, RobecoSAM rewarded amazing customer experience. We aim to create further Telenet for its leadership position with a Golden Award in customer value by building on our unique positioning the RobecoSAM Sustainability Yearbook 2019. We also in converged connected entertainment. By recently received the Industry Mover 2019 Award for showing gaining full ownership of De Vijver Media, we solidified the most improvement within our industry. our position as a media player and we are convinced this investment will help provide oxygen to the local Telenet also supports the ten Principles of the UN Global media ecosystem. We also want to boost penetration Compact since 2011 and actively strives towards the in the recently acquired SFR footprint, while leveraging United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. data and digital to create highly personalized customer touchpoints. Acting in a socially responsible way We commit to sustainable growth, with a good 4 I Transform to digital first, underpinned by balance between operational excellence and social simplification: We want to continuously improve the responsibility, taking into account the social, economic customer experience by simplifying how customers and environmental aspects of our operations. Because, interact with us in an increasingly digital way. A radical together with our employees and our stakeholders, simplification of our IT landscape and our operating we want to contribute to a digital model will help us transform to digital first. society that propels us and that helps us stay one Our sustainability step ahead. program ties in with our purpose We are aware of the important role that Telenet plays in the Belgian community. We remain committed to being a responsible company in the digital age, while continuing Bert De Graeve to strengthen our relationship with our stakeholders Chairman through consultation and dialogue. Our sustainability program reflects the interests of our stakeholders as John Porter defined by the material issues. In late 2018, Telenet Chief Executive Officer T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 5 I CONTENTS COMPANY PROFILE Telenet Group is committed to be the leading provider O U R VALU E S of converged connected entertainment and business solutions in Belgium, underpinned by high-quality fixed WE SET THINGS IN MOTION and mobile networks. Under the brand name Telenet, we focus on offering digital television, high-speed OUR PASSION IS CONTAGIOUS Internet and fixed and mobile telephony services to WE ARE CLOSE residential customers in Flanders, Brussels and parts of Wallonia. Under the brand name BASE, we provide WE SAY WHAT’S WHAT mobile telephony solutions across Belgium. The Telenet Business department serves the business market in WE WORK BETTER TOGETHER Belgium and Luxembourg with connectivity, hosting and security solutions. To meet the expectations of all customer segments, Telenet also welcomes Mobile Virtual Network Operators (MVNOs) on its network. An overview of Liberty Global, the world’s largest international TV these strategic partnerships can be found on the and broadband company, investing, innovating and Telenet corporate website. empowering people in countries across Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean to make the most of the Telenet Group is part of Telenet Group Holding NV/SA digital revolution, directly owns 56.36 percent of and is listed on the Euronext Brussels. Telenet Group Holding NV/SA. SUPERIOR CONNECTIVITY INSPIRING ENTERTAINMENT UPGRADE 100% OWNERSHIP UPGRADE AND MODERNIZATION OF DE VIJVERMEDIA AS APPROVED BY THE BELGIAN OF THE FIXED AND MOBILE NETWORKS COMPETITION AUTHORITIES IN MAY 2019 ALMOST FULLY COMPLETED €4.8 MILLION NETWORK INVESTMENTS IN 2018 IN LOCAL MEDIA PRODUCTIONS FASTEST FIXED AND MOBILE NETWORK IN BELGIUM (MOBILE NETWORK PERFORMANCE: COMMSQUARE BENCHMARK AUGUST 2018 AND SUPERIOR BUSINESS SOLUTIONS BIPT 2018H2 DRIVE TEST) PRODUCTS 5G FUTURE-PROOF CONNECTIVITY, CLOUD, HOSTING, FUTURE-PROOF NETWORK INFRASTRUCTURE, SECURITY AND VALUE-ADDED IT SERVICES WELL ON THE ROAD TO 5G NEXTEL INTEGRATION OF NEXTEL More information about Telenet Group and its financial results can be found in the Financial Annual Report 2018. I 6 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS OUR SUSTAINABILITY POLICY THE TELENET MATERIALITY MATRIX Sustainability is a multi-faceted concept – more than In late 2018, we started a stakeholder consultation to any company can tackle in one go. Therefore, we have update the materiality matrix so it better reflects the made the conscious decision to focus our efforts on the extended footprint of Telenet in all regions of Belgium most relevant issues: the materialities. We determine and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The materiality the importance of the various material matters in close analysis resulted in eleven material topics of which consultation and dialogue with our stakeholders. The five were identified as core focus areas: (I) Business result is a schematic representation of the sustainability ethics and transparency; (II) Responsible employer; priorities and their relative importance to the (III) Product sustainability; (IV) Privacy and data stakeholders and the company: the materiality matrix. security; (V) Digital inclusion and skills development. HIGH Business ethics and transparency Product sustainability IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Responsible employer Supply chain risk management Privacy and data security Carbon and energy efficiency Digital inclusion and skills development Employee diversity Customer health and safety and equality Electronic waste reduction Responsibility of media MEDIUM HIGH IMPAC T ON TELENET Areas that are important to monitor Core focus areas for acceleration We apply a structured process to design the materiality matrix. Read more about our methodology on the sustainability section of the Telenet corporate website. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 7 I CONTENTS THE TELENET SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY At Telenet, we strive for sustainable growth, with a good We want to build a society in which people enjoy balance between operational excellence and social living and working together, embracing the endless responsibility, taking into account the social, economic possibilities of the digital world at the fullest. For a and environmental aspects of our business operations. better quality of life. In 2016 – following the acquisition of BASE Company – we thoroughly rethought our sustainability strategy. In this digital era, we want to make a real difference Not to drastically change course, but to ensure that in by engaging with our customers and employees in terms of sustainability, we maintain our leading position an inclusive and empathic way. We are committed to among Belgian companies. In the course of 2019, we will build an open and transparent relationship with all further integrate the updated material issues into the our stakeholders, looking them straight in the eye and Telenet sustainability strategy and set new priorities and responding to their expectations when it comes to our corresponding targets. social, economic and environmental impact. Our commitment: Always one step ahead! Our focus domains At Telenet, we believe in the tremendous potential The Telenet sustainability program underscores our of digital and we are committed to help people and commitment to the key stakeholders and reflects their businesses to stay one step ahead in the digital age. interests as defined by the materialities: AMAZING CUSTOMER GREAT EXPERIENCE WORKPLACE our commitment our commitment to customers to employees DIGITAL RESPONSIBLE SOCIETY BUSINESS PRACTICES our commitment our commitment to a fair, to society and local open and transparent communities dialogue with all stakeholders For every commitment, we have defined a set of measurable targets, to be reached by 2020. Visit the sustainability section on the Telenet corporate website to learn more about the Telenet Sustainability Strategy, the focus domains and the decision making processes I 8 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS THE TELENET SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK 2017-2020 OUR 2020 VISION GUIDING PRINCIPLES OUR BUSINESS PRIORITIES To be the leading converged One step ahead pioneering – close • Build a leading integrated network connected entertainment and to you – good neighbor sparkling • Lead in inspiring entertainment business solutions provider in passion – enthusiasm pleasure • Unlock the potential in business Belgium. sincere, honest and transparent solutions inclusive • Create memorable customer experiences Always one step ahead At Telenet, we believe in the tremendous potential of digital and we are committed to help people and businesses to stay one step ahead in the digital age. We want to build a society in which people enjoy to live and work together, embracing the endless possibilities of the digital world at the fullest and with pleasure. For a better quality of life. In this digital era, we want to make a real difference by engaging with our customers and employees in an inclusive and empathic way. We are committed to build an open and transparent relationship with all our stakeholders, looking them straight in the eye and responding to their expectations as it comes to our social, economic and environmental impact. AMAZING CUSTOMER GREAT DIGITAL SOCIETY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS EXPERIENCE WORKPLACE PRACTICES Our commitment We do everything to give our We want every Telenet We want to build a society in We do business in an open an customers the best experience employee to be proud to work for which people enjoy to live and transparent way, taking the possible and to build lasting our company and to become real work together, embracing the expectations of all our trusted relationships with them Telenet ambassadors. We want possibilities of the digital world stakeholders into account, as it to empower, enable and inspire at the fullest, with pleasure. For comes to our social, economic our employees to flourish a better quality of life and environmental impact 2020 Objective • Net Promoter Score (NPS) -5 • Zoom employee engagement Unlock the potential of digital • NPS rating of -5 on the • NPS rating of +15 on the score of 61% with a clear for all through at least 3 digital reputation item ‘Enough reputation item ‘Sufficient ambition to reach a score in skills programs efforts towards good causes’ attention to product quality’ the top quartile Accelerate 25,000 young people • NPS rating of -10 on the • NPS rating of +10 on the • Bi-annual E-NPS survey with in the digital age reputation item ‘Honest and reputation item ‘Sufficient a clear ambition to reach a +13 fair business practices’ attention to product score • Become 5 times more carbon innovation’ efficient by 2025 (compared to 2016), and improve our energy efficiency by 15% every year through 2025 We’ll do this by • Bringing the best • Attracting & retaining • Investing in high-performant • Limiting our environmental customer experience the best talent fixed & mobile connectivity footprint • Delivering top quality products • Stimulating learning solutions • Managing our supply chain & services that are easy to use & development • Boosting the digital and in a responsible way • Ensuring privacy & data • Engaging our employees creative economy • Demonstrating good security through internal • Nurturing 21st century governance & transparency • Driving transparent pricing communications and skills for children and in our business practices & billing corporate culture empowering youth through • Cultivating employee entrepreneurship and digital wellbeing & diversity literacy training • Ensuring basic digital literacy skills for all • Promoting the right digital balance T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 9 I CONTENTS TELENET’S MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO ITS FIVE CORE MATERIAL ISSUES In the present report, we provide a deeper insight in our management approach to the five core material issues, which have the largest impact on our company and which are of the highest importance to our main stakeholders. A description of our management approach to all eleven material issues can be found on the Telenet corporate website. 1 Business ethics and transparency Material issue Management approach Promoting responsible business practices through • Monitoring all aspects of our business with several strict commitments to anti-corruption, good corporate internal Codes of Conduct. governance, open stakeholder communications and • Applying a dedicated anti-corruption and bribery transparent pricing and billing. policy that is in line with international regulations and Belgian legislation. Business risks and opportunities • Striving for transparent pricing communications The material issue of business ethics and transparency is on our commercial websites and in our press a key driver for Telenet’s corporate reputation. It touches communications, commercial promotions on all parts of our business operations, thus requiring the and advertisements. attention of all business units and teams. • Engaging in an open and constructive dialogue Promoting responsible business practices allows us to with all our stakeholders. maintain and strengthen our license to operate. When properly managed, the business ethics and transparency issue has the potential to become a key differentiator from industry peers and competitors. 2 Responsible employer Material issue Management approach Continuously improving employee well-being • Continuously investing in learning and development, and engagement, stimulating diversity and equal diversity and equality, health and well-being opportunities* as well as attracting and developing • Generating an open and transparent company culture talent. through internal communications and social dialogue. Due diligence is guaranteed through continuous Business risks and opportunities dialogue and consultation with platforms such as the Being a responsible employer is both an important risk Works Council. given the talent scarcity on the Belgian market and a • Attracting and retaining the best talent (1) by investing growth opportunity for Telenet. If successfully managed, in employer branding initiatives and talent recruitment this material issue can be a key differentiator from other and retention programs and (2) by establishing market players, especially in the current context of the a structural cooperation with higher education war for talent. institutions, schools and universities, and NGOs that train untapped talent. • Stimulating diversity and inclusion by building a working environment that nourishes talent and stimulates employee engagement. *Remark: employee diversity and equality is also a separate material issue, showing its importance for Telenet I 10 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS 3 Digital inclusion and skills development Material issue workforce so it is in our best interest to help develop the Offering training and educational programs to promote talent pool and to invest in employment initiatives. the development of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) competencies and 21st-century Management approach skills. • Investing in life-long learning and development initiatives that create a digital-savvy workforce. Business risks and opportunities • Supporting and sponsoring third-party driven digital The material issue of digital inclusion and skills skills training programs for children, youngsters development is crucial to the successful execution of and young adults alike by establishing structural Telenet’s corporate strategy. In a market that is becoming partnerships with content partners and educational increasingly digitalized, we need access to a digital-savvy experts. 4 Privacy and data security Material issue Management approach Putting in place strict privacy and security measures to • Establishing a clear customer data policy: the Telenet prevent unauthorized access to computers, databases Customer Data Policy describes what information and websites as well as to protect personal information we process, why we do this and what our customers’ and data from our customers rights are. The policy is fully compliant with the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Business risks and opportunities • Discussing all privacy matters and priorities through The material issue of privacy and data security is key to the Privacy Council, which includes representatives Telenet’s business activities. from the different business departments. Major financial and reputational implications may arise • Ensuring data security: Through the Security Council, for Telenet should we not appropriately manage the issue Telenet formulates strategic recommendations or violate applicable legislation. around risks and threats arising from malicious or erroneous use of data. • Duly informing and activating employees about privacy and security through training and regular information sharing. 5 Product sustainability Material issue Management approach Creating products that are innovative, that have a low • Developing innovative products, services and environmental, health and safety impact, and that have a customer propositions: The Telenet Innovation long lifespan. Center offers our technology experts a platform to collaborate with external industry partners, academic Business risks and opportunities institutions and startups to develop and test new This material issue reflects our stakeholders’ products, services, applications and prototypes. expectations to have access to products that • Participating in industry-led initiatives that market and are innovative, have a low environmental, health develop new products and services. and safety impact, and a long lifespan. Product • Investing in the upgrade and optimization of our sustainability clearly offers opportunities to Telenet to customer equipment and networks, ultimately stand out from its peers. resulting in more energy efficiency and reduced greenhouse gas emissions. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 11 I CONTENTS OUR COMMITMENT TOWARDS OUR STAKEHOLDERS At Telenet, each department is responsible for developing structured stakeholder relationships. At the corporate level, Telenet maintains dialogues with several stakeholder groups. STAKEHOLDER GROUPS CUSTOMERS More information > POLICY MAKERS EMPLOYEES More information > More information > LOCAL COMMUNITY INVESTORS More information > More information > SUPPLIERS More information > Visit the sustainability section on the Telenet corporate website to learn more about the six stakeholder groups. IMPORTANT MEMBERSHIPS Discover the full list of our corporate memberships on the sustainability section of the Telenet corporate website I 12 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS OUR MOST IMPORTANT SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS LOOKING BACK AT 2018 The Telenet sustainability program underscores our commitment to help people and businesses stay one step ahead in the digital world, embracing the endless possibilities of digital at the fullest. For a better quality of life. The program reflects the key interests and expectations of our main stakeholders and is built on four pillars: (I) Amazing Customer Experience, (II) Great workplace, (III) Digital society and (IV) Responsible business practices. We take a structural approach to sustainability by making investments and taking initiatives in each of these focus domains. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 13 I CONTENTS OUR COMMITMENT TO CUSTOMERS AMAZING CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE At Telenet, we put in every effort to offer innovative 1Gbps and large data volumes. We are also boosting products and services to our customers. the customer experience by offering seamless wireless What matters to our customers is not the technology as indoor connectivity through the roll-out of Powerlines, such, but how it helps them unwind, interact freely or Access Points and Mobile Coverage Extenders boost their business. These are all experiences to which (femtocells) in the network. Telenet actively contributes by investing in state-ofthe-art fixed and mobile network connectivity and by Future-proof delivering high-quality connected entertainment and business solutions. products and services The mobile and fixed network investments form The acquisitions of BASE Company (June 2016) and SFR the foundation of Telenet’s converged connected Belgium and Luxembourg (June 2017) turned Telenet entertainment and business solutions strategy. into a national telecom services provider, allowing us to Our leading position in future-proof, high-quality, better respond to the rising demand for fixed and mobile converged networks enables us to drive innovation telecom services from both residential and business across our various business domains with new, customers across the country. innovative customer propositions that respond to market expectations: An important first step in the onboarding of BASE Company and SFR customers was our investment ● WIGO is the first all-in-one converged bundle in in the upgrade of the BASE mobile network across Belgium (introduced in 2016), with mobile data Belgium (initiated in 2016) and the optimization allowances that can be shared across multiple SIMs of the SFR coaxial cable infrastructure in La Botte within the same household or company. In December du Hainaut and Brussels (initiated in 2017). These 2018, Telenet doubled and in some cases even tripled investments complemented our efforts to optimize our the mobile data limits of all its WIGO subscriptions. fixed network infrastructure in Flanders and Brussels ● Launched in early 2019, YUGO reinvents the TV through De Grote Netwerf and Nexus projects ecosystem, moving our entertainment platform away (initiated in 2014). from the set-top box to a wireless, mobile solution that allows customers to stream content directly to Thanks to these investments, Telenet now has the fastest their TV screen via solutions like Google Chromecast fixed, gigaspeed network in Belgium, which covers more or Apple Airplay. By leveraging our integrated video than 95 percent of our footprint, including in rural areas. back end, Telenet now has one platform for all video Telenet is also the leading mobile network provider in products, from the classical set-top boxes to mobile Belgium, as shown by the Drive Test Campaign 2018 device applications (Yelo Play) and a fully mobile report of BIPT, the Belgian telecom regulator. solution YUGO. ● Approved by the Belgian Competition Authority in Telenet’s investments enable residential and business May 2018, the takeover of the Belgian ICT integrator customers to benefit by mid-2019 from high-speed Nextel allows the Telenet Business team to expand its Internet connections with broadband speeds of up to B2B services and solutions. I 14 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS ● We also introduced Telenet TINX, a comprehensive In 2018, the number of residential customer complaints solution for the Internet of Things: from idea to received by the Ombudsman for Telecommunications implementation via a secure, high-capacity network about Telenet increased: that uses Telenet’s own narrowband IoT network. Telenet TINX offers corporate customers the ● 1 file per 2,212 services delivered in 2016 opportunity to develop IoT solutions together with (consolidated number for Telenet + BASE Company) Telenet and to access our partner ecosystem. ● 1 file per 1,992 services delivered in 2017 ● 1 file per 1,577 services delivered in 2018 Extending our footprint to the French-speaking parts of the country – with a key focus on Brussels – remains We have the responsibility to reduce the number of a key ambition for Telenet. With the ‘On va vous booster customer complaints and to meet our promise, which is la ville’ campaign launched in November 2018, we want to deliver a smooth and effortless end-to-end customer to boost our penetration in the Brussels SFR footprint experience. To earn the trust of our customers, we with a competitive connectivity and content offer. In have to continually improve this experience by making early 2019, we wrapped up the migration of the SFR it easier for them to digitally interact with Telenet, customers to the Telenet network: no less than 75 by radically simplifying our IT systems and by adopting percent of the customer base opted for Telenet. There leaner and more agile operating models. are two key challenges when convincing customers to opt for Telenet: (1) Telenet is seen as a Flanders-focused The 2016 acquisition of BASE Company was the operator, while (2) SFR has a negative reputation. starting point for a company-wide transformation journey with an integrated customer engagement approach, a digital-first attitude and more agile work The best experience practices as the final, 2020 destination. The following in a digital world focus domains will be instrumental to strengthening Positive customer experiences form the foundation of customer engagement: sustainable growth. Through our different customer engagement channels and a seamless, high-quality and ● Better aligning internal processes to the customer personalized service, we guide our customers to the journey: customers expect Telenet to deliver a best solution for them. seamless experience across all touchpoints, from initial inquiry right through post-sales support. We In 2017, the Telenet Business team initiated the iCare should further improve internal process efficiencies, project ‘Amazing’ to provide customers with more become more agile and tear down barriers between effortless and frictionless customer care. Thanks to business functions and channels. We should the implementation of a more performant IT system also proactively capture the impact of internal and simplified customer service processes, Telenet developments on the customer journey. Business can now deliver on its promise to be a real ‘caring one-stop-shop’ for its customers and respond better and faster to the customer expectation for simplicity and end-to-end digital solutions. Telenet has a long tradition of investing in qualitative customer services. Since 2014, we have been investing in the Amazing Customer Experience Program (ACE), through which we monitor, analyze and report on the experiences of our customers. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS ● Embracing a new digital customer experience: Driving transparent digitalization is changing customer expectations. In the digital economy, customer contacts should pricing and billing be quick, easy, fun and available 24/7. It is why we In June 2018, Telenet informed all its customers of have to develop a truly digital interaction approach a price adjustment to a number of products and that complements the non-digital customer services. These price changes followed from the engagement channels where warm, human growing thirst for faster connections, more data, more exchanges make the difference. mobile Internet, and more capacity. To meet these expectations, we need to invest more in our network, Ensuring privacy products and services. While more investments will be needed in the future potentially leading to price and data security adjustments -, we have the responsibility to reflect Earning trust also implies that the vast amount of on how we can continually provide the best value for customer information we manage is handled with money and in this way earn our customers’ longrespect for privacy and data security. The Telenet term trust. Customer Data Policy describes what information we process, why we do so and what our customers’ Telenet actively promotes sustainable and rights are. It is applicable to all commercial activities of environmentally friendly billing solutions and invites Telenet and is publicly available on the Telenet website. customers to embrace e-billing. In 2018, 71.6 percent of the residential customers and 52.3 percent of the In 2017, we started a consultation with the Belgian Data Telenet Business customers opted for electronic bills. Protection Authority on Telenet’s Customer Data Policy in general and its compliance with the EU General Data Regulatory compliance Protection Regulation (GDPR) in particular. Early in 2018, we made further changes to our Customer Data Telenet has not identified incidents of non-compliance Policy in accordance with the relevant legal provisions with regulations or voluntary codes related to the and – prior to the implementation of the GDPR in May health and safety impacts of its products and services. 2018 – we again alerted our entire customer base to the Customer Data Policy and its four privacy levels: The business impact of regulation general, targeted, personalized and unique. 90 percent (Over) regulation by the federal and regional of Telenet customers are currently on the third privacy governments harms investment, slows down level, and they can change their privacy settings online innovation and hampers the creation of customer at any moment. value. For instance, unduly stringent radiation norms in Brussels for example are jeopardizing the roll-out of While the customer communications covered by the 5G in the capital. The telecom sector is one of the main Telenet Customer Data Policy are fully GDPR compliant, drivers of the Belgian economy. We strongly believe we are continuing our investments to ensure full that regulatory stability in our sector will boost further compliance across the customer value chain. investments and stimulate economic growth. We work with the Belgian Data Protection Authority to implement our privacy policy and to sharpen clauses where necessary. In 2018, the Data Protection Authority sent Telenet 3 requests for information with regards to the processing of (personal) customer data. In addition, 8 incidents were reported to the Data Protection Authority. None of the incidents resulted in a fine. I 16 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS OUR COMMITMENT TO EMPLOYEES GREAT WORKPLACE Telenet is committed to being a responsible employer by engaging in a continuous dialogue with the social who creates a diverse and inclusive working partners. The Works Council is instrumental to this environment that nourishes talent and stimulates process. Having equal representation and an equal engagement. Our employment policy continually number of employer and employee representatives, emphasizes learning and development, diversity, health the Council helps shape the company’s social, economic and well-being and it fosters an open and transparent and financial policies. Telenet’s majority shareholder, company culture that is upheld through internal Liberty Global plc, has also established a European communications and social dialogue. Works Council, which has two Telenet representatives. The acquisitions of BASE Company, SFR Belgium and We also established a comprehensive program to Luxembourg and Nextel have made us a company in full align our HR business processes and to optimize our transformation. As a cornerstone in this transformation back-office systems and IT tools. These efforts to program, the HR department ensures employee wellbuild a fully integrated HR practice have resulted in an being in times of change by building a unified work integrated performance management process, a unified environment with optimized HR business processes and recruitment approach and payroll system, and the IT systems. designation of one external Service for Prevention and Protection at Work for all legal entities (Telenet, Key in this transformation was the harmonization of Telenet Group and Telenet Retail). the working conditions, compensation and benefits for all employees in close consultation with the social One of the cornerstones of this transformation cycle partners. The harmonization of the applicable terms is the adoption of a new, more efficient way of working and conditions, resulted in a collective labor agreement across the organization, built on a ‘digital first’ attitude. for all employees of Telenet Group BVBA signed in We want to enable our employees to work smarter late 2018. through digital communication and collaboration tools, and new, more collaborative working environments. In April 2018, we announced the creation of a joint Telenet is also currently testing two pilot projects that venture with Solutions 30, Europe’s leading provider explore the benefits of agile working and its potential to of solutions for new technologies. We decided to foster a more responsive and efficient organization, and join forces and to merge our technical services and more empowered, productive and expert-driven teams field operations to better respond to digital growth and individuals. opportunities. Three-hundred Telenet employees working in the customer and network install and repair In 2018, Telenet further extended its business services, moved to the new Unit-T organization. In portfolio with the acquisition of the Belgian IT systems November 2018, Coditel/SFR announced its intention integrator Nextel, an important next step in the to proceed to a collective redundancy, affecting development of the Telenet Business department. 40 employees. After the approval of the Belgian Competition Authorities in May 2018, both organizations worked We are committed to drive our company’s slowly towards a business and organizational transformation process in a transparent way, integration, completed in February 2019. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 17 I CONTENTS In March 2018, we also announced our intention to and introduced our new core values during an inspiring take full ownership of De Vijver Media. Approved by Values Campaign. In December 2018, we completed our the Belgian Competition Authorities in May 2019, the corporate narrative with a new, three-year strategic 100 percent control over De Vijver Media will reinforce plan, publicly unveiled at a Capital Markets Day in our position in the Flemish entertainment sector. London. In 2019, we will continue our ‘Staying Ahead’ journey by instilling the company’s core values at the These acquisitions are another important milestone individual and team level through an organization-wide in our transformation and growth process, requiring Values Dialogue. us to invest even more in building a future-proof and agile organization with new ways of working, new Cultivating operating models and an employee community that fully embraces the culture of change. employee well-being A future-proof, resilient workforce that is able to handle uncertainty, unexpected changes and stress can Engaging our employees make the difference during times of change. Already in The active engagement of employees in the new 2015, we initiated a special development program for organization is crucial to the ongoing transformation people leaders and employees with training sessions, journey. Telenet measures employee engagement with an employee assistance program, personal coaching its Zoom survey every two years. Conducted for the and on-the-job support. Addressing and preventing last time in 2017, the Zoom survey will again be held (long-term) absenteeism through training and personal in 2019. Our bi-annual online survey, the Employee coaching is also a key area of attention. Net Promoter Score (E-NPS), helps us keep the pulse Telenet conducted its sixth employee well-being on employee engagement in the interim. The first survey in the fall of 2018, the first to be held across E-NPS score of +13 (January 2018) was followed by the fully integrated company. The survey was a -10 E-NPS score in June 2018, attributable to the successful, with a response rate of 81 percent and Solutions 30 announcement in April. A third E-NPS strong scores well above industry benchmarks for measurement in January 2019 showed a company‘employee engagement‘(80 percent) and ‘pleasure wide increase to a +12 E-NPS score. The three main in work’ (82 percent). One attention point is that 40 drivers of employee satisfaction are: (1) a challenging percent of respondents indicated needing time for working environment with compelling assignments; recovery. In 2019, we will follow up on these results (2) a dynamic ‘always on the move’ company culture; with a comprehensive action plan and a centralized, and (3) a pleasant working environment. digital information point about health and safety on our internal communications portal. Key well-being To strengthen employee engagement, we strongly initiatives include a dedicated Employee Assistance focus on internal communications and corporate Program (EAP), a special Care for You program culture initiatives. Since 2016, we have been intensifying for employees with long-term illnesses and the internal communications to ensure all employees are establishment of a well-being portal and information fully informed about our transformation journey. Major sessions with useful tips & tricks for employees on how initiatives include regular newsletters, a yearly allto strengthen their personal well-being at work. employees meeting and our dynamic ‘Tellit’ intranet that shares business, corporate and employee stories The Committee for Prevention and Protection at from across the organization. Work (CPPW) is a consultative body composed of both employer and employee representatives that represents In 2018, we premiered our new ‘Staying Ahead’ all employees. It provides advice on well-being policies corporate narrative. Fully aligned with both employee and considers health, safety and environmental issues. values and our brand purpose, this powerful narrative The CPPW focuses on the global prevention plan and turns our employees into true Telenet ambassadors. the annual action plan in the domains of occupational We presented our new company purpose in mid-2018 safety and health surveillance, ergonomics, work I 18 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS hygiene, work post embellishment and psychosocial Attracting and risks at work, including bullying, violence and sexual harassment as well as all environment-related aspects. retaining the best talent Like many other companies, Telenet feels the effects of The company’s performance in the area of well-being the growing digitalization trend and its impact on new is reported annually to the CPPWs and the General work practices and the war on talent. It is becoming Direction Supervision on Well-being at Work, a unit of increasingly hard to find technical experts like data the Federal Government Service Employment, Labor scientists and information security specialists. and Consultation. In the short term, we ensure access to talented people In 2018, there were 74 work accidents, including by investing even more in employer branding initiatives occupational work accidents and accidents to and from and talent retention programs. We also have structural work, with a total temporary incapacity for work of cooperation programs with higher education 303 calendar days. There were no fatal occupational institutions, with a particular focus on engineering accidents or accidents with confirmed permanent students and those with technical and professional disability. Overall, the frequency and severity of work degrees. Our two-year Young Graduate training accidents continues to remain below industry levels for program offers recent graduated master students all divisions. the opportunity to gain their first work experience. In 2018, 27 young graduates kicked-off their two-year professional assignment. Telenet also stimulates Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education and skills development to develop tomorrow’s workforce, as described in greater detail in the chapter on our commitment to society and local communities. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 19 I CONTENTS Stimulating diversity Being diverse and inclusive calls for continuous investments in talent management – from recruitment, and inclusion training and education, to career planning. The Human Telenet is committed to being a responsible employer Resources department is investing in (1) building who offers a diverse and inclusive working environment a more diverse recruitment team, (2) diversifying that nourishes talent and stimulates engagement. recruitment channels, and (3) establishing structural Diversity is a term with multiple facets at Telenet: from partnerships with recruitment agencies that offer hiring people with disabilities and those re-entering the employment opportunities to millennials with a labor market after a long-term illness, to welcoming multi-cultural background or coming out of vulnerable applicants of all origins, ages, cultures and religions. social environments. Telenet also continues its Practicing an inclusive employment policy calls for an commitment to YouthStart, an international open mindset but also a clear signal: what matters is organization that strengthens the entrepreneurial not a person’s origins or background but his/her skills, skills of unemployed youngsters, and BeCode, a web experience and personal and professional attitude. developer-training program for underprivileged youngsters and young adults. As part of its diversity Telenet has a diverse employee base composed of policy, Telenet created internship and job opportunities a healthy mix of male and female, and young and old for YouthStart and BeCode graduates and it has hired workers who come from a wide range of professional three alumni of these programs. and cultural backgrounds. At the end of 2018, 36 percent of the employees and 37 percent of the Telenet We stay committed to drive an employment policy leaders were women. The Telenet management team that invests in learning and development, diversity, included 42 percent of women, while there were three health and wellbeing, and that generates an open women on the Board of Directors. and transparent company culture through internal communications and social dialogue. Out of principle and in accordance with Belgian law, Telenet provides gender equal remuneration. The most recent OECD figures show that Belgium ranks fourth worldwide in gender wage equality. However, small differences can be found between men and women’s salaries. This is explained by the fact that women in each employee category are on average a couple of years younger than their male counterparts. This age difference is reflected in their years of experience and thus has an impact on compensation. The ratio data of the average female salary and average male salary at Telenet are as follows: ● Employees, Non-management level: 0.84 ● Leadership: 0.86 ● Senior Management: 0.84 I 20 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIETY AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES DIGITAL SOCIETY Investing in digital innovation Overview investments 2018 and high-performing network infrastructures 16% 32% Digital innovation is crucial to the prosperity of our Customer Network region: it ensures increased quality of life, sustainable premises investments growth and new jobs. Investments in superfast equipment broadband networks generate an important economic benefit for society. Gigaspeed networks provide consumers with state-of-the-art communications 35% 17% and entertainment services, while reliable broadband Maintenance Products solutions boost education, information sharing and of the network and services business productivity. and other maintenance In 2018, our investments totaled 687.7 million euros – or 27 percent of our corporate revenue. The majority of these investments went toward upgrading our network infrastructure. It is our ambition to lead with superior converged connectivity. Our network infrastructure is Contributions to the Belgian treasury 2018 in millions of euros fully bi-directional and EuroDocsis 3.0 enabled with a spectrum bandwidth capacity of 600 MHz. In August 2014, we launched a five-year 500 million euros 74.2 investment program to increase our fixed network Social security capacity to 1 GHz and to enable future download speeds 125 of at least 1 Gbps. At the end of 2018, approximately 65.1 Corporation tax Payroll tax on the results 95 percent of the fixed network nodes had been upgraded. We also invested in the modernization of our mobile network: at the end of 2018, we had upgraded 14.5 Company all 2,800 macro sites and deployed 413 new sites. contributions and taxes 279.6 In 2018, our total contribution to the Belgian treasury Difference between was 559.5 million euros. The total contribution was payable and down by 4 percent from 2017. deductible VAT T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 21 I CONTENTS Taking a collaborative Investing in the local media sector approach to digital innovation to boost creative entrepreneurship In a world of rapid technology developments, The Belgian media landscape is rapidly evolving. continuous investments in innovation are the lifeline Consumer viewing behavior is changing and local of our company. Since 2017, the Telenet Innovation media channels have to compete with global content Center steers the development of new technologies providers (FAANG) who invest heavily in new series for connectivity, entertainment, value-added services and movies, and technology platforms to make this and customer experiences. It aims at being a platform content globally available. The bar for the production for collaborative innovation where Telenet teams and provision of international and national content has can partner up with industry partners, academic been set very high by the Over-the-Top (OTT) content institutions and startups to test new products, services providers. This has a significant impact on the business and applications. model of traditional local television providers. It is our ambition to strengthen the Flemish media ecosystem The Telenet Innovation Center’s current primary focus by supporting local production companies and creative is on 5G and the Internet of Things (IoT), serving as a entrepreneurs, and by offering viewers premium local knowledge center for the entire Liberty Global Group. content and entertainment innovations. In 2018, the Telenet Innovation Center invested in the development of several smart technology prototypes: In 2018, we continued to foster local television a Smart Traffic solution for self-driving cars and smart series and movies by investing 4.8 million euros traffic lights; a Smart Building solution for centralized in co-productions with local production houses building monitoring; and a Smart Network integrated and media channels like Medialaan, SBS and VRT. network maintenance solution with access control, fire alarm and power usage monitoring. Telenet has also invested in the production of its own One key milestone was the announcement of a local drama series. In March 2018, we released De Dag, five-year strategic partnership with Brussels-South a production of FBO and Woestijnvis, with the support Charleroi Airport to turn the airport in a digital hub of VAF/Mediafonds. This is our second drama series using IoT solutions. after Chaussée d’Amour in 2016, made in collaboration with the production company De Mensen. This new The Telenet Innovation Center also wants to spur cooperation model for Flemish drama series ensures innovation and entrepreneurship in the Telenet a win-win-win for viewers, for Telenet as a Flemish employee community. Together with Liberty Global, entertainment player and for local media channels, the Innovation team launched Matchbox, a companywhich can continue to produce and show wide program that encourages employees to turn their top-class series in this way. innovative ideas into prototypes through training, mentoring and personal coaching. In May 2019, Telenet received the green light from the Belgian Competition Authorities to take full ownership of De Vijver Media that covers the commercial TV channels VIER, VIJF and ZES and the production house Woestijnvis. This will allow us to further explore the opportunities the convergence of TV and Internet offers and to respond even faster to innovations in entertainment and consumer viewing. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS The power of digital: At the same time, we should make consumers more aware of the risks associated with digitalization, in opportunities and challenges particular in terms of privacy, personal data protection Digital innovation creates new opportunities in our and data fraud prevention. It is our responsibility to private and professional lives, and building and using take appropriate action and to protect those who are digital technologies has become essential in today and vulnerable, children in particular. tomorrow’s society. However, as a leading telecom and entertainment company in Belgium, we are also aware In 2016, Telenet joined the Belgian Better Internet of the challenges that digitalization brings. Consortium (B-BICO) that aims at promoting media literacy and safer Internet use among children. Through We focus our efforts on four key domains of our main shareholder Liberty Global, we are also a Gold digitalization: Partner of the annual Safer Internet Day awareness campaign. To increase the online safety of children and 1 I Unlocking the potential of digital for all youth, we also offer parental control solutions for all To succeed in today’s knowledge economy, digital skills our Internet and television services. are imperative for all. Yet 39 percent of Belgians lack basic digital skills, and this digital literacy gap hits 2 I Empowering future generations elderly and socially underserved people the hardest. The European DESI tracker 2018 shows that Belgium In the European Commission’s Digital Economy and ranks 23rd in Europe for its low share of STEM Society Index (DESI) 2018, Belgium only ranks 12th for graduates. The DESI Country Report 2018 for Belgium human capital and digital skills adoption. moreover warns that these STEM shortages may hamper future growth and innovation, and emphasizes In September 2018, Telenet started a structural that a persistent shortage of ICT specialists exists in all partnership with the NGO Deelbaar Mechelen to regions of the country. The low number of graduates provide 30 families from underserved communities with technical and science degrees is expected to result with laptops, Internet connection, technical support in 30,000 unfilled ICT vacancies by 2020. and personal coaching. The program helps the children in these families to stay connected with their school, It is why the Flemish government has decided to teachers and friends. encourage mathematics, science and technology careers through its STEM action plan. Telenet signed In an inclusive digital society, technological the STEM charter in 2015 and we have become an active innovations should be available to all. It is why Telenet member of the STEM academy, which mainly supports goes beyond what is legally required in Belgium and extracurricular STEM activities. applies a social fee to all its telecom products and services. With SchoolNet+, the Telenet Business As part of this commitment, we collaborate with department also offers – in cooperation with the CoderDojo Belgium that teaches children aged 7-18 Flemish government Internet and security packages to code, build websites, and develop apps and games. to schools and libraries at strongly reduced prices. CoderDojo Belgium is today active in more than 100 The aim is to offer educational organizations a fast locations across Belgium. Already well established in Internet connection as well as protection against Flanders and Brussels, CoderDojo Belgium recently volatile influences. Telenet manages and secures all expanded to Wallonia with the support of the Walloon systems and services. We also relieve the ICT school government and the Digital Wallonia program. coordinators from their operational responsibilities so they can focus on their most important task – to help teachers use ICT tools in the classroom. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 23 I CONTENTS We partnered up with We Go STEM for the second time underserved communities. Since its 2017 launch, the in October 2018 as part of the EU Code Week. Organized project has expanded to six cities in Flanders, Wallonia by ShegoesICT and Dwengo, this initiative teaches and Brussels. children aged 10-12 how to build and program a drawing robot. Supported by 3,000 volunteers, We Go STEM In 2018, 182 students graduated from the BeCode reached 88 primary schools and more than 5,000 pupils program. Up to 80 percent of the graduates found in Brussels, Flanders and Wallonia. permanent jobs or registered for additional training after their BeCode internship. In January 2019, BeCode Youth unemployment remains a key and stubborn reached up to 270 students and the program is challenge in the digital economy. In March 2019, the expected to grow to 500 students per year in the years youth unemployment rate was 18.4 percent in Flanders, to come. 27.5 percent in Wallonia and 24.3 percent in Brussels. The training and activation of Not in Education, 3 I Accelerating digital entrepreneurship Employment or Training (NEET) youngsters, particularly Early in 2017, the Telenet Business department launched in the digital space, represents a tremendous an ambitious program to speed up the adoption of opportunity. Telenet therefore collaborates with digital technologies by SMEs. Recent studies have YouthStart to unlock the potential of unemployed shown that that 25 percent of Flemish SMEs are not youngsters across Belgium. Our partnership particularly leveraging the power of digital to grow their business focuses on the roll-out of YouthStart in Brussels and and to strengthen their competitive position: Wallonia, with 50 training courses organized and 450 43 percent of them for instance do not have a website NEET youngsters reached in those regions in the 2017while more than 80 percent are not active in the 2018 school year. e-commerce space. The Digitale Versnelling program brings such entrepreneurs up to speed by providing Telenet is moreover one of the founding partners free consultancy about email marketing, social media of BeCode, a web development training program and online security. Since the program launch, 19 digital for unemployed and low-skilled young people from experts have digitally accelerated more than 2,500 SMEs across Flanders and Brussels. 4 I Finding the right digital balance Digital technologies allow people to be connected anytime, anywhere and on any device. As a telecom and entertainment provider, we enable and promote a digital lifestyle through our high-performing (mobile) connectivity solutions. We should however remain alert to the downsides of this ‘always on’ lifestyle. It is our responsibility to help people find the right balance: digital technologies should not jeopardize personal relations nor present a serious risk to people’s wellbeing or health. I 24 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS A committed member of the local community Telenet invests in various social projects. In 2018, our Since 2015, every Telenet employee can take one paid financial contribution to charities and community leave day per calendar year to volunteer in one of the initiatives totaled 728,045 euros. Our local community projects supported by Telenet. Telenet employees engagement applies to 100 percent of the organization. contributed 2,014 hours to volunteering in 2018. But we do more than provide mere financial support: Early in 2019, the employee volunteering program was we encourage and support the active engagement of extended to former BASE Company employees as part our employees, who are strongly anchored in the local of the organization-wide harmonization of working community. They raise money for good causes and conditions, compensation and benefit plans. they act as mentors and coaches in the social projects supported by Telenet. -65% Cash contributions compared to 2017 Community Investments 2017 2018 Type of contribution Total Amount in € Total Amount in € Cash contributions 1,771,486 614,890 Time: Employee volunteering 53,567 48,336 during paid working hours In kind-giving: Product and services donations, projects, 62,029 64,819 partnerships or similar Management overheads 0 0 Employee Volunteering Work in hours in hours 2,232 2,014 -9.8% Employee volunteering during paid working hours compared to 2017 T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 25 I CONTENTS OUR COMMITMENT TO FAIR, OPEN AND TRANSPARENT BUSINESS PRACTICES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES As an important Belgian player in telecommunications, highest corporate governance standards and by actively media and entertainment, we want to maintain and engaging with our stakeholders to respond to their strengthen the trust of our stakeholders. We pledge expectations with regard to our social, economic and to conduct our business in a fair, responsible and environmental impact. transparent manner. We do this by upholding the 1 I Limiting our environmental impact It is our ambition to grow Telenet as a company while First released in March 2018, our Environmental reducing our impact on the environment. Telenet has Management Policy Statement outlines our identified the most material environmental risks in approach and pays special attention to the three its materiality assessment, and our environmental above-mentioned strategic environmental priorities. priorities are threefold: The statement underscores our commitment to environmentally friendly business operations that 1. Improving energy efficiency: Telenet is committed to are aligned with the UN Sustainable Development reduce energy consumption in its own operations and Goals and the principles of the Paris Agreement on in customers’ homes. Climate Action. The Environmental Management Policy Statement guides the actions of Telenet’s senior 2. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions: Telenet leadership, employees and suppliers in achieving our perceives climate change as a potential threat and environmental objectives. therefore manages it as a business risk. Telenet switches to renewable energy sources wherever The acquisitions that made Telenet a convergent possible and offsets emissions by investing in carbon player with operations across Belgium and the Grand compensation programs. Duchy of Luxembourg impacted its environmental management processes and outcomes. Environmental 3. Reducing the use of resources and generation of data collection processes were consolidated so that waste: Telenet’s approach to waste is to reduce the all systems and procedures could be integrated. We use of resources, to recycle and refurbish customer redefined our targets and commitments for energy premise equipment (CPE), and to properly dispose efficiency and carbon emissions reduction in 2018 of and process waste. We contribute to the circular to take into account the extended mobile and fixed economy by developing circular supply chains, by network infrastructure, the expanded customer base recycling materials, by extending product lifecycles and the growing complexity of our operations, systems through CPE refurbishment and by offering products and supply chain processes. as a service. I 26 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS Our goal is to improve our electricity consumption target on mobile combustion, which currently efficiency with 15 percent every year through 2025. represents 49 percent of our total emissions. We also aim to be five times more carbon efficient This target will be defined as part of a new strategic by 2025, with 2016 as the base year for both targets. plan on employee mobility to be developed by a To set meaningful targets, we measure our energy dedicated working group before the end of 2019, in consumption and GHG emissions per terabyte (TB) of close alignment with all internal stakeholders. We will data transported through our networks. include the absolute target on mobile combustion in the Telenet Non-Financial Statement 2019, to be published Following a detailed management review of our in April 2020. Apart from setting more ambitious environmental performance 2018, we have recently targets, the new strategic plan on employee mobility decided to increase our ambition level as it comes to will focus on strengthening the internal awareness and carbon efficiency, by setting an additional, absolute on implementing change management processes. Carbon Efficiency Target: Electricity Efficiency Target: 15% electricity 5X more carbon efficient in 2025 efficiency improvement year on year through 2025 Ratio scope 1+2 market-based emissions (tons CO2e)/terabytes of data Ratio electricity consumption (kWh)/terabytes of data 0.009 0.008 160 0.007 140 0.006 120 0.005 100 0.004 80 0.003 0.002 60 0.001 40 0.000 20 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 0 Our goal is to improve the efficiency of our electricity consumption by 15% every year through 2025. We also aim to be five times more carbon efficient by 2025, using 2016 as our base year for both targets. In order to provide meaningful targets, we measure our energy consumption and GHG emissions per terabyte (TB) of data transported through our networks. Initiatives to optimize the Report and Accounts. Reporting to Liberty Global plc, KPMG uses the assurance standards ISAE 3000 environmental performance and ISAE 3410. As part of our commitment to environmental sustainability, we constantly review and optimize our ● We purchase electricity from renewable resources environmental management processes and programs: that meet the relevant regional and federal Belgian ● Environmental data collection processes: and European standards. Telenet uses 100 percent We report our environmental data to our majority green energy for its buildings, including the facilities shareholder Liberty Global plc, using its Credit360 of Hostbasket, Belcompany and Interkabel. We opt system. As such, Liberty Global annually reviews for renewable energy sources such as solar panels. Telenet’s environmental data. At Group level, Liberty Our leased buildings – including the former BASE Global engages KPMG to provide limited assurance Company offices in Woluwe – do not all use green of the energy consumption and greenhouse gas electricity. In 2018, the share of grey electricity was emissions data presented in Liberty Global’s Annual 8 percent. We will look into ways to convert grey into T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 27 I CONTENTS green energy as much as possible in consultation ● Mobility alternatives for company cars – Telenet with the owners of the leased properties in the employees can combine their company car with a coming years. rail pass or opt for a smaller lease car with lower CO₂ emissions and a compensation for the unused ● We continue our investments in the upgrade of our budget. They can even forego a company car fixed and mobile network operations, which will entirely in exchange for compensation. A recently ultimately result in improved energy efficiency and introduced company-wide mobility program reduced greenhouse gas emissions. As such, we for employees also offers more flexibility with replace old equipment with more efficient equipment. personalized mobility solutions. As mentioned The energy efficiency – Power Usage Efficiency (PUE) – above, we will develop an even more ambitious of the 94 technical stations of the Telenet fixed strategic plan on employee mobility towards the network and the Telenet and BASE data centers is end of 2019, in close alignment with all internal continuously measured to enable a fast adjustment stakeholders. and optimization of the systems and processed. ● We take a variety of measures to reduce the use of Telenet also supports the European Code of Conduct resources and generation of waste: on Data Center Energy Efficiency and we invest in LED ● Recycling and reusing set-top boxes and modems technology, alternating pulsing for climate cabinets Every year, Telenet recycles more than 220,000 and turbo compressors for cooling units to improve set-top boxes and modems returned to Telenet the PUE of our data centers. Centers by end customers or replaced by Telenet technicians. Through a reverse logistics solution We are also increasing the use of the server farm. developed in collaboration with the Flemish social The introduction of a free cooling solution in the profit organization Vlotter (IMSIR cbva), Telenet technical locations in 2018 allowed for an increase of avoided 375 tons of waste in 2018. This reverse the maximum temperatures, reducing the need for logistics cooperation has also resulted in the cooling and therefore improving energy efficiency. creation of job opportunities for 60 individuals with limited access to the labor market. ● We continue to invest in innovative, more eco● Recycling and reusing computers, mobile friendly products and solutions. We for instance phones and IT equipment Telenet’s old PCs and developed a new generation of more energy-efficient IT equipment are given a second life thanks to a set-top boxes. These models are released to the cooperation with the non-for-profit organization market from May 2019 onwards. Pro Used Computers (PUC). In 2018, 2.0 percent of the Telenet customers and 3.5 percent of the ● We encourage the use of responsible mobility BASE customers who bought a new mobile handset solutions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. at a Telenet or BASE point of sales traded in their ● Clean vehicles The average CO2 emissions of all old device. Some of these mobile devices are passenger vehicles was 115 g/km and that of newly reprocessed and sold as second-hand devices. deployed passenger vehicles was also 115 g/km. ● Proper waste disposal – We promote rational paper The increase of the CO2 emissions in 2018 was due use and have adopted smart and environmentally to (1) the shift from diesel cars to gasoline-driven friendly packaging solutions. We also embrace vehicles in the Telenet fleet and (2) the extension of digital administration solutions. As such, 71.6 the fleet following the acquisition of Nextel. percent of the Telenet customers and 52.3 percent In 2017, we added compressed natural gas vehicles of the BASE customers opted for electronic to our company fleet, which produce lower NOx invoices in 2018. emissions than traditional fuels. As part of the new Employee Mobility strategy to be developed by the end of 2019, Telenet will shift its fleet to more electrical vehicles. I 28 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS When waste is inevitable, we put in every effort in Ecuador. 403,923 native trees have been planted since to ensure it is properly disposed of. Normally, the the 2011 project launch, representing a reforestation of waste that we produce is recycled or permanently 408 hectares and an estimated accumulated carbon disposed of through energy recuperation (e.g. sequestration storage of 8,627 tons in 2018. This initiative incineration). In 2018, no incidents involving has also revived local forest fauna and flora, and created significant spills occurred. dozens of local jobs. Telenet actively invests in e-waste recycling and Telenet’s efforts to meet its environmental priorities recuperation. In 2018, Telenet’s consolidated are complicated by the extensive environmental recycling and recuperation result was 55 percent reporting requirements imposed by local regulations. refurbishment of collected customer premise In addition, the regional variation in radiation norms equipment, and 100 percent recycling of hazardous makes it difficult to improve and expand our network waste, a slight increase compared to the 2017 infrastructure service coverage. restated baseline. Telenet works with several government-certified organizations to ensure Telenet’s climate action plan is regularly benchmarked proper disposal of waste created by customers. by independent sustainability review agencies for analysts and investors like the Dow Jones Sustainability For every purchase of a Telenet or BASE product, Indices, ISS Corporate Solutions and ESG Sustanalytics. a contribution is made to Recupel and Bebat. For Telenet is generally recognized for its coordinated waste streams like packaging and print ads, we pay action on climate change issues and for its strong an annual contribution to Fost Plus, Val-i-Pac and record in governance and emissions management. the non-profit Interventiefonds Oud Papier. Key areas for improvement include more proactive ● We continue investing in a carbon offset initiative risk management as well as third-party verification to reduce our environmental footprint. Telenet has of the Scope 1-2-3 emissions data. Telenet’s climate had a structural partnership with the nature action plan was also reviewed by the Carbon Disclosure organization Bos+ since 2011. Together with local Project (CDP) and given a C score in 2018. NGOs, Bos+ runs a sustainable reforestation project 2 I Managing our supply chain in a responsible way The products and services that we purchase from ● working conditions (such as working hours and suppliers have as much of an ethical, environmental termination procedures); and social impact as our own products and services. ● health and safety at work; We reward suppliers who strive for sustainable ● business ethics (such as anti-corruption). operations and encourage the others to improve their performance. Suppliers also agree to comply with the Principles around Responsible Purchasing and Supply Chain of We require suppliers to comply with the Telenet our parent company Liberty Global. These principles Supplier Code of Conduct, which covers: implement international labor standards such as the ● environmental standards for the supplier’s activities, International Labour Organization Core Conventions, products and services; and the UN Treaty on Human Rights, Bribery and ● fundamental human rights (such as the prohibition on Corruption, Health, Safety and the Environment. forced and child labor); T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 29 I CONTENTS • Suppliers and subcontractors should comply to the conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) in relation to the prohibition on child and forced labour, discrimination and freedom of association. • Covers all labour policies and standards, including health and safety, working conditions and remuneration. TELENET SUPPLIER POLICY • Is publicly available. • Is firmly embedded in the procurement process. • Communicating the Supplier Policy to all its suppliers worldwide. All supplier contracts do include clauses regarding labour standards and policies. • Regularly assessing its suppliers on policy compliance. • Driving audits to check policy compliance. When suppliers are suspected to breach the policy, a formal audit is done. TELENET ENFORCES ITS • Providing support and guidance to non-compliant suppliers through SUPPLIER POLICY BY the implementation of corrective actions and recovery plans. Suppliers can review the Telenet Supplier Code of We continuously encourage our suppliers to improve Conduct and the Liberty Global Responsible Purchasing their sustainability performance through information Principles on the Telenet Supplier Policy webpage. and training. Suppliers are required to provide information about the Together with its main shareholder Liberty Global, following with their quotation: Telenet uses a dynamic scorecard to compare and ● social policies in the workplace benchmark the performance of its suppliers since ● respect for legislation and regulations around child labor 2013. The EcoVadis Dynamic Scorecard assesses ● commitment to efficient transportation the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) ● environmental efforts in business operations performance of companies on twenty-one indicators, covering environmental, social, ethical and supplier risks. These criteria are given relatively high weight in We regularly monitor our suppliers and launch a formal addition to the price and quality of the goods or audit in the event of suspected breaches. In case of services to be supplied. non-compliance with Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) principles, we help suppliers take corrective Supplier contracts very precisely stipulate security actions. If no agreement is reached on an acceptable and environmental specifications as well as guidelines recovery plan however, the business relationship may on equipment and raw materials, energy consumption be terminated. and packaging, and waste and recycling. All suppliers also agree to comply with our Code of Conduct and In 2018, a risk analysis was performed on 127 suppliers, Anti-Corruption Policy. This Code also confirms no of which 68 supply directly to Telenet. Corrective action conflict of interest exists between the suppliers and plans are implemented for suppliers identified as ‘high their representatives on the one hand, and Telenet and risk’. In 2018, 9 of the reviewed Telenet suppliers were persons affiliated with Telenet on the other. asked to take corrective actions. In 2019, it is Liberty Global’s ambition to assess 100 suppliers. I 30 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS Telenet is also as a major supplier to large corporations. lagged behind on Environment (50/100). The main EcoVadis assessed Telenet’s sustainability performance risks identified were a lack of certification (ISO 14001 & in June 2018, following a request from SPIE. Telenet OHSAS 18001), supporting documentation and (alleged) maintained its Gold EcoVadis CSR Rating and slightly low coverage of certain policies and measures across the improved its overall score from 64 points in 2016, organization. to 65 points in 2018. Telenet achieved a 80/100 score for Fair Business Practices, putting it in the top two More information on Telenet’s approach to percentile of suppliers assessed by EcoVadis in the Supply Chain Management can be found on the Telecommunications Sector. The company furthermore Telenet corporate website. obtained good grades in the areas of Labor Practices and Sustainable Procurement (both 70/100), but 3 I Demonstrating good governance & transparency in our business practices At Telenet, we are committed to conduct our business Reviewed and updated by the Risk and Compliance in a fair, honest and respectful manner. Team in the fall of 2018, the Telenet Code of Conduct is signed by the management board, the Senior Leadership We subscribe to a series of internal codes of conduct and all employees with confidential roles. The reviewed and external economic, environmental and social Code of Conduct was formally launched early 2019. charters, principles and initiatives. We ensure that It integrates principles of the OECD Guidelines human rights are respected across our value chain for Multinationals, setting out the basic rules and by setting the highest standards for our employees, behaviors needed to conduct business with honesty customers and suppliers. and integrity in accordance with high ethical and legal standards. Extending to all aspects of employment The United Nations Global Compact guides our from recruitment to termination, the Code of Conduct strategy and corporate culture, and ensures the applies to all employees and covers human rights such sustainability of our daily operations. In 2011, we as equal opportunity, privacy and health and safety. It formalized our commitment to these ten principles prohibits discrimination and harassment of any kind. with regard to human rights, the environment and anticorruption. We report on the progress achieved in these In addition, there are special, company-wide codes areas on an annual basis, as shown in the table found on of conduct related to anti-corruption and bribery, page 48 of this report. and competition and privacy issues. No violations were found of fair competition and monopoly We also embraced the UN Sustainable Development practices in 2018. Goals in 2015. Page 47 of this report outlines how Telenet commits to these goals. Through training and information sessions, Telenet employees are regularly informed about these codes of Meeting the highest standards of corporate governance conduct. is essential to guaranteeing the integrity of our business practices. We therefore monitor all aspects of our They can anonymously report compliance issues and business with several internal codes of conduct. breaches through the whistleblower procedure or compliance mailbox. Complaints are handled by the T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 31 I CONTENTS Company Compliance Officer and the chairman of the Telenet engages with the Belgian Data Protection Audit Committee. For the eleventh consecutive year, no Authority for its practical implementation and violations were reported in 2018. sharpening of clauses where necessary. In May 2018, the EU General Data Protection Regulation The Corporate Governance Charter outlines the rules 2016/679 (GDPR) came into effect. Telenet took several and principles that underlie the Corporate Governance actions to ensure compliance with the GDPR and: of the company. The charter can be found on the ● appointed a Data Protection Officer; Telenet Investor Relations website. ● created several internal workgroups to implement the GDPR across the different business units; In compliance with all applicable legislation, Telenet’s ● updated internal procedures and IT systems. Customer Data Policy stipulates how customer data is collected, used, stored and protected. It also describes While Telenet is fully compliant with the GDPR rules how customers can control use of their personal data, how with respect to the customer communications on Telenet is authorized to contact customers, and details the the Telenet Customer Data Policy, we are continuing rules around the passing of personal data to third parties. our investments to ensure full compliance across the customer value chain. Internal guidelines related to practical compliance with the policy and an online training for employees have Telenet’s anti-corruption policy is in line with also been developed. By the end of 2018, 32 percent of international regulations, Belgian legislation and the employees had completed the mandatory training. policies of Liberty Global. It distinguishes between three categories of corruption and bribery risks: ● Active public corruption: Presenting a public official (or a person introducing himself as such), either directly or through an intermediary, with an offer, promise or benefit of whatever kind in favor of that same official or any other person, to adopt a particular course of action that could yield some kind of commercial advantage. ● Active private corruption: Presenting any other person (business partner, supplier), either directly or through an intermediary, with an offer, promise or benefit of whatever kind in favor of that person or any other person, to perform or refrain from a particular action as part of his position within his company, without the knowledge and authorization of that person’s company. ● Passive private corruption: Requesting or accepting, directly or through an intermediary, an offer, promise or benefit of whatever kind from another person, without the knowledge and authorization of the Company, to perform or refrain from a particular action as part of his position at the Company. Telenet has identified Corporate, Public & Regulatory Affairs, Procurement, and Telenet Business as the business departments presenting an increased risk of these types of corruption. I 32 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS To ensure internal adoption, the anti-corruption policy The high ethical standards observed by Telenet also is communicated to all employees, agents, contractors apply to its advertising and publicity campaigns. and suppliers. It is also clarified with the help of Telenet acts in accordance with the rules set by the concrete examples and practical guidelines. Jury for Ethical Practices in Advertising (JEP), the self-disciplinary body of the Belgian advertising sector, The anti-corruption policy prohibits the giving or taking whose task it is to monitor the accuracy and fairness of of bribes and places limits on the giving and receiving of advertisements. JEP’s considered opinions are published gifts. It also reminds to observe laws and regulations, on its website. Telenet follows these recommendations and mandates transparency around political donations. in as far as possible. In 2018, one alleged breach of ethical advertising practices was reported for SFR, Telenet did not spend any money on political but this was not acknowledged by JEP. No breaches contributions in 2018. The company invested were reported to the JEP with regard to the advertising 93,337 euros in lobby activities, including consultant practices of Telenet and BASE. salaries, administrative fees and sponsoring contributions. It also spent 682,686 euros on As a leading provider of Internet services, Telenet memberships with trade associations. The highest trade carries a social responsibility with regard to freedom association fees were paid to Agoria, VOKA and RISS. of expression. Our general principle is not to limit it in any way, except when requested to do so by a legal We are fully committed to being a responsible company authority. that takes into account the broader impact of its business activities and corporate decision-making on Together with other Belgian Internet providers, Telenet the community we are operating in. signed a Protocol with the Belgian Gaming Commission, requiring it to take action against illegal gambling Telenet actively engages with corporate stakeholders websites in cooperation with the Federal and Regional – including public authorities – through consultation Computer Crime Unit. and dialogue. We have established a stakeholder engagement charter with a number of principles Legal authorities can also require Telenet to block that ensure that Telenet develops lasting, trusted websites that violate copyrights or distribute illegal relationships with its corporate stakeholders in an open pornographic material. Finally, Telenet adheres to and transparent way. the Code of Conduct of the Association of Internet Service Providers in Belgium (ISPA) – of which it is also In 2018, Telenet organized two expert round tables a member – to prevent and combat child abuse via chat (Telenet Talks), two stakeholder panel sessions (CEO applications and websites. Executive Circle) and one large networking event (Mix & Mingle). The participation in these events was not remunerated and no expense fees were paid to the attendees. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 33 I CONTENTS IN A NUTSHELL TELENET’S PROGRESS ON ITS MAIN SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS DOMAINS RESULT RESULT RESULT TARGET 2016 2017 2018 AMAZING CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE Customer loyalty for Telenet &BASE: Telenet: -8.8 Telenet: -14.9 Telenet: -13.8 Net Promoter Score (NPS) of -5 BASE: -10.3 BASE: -4.5 BASE: 1 NPS rating of +15 for reputation item ‘Sufficient attention to product quality’ (new +4.0 +9.3 2020 target 2018, baseline measurement 2017Q1) Objective NPS rating of +10 for reputation item ‘Sufficient attention to product innovation’ 0.0 +9.3 (new target 2018, baseline measurement 2017Q1) Customer churn rate 8.0% 9.3% 12.1% 5 incidents 1 incident 8 incidents reported to the reported to the reported to the Privacy complaints and breaches Data Protection Data Protection Data Protection KPIs Authority. Authority. Authority. No fines No fines No fines # Data protection breaches 0 0 0 Billing NPS -13.2 -12.0 -12.2 GREAT WORKPLACE Employee engagement: Zoom employee score of 61%, with a clear 60% 58% No Zoom survey ambition to reach a score in the top quartile 2020 Objective Bi-annual E-NPS survey with a clear ambition to reach a +13 score (baseline measurement +13 January 2018) # newly hired employees 336 354 409 Refer a friend program: #new hires based on employee 18 24 32 recommendation Telenet Young Graduate Program (two-year training program for recently 15 20 27 graduated master students) Voluntary employee turnover 5.0% 9.5% 8.0% KPIs #employees who followed training 2,400 2,510 3,015 Training hours per FTE 24.4 12.1 17.3 % female employees 35.4% 35% 36% % female senior managers (Senior Leadership 50% 50% 42% Team) #women in the Board of Directors 3 3 3 Absentee rate (% of total days scheduled) 7.00% 7.17% 7.15% I 34 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS RESULT RESULT RESULT TARGET 2016 2017 2018 DIGITAL SOCIETY Unlock the potential of digital for all through 2 programs in 3 programs in 3 programs in 2020 at least 3 digital skills programs place place place Objective Accelerate 25,000 young people in the digital 21,150 people 41,000 people 28,290 people age reached reached reached Investments in network growth €250.6 million € 295.7 million €220.2 million Investments in media & entertainment €12 million €8.4 million €4.8 million Total number of youngsters empowered 450 750 450 through coding & entrepreneurship (YouthStart) (Youthstart) (YouthStart) initiatives 50 (BeCode) 270 (BeCode) 22,700 25,500 (Coderdojo KPIs Total number of children reached through 20,700 (CoderDojo) Belgium) digital skills training (CoderDojo) 15,000 (Digitale 5,470 (other Duik) community initiatives) Total number of start-ups accelerated with 88 86 791 Telenet investments Total number of SME’s accelerated through 1,400 1,100 Digitale Versnelling RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS NPS rating of -5 for reputation item ‘Enough efforts towards good causes’ (new target -20.0 -7.1 2018, baseline measurement 2017Q1) 2020 Objective NPS rating of -10 for reputation item ‘Honest -35.0 -14.1 & fair business practices’ (new target 2018, baseline measurement 2017Q1 ) Carbon efficiency ratio: Total scope 1 + 2 CO2-emissions including compensation per 0.008 0.007 0.005 terabyte of data usage % renewable energy consumption 91% 80% 92% % refurbishment of collected customer 44% 45% 55% premise equipment %recycling of hazardous waste 100% 100% 100% KPIs Reverse Logistics: % avoided waste through the recycling and revaluation of used set-top 329 tons 330 tons 375 tons boxes and modems Waste recycling rate 71% 75% 72% # Telenet suppliers monitored on ESG issues 46 100 68 (EcoVadis) Telenet EcoVadis CSR rating in points 64 64 65 (Gold EcoVadis CSR Rating) T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 35 I CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING I 36 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING: GENERAL PRINCIPLES Scope Commitment This sustainability report is an explanation of extraWith this document, Telenet wants to report truthfully financial parameters and indicators from all sectors on the economic, social and ethical activities and of the company Telenet over the calendar year 2018 environmental achievements that are most relevant (01/01/2018 to 31/12/2018). This report follows Telenet’s to the company and its stakeholders. In this annual Financial Annual Report 2018, published in March 2019. report, Telenet provides an overview of the goals it strives to achieve, of the latest achievements and of the Every year, Telenet offers detailed insight into its new initiatives that are being developed to realize the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities sustainability goals of the company. by publishing a sustainability report. This report complements the non-financial information included In its sustainability management, Telenet strives in the Telenet Financial Annual Report 2018. When to adhere to the generally applicable principles of the report mentions Telenet, we, us, the company, inclusion, materiality and responsiveness. This report the corporation, the group or the business, it refers emphasizes the strengths and weaknesses of each of to Telenet Group Holding NV/SA, including its the defined material aspects and provides us with the subsidiaries, and within the context of the Belgian opportunity to continuously improve processes and market engagement. performance. Data and information about the extra-financial Because all concerned departments respect the practices and performance of Telenet Group NV/SA results of this analysis, we can make an important from the year 2018 are reported through two additional contribution to the further progress of the ratings in documents: 2018. To us, extra-financial information is as important as financial information. Telenet is working to have ● Telenet Financial Annual Report 2018 more environmental aspects and social data externally ● Telenet Sustainability Report 2018 verified. This report has been read and approved by Erik Van den Enden, Telenet’s Chief Financial Officer. Explanation of key numbers The reported results and key social figures relate to all Telenet Group Holding NV/SA offices and locations, unless stated otherwise. Telenet’s policy is to include any new subsidiaries that have been acquired in the first six months of the reporting period. Therefore, we include the recent acquisition of Nextel, as completed in June 2018. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 37 I CONTENTS GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE STANDARDS — CORE RELEVANT CATEGORY ASPECT GRI STANDARDS BOUNDARY BOUNDARY TOPICS DISCLOSURE WITHIN OUTSIDE ORGANIZATION ORGANIZATION Business ethics Economic Anti-corruption 205, 206, 415 & 417 Telenet Group Customers and transparency Anti-competitive Holding NV/SA behavior Public policy Marketing and labeling Responsible Economic Employment 401, 403 & 404 Telenet Group employer Occupational Holding NV/SA health and safety Training and education Privacy & data Economic Customer privacy 418 Telenet Group Customers security Holding NV/SA Product Economic Materials 301 & 302 Telenet Group Customers sustainability Energy Holding NV/SA Digital inclusion Economic Local communities 413 Telenet Group Customers, Society and skills Holding NV/SA development Supply chain risk Economic, Social Supplier social 308 & 414 Telenet Group Suppliers management assessment Holding NV/SA Supplier environmental assessment Customer health Social Customer health 416 Telenet Group Customers and safety and safety Holding NV/SA Carbon and energy Environmental Energy 302 & 305 Telenet Group Society efficiency Emissions Holding NV/SA Employee diversity Social Diversity and equal 405 Telenet Group and equality opportunity Holding NV/SA Electronic waste Environmental Materials 301 Telenet Group Society reduction Holding NV/SA Responsibility Social Socio-economic 419 Telenet Group Customers, Society of media compliance Holding NV/SA I 38 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS Principles to determine the content Significant changes and restatements of the sustainability report Telenet is part of Liberty Global plc and in order to align Telenet takes various elements into account when group reporting, as of 2014 the reporting for Telenet is deciding on the content for this report. Telenet has fully aligned with that of its main shareholder, Liberty identified its main stakeholders, identified the key Global. Various environmental and social figures for expectations from these shareholders and described 2015, 2016 and 2017 have been restated in order to how Telenet meets these expectations. In addition, guarantee consistency and comparability. the company looks at its own performance in the broader sustainability context by determining, among others, the most important trends faced by telecommunications companies today. With this report, Telenet wants to show how the company will encourage economic, social and environmental developments both locally, regionally and globally. Telenet does this with a focus on the material aspects, provided to it by its stakeholders. Contact Financial information Corporate Social Responsibility Information Rob Goyens Ineke Rampart +32 15 333 054 +32 15 366 262 rob.goyens@telenetgroup.be ineke.rampart@telenetgroup.be T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 39 I CONTENTS SUMMARY OF THE PERFORMANCE Scope: Telenet Group Holding NV/SA ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE METRIC 2015 2016 2017 2018 Energy consumption Non-renewable fuel Burning oil kWh 0 0 0 0 CNG kWh 0 38 11,849 11,849 Diesel kWh 26,205,014 27,587,034 24,706,510 28,913,500 Fuel oil kWh 0 0 0 0 Gas oil kWh 1,853,431 1,765,965 1,506,804 1,506,804 Jet fuel kWh 0 0 0 0 LPG kWh 0 0 0 0 Natural gas kWh 4,428,953 4,099,468 4,679,344 1,789,249 Petrol kWh 86,496 120,043 477,064 1,582,024 Total kWh 32,573,895 33,572,548 31,381,570 33,803,426 Electricity, heating and cooling Electricity kWh 190,693,438 188,276,412 189,441,397 184,342,545 Heating and cooling kWh 0 0 0 0 Total kWh 190,693,438 188,276,412 189,441,397 184,342,545 Electricity sold kWh 0 0 0 1,326 Total energy consumption(1) kWh 223,267,332 221,848,961 220,822,968 218,144,645 Energy intensity kWh of electricity / Energy intensity 185.9 135.0 98.4 81.4 terabyte of data usage Electricity generated from onsite renewables kWh 32,662 31,474 30,613 136,674 GHG Emissions(2) Scope 1 emissions Metric tons CO2e 7,701 7,933 7,607 8,155 Scope 2 market-based emissions Metric tons CO2e 42,309 3,243 5,235 2,069 Scope 2 location-based emissions Metric tons CO2e 43,364 32,591 32,792 31,910 Scope 3 emissions Metric tons CO2e 5,941 6,098 5,598 3,666 Total location-based GHG emissions Metric tons CO2e 57,005 46,613 45,997 43,731 Total market-based GHG emissions Metric tons CO2e 55,950 17,265 18,440 13,890 Carbon credits Metric tons CO2e (12,306) (8,627) (8,473) (8,627) Emissions intensity metric tons CO2e / 0.049 0.008 0.007 0.005 (scope 1 and 2 market-based) terabyte of data usage Emissions from business travel Metric tons CO2e 1,263 951 920 634 Waste by type and disposal method Reuse Metric tons 190 127 167 0 Recycling Metric tons 1,919 1,961 2,662 1,648 Incineration Metric tons 655 649 708 622 Landfill Metric tons 0 0 0 0 Composting Metric tons 16 9 14 21 Total waste generated Metric tons 2,779 2,746 3,551 2,290 Recycling rate % 69 71 75 72 Water withdrawal by source Municipal water supplies m3 24,254 21,976 21,785 25,483 Other m3 1,076 1,453 1,062 278 Total m3 25,330 23,429 22,847 25,761 Initiatives Emissions reductions Metric tons CO2e 126 173 346 58 Energy saved through efficiencies kWh 555,000 1,000,000 2,000,002 64,000 Costs savings from environmental initiatives € 81,552 107,771 197,947 41,020 Revenue generated from environmental initiatives € 0 0 0 27,801 (1) Sum of total energy consumption from non-renewable fuel and electricity, heating and cooling, minus electricity sold (2) Refer to page 42 for definitions of our greenhouse gas emissions I 40 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS SUMMARY OF THE PERFORMANCE Scope: Telenet Group Holding NV/SA SOCIAL PERFORMANCE METRIC 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total community investment € 1,351,559 1,225,618 1,887,085 728,045 Total workforce and breakdown by employee category Employees Headcount, year end 2,415 3,290 3,364 3,310 Outsourced employees Headcount, year end 1,938 2,444 3,151 3,226 Employees by contract type Permanent contracts Headcount, year end 2,415 3,261 3,313 3,245 Temporary contracts Headcount, year end 0 29 51 65 Employees by contract type Full time Headcount, year end 2,014 2,714 2,775 3,084 Part time Headcount, year end 401 576 589 226 Average age* Total In years 38 38 39 38 Men In years 40 39 41 39 Women In years 36 36 36 36 Employees by age group Under 30 years old Headcount, year end 537 619 696 682 30-50 years old Headcount, year end 1,613 2,239 2,220 2,189 over 50 years old Headcount, year end 265 360 448 439 Women in management Women in management positions % of total management 25 29 30 32 workforce New employee hires and employee turnover New employee hires by age group and gender Under 30 years old Headcount 126 233 205 227 30-50 years old Headcount 120 91 141 166 over 50 years old Headcount 4 12 8 16 Total Headcount 250 336 354 409 New hires – male Headcount 141 192 129 262 New hires – female Headcount 109 144 225 147 Rate of new hires Rate (%) 10 10 11 12 Employee turnover by age group Under 30 years old Number of leavers 93 97 173 115 30-50 years old Number of leavers 95 131 187 232 over 50 years old Number of leavers 27 37 28 28 Total Headcount 215 265 388 375 Employee training Average training hours Hours per FTE 35.5 24.4 12.08 17,27 Average training investment € per FTE 530 384 334 305 Freedom of Association Employees represented by an independent % of employees 100 100 100 96 trade union or covered by collective bargaining agreements Occupational health and safety Absentee rate % of total days scheduled 7,12 7.00 7.17 7,15 Recordable workplace injuries # 74 74 84 74 Occupational accidents with temporary incapacity # 19 15 16 20 Occupational accidents without absence from work # 32 21 25 17 Accidents to and from work # 23 37 43 37 Lost days due to occupational work accidents # 149 488 434 303 Work-related fatalities # 0 0 0 0 Employee performance reviews Employees reviewed % 95 93 98 100 Employee performance reviews Breakdown by gender and employee category Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Senior Management % 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 Managers/ Supervisors % 97 106 82 84 99 100 100 100 Non-management % 91 95 98 92 98 99 100 100 *Key figures and percentages shown only relate to (employees of) Telenet NV T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 41 I CONTENTS TELENET’S REPORTING METHODOLOGY All environmental and social data relate to the period (i.e. in air conditioning units and fire suppression from 1 January to 31 December – unless otherwise systems). This information is collected via company stated. For comparative purposes and to create new fuel cards, business travel expenses, third-party base year values, we have made adjustments to our invoices and third-party site visits. social and environmental results for 2015 to 2017 to • Scope 2 (Indirect): emissions from purchased include representative pre-acquisition values for electricity, heat and steam. This information is BASE in Belgium, which we acquired in February 2016; collected via electricity consumption invoices, SFR Belgium and SFR Luxemburg, which we acquired co-location service invoices (i.e. where electricity is in June 2017. estimated by market operations), and on-site meters or inverters. Telenet’s reported environmental data follows • Scope 3 (Indirect): emissions from business air and the World Resources Institute and World Business land travel (includes the use of employee-owned Council on Sustainable Development’s GHG Protocol vehicles for business purposes, flights taken by Corporate Standard, using the operational control employees and travel in rental cars, taxis and public approach. Emissions from businesses in which we have transportation); emissions arising from water, waste non-controlling equity stakes are not included in our (which includes the impact of recycling customer reported figures. premises equipment) and travel by our third-party service and installation vehicles. As of 2014, emissions Our Scope 1 and 3 emissions are calculated by using from travel by our third-party service and installation the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural vehicles are included as part of our Scope 3 emissions. Affairs (DEFRA) emission factors. We calculated This information is collected via third-party service our Scope 2 location-based emissions by using IEA invoices and reporting (e.g. corporate travel agency), emissions factors (2017). business travel expenses and estimations by the market operations. Our market-based emissions are calculated by using supplier-specific emissions information wherever it Location-based and market-based emissions is available and then applying the relevant “residual As prescribed by good practices, we publish both the mix” emissions factor to any electricity that does not location-based and market-based emissions, which have supplier-specific emissions information. Reliable provide a good illustration of the impact of our purchase Disclosure (RE-DISS) European Residual Mixes (2016) and production of alternative energy. Location-based emission factors are available for all operations. emissions are calculated using the average conversion factors of the national grid for the entire electricity Carbon offsets and their related CO2e savings have consumption. This does not take into account activities been reported separately and they do not form part that reduce emissions, such as the purchase of CO2 of our total GHG emissions, as per the GHG Protocol compensation or the use of electricity from renewable Corporate Standard. energy sources. Market-based emissions are calculated using a conversion factor of zero for all the used • Scope 1 (Direct): emissions come from sources electricity that comes from locally generated renewable that are company-owned or controlled, including: energy and from certified green energy contracts. emissions from static combustion (i.e. fuel used in generators for heating/power); mobile combustion For more information, go to www.libertyglobal.com/ (i.e. vehicle and aviation fuel from company-owned responsibility/reporting-and-performance/ to review or leased fleet); and coolants and propellants used our full criteria for environmental reporting. I 42 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS TELENET’S GRI CONTENT INDEX 2018 The extra-financial parameters and indicators reported report is focused on the general disclosures, and on in this document are organized in accordance with the the other hand that it plots the eleven most important Global Report Initiative (GRI) guidelines. This report has material issues to Telenet and reports on at least one been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards of the indicators per aspect. Where information was Core option, which on the one hand means that the available, multiple indicators were included in the report. PAGE NUMBER(S) GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE OMISSION AND/OR URL(S) GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2018 GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI 102: General Disclosures 2018 102-1 Name of the organization Page 6 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and Page 6 services 102-3 Location of headquarters Page 156 of Telenet Financial Report 2018 102-4 Location of operations Page 6 102-5 Ownership and legal form Page 6 102-6 Markets served Page 6 102-7 Scale of the organization Pages 32, 63 and 159 of Telenet Financial Report 2018 102-8 Information on employees and Page 41 Due to our limited other workers geographic scope, Telenet does not differentiate between regions, therefore employee data is not reported per region, but at company level. 102-9 Supply chain Pages 29-31 and Telenet Supplier Policy 102-10 Significant changes to the Page 39 organization and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or Pages 31-33 approach 102-12 External initiatives Pages 31-33 102-13 Membership of associations Page 12 and Corporate Memberships overview 102-14 Statement from senior decisionPages 4-5 maker 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and Pages 6 norms of behavior and 31-33 102-18 Governance structure Pages 43-46 of Telenet Financial Report 2018 and Governance approach 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Page 12 and Stakeholder overview 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Pages 17 and 41 102-42 Identifying and selecting Page 12 and stakeholders Stakeholder overview T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 43 I CONTENTS PAGE NUMBER(S) GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE OMISSION AND/OR URL(S) 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Page 12 and engagement Stakeholder overview 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Page 7 102-45 Entities included in the Pages 156-157 of consolidated financial statements Telenet Financial Report 2018 102-46 Defining report content and Page 37 topic Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Page 7 and Materiality Matrix 102-48 Restatements of information Page 39 102-49 Changes in reporting Page 39 102-50 Reporting period Page 37 102-51 Date of most recent report Page 39 102-52 Reporting cycle Page 39 102-53 Contact point for questions Page 39 regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in Page 43 accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index Pages 43-46 102-56 External assurance Page 27 MATERIAL TOPICS Business ethics and transparency GRI 103: Management Approach 2018 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Page 10 and and its Boundaries Management approach overview 103-2 The management approach and its Page 10, 31-33 and components Management approach overview 103-3 Evaluation of the management Page 35 approach GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption Page 31 and actions taken GRI 206: Anti-competitive behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive Page 31 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Page 33 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance Page 33 concerning marketing communication Responsible employer GRI 103: Management Approach 2018 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Page 10 and and its Boundaries Management approach overview 103-2 The management approach and its Pages 10, 17-20 components and Management approach overview 103-3 Evaluation of the management Page 34 approach GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee Page 41 turnover GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 403-4 Worker participation, Page 18 consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety GRI 404: Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year Pages 34 and 41 per employee I 44 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS PAGE NUMBER(S) GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE OMISSION AND/OR URL(S) GRI 404: Training and Education 404-3 Percentage of employees Page 41 receiving regular performance and career development reviews Privacy & data security GRI 103: Management Approach 2018 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Page 11 and and its Boundaries Management approach overview 103-2 The management approach and its Page 11, 16 and components Management approach overview 103-3 Evaluation of the management Page 34 approach GRI 418: Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints Page 34 concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Product sustainability GRI 103: Management Approach 2018 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Page 11 and and its Boundaries Management approach overview 103-2 The management approach and its Pages 11, 26-28 components and Management approach overview 103-3 Evaluation of the management Page 35 approach GRI 301: Materials 301-3 Reclaimed products and their Page 28 packaging materials GRI 302: Energy 302-5 Reductions in energy Pages 26-29 requirements of products and services Digital inclusion and skills development GRI 103: Management Approach 2018 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Page 11 and and its Boundaries Management approach overview 103-2 The management approach and its Pages 11, 23-25 components and Management approach overview 103-3 Evaluation of the management Page 35 approach GRI 413: Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community Page 25 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Supply chain risk management GRI 103: Management Approach 2018 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Management and its Boundaries approach overview 103-2 The management approach and its Pages 29-31, Telenet components Supplier Policy and Management approach overview 103-3 Evaluation of the management Page 35 approach GRI 308: Supplier Environmental 308-2 Negative environmental impacts Page 30 Assessment in the supply chain and actions taken GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-2 Negative social impacts in the Page 30 supply chain and actions taken Customer health and safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2018 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Management and its Boundaries approach overview T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 45 I CONTENTS PAGE NUMBER(S) GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE OMISSION AND/OR URL(S) 103-2 The management approach and its Page 16 and components Management approach overview 103-3 Evaluation of the management Page 16 approach GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance Page 16 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services Carbon and energy efficiency GRI 103: Management Approach 2018 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Management and its Boundaries approach overview 103-2 The management approach and its Pages 26-29 and components Management approach overview 103-3 Evaluation of the management Pages 35 approach GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the Page 40 organization 302-3 Energy intensity Page 40 GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Page 40 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG Page 40 emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG Page 40 emissions Employee diversity and equality GRI 103: Management Approach 2018 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Management and its Boundaries approach overview 103-2 The management approach and its Page 20 and components Management approach overview 103-3 Evaluation of the management Page 34 approach GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies Pages 20 and 41 and employees 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and Page 20 remuneration of women to men Electronic waste reduction GRI 103: Management Approach 2018 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Management and its Boundaries approach overview 103-2 The management approach and its Pages 26-29 and components Management approach overview 103-3 Evaluation of the management Page 35 approach GRI 301: Materials 301-3 Reclaimed products and their Page 28 packaging materials Responsibility of media GRI 103: Management Approach 2018 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Management and its Boundaries approach overview 103-2 The management approach and its Pages 22-24 and components Management approach overview 103-3 Evaluation of the management Pages 22-24 approach GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and Pages 31-33 regulations in the social and economic area I 46 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 CONTENTS UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 4 SDG 4 – Telenet helps children, youth and adults develop digital skills that prepare them for employment and entrepreneurship. 8 SDG 8 – Telenet is an important player in the Belgian economy. We stimulate growth by providing competitive and innovative products and services to our customers and by investing in a leading converged network. We create good jobs in our own company and help entrepreneurs thrive. Of course, we also ensure decent working conditions in our supply chain. 9 SDG 9 – Telenet contributes to making connected and innovative IT solutions for its customers and consequently is also responsible for the privacy and data security of its clients. 12 SDG 12 – Telenet promotes sustainable management and efficient and responsible of natural resources. We actively reduce the amount of waste generated in our business processes through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse. T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 I 47 I CONTENTS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP Area Indicator Description Page Human rights GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 30 GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 30 Labour GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 41 GRI 108-41 Collective bargaining agreements 41 GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 34, 41 GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 41 and career development reviews Environment GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 40 GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 40 GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 40 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 40 GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 26-29, 40 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 40 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 40 GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 40 GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 40 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 40 GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 40 GRI 306-3 Significant spills 29 GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 30 GRI 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 30 and actions taken Anti-Corruption GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviors 31-33 I 48 I T EL EN E T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 2018 STAYING AHEAD Corporate Communications T. 015. 33. 30.00 – www.telenet.be Responsible editor Telenet, Rob Goyens Rue Neerveld 107, 1200 Brussels
