Responsibility Report 2018 1 Contents LOOKING AHEAD TO THE FUTURE.................................................3 ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT.....................................................................................................62 AND EMPLOYMENT........................................................................................ 33 We supervise the entire Hanhikivi 1 construction site FENNOVOIMA REPROGRAMMED................................................... 5 The right people for the right positions Everyone working at the site bears responsibility for Fennoway – our way of working the environmental impact WE ARE PART OF THE SOLUTION.....................................................7 High-quality leadership Extensive monitoring of the environmental impact For the benefit of the climate Competence development and training Protected species and nature conservation areas Responsibility program High personnel well-being Well-being of local residents Responsibility management and follow-up Utilizing construction waste as energy or material Stakeholder cooperation RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT..........47 Safety in focus LOCAL ENGAGEMENT.................................................................................75 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES......................................12 Supply chain capabilities are ensured with audits Creating trust with open communication Focus on legislation, nuclear safety and ethical principles Ethical requirements apply to all suppliers of Strong local support for the project Continuous work against corruption the Hanhikivi 1 project Involved in local development On-site operations to prevent gray economy Encouraging local entrepreneurs ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY..............................................................17 Many new residents Key financial figures OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY...............................54 Supporting local projects and activities Hanhikivi 1 project offers employment and boosts growth A healthy and safe working environment Efficient risk management prevents accidents REPORTING PRINCIPLES........................................................................ 84 NUCLEAR SAFETY.............................................................................................. 21 Site inspections promote improvement of operations Ensuring plant safety Progress made in the key development areas identified in STUK’s preliminary safety assesment Continuous development of safety culture Safety in the supply chain 2 CEO’s review Looking ahead to the Future The climate report from the Intergovernis equivalent to the investment value of a disappointment. The new estimated At the moment, we are making sure that mental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), 66 Hanhikivi 1 nuclear power plants, totalschedule received from the plant supplithe plant can be built to meet all the strict published last fall, was for many a wake-up ing some EUR 400 billion by 2050. Even if er at the end of the year postpones the statutory safety requirements. During the call about the serious consequences of cliall the investments were fully realized, the launch of CO2 -free power production in spring, our goal is to address the final techmate change. Rapid action on a global scale share of nuclear power in European electricPyhäjoki by several years. nical design issues that are central for plant and above all, large-scale electrification of ity production would fall from 25% to 15%. safety and the design documentation rethe society is required to stop emissions that However, the new schedule also gives us quired for the safety assessment will be are having an adverse effect on the climate. In Finland, attitudes towards nuclear enerclarity: it makes it easier to plan and mancompleted by the end of 2019. gy are more positive than ever. According to age the work, and prepare for the next proAfter nearly ten years of silence, nuclear a survey ordered by Finnish Energy, 41% of ject phases. We have also begun revampWE LEAD THE SUPPLY CHAIN CLOSELY energy has returned to the climate and enFinns support the construction of nuclear ing our organization to smooth the way for The scale of the Finnish constantly updatergy policy discourse also in the European power. To my mind the debate on nuclear swifter progress of the project. ed nuclear safety requirements and their Union. The net-zero target for 2050 proenergy has become more rational and soludetailed nature become concrete to the posed by the European Commission at the tion-oriented than before. It seems that nuWE ENSURE THE SAFETY OF THE parties involved in the project as the work end of the year will require, according to clear base load energy is recognized as an PLANT DESIGN proceeds. Challenges have been faced the Commission’s estimate, doubling the important part of the emission-free energy Safe nuclear energy is the foundation of all when interpreting the requirements and European electricity production capacity. solution also in the future, together with reour operations. When considered in prowhen assigning them at the appropriate This objective cannot be reached by newable energy. portion to the production volume, nuclear supply chain parties. We have found that increased use of renewable energy alone. energy is the safest form of energy producwe need to engage in closer cooperation Instead, a considerable amount of new CLEAR VISION TO THE FUTURE tion. However, safety is not something that with RAOS Project in the area of supply nuclear power capacity must be built to For me personally, and surely for all who appears spontaneously; it takes meticulous chain management, and together lead the replace the plants that are to be decommisare working on the Hanhikivi 1 project, work over the long term. supply chain closer. sioned. The need for additional construction the progress of the project in 2018 was Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 3 3 CEO’s review WE PROMOTE EMPLOYEE WE CREATE PROSPERITY FOR infrastructure that benefit the local resiCOMMITMENT PYHÄJOKI AND THE WHOLE OF dents. When the cascade effect on the local A total of 52 new experts joined us during FINLAND economy is taken into account, the project the year, but many left us as well. In adWe are happy to know that the people of will provide approximately 1,300 persondition to natural turnover, the upcoming Pyhäjoki trust the Hanhikivi 1 project and years of work in Northern Ostrobothnia in move to Pyhäjoki had an effect on the embelieve in it; the fact that 70% of people the preparatory construction work phase ployee turnover rate. The slow progress of support it provides ample proof of this. alone, as well as increasing the public tax inthe project and the differences between come for the region by EUR 30 million. The the operating cultures of Fennovoima The municipalities in the region are looking scale of benefits will increase considerably and the plant supplier have undoubtedly forward to welcoming us when we move when the actual plant construction begins. caused frustration in our personnel. our operations there. Last fall, we held an Toni Hemminki event in Salmisaari where 15 municipalities The indirect employment and economPresident and CEO, Fennovoima I believe that with the right measures, of the region introduced themselves and ic effect is not limited to Pyhäjoki, but we influence the work satisfaction of our told our personnel about life in Northern will be substantial throughout Finland. most valuable asset, our personnel – and Ostrobothnia. Approximately 20,000 person-years of thus strengthen the commitment to the employment, including cascade effects, Fennoway spirit of Fennovoima. The key The locals know that the Hanhikivi 1 project will be provided during the entire construcfactors to ensure commitment are harmoimproves the predictability of the muniction project, as well as notable additional nization of the practices, high quality manipal economies in the region for decades investments. These will benefit households agement, and continuous investment in to come, and allows long-term investthroughout Finland. occupational well-being. ment in social and health services and Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 4 4 Fennovoima Reprogrammed At the end of 2018, we prepared a development plan for 2019–2020 called “Fennovoima Reprogrammed.” This plan is based on the current stage of the Hanhikivi PLANT SAFETY CONSTRUCTION IMPLEMENTATION OPERATIONAL 1 (FH1) project, the joint project experiences READINESS QUALITY READINESS with our plant vendor RAOS Project Oy, and by safety by design by supply chain with strong the regulatory oversight findings and engineering integrity performance safety culture requirements of STUK. Our target is to improve the progress of the FH1 project by leading our own work more proactively and by co-operating more effiFH1 SAFETY FH1 DESIGN FH1 CONSTRUCTION FH1 OPERATION ciently with our plant vendor. Regulations Availability Quality Competence Assessment Technology Configuration Organization Licensing Specifications Commissioning Plant lifetime In effect, 2019 starts with concrete actions to reprogram our operations. These actions are divided into four main targets and four enabling factors, with the key targets for main plant-level design issues, with the tarthese issues are cross-disciplinary and Construction readiness and design in2019–2020 summarized in the following. get schedule being spring 2019. These isrequire strong experience and team work, tegrity require finalization of systems and sues are related to bedrock investigations, and the resolution of these issues will buildings design. For this, we need both the Plant safety and solid safety engineerdesign solutions against internal and excreate a strong basis for systems and basic design and a preliminary safety analing form our number one target. We are ternal hazards, as well as defense-in-depth buildings design. ysis report (PSAR) consistent with the basic currently working on the resolution of the design of systems architecture. Many of design. The PSAR localization team of the Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 5 5 Fennovoima Reprogrammed plant vendor is working actively in Helsinki We want to ensure these capabilities well preparations to become a nuclear utility. to prepare a high-quality PSAR during 2019, in advance before the start of construcIn addition to the aforementioned targets forming the key documentation required tion of the Hanhikivi 1 (FH1) nuclear powrelated to plant design, construction and opfor the construction license. This is an imer plant, which depends on the granting eration, we have identified four key enabling portant stage in the project and focuses our of the construction license by the Finnish factors: plant vendor and suppliers, people attention on the design solutions. Government and a favorable safety assessand leadership, processes and tools, and ment from STUK. organization and management. We will be In 2020, the most important target is to inworking hard to create the right preconditeract with the plant vendor for bringing the Operational readiness and a strong tions for all actors to succeed, now especialbasic design to a level that enables plant safety culture evolve stepwise via technily concerning our own experts and those of construction to be prepared. cal work and organizational development the plant vendor, and later on, a large numTimo Okkonen – especially in a new utility organization like ber of subcontractors. This requires continD.Sc. (Tech.), Chief Development Officer, Implementation quality and supply chain Fennovoima. During 2019, we will prepare uous recalibration of the situation view and Fennovoima Oy performance form the most important tarour operational organization view, to guide strong leadership and presence in the midget for the plant construction stage. During us in building our functions and competencdle of all the complexity. 2019, our target is to prepare, together with es in a systematic and proactive way. We will the plant vendor, the design and quality also pay attention to our utility operations When our own organization and our plant specifications depending on the safety and and design ownership over the FH1 plant life vendor start working well together, we will quality classification. In 2020, we will ensure cycle so that this long-term perspective is know that we are on the right track to susplant vendor’s capability of controlling the managed in balance with the projecttainable energy production. That is why we implementation of all plant items; and we oriented objectives. During 2020, we also are now reprogramming. will also build our own supervision model want to expose ourselves to a thorough and associated partnerships. external evaluation concerning all our Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 6 6 We are part of the solution Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 7 7 FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE CLIMATE Emissions related to the production and electricity. In practice, however, emisThe principles of responsibility are emClimate change is a global threat, the efconsumption of energy account for two sion-free electricity can only be produced bodied in Fennovoima's Corporate Policy fects of which are not limited to individual thirds of all greenhouse gas emissions and with limited means, that are renewable enand Code of Conduct. The Sustainability countries but equally apply to everyone. 80% of CO2 emissions. In practice, reducing ergy sources and nuclear power, both of Program supports the implementation of emissions from the energy sector requires which are needed. these principles and the sustainable deClimate emissions must be sharply cut to abandoning fuels that need to be burned to velopment of Fennovoima and the entire avoid serious damage to the environment produce energy, strong electrification of soRESPONSIBILITY PROGRAM Hanhikivi 1 project. and mankind caused by global warming. ciety, energy efficiency and new intelligent We work for clean electricity production. At the same time, efforts must be made solutions for energy production and storage. We build more carbon-neutral electricity to improve energy security, maintain ecoproduction in Finland with respect for socienomic growth and secure energy supply. Electrification of society requires a signifty, people and the environment. Sustainable and reliable solutions are needed. icant increase in the production of clean Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 8 8 Our focus areas Responsible business practices: We want to make Fennovoima Supply Chain Management: We require all subcontractors to coma top-class nuclear power company with a high safety culture mit to nuclear safety and ethical practices. and integrity. By complying with laws, regulations and our Code of Conduct, we safeguard our ability to operate in the Finnish Occupational health and safety: No one's health or safety shall be society. compromised in the Hanhikivi 1 project. Economic responsibility: We build the Hanhikivi 1 nuclear power Environmental management: The environmental footprint of the plant because our owners need reliable, stable and emission-free nuclear energy life cycle is small. We ensure that the local impact of electricity to operate and succeed in Finland. The economic imthe construction is minimized as well. pact of the large-scale investment is extensive. Effective management of the Hanhikivi 1 project: A successful Nuclear safety: We ensure the nuclear safety during the whole project requires functional processes, systematic practices and a life cycle of the power plant. functioning management system that support the implementation of the Hanhikivi 1 project also in accordance with the principles of Organizational Development and employment: We ensure sustainable development. We do not report on the topic with a that we have sufficient expertise and competence at all stages single indicator, instead we return to the topic across the report. of the project. We offer our employees a workplace where wellbeing is considered important and where conditions for success Stakeholder co-operation: Trust and transparency form the basis are provided. for our stakeholder cooperation; hence we are strongly present also in Pyhäjoki. For 2018, we set a total of 50 goals for these key areas of the Sustainability Target achieved Target party achieved Program. The goals are presented at the beginning of each chapter. We illustrate our success in achieving our goals with the following icons: On-going Target not achieved Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 9 9 Identifying material topics highlighted in the review form the basis for presentation. Climate change has also been Team in turn approves the Responsibility We conducted a personnel survey, interour Sustainability Program that supports included as a material topic in the matrix. Program and the related objectives. The views and a senior management workshop, our corporate strategy and policy. CEO approves the Responsibility Report assisted by an external consultant in 2014 to RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT that is published annually. For more inforidentify areas that are significant to responIn 2017, we re-grouped the topics representAND FOLLOW-UP mation on Fennovoima's management sible operations in Fennovoima. The topics ed in the materiality matrix to clarify the Our Responsibility Program is part of the and organizational structure, please visFennovoima management system that covit our website: www.fennovoima.fi/en/ 1 Responsible business practices ers all our operations. The management fennovoima/organization 1,2,3 2 3 Nuclear safety Economic profitability system helps us in ensuring that our opera9 14 4 Efficient management of the Hanhikivi 1 project tions are in compliance with nuclear safety The primary responsibility of the prac11 5 Organizational development and employment and legal requirements and good governtical implementation, development and 10 7 4 5 Employment & employee engagement 6 Competence development and training ance, and that the environment and occufollow-up of the Responsibility Program Importance to stakeholders 6 7 Occupational health and safety 15 pational safety are taken into account in lies with departments and units that are Supply chain 13 8 Supply chain management & labor practices Fennovoima’s operations. The management responsible for each topic. The depart9 Gray economy prevention 10 Impact on local economy and employment system meets the quality, environmental ments and units report monthly to the Environmental management and occupational safety requirements of CEO. The objectives of the program are re11 Environmental impacts 8 the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 viewed and updated annually when updatStakeholder engagement 13 Stakeholder engagement standards. ing the annual work plans. The implemen14 Trancparency and open communication tation of the Responsibility Program and 15 Tackling climate change Fennovoima's Board of Directors approves reporting is coordinated by a designated the policies and principles that guide the person. Importance to Fennovoima company's operations. The Management Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 10 10 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT approach to stakeholder engagement is Commerce, FIBS Corporate Responsibility We cooperate with a large variety of comprehensive. Our stakeholder cooperNetwork, Finnish Energy, FinNuclear, stakeholders at local, national and interation is based on systematic cooperation. Foratom, Helsinki Region Chamber of national levels. In addition, we participate in events and Commerce, Industrial Lawyers Association, are actively involved in social media. We International Atomic Energy Agency The most important stakeholders include also conduct studies to collect further in(IAEA), Oulu Chamber of Commerce, our employees and owners, the plant supformation on stakeholder opinions and atProject Management Association Finland, plier and supply chain companies, authortitudes towards the Hanhikivi 1 project and PSK Standardisation Association, Risk ities and decision-makers, local stakeholdFennovoima. Management Society of Finland, Taxpayers er groups in Pyhäjoki area, peer companies Association of Finland, World Association of and organizations within the industry, mePARTNERS AND MEMBERSHIPS Nuclear Operators (WANO), World Energy dia, public sphere and NGOs in the field. Association for Finnish Work, European Council (WEC), World Nuclear Association Stakeholders have different kind of expecNuclear Society (ENS), Federation of Finnish (WNA) tations for Fennovoima, and that is why our Enterprises, Ostrobothnia Chamber of Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 11 11 Responsible business practices Compliance with laws, regulations and our Code of Conduct secures our ability to operate in the Finnish society. All Fennovoima employees carry the responsibility for following the law, protecting human rights and promoting justice. We operate with absolute integrity and honesty. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 12 12 Responsible business practices GOAL PROGRESS Effective compliance policies and practices are in place. Compliance with legal requirements No legal proceedings regarding compliance violations in Fennovoima’s own organization or in the supply chain. Continuous work against No confirmed incidents of corruption in Fennovoima’s corruption in all its forms own organization or supply chain Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 13 13 FOCUS ON LEGISLATION, NUCLEAR been approved by Fennovoima’s Board of SAFETY AND ETHICAL PRINCIPLES Directors, and the CEO carries the responsiCompany policy Successful operation in the nuclear industry bility for its implementation. In practice, the requires that all the personnel are familiar Compliance unit is in charge of the develDefines the key principles on quality, nuclear safety, occupational health and safety, human with the applicable laws and regulations and opment and follow-up of the Program, proresources, environment, company security and communication. is committed to compliance with them and cessing of concerns, and providing instrucwith the nuclear safety principles, company tions and training to the personnel. The policy and ethical principles that steer the Compliance unit also processes suspected Fennovoima organization’s operations. violations and non-conformities and impleCode of Conduct ments the necessary actions. Compliance management Incorporates the principles that are followed in all our operations. The identified key risks associated with Practical implementation of the processes, business ethics for Fennovoima are procedures and instructions defined in the Instruction on prevention of money Instruction on anti-bribery and laundering and terrorist financing corruption • Corruption Fennovoima Management System is also • Unjust influence and conflicts monitored at internal audits and the manof interests agement reviews that are carried out twice • Risks related to the supply chain a year. Our Company Policy and the Code of Conduct follow the principles • Risks related to the neglect of legal of the UN Global Compact responsibility initiative. requirements. In an internal audit, the compliance management processes were found to be in Fennovoima’s Compliance & Ethics Program order. However, the audit results also inemployees with an annual summary of the to improve our internal transparency in the places special emphasis on these risk areas. dicated that internal transparency should observations reported during the year, and area of compliance and ethical principles. The Compliance & Ethics Program has be improved. We decided to provide all the actions taken. This new practice aims Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 14 14 Compliance & Ethics training and communication were clarified. We will two years. The course also contains a The Compliance team assesses all reported All our employees as well as the consultants share practical examples and best practices compulsory test on Fennovoima’s Code suspicions of violations and ensures that the working at Fennovoima attend a compulsoto illustrate situations were misconceptions of Conduct. appropriate action is taken. Absolute confiry Compliance & Ethics training. This aims may arise. We have also organized one tardentiality is applied to all communications to ensure that all employees have an adegeted event where requirements that speReporting concerns related to expressing concerns, and we do quate knowledge of legislation and approcifically apply to the participants’ work were We encourage our employees to report not tolerate any countermeasures, harasspriate practices. discussed. any suspected violations of laws, our Code ment or discrimination of persons who have of Conduct and internal regulations. These submitted reports. Even an attempt of a Our organization has become increasingIn 2018, 97% of our own personnel and should be reported primarily to the supervicountermeasure will lead to disciplinary acly international in recent years, and we cur52% of the internal consultants (total: 89%) sor or to the Compliance team. Fennovoima tion and may even lead to the termination rently have employees from around 20 difhad completed the training on our Code also has a so called whistleblower tool that of employment. ferent countries. In a multicultural working of Conduct within the time limit of four allows anonymous reporting of all complienvironment, the different cultural backmonths. In 2017, the combined completion ance-related observations. The tool is availagrounds of employees may result in differpercentage was 88. ble to all Fennovoima employees. ent ways of understanding the correct ways of working and in different conceptions of Compulsory Compliance and Ethics trainSIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCES WITH what is ethical. ing and the discretionary targeted training will continue in 2019. We will also adopt an LAWS AND LEGAL REQUIREMENTS 2018 2017 2016 In 2018, we noticed that the personal backonline training course for our personnel to grounds must be taken into account more support and maintain their understanding Fines or non-monetary sanctions closely in compliance management. For this of ethical matters. According to plans, all for non-compliances 0 0 0 reason, the wordings used in the training employees will complete the course every Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 15 15 CONTINUOUS WORK Fennovoima has versatile tools to prevent report possible bias in decision-making. Fennovoima has established contractuAGAINST CORRUPTION corruption. These include a written Code A warning was issued to the employee. al obligations for supply chain companies Corruption is one of the biggest global obstaof Conduct, instructions to prevent corto prevent corruption in their own operacles of development. It hinders competition ruption and money laundering, which are The practices of various units of Fennotions and in their supply chains. For more and stops investments from taking place, always available to personnel online, comvoima were also subjected to a more exteninformation on the guidance and monitorand has serious consequences for economic pulsory training on prevention of corrupsive scrutiny in 2018. The review revealed ing of the supply chain, see the Responsible and democratic development as well as emtion (as part of the Compliance & Ethics that the company’s internal procurement inSupply Chain Management chapter in this ployment. Corruption may also have serious training for employees and internal constructions and procedures had not been folreport. consequences for nuclear safety. sultants) and procedures for the processlowed in some respects. As a result, internal ing of suspected and observed incidences. procurement responsibilities were revised. Fennovoima takes corruption very seriously Any offer, promise, grant or gift must and does not accept it in any form. The risk comply with applicable laws and FennoCompanies included in the supply chain of corruption has been assessed in all own voima’s instructions. have committed to complying with operations of Fennovoima. We have identiFennovoima’s Code of Conduct. fied corruption as an essential risk particularIn 2018, we identified one case in which ly for the international supply chain for the the requirements of openness were not Hanhikivi 1 project. Also in Finland, several fulfilled. A Fennovoima employee owned CORRUPTION 2018 2017 2016 reviews have found the construction indusshares in a company that was involved in try to be one of the industries with the biga procurement process, but did not recuse Confirmed incidents of corruption 0 0 0 gest risk for corruption to occur. himself from the procurement process or Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 16 16 Economic responsibility Economic responsibility means us producing value for shareholders over the long term and generating a positive impact on the Finnish national economy. The investments involved in the Hanhikivi 1 project improve employment, create new business and result in increased tax revenue. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 17 17 KEY FINANCIAL FIGURES Fennovoima’s purpose is to build a new Finnish nuclear power plant to produce Economic value in 2018 electricity at a stable price for its owners. Generated (a) Distributed (b) Retained (a-b) Our Finnish owners are industrial corporations and municipal power utilities that will € 29.4 million € 106.5 million € -77.1 million use the generated energy for their own purOperating expenses & costs capitalized: Finance income: € 28.7 million poses. The emission-free electricity from € 78.1 million Hanhikivi 1 will benefit the whole country. Other operation income: Including personnel expenses: € 0.7 million € 30.2 million When commercial operation of the nuclear Finance expenses: € 28.4 million power plant begins, the company will operAbove costs include: ate in line with the Mankala principle, which Research payment to the State means that shareholders are able to purNuclear Waste Fund: € 1.8 million chase electricity at cost price in proportion to their shares of ownership. Fennovoima is therefore not expected to make a profit or Therefore, it had no turnover in 2018. Before the launch of commercial operacompanies generally do. Several stakeholdpay dividends as traditional businesses do. The construction of the nuclear power tion, Fennovoima has no expectations of er groups benefit from the capital invested; plant will begin when the Finnish Governany revenue. This results in the following: these include the personnel, external service Fennovoima has two offices: the headquarment grants Fennovoima a construction The economic value generated (a) remains providers, authorities and the plant supplier. ter in Helsinki, and local office in Pyhäjoki. license. According to the current schedule, at a modest level, consisting mainly of ocFennovoima owns 100% of the company commercial operation is expected to casional financing income related to the For the reasons presented above, the ecoOOO Fennovoima Rus, which operates in begin in 2028. loan facilities and liquidity management. nomic value retained (a–b) is currently Russia. The subsidiary was registered in negative. When the commercial operation November 2015 to control procurement that All Fennovoima’s costs are related to the The economic value distributed (b) is signifof the plant begins, the economic value takes place in Russia. OOO Fennovoima Rus design, construction and commissioning of icant before the commercial operation of generated is going to cover the economhas an office in St. Petersburg. the nuclear power plant. the nuclear power plant begins, because the ic value distributed. Due to the cost price plant investement takes place during this principle of operation, the economic value Financial year 2018 The figure above describes the distribution period. During this period, Fennovoima will retained is expected to stay near zero, even Fennovoima is still in the project phase of the financial value of Fennovoima. not generate revenues nor economic value during commercial operation. and owns no assets that generate revenue. that could be distributed in the sense that Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 18 18 HANHIKIVI 1 PROJECT OFFERS Investment and its cascade effect* EMPLOYMENT AND BOOSTS GROWTH The Hanhikivi 1 project is a major investment Additional investments of EUR 25 – 30 million per that will benefit the whole Finland and its year during operation of the nuclear power plant. economy. The impact of preparatory work alone, including the construction of a harbor Additional investments of EUR 400 million as a + and auxiliary buildings, will be considerable. + The total employment impact of the conFinnish investments Overall investments struction of infrastructure and auxiliary EUR 1.8 – 2.7 billion EUR 6.5 – 7 billion buildings will be approximately 3,000 manyears in Finland. More than one third of this (approximately 1,300 man-years) will take place in Northern Ostrobothnia. The preEUR 1 billion EUR 2 billion EUR 3 billion EUR 4 billion EUR 5 billion EUR 6 billion EUR 7 billion paratory construction work will accumulate a total tax revenue of more than EUR 70 million, of which more than EUR 30 million will *For example, investments in equipment in other companies or commercial construction investments due to the increased demand caused by the construction or operation of the nuclear power plant. be directed to Northern Ostrobothnia. The impact of preparatory construction The positive impact on the national econin this chapter, is based on a study of reranged from 25 to 40 percent. work can be seen also in the region’s gross omy will multiply after the plant construcsource flows in Northern Ostrobothnia, initiregional product (GRP). With cascade effects tion begins. During the entire construction ated in 2018 by the Council of Oulu Region Read more about the study here (in included Hanhikivi 1 project is responsible phase, the Hanhikivi 1 project will generand Raahe District Business Services. The Finnish): www.pohjois-pohjanmaa.fi/aluesufor approximately 0.6 percent of the overate a non-recurring total turnover increase impact of the Hanhikivi 1 project on the unnittelu/aluesuunnittelun_paattyneet_ all GRP of Northern Ostrobothnia. During of approximately EUR 2.5–3.9 billion in the local economy was also investigated as projektit/pohjois-pohjanmaan_alueelliset_ the construction of the nuclear power plant, whole of Finland, and will bring approxipart of the study. The study was conductresurssivirrat the project's GRP impact, cascade effects mately EUR 1.1–1.7 billion in added value. ed by Ramboll Finland Oy and the Natural included, will increase to 3.0–4.9 percent of During The indirect the construction impact phase,1 prothe of the Hanhikivi Resources Once in operation, Institute Finland.theThenuclear power domestic Hanhikivi 1 construction site plant will directly employ some Northern Ostrobothnia's GRP. ject on the national economy, presented content used when assessing the impact will employ more than 20,000 500 people. When taking into account **More jobs in several industries will be created due professionals. At the most the indirect impact (the cascade direct jobs, such as service4,000 and education-related jobs. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting 2,600 to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices 1, 700 in North Ostrobothnia management and safety 800 – 900 in other parts of Finland of these people will be working simultaneously. 19 jobs will be created. 19 *For example, investments in equipment in other companies or commercial construction investments due to the increased demand caused by the construction or operation of the nuclear power plant. Employment impact and tax revenue During the construction phase, the Once in operation, the nuclear power Hanhikivi 1 construction site plant will directly employ some will employ more than 20,000 500 people. When taking into account **More jobs in several industries will be created due professionals. At the most the indirect impact (the cascade direct jobs, such as service4,000 and education-related jobs. of these people will be working simultaneously. 2,600 jobs will be created. 1, 700 in North Ostrobothnia 800 – 900 in other parts of Finland taxes will be paid totally Furthermore 70 million EUR during construction of the 342 – 564 during the construction of the million EUR 49 million EUR per year during operation of the infrastructure nuclear power plant nuclear power plant During construction of the infrastructure and the power plant: • The state will receive EUR 289 – 421 million in product, production, and value added tax revenue, of which EUR 108 – 163 million from North Ostrobothnia. • Municipal tax revenue of the municipalities in North Ostrobothnia will increase; their share of the corporation tax revenue from companies, and real estate tax revenue will be some EUR 60 – 90 million. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 20 20 Nuclear safety Nuclear technology and safety culture go hand in hand in ensuring the safety of a nuclear power plant. While confirming the safety by technical design, we also develop of our safety culture in compliance with the shared safety principles established for the project. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 21 21 Nuclear safety GOAL PROGRESS The safety culture of the key participants in the Hanhikivi A strong safety culture 1 project has been proven to be at a good level before beginning the plant construction. Strong evidence of plant safety Uncompromising nuclear safety Key documentation for the preliminary safety analysis Uncompromising radiation safety is completed and of high quality. Basic design, manufacture and construction of the plant have been carried out in accordance with the preliminary safety analysis report. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 22 22 ENSURING PLANT SAFETY spring 2019 in accordance with the develinformation delivered by the plant supplier, At the moment, important issues remain Plant safety is ensured in the design opment program. we have not yet been able to confirm that open related to matters such as how certain phase before construction of the power the protection strategy fulfils all the objecsingle failures and common cause failures plant begins. In the preliminary safety assessment for the tives set for them. are taken into account. plant (in 2014), STUK also identified other At the moment, a few issues significant for significant issues that require clarification. Functional safety design Fractured zone and plant location nuclear safety are still open in the plant Our progress in solving these issues is disThe functional safety design specifies the The bedrock of the Hanhikivi nuclear power design. Most important of these relate to cussed later in this chapter. plant's safety functions and allows us to enplant site has certain significant fractured plant protection against external and insure that the principles of defense-in-depth zones that must be taken into account ternal hazards, functional safety design, Protection against hazards are fulfilled in the design. Defense-in-depth when determining the appropriate location and to locating the plant within the plant The nuclear power plant will be protectmeans that the safety of the nuclear powof the plant at the site and when designing site with respect to the fracture zones in ed from all conceivable hazards, including er plant is ensured at many levels so that a the foundation structures. Further geotechthe bedrock. The open issues will be thorvariations in sea level, extreme weather single failure or human error cannot affect nical investigations were carried out in fall oughly resolved. We aim to resolve the phenomena, and both intentional and unplant safety. 2018 to gather more information. most important open questions during intentional human hazards. Based on the Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 23 23 Progress made in the key development areas identified in STUK’s preliminary safety assessment For more information, see STUK's preliminary safety assessment (2014). MAJOR TOPICS PROGRESS IN 2018 We have reviewed the concept on airplane crash management. The strategy 1. The design of nuclear power plant shall take the is partly based on both physical separation and structural protection. We are crash of a large commercial airliner into consideration continuing the design work and detailed analyses to demonstrate the adeas an external hazard. quacy of the selected strategy and the structural durability. 2. System design shall apply the separation principle Main principles applied for separation and layout are discussed. In particular, to ensure the implementation of the safety functions the design work and detailed analyses that relate to flooding and fire proteceven in the event of a failure and during internal and tion are ongoing. external hazards. The objective is to prevent the reactor core from melting through the bottom of the pressure vessel under high pressure conditions during a severe acci3. Depressurization of the primary circuit in a dent. The design provides a separate emergency pressure reduction system severe accident that is dedicated for managing severe accident conditions. The basic design of the system is ongoing. Color codes: = No open issues or only minor open issues = Significant open issues = Critical open issues Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 24 24 Progress made in the key development areas identified in STUK’s preliminary safety assessment OTHER TOPICS PROGRESS IN 2018 The plant supplier has delivered the justification for the functionality of 4. Experimental substantiation of passive heat the steam generator and the passive heat removal systems of the conremoval systems (PHRS) tainment. Further experiments are being planned to be carried out in the test facility at Lappeenranta University of Technology. 5. Detailed demonstration of compliance with the The documentation is being prepared as part of the safety engineering proFinnish requirements in terms of the redundancy, cess. Final evidence will be presented in licensing documentation and in the separation, and diversity principles of the systems system requirement evaluations. that ensure safety functions We have reviewed the plant supplier’s justification of the 60 years service life of the reactor. Some open issues remain, but the analysis results will 6. The effect that the material of the reactor be verified with a reactor material and welded joint test program that will pressure vessel has on the radiation embrittlecontinue for several years (in accordance with the test plan received by the ment rate plant supplier). Aging of the reactor pressure vessel materials will also be continuously monitored during operation. 7. The effects that postulated, sudden pipe breaks of the primary coolant circuit have on the durability of the An analysis will be carried out in accordance with the YVL requirements*. internal parts of the reactor as well as the implementaSimilar analyses have been performed for the reference plant with positive tion, inspection and radiation protection principles of results. the primary coolant circuit nozzles * YVL Guides are regulatory guides on nuclear safety that contain detailed requirements under the Nuclear Energy Act. Color codes: = No open issues or only minor open issues = Significant open issues = Critical open issues Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 25 25 Progress made in the key development areas identified in STUK’s preliminary safety assessment OTHER TOPICS PROGRESS IN 2018 For the penetrations in the top section of the containment, the main 8. Design of penetrations in upper part of containment risk relates to how difficult they are to build. Fennovoima’s construction building and tendon system of inner containment specialists have assessed the work and consider it manageable. The constructability has also been proven in the reference plant. At the moment, the plant supplier's experiments for the functionality of the 9. The suction strainers of the safety injection sump filters is based on the design of the reference plant. More testing is systems and experimental verification of their required using the specific materials for Hanhikivi 1 to demonstrate the reliafunctionality ble operation of the sump filters and thus the safety injection system. 10. The technical solutions that are related to obtainThe plant supplier's justification for the adequacy of water inventory shows ing the cooling water for the systems that implement that residual heat removal can be continued without external supplies for the diversity principle in residual heat removal for a a week. 72-hour period 11. . Independence of the systems used to impleThe development of the severe accident management concept continued ment the severe accident management strategy in 2018. At the principle level, the further developed strategy meets Fenno(SAM) voima's main expectations. Restoration of the plant to a safe state after a severe accident can be done by 12. A procedure and systems to reduce containment using passive heat removal systems or active systems. If passive systems are pressure to achieve a long-term safe state after a used, however, restoring the plant to a safe state after an accident may take severe accident. rather long time. When using active systems, a safe state will be restored in 1–2 weeks. Color codes: = No open issues or only minor open issues = Significant open issues = Critical open issues Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 26 26 Progress made in the key development areas identified in STUK’s preliminary safety assessment OTHER TOPICS PROGRESS IN 2018 13. Realization of safety principles and objectives in These matters will be clarified in connection with the open questions the technical solutions of the plant with regard to related to functional design. I&C systems 14. Separation principles for electrical systems This is an important topic related to item 13 above. Current functional design solutions form the basis for utilization of hard15. Scope of the hardwired diverse I&C system wired diverse I&C systems that implement the diversity principle. The principles will be planned when developing the automation architecture. 16. Application of the diversity principle in the measurements of the reactor protection system The issue remains undecided. Different options are considered. and in activation of the protection The design include a cooling system for the safety systems ensuring its 17. Cooling of auxiliary and support systems and functionality in both normal operating conditions and in design basis substantiation of a sufficient cooling water supply accident conditions. The table on pages 24–27 shows the status at the end of 2018. The aim is to resolve critical open issues during spring 2019. Color codes: = No open issues or only minor open issues = Significant open issues = Critical open issues Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 27 27 Seismic spectrum that guides preparabased on updated risk assessments and ultimately means knowing what you are doSAFETY PRINCIPLES OF tion for earthquakes has been updated the earthquake magnitudes measured in ing, and doing it in a responsible manner. THE HANHIKIVI 1 PROJECT The essential structures, systems and equipPyhäjoki. These assessments led to increasChanges take place in the culture through COMMITMENT: ment of the nuclear power plant are deing the seismic design spectrum in high consistent actions over the long term. Make nuclear safety a priority, take signed to withstand the stress caused by frequencies (10–50 Hz). In other words, the responsibility and be an example to others. an earthquake. An error was detected in spectrum describes how plant structures atThe development of Fennovoima’s safety AWARENESS: 2017 in the horizontal and vertical ground tached to the bedrock vibrate at various natculture is based on our safety culture proKnow what you are doing and why. motion prediction equations (GMPE) from ural frequencies. The structures of the powgram that leads to safety culture being inTRANSPARENCY: Communicate and cooperate. the Institute of Seismology that were used er plant must be able to withstand higher herent in all company structures and pracCONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT: to assess the seismic risk in the Hanhikivi acceleration forces in high frequencies than tices, decision-making and daily work. The Take the initiative and strive to learn more. headland. initially assessed. program sets the objectives for the work, and the management team confirms more The GMPE method has now been corCONTINUOUS DEVELOPMENT OF detailed actions for the annual implementarected, and the most important plant site SAFETY CULTURE tion of the program. We continually work to measurements related to seismic risks have All parties participating in the Hanhikivi 1 prodevelop the safety culture and it is, as well as been repeated. The seismic design basis ject must demonstrate a good safety culture the related actions, a regular topic of manfor Hanhikivi 1 was reassessed early in 2018 in their operations. A good safety culture agement discourse. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 28 28 Our preparedness for ensuring our own safeand in the training used to ensure unified management workshops. The results of personnel survey, document analysis, and ty culture and that of the supply chain is at management practices. the workshops support Fennovoima in imobservations, and it will be completed in an acceptable level at this stage of the proproving the openness and transparency of spring 2019. ject according to the independent study by The state of the safety culture is verified decision-making. The development areas VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland. with assessments presented in the assessment as well as the Safety observations All project participants must, however, take An independent investigation concernnew initiatives generated at the workshops Reporting of safety observations increases action to develop their safety culture. We will ing the handling of site survey for the will be included in Fennovoima’s developthe transparency of safety culture developcontinue the systematic development work Fennovoima plant site was completed in ment program. ment. Therefore, we encourage employees throughout the lifetime of the plant. 2018. The assessment revealed deficiento use the reporting system to report their cies in the implementation of the nuclear We have also launched a self-assessment observations. On a practical level, we build a good safety safety culture. The observations concerned of the safety culture; the first step being the culture through many actions. For example, for example a lack of clarity in the division management team’s safety culture assessIn 2018, our personnel reported 69 safety we develop our management system so of responsibilities and in the structure of ment. Fennovoima's safety culture ambasobservations. The importance for safety that we are able to ensure thorough and apthe organization, differences of opinion besadors, who have received training from was estimated as high for three of them, propriately scheduled assessment of safety tween top management and experts, and IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency, significant for 34, and minor for 32. The exsolutions, as well as the clarity of the indian inadequate administrative structure. a specialized agency of the United Nations) pressed concerns dealt with many differcators used for monitoring the results. The for the task, are in charge of carrying out ent matters. Many of them addressed ocsafety culture is also manifested in the comWe discussed the assessment results in the assessment. The assessment will incupational safety or information security. petence requirements for the personnel four personnel workshops and three top clude components such as interviews, a Room for improvement was also observed Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 29 29 in cooperation and review practices, as well We have adopted a shared observation mailcontracting deliveries for the Hanhikivi 1 the end of 2019. To renew the approval, we as in communication. Fennovoima's safety box system at the Hanhikivi 1 construction project are classified based on their safety require clear improvements in the safety observation team promotes the processing site. Anyone working at the site may use the significance. To support this work, we utilize culture of the company. Meanwhile, we are of the observations and monitors the implemailboxes to report observations. The oba network model that describes the safety increasing our efforts to support and monimentation of corrective actions. servations may relate to any shortcomings significance and the company’s role in the tor Titan-2’s safety culture development. or suspicions. The joint job stewards of the supply chain. We have also adopted a safety Reporting of safety observations has inHanhikivi 1 site process the received obserculture register that allows systematic monRealization of the safety culture princicreased from previous years (42 observavations in confidence before forwarding the itoring of safety culture in the supply chain ples at the construction site tions in 2017, and 18 in 2016). We consider the observations to the related parties anonyand improves the traceability of information. Research for a thesis was carried out in fall increased number of observations a good mously. This system has been developed in 2018 on the state of the safety culture at development, as it is an indication of the mocooperation with RAOS Project. We carried out a dedicated safety culture the Hanhikivi 1 construction site. The study tivation of the personnel to improve operaudit of RAOS Project. We observed no included a survey of the working atmosations. We encourage our personnel to be SAFETY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN non-conformities in the operations, but phere, interviews, and observations of the even more active in reporting observations. We have strengthened the monitoring found that the progress of the safety culture practical safety culture. A total of 126 people of safety culture in the supply chain and development has been slow. RAOS Project working at the construction site in different Hanhikivi 1 project participants who are not emphasized the implementation of safety needs to accelerate the implementation of companies and positions participated in the part of Fennovoima's personnel may report culture as an approval criterion for the the processes related to safety culture. study. The most important findings were safety observations to Fennovoima's nuclesupply chain. that cooperation between the companies ar safety department by email. All concerns Due to the shortcomings observed in the working at the site needs to be improved, reported by email will also be handled To ensure that safety receives adequate safety culture, we have given conditional and transparency needs to be improved in confidentially. attention in the the supply chain all subapproval to the main contractor Titan-2 until decision-making and working methods. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 30 30 With the exception of transparency, the REALIZATION OF THE SAFETY CULTURE PRINCIPLES AT shared safety culture principles for the THE HANHIKIVI 1 CONSTRUCTION SITE Hanhikivi 1 project were found to be implemented to a reasonably good degree at the 4,00 construction site. Hanhikivi 1 construction site We intend to discuss the results with RAOS 3,16 3,11 Project and Titan-2 and to decide on devel3,07 opment measures together. We also plan to arrange another safety culture research 3,00 2,86 later in 2019 to investigate the effectiveness of the development measures that will have been carried out. Fennovoima, RAOS Project and Titan-2 have all increased their resources for developing the safety culture at the construction site. 2,00 Commitment Awareness Continuous Transparency Improvement The assessment used a Likert scale of 1–4, where 1 = completely disagree and 4 = completely agree. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 31 31 New safety culture guide I have a I look for problems and I know the nuclear questioning report them to prevent safety significance of attitude. them from reoccurring. what we are doing. I understand that I do not we all contribute assume that to the safety of the we know. Hanhikivi 1 plant. I ask for help I am humble about if something our expertise. is unclear. I check that we have I recognize the possibility the right input data, of mistakes and I am I know and understand tools, procedures and prepared for worst-case the procedures that other resources to scenarios. guide my work. support our work with nuclear safety. We have published a safety culture guide to support the development of the safety culture within the Hanhikivi 1 project. It is targeted at parties whose operations have safety significance. The guide provides practical examples to demonstrate the project’s safety principles. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 32 32 Organizational development and working at Fennovoima Committed and competent personnel is a prerequisite for the success of the Hanhikivi 1 project. Fennovoima’s organization and its competencies must meet the statutory requirements set for each project phase. Our strengths in the global competition for nuclear power professionals are the interesting and challenging work, the opportunity to get involved in developing new nuclear power company operations and grow as a professional in a caring and encouraging work community. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 33 33 Organization development and empoyment GOAL PROGRESS The organization has the ability to The personnel headcount according to plan begin the construction phase Continuous development of qualifications and competencies – Annual average of training 8 working days (60 hours) effective training Leadership average in the personnel survey at High quality leadership Next survey in 2019 3.5 by 2020 (scale 1–5) A strong corporate culture and Voluntary employee turnover below 5% highly engaged personnel Work motivation above 3.2 in the Työvire personnel survey High personnel well-being (scale 1–5) Sick leave rate below 2.5% Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 34 34 THE RIGHT PEOPLE FOR THE RIGHT organization’s growth targets were updatare not willing to move or commute from the management competencies in our organiPOSITIONS ed accordingly during the year. A quarter capital area to the north of Finland. Reasons zation. In organizational planning, we are alCurrently, we are developing Fennovoima’s of the open positions were filled by internal behind the high turnover also include frusready preparing for the operating phase of organization to meet the needs of the conjob rotation. tration with the project-oriented work and the Hanhikivi 1 nuclear power plant. struction phase. the challenges related to fitting together In a manner typical of project operations, Fennovoima’s and the plant supplier’s Competence management We recruited new professionals in seven we complemented our base of expertise operating cultures and ways of working. We make sure that we have the right people phases during the year. We also used headwith consultants who work together with in the right positions. We have collected inhunting and searched through internationour personnel. We aim to increase commitment by clarifyformation about our employees’ education, al networks to recruit professionals from ing our ways of working and the internal diprevious experience and competencies in around the globe. Experts in some specific Several factors behind turnover vision of responsibilities in accordance with our human resources management system, areas are rare, which means that recruitThe number of employees leaving Fennoour development plan, and with long-term and we compare these to the competence ing can take time. In some cases, we had voima was higher than in previous years. measures that support well-being. and qualification requirements when makto relaunch the recruitment process for the Several factors influenced the voluntary turning personal development plans. same positions. We have also looked for over rate. Some employees who have been Our recruitment needs for 2019 will be new specialists to replace those who left with us for a long time have moved towards moderate, and the focus will be on longIn 2019, we will adopt a new competence the organization. new professional challenges. Some have destanding nuclear power expertise. We will management system that will provide us cided to leave due to Fennovoima’s future also continuously strengthen the autowith better tools to help our personnel to Changes in project schedule are reflectrelocation from the Helsinki area to the plant mation, electrical, power plant, turbine develop professionally and to monitor their ed in the need for new personnel, and our site. For personal reasons, some employees technology, nuclear safety and project performance. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 35 35 313 Towards Pyhäjoki the different departments are taken into Fennovoima employees Our organization is gradually preparing account when planning a more specific to relocate to the plant site in Pyhäjoki. schedule for the relocation. Including internal consultants 383 Construction work of the new administrative building is beginning, and the organIn May, we organized an information event ization will move to Pyhäjoki in stages. In for the personnel and their families where New permanent employees 52 2018, a total of 44 Fennovoima employees 15 North Ostrobothnian municipalities preand 11 trainees worked in Pyhäjoki. sented the services available in the area and talked about the way of life in their Employees who left the company 42 The relocation and for example the possibilmunicipalities. in addition 1 employee retired and ity to commute have raised many questions among our employees. We have discussed FENNOWAY – OUR WAY OF WORKING 10 temporary contracts ended the matter in staff meetings and surveyed The principles that guide Fennovoima’s opOrganizational growth at the end of the year 10 people the personnel’s willingness to relocate in erations – commitment, awareness, transpersonal development discussions. The parency and continuous improvement – results of these surveys and the wishes of have been defined in our nuclear safety Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 36 36 principles. The Fennoway cornerstones are or project had been carried out particularly matters that have been jointly defined by well and in accordance with the Fennoway our personnel and management to support cornerstones: by building cooperation, the realization of our safety culture in our orcreating solutions, making it clear and by ganization. We want all Fennovoima employshowing that you care. Supervisors could ees to represent these matters in their work propose their team members for Instant and attitude towards others. Rewards. The rewards were given to 13 developed concrete examples, tips and inInstant Reward for excellence at work Fennovoima employees. During the year, we have worked to make structions based on the cornerstones. Here We consider it important to value and the Fennoway cornerstones a concrete part is an example of the ideas how to improve reward success at work. In 2018, we HIGH-QUALITY LEADERSHIP of our practices. We have arranged three cooperation: implemented an Instant Reward program We support supervisors in their daily work Fennoway workshops for supervisors. In “In my experience, the best way to create to acknowledge particular successes of and provide them tools to lead their teams the workshops, we searched together for a cooperation relationship based on trust our employees. in line with the Fennoway cornerstones. practical examples how Fennoway should is to get to know your partners personally. materialize in supervisory work and the Trust creates efficiency, and it’s easier to get The Instant Reward amounted to 50–100% Our leadership training program, the work of the teams. During the year, teams things done.” Henri Ormus, Project Engineer of the employee’s monthly salary. It was FennoWay Leadership Program, is targeted from different parts of the organization Configuration Management. granted when a specific goal-related task at all Fennovoima employees in supervisory Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 37 37 positions. The training addresses themes We carry out personnel surveys to monicourses that are compulsory for all emThe personnel received an average of 50 such as communication skills, goal-orienttor the quality of leadership performance. ployees range from a two-week induction hours of training. We did not achieve our ed management and the role of managers Based on a Työyhteisövire survey (work course to training related to nuclear safety annual goal of eight days (60 hours) of at Fennovoima. The training also includes community shape) charting the state of the guidelines and ethical conduct. We offer training. There was a clear decrease in traina leadership assessment that maps the suworking community, the quality of leadermany voluntary training courses to suping hours compared to the average numpervisor’s strengths and targets for develship is at good level at Fennovoima. On a port employees’ professional competenber of hours spent for training in the previopment, and improves self-knowledge. scale of 1–5, the average of leadership qualicies. Also, visits to the Hanhikivi plant site ous year (2017: 72.8 hours, or over ten days ty indicators was 3.7. are an important part of getting familiar of training). The difference is explained by The FV Leader program is a more advanced with the project. the fact that unlike the previous year, RAOS training course where the above-mentioned We aim to continuously develop the qualiProject did not organize a two-week VVER themes are explored more in detail taking ty of management as good management In 2018, we placed special focus on develplant technology training course for engiinto account on the participants’ needs. The practices have a direct impact on well-beoping project management competencies neers due to an observed need to develop training program includes group and indiing at work. We involve the supervisors and and reviewed the training provided for the training. The training is expected to be vidual coaching to allow more thorough their teams in the development of the matproject managers. We conducted a comorganized again in 2019. processing of the essential development tarters revealed by the Työyhteisövire survey. petence survey of approximately 70 progets of the participants. The program also ject managers, and we utilize the results includes a 360° feedback survey to support COMPETENCE DEVELOPMENT to revise the training programs. In the personal development. The FV Leader proAND TRAINING training courses, we pay more attention to gram was not organized in 2018, but it will be Our comprehensive training program developing uniform practices for project part of the training program again in 2019. supports continuous learning. Training management. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 38 38 Average hours of training 60 56 48 47 50 40 31 30 22 20 10 6 0 Management Team Supervisors Experts Female Male In 2018, the personnel received an average of 50 hours of training. Differences in training hours between groups are explained, for example, by the induction training that is provided to new employees. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 39 39 Learning from other nuclear operators commissioning and many other areas in required in the field. In 2018, seventeen productivity, commitment and motivaIn addition to training courses, learning by Fennovoima.” Fennovoima employees completed the intion. A functioning organizational structure, experience is essential in the nuclear powtensive training that takes nearly six workhigh-quality management practices and er industry. Fennovoima engineers in parYJK training course provides compleing weeks. opportunities for professional development, ticular visit peer companies to observe how mentary professional education among other similar factors, are key to a other nuclear power companies operate Each year, several Fennovoima employees The course is jointly organized by Aalto flourishing workplace well-being. in different parts of the world. Visits are orparticipate in a complementary training University, Lappeenranta University of ganized by WANO (the World Association course on nuclear safety and nuclear waste Technology, Fennovoima, Fortum, Posiva, We develop well-being together as a of Nuclear Operators), among others. management that is for all operators in the TVO, STUK, the Ministry of Economic shared effort between top and middle Fennovoima’s Commissioning Manager, nuclear industry. Affairs and Employment of Finland, VTT management, employees and the occuMatthew Geharty, describes his thoughts Technical Research Centre of Finland, pational health care services. The occupaafter visiting the Flamanville 3 nuclear powThe course addresses a wide range of topPöyry, Platom, and Saanio & Riekkola tional health and safety committee and the er plant in France: ics related to nuclear safety and is taught (A-Insinöörit). OHS representatives that the personnel “Benchmarking visits to established nuclear by more than a hundred specialist trainers. elect from among themselves are also power plants provide excellent opportuniThe course is targeted at nuclear industry HIGH PERSONNEL WELL-BEING involved in planning and executing wellties to identify best practices. This was an employees with a few years’ experience and By investing in well-being at work and a being measures. extremely worthwhile visit, with lessons for provides them with advanced competence good working atmosphere, we support Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 40 40 Personel well-being High quality leadership Creating solutions Functioning Professional organisational development structure Making Building it clear WELL-BEING AT cooperation FENNOVOIMA Physical and Encouraging mental well-being atmosphere Showing that you care Balance between work and leisure Fennovoima engages in holistic management of well-being at work. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 41 41 WE MONITOR WELL-BEING Later in the year, a more extensive Personal development discussions play an important role in developing competencies Työyhteisövire survey was carried out. In this survey, well-being received an average EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING 2018 2017 2016 and monitoring well-being at work. In the rating of 3.7 (on a scale of 1–5), and 66% of PDDs completed 99 % 98 % 97 % (goal: 100%) annual discussions, supervisors and emthe personnel felt that they have good work ployees take time to discuss the employee’s motivation. The survey includes questions Pulse well-being index, Pulse well-being index, Well-being rating, Työvire scale 1–6 scale 1–6 performance, to set goals and to give feedon themes such as the direction that the 3.8 survey (goal: 3.2, scale 1–5) back to each other. company is taking, leadership, abilities and 4.59 4.76 ja 4.63 practices, and how these affect the employParTy overall rating, Well-being rating, We monitor well-being in the workplace and ee experience, occupational well-being and scale: 0-20 Työyhteisövire survey 3.7 set goals for it also with two different perthe ability to work. (goal: 3.2, scale 1–5) 14.5 sonnel surveys. The Työvire survey is conducted every Sick leave rate 1.61 % 1.63 % 2.07% (goal: below 2.5%) According to the Työvire survey, conducted six months, and the more extensive for the first time in June, 72% of the personTyöyhteisövire survey every other year. Reported incidents No reported No reported incidents No reported incidents nel have good or excellent work motivation. These surveys replace the occupationof discrimination incidents At the company level, the survey yielded an al well-being surveys that had been used average well-being rating of 3.8 (on a scale previously. of 1–5). The survey provides an overall picture of occupational well-being, safety at We also monitor the personnel’s sick leave take sick leave at an increased frequency, occupational health care services exceeds work, and the mental and physical burden absences in accordance with the early care we find out the reasons for this and provide the statutory requirement. caused by the work. model. If an individual employee begins to support when necessary. The scope of our Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 42 42 Care Week mental and physical well-being. 56,110 kilometers during the campaign, and In 2018, we organized a well-being camFennovoima's sports and culture clubs collected EUR 2,245 for the Finnish Red paign called Care Week, for all employees in and the Young Professionals club organCross. Fennovoima doubled the sum to EUR Pyhäjoki and Helsinki. All through the week, ize well-being activities around the year. We 4,500. According to campaign data, the cythe personnel had the opportunity to paralso participate together in different sports clists saved 3,927 liters of fuel and 9,817 kg ticipate in various exercise activities, stress campaigns. of CO2 emissions. management classes, mindfulness therapy, nutritional counselling, massage therapy, Cycling for charity and other similar activities. In the fall, we orEach year, we participate with our own ganized a Care Day well-being event, which team in the Kilometrikisa cycling competialso included various activities to support tion. In 2018, our team of 35 cyclists totaled Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 43 43 Personnel statistics EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS PERMANENT FIXED-TERM TOTAL BY GENDER AND REGION Helsinki Pyhäjoki Helsinki Pyhäjoki Entire organisation Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Full time 73 185 11 29 3 0 1 2 88 216 Part-time 0 2 1 0 2 4 0 0 3 6 All 73 187 12 29 5 4 1 2 91 222 A total of 29.07% of our employees are women (28.7% in 2017). Fennovoima applies mostly permanent employment contracts. Fixed-term contracts are used only for e.g. temporary positions when a permanent employee has taken parental or study leave, summer jobs, or to cover short-time project needs. The possibility to have reduced working hours (part-time employees) has mostly been used for part-time child-care leave. In Board of Director’s Report 2018 the personnel headcount does not include employees who were on a parental or study leave on December 31, 2018 or those whose employment contract did not continue after December 31, 2018. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 44 44 Personnel statistics NEW EMPLOYEES HELSINKI PYHÄJOKI TOTAL Age group Female Male Female Male All % Under 30 5 8 1 3 17 27.0 30-39 7 12 1 1 21 33.3 40-49 2 7 1 2 12 19.0 50-59 1 7 1 2 11 17.5 60 and over 0 2 0 0 2 3.2 Total 15 36 4 8 63 100 A total of 63 new employees began work at Fennovoima in 2018. This number includes 11 summer employees. In 2017, the number of new employees was 75 (including summer employees). In Board of Director’s Report 2018 the personnel headcount does not include employees who were on a parental or study leave on December 31, 2018 or those whose employment contract did not continue after December 31, 2018. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 45 45 Personnel statistics VOLUNTARY EMPLOYEE HELSINKI PYHÄJOKI TOTAL TURNOVER Age group Female Male Female Male All % Under 30 0 1 0 0 1 2.4 % 30–39 3 12 2 1 18 42.9 % 40–49 5 7 1 0 13 30.9 % 50–59 1 7 0 1 9 21.4 % 60 and over 0 1 0 0 1 2.4 % Total 9 28 3 2 42 100 % *Voluntary employee turnover: voluntary resignations / number of employees on December 31, 2018 × 100. Voluntary staff turnover for permanent employees in 2018 was 13.52% (2017: 9.57%, 2016: 7.04%). This number does not include people who have left due to the end of a fixed-term employment contract (10) or retirement (1). Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 46 46 Responsible supply chain management Fennovoima has approved all the suppliers in the Hanhikivi 1 supply chain. All suppliers must have the prerequisites to deliver the agreed services or products in accordance with nuclear safety requirements and the contract terms. We also require that all suppliers commit to ethical practices. Important ethical aspects of the international supply chain include human rights, labor practices, environmental management and the prevention of corruption. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 47 47 Responsible supply chain management GOAL PROGRESS Qualified and well-functioning The supply chain has been found to be of high quality supply chain and has been approved. Respect and promotion of human All our new contract partners commit to compliance rights, fair labor practices with Fennovoima’s Code of Conduct as part of the contract. Efficient prevention of Ethical assessments have been included in corruption in the supply chain Fennovoima’s audit program. Measures to combat the gray All required information regarding the supply chain economy are effective at the companies and people working at the site are in order. Hanhikivi 1 construction site. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 48 48 SAFETY IN FOCUS Sub-suppliers who produce services and in the design work and in the completion of Fennovoima has established a multi-discipliThe most important aspect of a nuclear powproducts that are significant in terms of safedocuments that are needed for licensing and nary YVL working team to monitor and super project’s supply chain management is enty must understand and comply with the the launch of construction work. port the distribution of requirements within suring safety. All deliveries for the Hanhikivi 1 safety requirements of the Hanhikivi 1 project. the supply chain, and to increase transparproject are classified based on their safety All requirements set out in the YVL Guides The allocation of requirements has progres-ency and trust between different operators. significance. Deliveries that are important and the plant supply contract do not directly sed in 2018. The main designer Atomproekt Several meetings have been planned for for safety are subject to a higher number of apply to all suppliers. defined and allocated the YVL Guides’ and 2019 to finalize the allocation of requirements requirements that are also stricter than the the plant supply contract’s requirements together with sub-suppliers. requirements set for deliveries that have no The right requirements for the right that apply to its own organization and to its nuclear safety significance. Deliveries that subcontractors sub-suppliers. Atomproekt also produced a We have also undertaken to improve the are important for safety can only be delivWhen developing the project’s supply chain suggestion for how to allocate requirements supply chain management for the whole ered by suppliers who have the prerequisites we have observed challenges in how the for other sub-suppliers in the supply chain. Hanhikivi 1 project by strengthening for operations that meet the statutory safety requirements defined for the supply chain After reviewing the suggestion, RAOS Project Fennovoima’s human resources and by requirements and who have adopted clear are targeted at appropriate parties. There presented requirements accordingly to its developing and harmonizing the supply procedures for quality management and has been a lack of shared understanding of own sub-suppliers who, in turn, ensure that chain management tools. assurance. which requirements should be applied to the requirements are targeted appropriately each sub-supplier, which has caused delays in their supply chains. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 49 49 Fennovoima’s scope of work 2018 2017 2016 RAOS Project’s scope of work 2018 2017 2016 Suppliers in total 273 184 158 Suppliers in total 754 524 210 Suppliers by country Suppliers by country Finland 83% 84% 89% Finland 80% 80% 72% Sweden 7,5% 9% 5% Russia 11% 15% 23% The United Kingdom 2,5% 1,5% 2,0% Estonia 4% 1% < 0,5% The USA 2,0% 1,5% 0% France 1% 1% 1% Others Others (in 2018: Bulgaria, the Czech (in 2018: Russia, the Czech Republic, Republic, Germany, Latvia, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, South Africa and 5% 4% 4% Ukraine, the Netherlands, the United 4% 3% 4% Switzerland, Canada, Ireland, Kingdom, Italy, Japan, Lithuania, Luxembourg and Spain Poland, Switzerland and the USA) Includes the suppliers approved for Includes the suppliers approved for Fennovoima’s supply chain by the end of 2018. RAOS Project’s supply chain by the end of 2018. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 50 50 Development of the supply chain following companies to participate in the for them as well as the terms of the contracts, In 2018, audits of the supply chain focused Suppliers for products and services that are manufacturing of the turbine generator: and that they are able to produce the oron the management systems, safety culsignificant for safety are only approved for a • Japan Steel Works (Japan) dered products or services. ture, design processes, requirement manfixed period of time (YVL A.3). The approval • GE Wroclaw (Poland) agement and the ability to deliver long-lead period for the two main designer compa• Fomas S.p.A (Italy) Fennovoima’s auditing program covers all items. The focus areas were the same as in nies for Hanhikivi 1, JSC OKB Gidropress and • Acciai Speciali Terni (Italy) the Hanhikivi 1 suppliers who have safety sigthe previous year. Most of the observations JSC Atomproekt, came to a close in summer nificance. In 2018, Fennovoima performed a made during audits were related to defi2018. A reassessment of these companies The manufacturing of the first component total of 25 audits within its own and the plant cient procedures and the inadequate implewas carried out in the spring, and both were of the turbine generator is expected to besupplier’s supply chains. We also participated mentation of documented practices. granted approval for a further five years. gin in spring 2019. We prepare for the beas observer in nearly all audits performed by ginning of plant component manufacture the plant supplier and its sub-suppliers. In future audits, we will place increasing The I&C main supply contract was meant to by improving the performance assessemphasis on the assessment of the safety be signed in the spring, but due to challenges ment and management practices that are The plant supplier audited all the sub-supculture, requirement management, configin design development, competitive tenderapplied to suppliers that are significant in pliers who belong to its own Hanhikivi 1 supuration management and design assessing was launched again in the fall. Rolls-Royce terms of safety. ply chain. In addition to audits performed ment processes, and safety assessment of Civil Nuclear SAS continued to support the by Fennovoima and RAOS Project, sub-supthe background analyses. The beginning of licensing of the automation systems. SUPPLY CHAIN CAPABILITIES ARE pliers, external auditors and STUK also the manufacture of equipment with safety ENSURED WITH AUDITS perform audits and inspections at various significance will also have an impact on the In summer 2018, the turbine generator supWe perform supply chain audits to ensure stages of the project. STUK has the right to scope of audits. ply chain was strengthened by selecting the that the suppliers meet the requirements set participate in all audits. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 51 51 ETHICAL REQUIREMENTS APPLY TO Our Code of Conduct requires the supplifor overseeing compliance within their own For the assessment, we use a questionALL SUPPLIERS OF THE HANHIKIVI 1 ers and sub-suppliers to ensure: supply chains. We support different parties naire to gather information about the PROJECT • Full compliance with all applicable laws, as necessary to develop their compliance potential contractual partners’ policies, Socially significant ethical issues that re• Prohibition of all corruptive behavior, procedures to meet the needs of the codes of conduct, oversight procedures late to the supply chain, such as corrup• Occupational safety in all operations, Hanhikivi 1 project. and violations, among other things, with tion, human rights obligations and the • Respect for human rights, regard to matters such as corruption, semanagement of environmental matters • Environmental compliance and Ethical review of ways of operation curing human rights and managing occuare guided based on contractual terms, sustainability actions. In 2018, we strengthened our efforts to manpational safety and environmental matand are also taken into account in project age ethical issues within the supply chain. ters. In 2019, we will also carry out spot planning. The key participants in the project must Fennovoima’s Code of Conduct was includchecks to assess companies already sealso follow an environmental management ed in all new supply contracts that are relected into Fennovoima’s supply chain. We require the supply chain to comply with system in compliance with ISO 14001, and lated to Fennovoima’s direct supply chain Fennovoima’s Code of Conduct or another an occupational safety system that meets and worth more than EUR 30,000. We also Compliance assessments similar generally recognized ethical code. the conditions of OHSAS 18001. Key particadopted a pre-evaluation for ethical conThe first Compliance & Ethics assessment We also expect the suppliers and sub-supipants in the Hanhikivi 1 project, including duct that is implemented as part of supplihas been carried out as part of a more expliers to ensure promotion of Fennovoima’s RAOS Project, Titan-2 and GE Steam Power er pre-selection queries for companies who tensive audit. The company under assessCode of Conduct amongst stakeholders, Systems, operate in accordance with their wish to be part of Fennovoima’s direct supment was found to take well into account especially sub-suppliers. own Codes of Conduct and are responsible ply chain. ethical requirements in its operations. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 52 52 In 2019, a similar assessment will be perON-SITE OPERATIONS TO PREVENT into the site register. This way, we ensure formed in at least ten companies that are GRAY ECONOMY that legal requirements are fulfilled for both part of Fennovoima’s supply chain. We are committed to the effective prevencompanies and workers. This also secures all tion of the gray economy at the Hanhikivi 1 site workers’ right to terms of employment In 2018, we rejected one company in the construction site and to ensure that all that follow Finnish labor agreements. The procurement phase due to their inability to the companies active at the site comply system allows us to perform real-time on-site fulfil our ethical requirements. with Finnish labor legislation and respect inspections. human rights in all their operations. CoopObservations from the pre-evaluation eration with labor organizations, authorities In 2018, all required information regarding and the assessments are processed by and the plant supplier is an essential elethe supply chain companies and people Fennovoima’s Compliance & Ethics steerment of this work. working at the site was in order. Companies ing group that consists of specialists in leor workers who have not been registered gal matters, procurement, quality and corAll companies and workers who work at the into the site register have not been granted porate responsibility. Hanhikivi 1 construction site are registered access permits to the construction site. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 53 53 Occupational health and safety Occupational health and safety is a joint effort where each employee carries the responsibility for their own safety as well as the safety of others. Contractors and builders working at the site face situations that could pose risks without careful planning, correct procedures and protective gear. Identification of occupational safety risks, preventive action and training play an important role in the creation of a safe working environment. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 54 54 A healthy and safe working environment GOAL PROGRESS After one meeting, the authority We ensure that the stated that the second meeting working environment and Information sharing meetings with the authority twice a year would be unnecessary as no the occupational safety new building projects would management processes begin during 2018. meet the statutory requirements and that cooperation with the No occupational safety non-compliances observed in authorities is constructive. external inspections with regard to Fennovoima’s or RAOS’s scope of delivery. No lost time injuries Two accidents. Our working environment is healthy and safe, and No accidents leading to death or permanent disabilities nobody’s health is put at risk. The goal has been The minimum requirement level of 90% is achieved in 97% of achieved in all TR and MVR measurements. the measurements. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 55 55 A strong occupational safety culture GOAL PROGRESS A member of the management team performs an occupational safety inspection at the site twice a year. We take care of our own and our co-workers safety. Fennovoima’s employees report at least 100 safety observations per year. 50/52 joint occupational safety meetings of Fennovoima, RAOS Safety meetings are held weekly. Project and Titan-2 were held, but only 39/52 of Fennovoima’s internal We have active and effective meetings took place. joint co-operation organization for all companies operating at the project site. The goal has been Fennovoima participates in all weekly achieved in 91.6% of TR and MVR inspections. the inspections. The occupational health and safety committee meets four times a year at the Helsinki and Pyhäjoki offices. We immediately concern ourselves with incorrect and Alcohol testing and sanction procedure are in use. unsafe operation. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 56 56 Efficient risk management GOAL PROGRESS For one of the two Investigation of any lost time injuries begins within two days accident investigations, of the accident and is concluded within seven days. this time limit was exceeded. We use proactive risk manTargeted Hazard Hunt inspections will take place 12 times a year. agement measures in all critical work tasks and stages. 9/10 of the assessments have been carried out. Occupational safety risks are assessed on-site every three months The assessment for and at Fennovoima’s offices once a year. the Helsinki head offices was postponed to 2019. We have understandable and clear instructions for Occupational safety instructions and guides are available the multinational working in Finnish and in English. environment. 58.2% of the Handling of safety notices begins within two days, and an action observations were Our safety observation plan is completed within 7 days of reporting the observation. processed within the practices are efficient, time limit. and they are continuously improved. All near misses which could have caused serious consequences There were no serious are investigated as occupational accidents. near misses. We distribute efficiently Toolbox Talk and Safety Flash training materials information about are released regularly. occupational safety. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 57 57 “The most important things in life are A HEALTHY AND SAFE WORKING often found outside work at home and before each construction work. ENVIRONMENT Working for Fennovoima or in the in free time. None of us should lose The plant supplier RAOS Project and the Hanhikivi 1 project must not put anyone’s health and well-being over work; main contractor Titan-2 follow similar risk ashealth at risk. this attitude benefits us all.” sessment and management procedures. Occupational safety management is based Fennovoima OHS Manager Olli-Pekka Pirilä The identified risks are communicated to on an occupational safety management all contractors and builders active at the system that complies with the OHSAS construction site together with the plant At the construction site, all contractors site using Toolbox Talk training materials or 18001 standard and covers Fennovoima’s supplier and work site supervisors. Daily working within Fennovoima’s scope of Safety Flash communication materials that internal operations in Helsinki and Pyhäjoki occupational safety practices at the site work follow the extensive risk assessment describe best practices to avoid the risks. as well as all the work at the Hanhikivi are well established. and management procedure that is based 1 construction site that is included in on Fennovoima’s risk register. This ensures Everyone working at Fennovoima or in the Fennovoima’s scope of work. Also, the EFFICIENT RISK MANAGEMENT that risk assessments are carried out in a Hanhikivi 1 project have the right to refuse occupational safety management systems PREVENTS ACCIDENTS consistent manner and meet our requireunsafe work. We remind all employees of that RAOS Project and Titan-2 apply at the Extensive risk identification and managements. A risk assessment is performed this at the site access training. Hanhikivi 1 construction site meet the rement procedures and reporting of safety quirements of the OHSAS 18001 standard. observations are an important part of preventive occupational safety measures. Management of occupational safety risks 2018 2017 2016 Occupational safety management and monitoring responsibilities are distributFennovoima assesses occupational safeRisk assessment before each work 100% 100% 100% ed to the different levels of Fennovoima’s ty risks from the perspectives of risks tarorganization from employees to the mangeted at the employees, facilities and the Occupational diseases No No No agement team. The management team Hanhikivi 1 construction site. Central risks Investigation of accidents and Two accidents, No investigations, All accidents (3) monitors realization of the occupational at the construction site include work at one of which was as there were no investigated within near misses safety on a monthly basis and carries out heights, information sharing between varinvestigated within lost time injuries. 7 days. an on-site occupational safety inspection ious actors and work in winter conditions. the time limit. at the Hanhikivi 1 construction site twice a Fennovoima’s risk register is updated four High risk work No No No year. We manage and monitor safety at the times a year. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 58 58 Occupational safety observations Fennovoima’s offices, of which 103 Appropriate knowledge and skills on-site training center in Pyhäjoki. After comsupport the continuous improvement came from Fennovoima’s employees. from occupational safety training pleting the training and passing the test, acof the safety culture Three of these concerned the head With the occupational safety training we cess permit to the site remains valid for three According to Fennovoima’s company poloffice in Helsinki. ensure that everyone working for Fennoyears. The training must then be completed icy, everyone has the right to express any voima or at the Hanhikivi 1 site has adeagain to renew the access permit. concern or observation related to safety, At the construction site, the topics of safequate knowledge and skills of the correct quality of other operations and to make ty observations varied from road mainteworking methods and safety practices and Since the beginning of construction work, suggestions to improve the operating pronance to internal fire inspections and, in that everyone working at the construction a total of 2,703 people (399 in 2018) have cedures. We are committed to finding opsome cases, to the use of unauthorized site uses the required personal protective completed the site access training. In adportunities to learn and to improve operalifting aids. Positive observations were also equipment. dition, 100 people repeated the training tions without pointing fingers. made and reported. course to renew the access permit. The Fennovoima employees receive occupatraining is continuously developed based on We encourage our personnel to make and We want to react to the observations withtional safety training as part of the inducfeedback. report observations to improve our occuout delay to ensure that any deficiencies tion training provided at the beginning of pational safety culture. Reporting of obserare corrected quickly. Our objective is that employment. In addition to the access training, all builders vations has become more frequent, which all observations are taken into processing working at the site participate in safety trainhas been the objective. In addition to the within two days, an action plan is prepared The site access training is compulsory for ing organized by their work site supervisor. reporting systems, Fennovoima's head ofwithin seven days and corrective actions everyone who wants to work at the site, inWe also organize occupational and environfice in Helsinki as well as the Hanhikivi 1 are carried out within the agreed schedule. cluding Fennovoima employees. The training mental safety training for the site superviconstruction site have traditional mail boxThis objective was achieved in 58 out of 98 is provided free of charge, and it takes place sors. These training sessions concern essenes that can be used to report observations. cases. during working hours in Helsinki or at the tial occupational safety procedures used at Reporting of occupational safety concerns the Hanhikivi 1 construction site. Occupational safety can also be done anonymously. observations 2018 2017 2016 The site’s occupational safety guide proOur target for 2018 was to receive at vides workers with detailed instructions on 2,323 observations, 627 521 least 100 safety observations from of which 103 from topics such as responsibilities regarding Reported observations Fennovoima’s employees. A total of 2,323 Fennovoima safety, appropriate protective equipment observations were made at the site and at employees and chemical handling. The guide is given Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 59 59 to all new workers at the site access training, audits. Fennovoima also audited the occuHandling of safety violations Fennovoima has zero tolerance of workand it is available in Finnish and in English. pational health and safety management sysSafety violations are processed in according under the influence of alcohol. We carry tems of RAOS Project and Titan-2, and parance with the regular safety observation or out alcohol testing several times a week. A SITE INSPECTIONS PROMOTE ticipated in inspections that the authorities accident investigation procedure. If violation positive test result within the construction IMPROVEMENT OF OPERATIONS carried out at the construction site. of law or safety regulations is revealed in the site perimeter leads to a written warning or We monitor the occupational safety perforprocessing, the access permit of the worker cancelling the access permit temporarily, or, mance at two levels: the procedures and Fennovoima and RAOS Project together is cancelled temporarily or permanently. For if the case is serious, cancelling the access the practices. The monitoring aims at concarried out an occupational safety inspecexample, a safety observation was recordpermit permanently. Voluntary alcohol testtinuous development of working methods tion of the contractors at the construction ed in 2018 in a situation where construcing is possible at the gate before entering and the processing of observed deficiensite. Fennovoima also conducted targeted tion workers were lifted to their working site the site. cies at an early stage, before any harm has Hazard Hunt inspections that focus on one using a loader bucket in violation of safety occurred. area at a time; examples include inspections regulations. Investigation revealed that the of all lifting aids being used at the site, or the workers were following instructions given Fennovoima’s occupational health and safechemical storages. Observations made durby their supervisor. The supervisor lost his ty management system was subjected to ing the inspections are recorded and the reaccess permit and the right to work at the both an internal and an external audit in quired corrective actions are made clear to Hanhikivi 1 construction site. 2018. No deviations were discovered in the the contractors. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 60 60 Two lost time accidents at the a) First-aid-level injuries are not construction site Accidents at the construction site 2018 2017 2016 included in the IR; b) fatalities are included in the IR; c) “lost day” In 2018, a total of 494,601 working hours were indicates the loss of one full work shift; recorded at the construction site. Early in the year, Lost time injuries* 2 0 3 d) “days” means scheduled work days; two lost time accidents occurred at the site. One e) count begins from the day after Lost working days 5 0 9 the accident (one full work shift). If the person hurt his foot and hand in a contact with a injured person is treated on the day trailer when a car started off. The injury resulted of the accident and he/she returns Average severity of accidents in three days’ absence. Another person suffered 2.5 0 3 to work on the next day, the injury is (as lost days) reported as a first-aid case. a mild injury to the back after slipping on snowy Lost time injury frequency rate ground. The injury led to two days’ absence. At 4,04 0 8,08 **LTIFR is calculated by number of (LTIFR)** the end of the year, 299 days had passed without lost-time accidents per million hours TR/MVR occupational safety index worked. A lost-time accident is an accidents. Achieved in 97% Achieved in 94% Achieved in 95% (goal: minimum requirement accident that causes an absence from of measurements of measurements of measurements work of at least one work shift. level 90% is achieved in 100% of Fennovoima’s own personnel suffered no injuries (104/107) (99/105) (123/129) measurements) during working hours. Fatalities 0 0 0 Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 61 61 Environment Hanhikivi 1 is a project that contributes to combatting the climate change. The climate benefit of the Hanhikivi 1 materializes during the decades of electricity production without harmful greenhouse emissions. Before commissioning, Fennovoima's direct environmental impact is mostly related to the construction work carried out at the site. Management of environmental impacts at the Hanhikivi 1 construction site is based on proactive identification of environmental risks. We ensure that all work is carried out in accordance with environmental legislation and the terms of permits and licenses, and respecting the environment and the well-being of the local residents. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 62 62 Proactive prevention and mitigation of the environmental impact GOAL PROGRESS Environmental inspections are executed in accordance with the inspection program. Monitoring the state of Investigation of incidents and near misses begins within two the site operations days of the event, and an action plan is defined within seven days of the event. A minimum of 40 environmental observations within Fennovoima's scope of work Systematic environmental risk All risk assessments are performed in management to mitigate risks accordance with the plan. and their consequences. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 63 63 Preservation of protected species and nature conservation areas GOAL PROGRESS The nature conservation areas are marked in the terrain. Everyone working at the site has adequate knowledge of the nearby protected areas.. All site workers participate in induction training that includes environmental information. Monitoring of the nature conservation areas is performed Monitoring of the nature in accordance with Fennovoima's environmental conservation areas monitoring program. Compliance with environmental and water permits in all operations GOAL PROGRESS No permit violations or other No permit violations or other non-compliance non-compliance of environmental of environmental legislation legislation Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 64 64 Ensuring efficient waste management at the construction site GOAL PROGRESS Efficient sorting of the waste At least 90% of the construction waste fractions are at the place of origin utilized as material or energy. Functioning and timely communication with environmental authorities and other external stakeholders GOAL PROGRESS All feedback from external stakeholders is responded to No feedback received within two working days. Timely communication of environmental matters to stakeholders Two stakeholder events with an environmental theme per year Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 65 65 WE SUPERVISE THE ENTIRE Risk assessments are conducted HANHIKIVI 1 CONSTRUCTION SITE before each work Environmental impact management 2018 2017 2016 We ensure that the Hanhikivi 1 construction We assess environmental risks for the site as a whole operates in compliance with Hanhikivi 1 construction site as a whole Non-compliance with environNo No No environmental legislation, the permit confrom the perspectives of environmental mental laws and regulations non-compliances non-compliances non-compliances ditions and Fennovoima's environmental impact, legislation and permit conditions. requirements. The environmental manageAt this stage of the construction project, Instances of permit limits being ment system, which was certified under important environmental risks include for exceeded (target: no such No No No ISO 14001 early in 2018, is an important tool example chemical and oil leaks, the spread instances) for this. of turbidity in the sea, and the noise caused by blasting work. Fennovoima’s risk register We made a total of We made a total of Fennovoima's environmental specialists is updated four times a year. 524 environmental 159 environmental Environmental observations observations at the observations at the ensure that good practices are systematiWe made a total of by Fennovoima's personnel construction site. Of construction site. Of 127 observations cally followed at the construction site. RAOS At the construction site, all contractors (target for 2018: 40 observations these, 41 addressed these, 20 addressed at the construction Project and the main contractor, Titan-2, working within Fennovoima’s scope of with regard to Fennovoima’s Fennovoima's Fennovoima's site. scope of work) scope of work and scope of work and also have their own persons responsible for work follow an extensive risk assessment 483 the plant suppli139 the plant supplienvironmental issues at the Hanhikivi headand management procedure that is based er’s scope of work. er’s scope of work. land, and we work in close cooperation with on Fennovoima’s risk register. The conthem. All subcontractors working at the contractors assess the environmental risks for struction site are responsible for continuous each work site before starting the work, workers pay attention to the risks as risk assessment and management proceenvironmental monitoring and compliance take the identified risks into account when part of their everyday work. RAOS Project dures in their own supply chain. within their own work sites. planning the work, and ensure that all and the main contractor Titan-2 follow similar Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 66 66 EVERYONE WORKING AT THE SITE focus on matters such as fuel storage, preparTransport and the Environment (ELY a water permit for the seawater intake and BEARS RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE edness for oil spill control, or dust prevention Centre) performed a periodic inspection use as cooling water of the nuclear power ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT methods. These allow us to ensure that envirelated to the nuclear power plant's enviplant. Fennovoima appealed about the perEveryone who works at the construction site ronmental matters are appropriately impleronmental permit in November. Current mit decision to the Administrative Court of must be aware of the special characteristics mented in the construction work and that all work and operations in the project area as Vaasa which gave its decision in December of the Hanhikivi headland’s natural environcontractors work in compliance with the enviwell as permit processes, the implementa2017. Fennovoima decided to appeal to ment and familiar with access limitations in ronmental legislation, permit conditions and tion and results of environmental monitorSupreme Administrative Court regarding the area as well as the environmental guidesite instructions. ing, and reports of disturbances and feedtransformation products of hypochlorite, lines established for the construction site. back from the public were discussed during noise limits and additional fishery studies In addition to these matters, which are disDuring the inspections and site tours, we the inspection. Also, a tour at the construcconcerning fry production of sea grayling cussed at the environmental training (includutilize concrete examples to guide contraction site was performed. According to the and burbot. ed in the site access training), each worker tors towards better management of enviinspection, the site operations are in good must also know the requirements related to ronmental matters. In 2018, such concrete condition and there were no specific comCurrently, Fennovoima is preparing the their own work site. These have been deterexamples included for example deficiencies ments or shortcomings. chemical permit application material. The mined in the risk assessment. observed in contractors’ waste and chemipermit concerns the large-scale industrial cals processing practices and prevention of Permit matters handling and storage of hazardous chemThe construction site is closely minor oil leaks. Fennovoima was granted an environmenicals during the operation of the power monitored tal permit for the operation of the nucleplant. The chemical permit application will Fennovoima and RAOS Project monitor the Authority inspections ar power plant and the back-up power be processed by the Finnish Safety and progress of contracted work with weekly site The authorities also carry out regular inproduction of the plant in June 2016. The Chemicals Agency (Tukes). monitoring rounds. We also perform monthspections at the Hanhikivi 1 construction permit also includes the construction of ly targeted environmental inspections that site. The Centre for Economic Development, cooling water outlet structures, as well as Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 67 67 EXTENSIVE MONITORING OF THE ground, which keeps the dust close to the ended in May before the busiest nesting added a new sensor to monitor the spread ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT source. Therefore, the spread of dust is season for birds. of turbidity from the Hanhikivi headland to We monitor the state of the environment limited mainly within the construction site the northeast towards the town of Raahe. A together with RAOS Project in accordance area. In 2018, just as in previous years, no The blasting carried out in the water aretotal of five measurement points were in opwith the jointly agreed environmental monincreased dust concentrations were found as by a subcontractor in 2018 was planned eration in 2018. Turbidity was not monitored itoring program. In addition to the environoutside the construction site. more carefully than previously, and the resat the marine spoil area, as it was not used mental monitoring required by the permit idents of the immediate vicinity were induring the year. conditions, we also carry out voluntary monNoise formed beforehand about the beginning of itoring of the environmental impact. This The noise level in the Hanhikivi headland is the work. All blasting was scheduled to take Construction work has only caused minor allows us to ensure that we have comprecontinuously measured using sensors locatplace before 10 pm to ensure minimum inturbidity. During the year, construction work hensive knowledge of the state of the envied at seven measurement points near the convenience to the residents. was carried out at the cooling water intake ronment in the Hanhikivi headland. Below is nature conservation areas and between the on the south side of the headland and at the an account of the essential monitoring and construction site and residential buildings. Seawater quality cooling water discharge area in the north. research results for 2018. The measurement point closest to the resThe impact of the construction work on In the cooling water discharge area, water idential buildings is located at an approxiseawater quality is monitored five times construction work only took place within the Air quality mate distance of one kilometer from them. a year with water samples taken from ten protective embankment built into the sea to Air quality has been monitored since 2015 measurement points. The analysis results of prevent the spread of turbidity. In the water using five measurement points located The average noise level at the different the water samples have been typical of the intake area, the breakwaters still under conclose to the construction site. Fennovoima measurement points was 30–68 dB in 2018 Bay of Bothnia. struction limit the spread of turbidity origihas followed dust generation especially (equal to the levels measured in 2017). A levnating from the construction work area. near the nature conservation areas. el of 30 dB corresponds to the sound of a Turbidity whisper, and 65 dB corresponds to normal Turbidity of the seawater is monitored usMonitoring revealed a natural increase in Dust sources are usually located near the speaking voice or laughter. Crushing work ing continuous measurement. In 2018, we turbidity during heavy rain and storms. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 68 68 The values exceeded the limit where work what was expected: some fishing sites have processed in an appropriate manner. The All contractors working in the sea area must be interrupted once, but no work was been unavailable during construction, the subcontractor responsible for the leak remust have their own oil spill prevention in progress at the time. number of migratory fish has decreased, ports the incident to Fennovoima or RAOS plan and equipment, which RAOS Project and fishing nets have been in need of more Project in accordance with the division of inspects before the work begins. All oil spill Fishing frequent cleaning than before. These disresponsibilities at the construction site. prevention equipment is inspected at least According to the fish stock survey completadvantages are compensated to the proonce a year. ed in May 2018, the impact of water construcfessional fishermen in the form of fishery All workers receive basic information of oil tion work on the fish stock has been smaller subsidies and financial compensation. In spill prevention preparedness at the site Benthic fauna than was estimated in the permit application. 2018, a total of EUR 72,000 was paid in access training. The training includes inforStudies of benthic fauna are carried out to compensation. mation on how to report incidents, how to monitor the state of the benthic fauna durTest fishing has revealed that the fish have act when an incident takes place, and how ing construction work as well as the changnot moved away from the water construction Oil and chemical leaks to handle oily waste. A separate training es taking place in its state compared to the work areas; instead, the catch in these areas No significant oil or chemical leaks occurred session was also arranged for site contracsituation prevailing before the start of the has even increased. No changes were obat the construction site. Due to intensified tors in 2018 to introduce oil spill prevention construction work. The study areas are loserved in the fry production of whitefish and training and the good availability of spill abproducts and their use as well as different cated off the Hanhikivi headland, in the maBaltic herring, but the construction work may sorbent materials, minor oil leaks have been prevention solutions. rine spoil area and a reference area. Based have affected the fry production of vendace. controlled with rapid corrective action, and on previous studies, the benthic fauna off all cases have been dealt with appropriately. During the spring and the summer, oil spill the Hanhikivi headland is sparse. The inconvenience that the construction The leaked oil has been recovered with abprevention drills were held for the security work causes to commercial fishing operasorbent materials, and minor volumes of company in charge of on-site security and In dredged areas, benthic fauna had tions has been observed to be in line with contaminated soil have been removed and for the contractors working in the sea area. been reduced significantly as had been Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 69 69 expected, and hardly any signs of recovery Aquatic vegetation characteristics of the observation area to Access to areas outside the construction could be detected. Benthic fauna had also Monitoring of aquatic vegetation, carried out the south of the Hanhikivi headland make it site is restricted, and important conservadeteriorated in the marine spoil area, but in summer 2018, was a continuation of the a less favorable growth environment than tion areas found in the immediate vicinity of the number of species had only decreased preliminary monitoring in 2014. The monitorthe areas on the eastern side of the headthe site are closed off with fences or otherslightly. The state of reference points ing areas were the same locations as in the land. Some temporary impact of dredging wise indicated. All construction workers reoutside the marine spoil area had also previous study: from the flada in the northoperations were observed in the vegetation ceive instructions to avoid going outside the deteriorated significantly, mainly due to western part of the Hanhikivi headland to in the southern observation area. plant area fences. We regularly inspect the the increased population of Marenzelleria the Kultalanlahti area in the north, and south conservation areas and their fences. viridis. This is a common trend found in from Hanhikivi to the Yppäri reference area. PROTECTED SPECIES AND NATURE the Bay of Bothnia. No changes that could Particular attention was paid to endangered CONSERVATION AREAS Follow-up monitoring carried out in 2018 have been the result of construction work species and habitat types. There are extensive protected seashore revealed no significant changes to valuable were detected to the northeast of the meadows, overgrowing shallow bays and natural environments or protected species Hanhikivi headland. The extensive shallow sandy seabed found gloe lakes, which have become isolated as a result of human activity. The monitoron the eastern side of the headland is well from the sea. There is a Natura 2000 ing scope included seashore meadows, Normally, benthic fauna is restored within suited for charophyte meadows, which conservation area approximately two gloe lakes, and the moor frogs and yellow 2–4 years if the constitution of the seabed have been classified as an endangered kilometers from the plant site. Areas of iris growths previously transferred from the does not change significantly. Follow-up habitat type. In these areas, charophyte high natural value have been left outside construction site to new habitats. study on benthic fauna will take place after meadows have remained as representathe plant area already in the construction the completion of water construction work. tive as they previously were. The natural planning phase. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 70 70 Seashore meadows to have prospered in follow-up monitorWe started a new practice and held two disof hazardous waste in accordance with the No significant changes due to human acing carried out by an external consultcussion events on environmental matters applicable regulations. Despite instructions, tivity were observed in seashore meadant. The moor frog population and yellow for the residents living close by the conwe repeatedly observed negligence in the ows. The growth of reed (paludification) has iris growths of the Hanhikivi headland struction site area. The events aim to improcessing and sorting of waste at the caused some regression of one occurrence have remained at the level of previous prove the flow of information and to boost construction site. We addressed the issue of Siberian Primrose, but no changes were monitoring. genuine interaction with the people living in weekly site monitoring rounds and infound in other occurrences. close to the construction site. Encouraged spections, and we provided feedback and WELL-BEING OF LOCAL RESIDENTS by the positive response to these events, further instruction on procedures that Gloe lakes A majority of local residents support the we will continue to arrange them in 2019. meet the requirements set out in the Monitoring of water levels in gloe lakes beHanhikivi 1 project, and we strive to be waste management guidelines for the gan in May. No water level variation due to worthy of their trust. We aim to cause minUTILIZING CONSTRUCTION WASTE construction site. construction work was detected in the gloe imum inconvenience to the residents with AS ENERGY OR MATERIAL lakes. The surface level was low in the sumthe construction work. However, some inEfficient sorting and recycling as well as apOn World Environment Day in June, we mer due to heat, but in the autumn, the variconveniences cannot be avoided. We inpropriate processing are important parts of organized a waste-related event at the site. ation followed the sea level. form the residents in the immediate vicinmanaging the environmental impact of the During the day, we provided the workers ity of the construction site before starting waste generated at the site. information and training on the waste proRelocated species construction work that may cause disturcessing and recycling methods used at the The protected moor frog population and bances, and we carefully process stakeContractors must sort the waste in their construction site. The workers also had the yellow iris growth, relocated from the conholder concerns as well as complaints. In own work areas before transporting it to opportunity to test their skills in practice struction site in 2015 and 2016 accord2018, we received no environmental comthe site sorting locations. Contractors must with a waste sorting test. ing to the exemption permits, were found plaints or reports of concerns. also manage the processing and storage Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 71 71 Waste generated during construction 100 Utilization of construction waste as material or Most of the waste generated during the 90 energy in 2018. The spoil and rubble generated in construction is normal construction waste. excavation, rock blasting and dredging are used 80 as filling and levelling material at the construction site as far as possible. Our target is to recycle as much of the con70 struction waste fractions as possible as 60 material or in energy production. The 90% 50 target set for 2018 was exceeded in each month of the year. 40 30 An approximate total of 686 metric tons 20 of waste was generated at the Hanhikivi 1 construction site in 2018. Most of the waste 10 generated at the site is regular construction 0 waste: metal, wood, concrete, rocks, com) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) 6,18 8% 55 % % % % % % 5% 9,67 % % (9 (9 9, 83 9, 99 99 postable waste, paper, cardboard, glass, or % 0, 3 6, 2,18 7,6 40 6, 48 99 ,5 % ,71 ,12 (9 (9 (9 0 (9 (9 (9 r( (9 r( r( electrical and electronic waste. Our party y ar ril ay ne ly st er be be ar ar ch Ap M Ju gu be ob nu ru Ju em No m M Au ct ner Remeo is in charge of transporting Ja Fe pt ve ce O b Se m De the waste from the site and processing it appropriately. Utilized as material % Utilized as energy % Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 72 72 The waste types generated during the construction of the infrastructure and auxiliary buildings Waste 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Construction waste Metric tons (t), % Metric tons (t), % Metric tons (t), % Metric tons (t), % Metric tons (t), % Metric tons (t), % of waste volume of waste volume of waste volume of construction of construction of construction waste volume waste volume waste volume Construction waste 526 (80%) 796 (90%) 208 (42%) Waste wood 123 (23%) 82 (10%) 132 (64%) Demolition waste 0 (0%) 29 (3%) 259 (53%) Energy waste 120 (23%) 72 (9%) 50 (24%) Hazardous waste 160 (20%) 58 (7%) 24 (5%) Concrete and brick waste 50 (10%) 212 (27%) 14 (6%) Total 686 (100%) 883 (100%) 491 (100%) Bitumen 0 (0%) 369 (46%) 0 (0%) Waste generated at the Hanhikivi 1 construction site. Hazardous waste includes, for examMixed construction waste 63 (12%) 42 (5%) 2 (1%) ple, waste oil, filters, batteries, oily rock material, and electrical and electronic waste. Combustible waste 9 (2%) Other waste 161 (31%) 19 (3%) 10 (5%) Total 526 (100%) 796 (100%) 208 (100%) Construction waste generated at the Hanhikivi 1 construction site during 2016–2018 by type and proportion. The Combustible waste category includes paper, cardboard and compostable waste. In previous years, this category was included in Other waste category. The Other waste category includes the metal, glass and bitumen waste that is recycled as material. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 73 73 Drainage water treatment settling basin completed in 2018 has been Water quality is monitored visually, and Water that had been gathered in the refinalized. Another settling basin will also be samples are taken every three years. actor pit (approximately 130,000 m3) was built in 2019 for the treatment of the water Samples taken in 2018 revealed no signifpumped into the sea via a temporary water in the reactor pit. icant changes when compared with samtreatment system. The treated water caused ples taken three years earlier. temporary turbidity when mixing with the The run-off and seepage water (surface waseawater. Monthly sampling was carried out ter) from Fennovoima's soil disposal area is to monitor the quality of the seawater, and directed to filtering ditches, where the flow of the turbidity was monitored visually. water is slowed down with wider pools and coarse gravel dams. The solid matter settles The temporary water treatment system will on the bottom of the ditch, reducing the envibe decommissioned when testing of the ronmental load caused by surface waters. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 74 74 Local engagement The Hanhikivi 1 project has an impact on the living environment and everyday life in Pyhäjoki and in the neighboring municipalities. Active participation in regional development together with public, private and third-sector improves the area’s capabilities to prepare the region for changes brought about by the project, including the increased number of residents and the volume of services needed. Hanhikivi 1 project will increase the vitality of the region and the wellbeing of local residents through, for example, creating new jobs and influencing indirectly the variety of services provided at the area. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 75 75 Local engagement GOAL PROGRESS Continuous cooperation with local stakeholder groups. Hanhikivi 1 project has a positive impact on regional level. The target was exceeded in Pyhäjoki More than 69 percent of local residents but regionally the result support the Hanhikivi 1 project. was 1.85 percentage points lower than the target. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 76 76 CREATING TRUST WITH OPEN openly communicate about the work in day, guests had the opportunity to particSTRONG LOCAL SUPPORT FOR COMMUNICATION progress and any disturbances that it is ipate in guided bus tours of the plant site THE PROJECT The construction of the new nuclear powexpected to cause. and to meet our people in an informal setThe Hanhikivi 1 project has enjoyed steady er plant will have a significant impact on ting. There was something to do for the local support. Currently, 72.7 percent of the regional economy and employment Doors are open at our offices in downtown whole family. Pyhäjoki residents support the construcrate. The construction of the nuclear powPyhäjoki three days a week. We answer tion of the power plant on the Hanhikivi er plant generates new investments, crequestions from residents and visitors and The immediate feedback received about the headland. Despite a minor drop in the figates jobs and increases the tax revenue in provide information about the project and event was positive. The event also offers us at ures, support also continues to be steady in the region (for more information, see the the ongoing construction work. Information Fennovoima a pleasant forum for introducing the neighboring municipalities of Kalajoki, section Economic Responsibility). With the about construction work beginning at the the project and meeting local people. Merijärvi, Oulainen and Raahe. A total of increasing number of residents and stable site is also available on our website, and the 67.2 percent of the residents in the region municipal economy, the selection and availresidents in the immediate region receive A total of almost 7,000 visitors have a positive attitude towards the project. ability of public and private services in the more information by e-mail and by post. at the construction site region will improve, which benefits all local In 2018, we organized for the first time two In 2018, we arranged approximately 100 proThe regional support for this particular residents. discussion events with an environmental ject presentations and construction site visits project is considerably stronger than the theme for the people living close to the confor different groups. In addition to the 3,400 overall support for construction of nucleThe construction work also has some struction site. open doors guests, about 3,500 visitors took ar power among the population of Finland negative impacts on the living environpart in these presentations and visits. (41 percent). The positive impact of the ment. These include the increased volOpen doors at the construction site Hanhikivi 1 project reflects in the local supumes of heavy traffic and temporary turThe open doors event organized at the By visitors, we mean everyone who visits port figures. Equally, the results illustrate bidity of the seawater, caused by water Hanhikivi 1 construction site for the fourth the construction sit and has no site the effectiveness of our regional operaconstruction work. Some of these negatime in September 2018 was a success access permit or performs no work while tions, as well as the trust the local residents tive impacts cannot be avoided, but we with 3,400 interested visitors. During the at the site. have in the project. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 77 77 Local support for the project Pyhäjoki What is your opinion about Fennovoima building a nuclear power plant to Pyhäjoki? 100 90 5.5 19.5 6.82 20.44 80 6.7 25.2 7.2 25.4 25 26 27 70 30 6 7 7 38 37 42.5 4 39 9 60 11 6 50 40 30 20 10 51 51.6 57 61 61 69 67 66 68.1 67.4 75.0 72.74 0 8 8 9 1/2 10 20 20 20 5 20 20 20 5/ 11/ 20 01 /2 12 13 14 20 1 16 17 18 20 20 0 0 01 0 0 0 Support Unsure Oppose Support for the project in Pyhäjoki, November 2018 (Norstat Finland Oy). Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 78 78 Local support for the project Pyhäjoki and surrounding municipalities What is your opinion about Fennovoima building a nuclear power plant to Pyhäjoki? 100 90 24.82 6.6 21.5 80 29 28.0 29.2 31 30 70 34 8.03 38.4 7.3 42.10 39 6 8 5 8.7 60 5 42 5 50 40 30 20 10 50.7 53 56.2 60 61 65 65 61 65.7 62 71.9 67.15 0 5/ 8 8 9 1/2 10 20 20 20 20 5 20 20 20 20 11/ 20 01 /2 12 13 14 1 16 17 18 20 0 0 01 0 0 0 Support Unsure Oppose Support for the project in Pyhäjoki and the neighboring municipalities, November 2018 (Norstat Finland Oy). Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 79 79 INVOLVED IN LOCAL DEVELOPMENT • Provincial steering group: A body for Several development projects are in progress in Northern Ostrobothnia to meet the the extended region with representatives from top municipal offices, government Key figures for Pyhäjoki needs of the Hanhikivi 1 project and accrue authorities, corporate organizations and as many positive results from the project the Evangelical Lutheran Church Unemployment rate: fell by 2.1 percentage points as possible through the coordinated and of Finland. 8.9% > 6.8% from May 2017 to May 2018 shared efforts of different actors. Our role in these working groups is to convey cur• Chamber of Commerce Project Self-sufficiency in employment: up 13 percentage points 62% > 75% from 2015 to 2017 rent information about the project to the committee: The aim is to promote awareregional stakeholders to support their preness and competencies of the companies Municipal, real estate and corporate tax revenue up 8.4% paratory efforts. in the region with regard to large-scale (more than EUR 800,000) from 2015 to 2017 projects being planned or in progress in The working groups have been convened the area, and to improve the companies’ Approximately 150 new jobs created as a result of the Hanhikivi 1 project by different parties, and their constitution business opportunities. varies according to the topic. We are in(Source: Municipality of Pyhäjoki 2018) volved in the following cooperation groups, • Entrepreneurs working group: among others: A working group of representatives from companies in the Raahe district. The • Municipality working group: group works to improve the prepared• Regional authority working group: Exchange of information between the ness of local companies to respond to The group aims to develop operations municipality of Pyhäjoki and the key demand created by large-scale projects at the construction site to make the participants in the Hanhikivi 1 project. in the area. performance of official duties easier. The group gathers together many • Logistics development working group • Working group for traffic safety important authorities. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 80 80 ENCOURAGING LOCAL Service survey 2693 566 ENTREPRENEURS Late in 2018, we launched an extensive serA large proportion of the construction work vice survey in the municipalities of the reat the nuclear power plant construction site gion. The survey aims to chart the services is regular industrial construction, well suitbeing offered in the region so that they can 11 ed for Finnish companies. All the construcbe utilized to theACCESS best benefit duringGRANTED PASSES the COMPANIES tion projects within Fennovoima’s scope construction and operation of the nuclear 2294 524 of delivery have so far been carried out by power plant. Finnish enterprises. In the first phase, the survey will be 21 271 The construction site offers work to comTO FINNS conducted in Pyhäjoki, Raahe, Siikajoki, FINNISH COMPANIES panies of different sizes and in different Kalajoki, Oulainen and Ylivieska. Later, fields. We are compiling a supplier register that is open to all enterprises interested in the contract opportunities offered by the also be covered. 240 other municipalities in the region will WORKERS ON SITE 34 155 32 271 108 COMPANIES NEARBY PYHÄJOKI DIFFERENT MUNICIPALITIES project. The main contractor, Titan-2, is also MANY NEW RESIDENTS compiling a similar register of contracting During the construction phase, Northern companies. In addition to us, municipalities Ostrobothnia will receive a lot of new Companies at the site register by November 28, 2018. and business services of the region provide residents from other parts of Finland as information on work and contracting opwell as from abroad. Some will remain in portunities available at the Hanhikivi 1 conthe region, but others will only stay for Fennovoima’s organization will also gradselection of free-time activities. The mustruction site. a certain construction phase or later ually move to the plant site. The increased nicipalities of the region have prepared for during the operating phase of the plant, number of residents stimulates the econthe new residents by updating land use Coaching is offered to Finnish compaduring annual outages. omy and will have a lasting impact on the plans to allow the building of new homes nies to improve their success in competiservice production in the area. and by developing services and infrastructive tendering. We participate in the planAt the peak of construction, more than ture. Systematic preparations also aim to ning and execution of training provided by 4,000 workers will be employed at the New residents will improve the wellhelp newcomers to adjust and integrate to FinNuclear. construction site. This is more than the being in the region with increased tax the local way of life. current number of residents in Pyhäjoki. revenue, new services and a wider Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 81 81 We support local actors in their preparaFennovoima. The relocation is being careespecially for recreational activities for chilstudents with important experience in varitions for the increasing number of resifully prepared for both internally and todren and young people, and for general inous skills that they will need in their future dents, and we provide as much informagether with the municipalities. terest projects in Pyhäjoki and in the region. careers. It is also a way of collecting money tion as possible on when and how many for a class trip. people may be coming. In fall 2018, we also The Municipal Fair organized at our We are involved in organizing the Parhalahti discussed integration of the newcomers Salmisaari facilities in May gathered 15 muDay event together with the Parhalahti vilIn 2018, we invested a total of some with students as part of the Demola project nicipalities in the region to introduce themlage association and the municipality of EUR 165,000 in supporting local activities run by the University of Oulu. Within the selves and to tell our personnel about life in Pyhäjoki. The event is an informal village and events (2017: EUR 146,000, 2016: Demola project, multi-disciplinary student Northern Ostrobothnia. At a housing event celebration with a warm atmosphere and EUR 168,000). Support was provided to teams develop solution models for busiin the fall, constructors, municipalities and approximately 400 people, and it takes approximately 70 local organizations and nesses and organizations. other service providers related to housing place on the Parhalahti school grounds in public actors. solutions met Fennovoima employees who early June. Fennovoima employees are new will relocate to the region. residents in the area Every year, we also take part in the Pyhäjoki The relocation of operations and emSUPPORTING LOCAL PROJECTS Fair organized by the second-grade stuployees from Helsinki to Pyhäjoki is a AND ACTIVITIES dents at Pyhäjoki upper secondary school. big change for Pyhäjoki and the neighWe support local activities by participating Approximately 2,000 people visit the fair boring municipalities, as well as for us at in events and by providing financial support each year. Organizing the event provides the Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 82 82 Effects of the Hanhikivi 1 project are visible in the area “Some residents have lost “Yes, this has greatly their summer cottage plots, increased the activity, many some others are delighted other investments in the area, with financial success.” work and vitality.” Over 60 years old woman from Raahe 45–59 years old man from Pyhäjoki. “Vitality. The local “Overall, it is a positive stimulus residents believe in the future.” at the Raahe region.” 15–29 years old woman from Pyhäjoki 30–44 years old man from Pyhäjoki “It has a lot of effect. For example, in Pyhäjoki, work machines started up and the renovation of the streets began. Otherwise the municipality would have lost its vitality.” Over 60 years old man from Pyhäjoki Excerpts from the open responses to the opinion poll conducted by Norstat Finland Oy in November 2018. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 83 83 Reporting principles This Responsibility Report covers the fiPyhäjoki and in the Hanhikivi 1 nuclear powincludes information from the Fennovoima EXTERNAL ASSURANCE nancial year 2018. Fennovoima's Corporate er plant construction site, if not otherwise Management System (FMS) and the An independent third party, KPMG Oy Ab, Responsibility Report references to stated. Hanhikivi 1 site register. EPC (engineering, has provided limited assurance for the speDisclosures of GRI Standards 2016 are preprocurement and construction) scope recific performance indicators on environsented in the GRI index. In addition, the Fennovoima’s subsidiary Fennovoima RUS lated supply chain data is supplied by RAOS mental, social and economic disclosures in report includes Fennovoima’s own disclocontrols procurement in Russia and has Project Oy. the Finnish language corporate responsibilsures that we have defined as material to only one employee. The subsidiary is not inity report 2018 as indicated in the GRI Index our corporate responsibility. These disclocluded in Fennovoima’s corporate responsiEnvironmental data provided in this report and KPMG’s assurance report. The assursures are also presented in the GRI index. bility and performance targets and thus not covers the Hanhikivi 1 construction site. The ance report is available at: www.fennoincluded in this report. information is collected from the managevoima.fi/en/reports-and-assurance When defining the materiality of issues imment systems, monthly reports and from pacting our operations, we consider the exTo cover the material aspects of the independent experts’ studies conducted at GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION pectations of significant stakeholders inside Hanhikivi 1 construction site operations, the the plant site area. The construction waste ON PROGRESS and outside the company. matters that relate directly to the material data is from Fennovoima’s own systems Fennovoima supports the ten principles of aspects of Fennovoima’s corporate responand from Fennovoima’s waste management the United Nations’ Global Compact sustainThe report has been prepared in accordsibility, also regarding the plant supplier partner Remeo Oy. ability initiative. We respect and promote ance with the GRI Standards: Core option. RAOS Project and main contractor Titan-2, these principles throughout our operations, are included in this report. Human resources related data in this reand report on our progress in this report. DATA BOUNDARIES AND INFORMAport covers Fennovoima’s organization in TION SOURCES The financial data presented in the docHelsinki and Pyhäjoki. Occupational health The data presented in this report covers ument are from Fennovoima’s audited and safety data describes the Hanhikivi 1 Fennovoima Oy’s functions in Helsinki and financial statement. Supply chain data construction site. Looking ahead Fennovoima We are part of Responsible Economic Nuclear Organizational development Responsible Occupational Environment Local Reporting to the future Reprogrammed the solution business responsibility safety and employment supply chain health engagement principles practices management and safety 84 84 Fennovoima Salmisaarenaukio 1 00180 Helsinki, Finland +358 20 757 9200 viestinta@fennovoima.fi www.fennovoima.com 85
