UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 8th Edition The 10 principles of the Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT From the very beginning, we’ve had a commitment to do more than what’s expected of us. We’ve worked to integrate social responsibility into all aspects of our business, so it’s engrained in everything we do — from improving the state of CSR reporting, to increasing engagement amongst the public and private sectors and to caring for our earth and community. We’ve also partnered with many organizations who share our vision because together we can accomplish so much more. Our recipe for business success is incredibly simple — master the art of CSR storytelling and listen to our stakeholders. Our success in recent years has been the result of maintaining our focus, which has led to significant efficiencies that have benefited CSR LEBANON as a social enterprise. As a result, we’ve made great strides towards meeting our 2020 SDG targets at a much faster pace than we had anticipated. As we look to the future, we find ourselves at the forefront of an industry that is changing rapidly. To compete in the shifting industry, our vision and mission will evolve. In the coming year, we’ll keep pushing to meet the rest of our 2020 targets while looking forward to an even more ambitious future. We’ll also continue to find innovative ways to redefine corporate social responsibility in Lebanon and make a positive impact with our business, products, people, and relationships. Our COP will demonstrate our efforts to encourage a constructive dialogue that helped to identify activities and services that have contributed to the realization of several of these goals – individually or in collaboration with selected partners. Our continued commitment to promoting and implementing the GC Principles is based on: First, by proving our support for the Global Compact. The UNGC continues to represent the most widely accepted set of international business standards in relation to CSR and human rights. Second, by demonstrating the positive impact of the ten principles achieved so far, despite our small size and the country’s dramatic situation, and mainly through our awareness-raising activities which we have been relentlessly working on. In 2018, through the 8th CSR LEBANON FORUMTM, titled ‘‘SDGs and Millenni4 9 als: Leaders of Sustainability.’’ (October 25, 2018) which was held under the patronage of the Governor of Banque du Liban, H.E. Mr. Riad Salamé, who continues to encourage and conserve a culture of proper CSR and engage banks to enrich their environmental, social and governance profiles towards a more sustainable and impactful banking philosophy (details on pages 16 21). In addition, on behalf of CSR LEBANON, I participated in the 2018 International Visitor Leadership Program (IVLP) in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), a program funded by The U.S. Department of State that invites current and emerging leaders from across the world to spend two or three weeks in the United States on curated programs that cover a wide range of topics (details on pages 28 29). We also continued our efforts to publish our Responsible Business Quarterly Review despite the difficulty in the publishing world (details on pages 30 31). Third, by ensuring that as our business grows, it does so in a socially responsible way. Using the Global Compact self-assessment procedure has enabled us to identify areas where further improvements are needed to ensure that the business grows sustainably and continues to have a positive impact in society. We will continue to use it as a tool for evaluation and improvement. We also have aligned these social outcome objectives to relevant Sustainable Development Goals. We believe our strategy and performance in these focus areas will assist us in realizing these specific global goals. By considering sustainability risks in every business operation and offering services and events that give clients access to key sustainability knowledge and issues, CSR LEBANON effectively contributes to the realization of the SDGs by supporting sustainable economic development. It’s no longer enough to deliver positive impacts in select areas of the business. Businesses must transform their culture, strategy and operations so that responsible, long-term impacts are at the core. To create real change, businesses must work together on the difficult common issues. Only then, will their operations and industry deliver truly responsible and positive impacts. Khaled Kassar Founder and CEO CSR LEBANON 5 ABOUT CSR LEBANON ABOUT CSR LEBANON CSR: It’s Our Business CSR LEBANON is a social enterprise aiming to raise awareness about Corporate Social Responsibility and to enhance CSR dialogue in Lebanon and the Middle East region. Through our consultancy, research, communication strategies, events, and regional media platform, we pave the way to a better understanding of the CSR concept among the public and private sectors and Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), striving towards a National CSR Strategy. CSR LEBANON is devoted to improving relationships between corporations and the society, with the support of leading business figures, business associations, governmental institutions, academics, media, CSOs, and international organizations. CSR LEBANON provides CSR strategies and report development, policies, training, and CSR reports evaluation, quality assurance, and endorsement based on accredited international guidelines. Our Vision To make CSR an essential part of our national culture; TOWARDS A NATIONAL CSR STRATEGYTM. Our Mission To provide an informative platform to companies and support them in embodying CSR in their core business strategies and operations, aiming to align profitability with sustainability and human development. Our Values At CSR LEBANON, we strongly believe that business with no ethics is no business at all. Ethical values are deeply entrenched in our daily operations, with an unrelenting sense of responsibility towards our stakeholders and society at large. Since our work is CSR, transparency, openness, communication, collaboration, and engagement are of the 8 9 top values at our company. We vigorously strive towards creating a two-way dialogue with our stakeholders, engaging them continuously in our initiatives and providing a dynamic work environment where everyone is knowledgeable and engaged in the business. Our Sources of Income CSR LEBANON continues to succeed as a result of its professional team’s efforts, transparency in its relationships and partnerships, and commitment to quality and high level of expertise. But such an approach can also generate high expenditures which means that the company engages heavy efforts to maintain its sustainability and continuity. Our sources of income are as follows: Direct personal funding by the founder of CSR LEBANON Strategic Partnerships with the private sector Advertising spaces in Responsible Business Magazine Sponsorships Training fees Profits generated from CSR LEBANON’s initiatives are completely reinvested in the social enterprise’s mission. 9 ABOUT CSR LEBANON Why CSR LEBANON Lebanon is a country with extensive human capital as well as a strong and continuously growing private sector. Despite substantial initiatives by the public, private, and non-profit sectors, there is still a genuine need for a sustainable group effort to address the socio-economic issues facing the country. There is a significant lack of awareness about CSR in Lebanese corporations and their role in the development of the country. Contrary to the fast-growing CSR trend across the global business world, the implementation of CSR strategies in Lebanon and the region is still very limited, and is only undertaken by a few corporations in specific fields. This fact negatively affects companies’ competitiveness, profitability, and sustainable growth. CSR LEBANON plays an essential role in tackling these challenges through the following strategic goals: • Spreading the culture of Corporate Social Responsibility in Lebanon and the region. • Empowering the Lebanese private sector to implement CSR. • Helping banks and other corporations meet universal CSR and sustainability standards. • Presenting new CSR programs adapted to the Lebanese communities’ needs. • Developing CSR ties between businesses, civil society, governmental entities, and the media. • Establishing a regional CSR media platform based in Lebanon. 10 9 Our Challenges 1. Lack of funding because of the inexistence of an adequate legal status in Lebanon for operating as a social enterprise, rather than a for-profit company. This resulted in CSR LEBANON’s inability to approach local and international institutional donors. 2. Operating within an economy that is based on family-owned businesses where integrating a new culture inside the organization remains challenging and difficult. 3. Time constraints: Expenditures growing at a faster rate than income is generated. This prevents quick reinvestment into new initiatives and risks losing some of the positive momentum created. 4. Security and economic constraints as well as weak infrastructure and local and regional political instability. 5. The weak back-up from the public sector which keeps the sphere of collaboration small and hinders the proper adoption of CSR since the corporate sector remains free in the way it approaches CSR (although CSR is voluntary in nature) and has the capacity to manipulate public expectations because of the absence of relevant regulations and supervision. 6. As a new trend in the region, many parties, mainly event organizers and some consultants, deal with CSR as a commercial opportunity rather than a business approach. CSR LEBANON is then expected to invest further efforts to adjust the misconceptions created by similar unprofessional practices. 7. Lack of local and regional expertise which obligates CSR LEBANON to partner with international experts thus increasing its costs. 11 COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE CSR LEBANON was established in 2009 with the aim of raising awareness about Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability in Lebanon and the region. The company follows a multi-year strategic program towards enhancing corporate engagement in surrounding communities by integrating responsible practices in their workplaces, marketplaces, environment, and society. With many impressive achievements so far ranging from hosting high caliber events, four international level CSR Forums with global reach, banking workshops, CSR strategies, project consultancies, media campaigns, a specialized magazine, and publications, CSR LEBANON has already succeeded in creating a great momentum and raising the bar in the strategic perception of the concept among corporations and stakeholders. The social enterprise uses a communications mix aimed at reaching all of our stakeholders. CSR LEBANON Website Our website (www.csrlebanon.com) educates businesses, corporations and the public on CSR and provides expert opinions and analysis on the subject. The website also includes a news portal highlighting selective local, regional, and international CSR news and updates. 14 9 CSR LEBANON Social Media CSR LEBANON has increasingly made use of social media for various purposes. This is because social media has become an indispensable element in the communication mix. In the field of CSR and sustainability, social media are regarded as beneficial purveyors of CSR messages and communicating these beyond the traditional channels has shown great potential for discussing sustainability issues and engaging stakeholders. 15 COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE CSR LEBANON Events The 8th CSR LEBANON FORUM took place on 25 October 2018, in Beirut, Lebanon. The flagship event is widely recognized as one of the Middle East’s leading business conferences. The event saw a line-up of impressive speakers from leading global institutions, come together with just over 500 attendees from business, civil society, government, academia and the public sector, to tackle some of the most pressing CSR issues that we face today. The title of the Forum “SDGs and Millennials: Leaders of Sustainability” provided the theme for 16 9 the day, as each session focused on the impact and progress of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and the needs and experiences of today’s society from the perspective of this increasingly influential demographic. When the UN adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (or Global Goals), they laid out a wide-ranging global agenda for sustainable growth through 2030. While the goals are intended to engage the private sector, many companies are still figuring out how they should engage with the SDGs. The global goals looked challenging enough in the past years and despite political shifts, tightening budgets and environmental manmade disasters, there is a wide agreement that achieving the SDGs will require nothing less than a transformative approach. The 8th CSR LEBANON FORUM focused on how together, we can make progress on the goals despite the financial constraints; build the business case to engage stakeholders; and how youth – specifically millennials, 17 COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE have positioned themselves as being the new driving force to yield the strongest impact. But responsibility matters too. The business case for sustainable development is already strong: it opens up new opportunities and big efficiency gains; it drives innovation and enhances reputation. When it comes to sustainability, CSR LEBANON embraces the universality of the 2030 Agenda and is committed to supporting the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals in Lebanon. Working with our partners, we look for ways to end inequality, build more prosperous and peaceful societies and protect the planet. Shifting sectors onto a sustainable footing in line with the Global Goals will unlock much bigger business opportunities. One of the sessions looked at how leaders from various sectors are shaping an international community of leaders to create a multi-stakeholder evaluation on the progress shown so far towards the achievement of the Global Goals, at an international, regional and local level. As the most inclusive global agenda of our time, the Sustainable Development Goals have become a to-do list for all stakeholders, including business, to work towards a future where no one is left behind. Another session focused on the how the SDGs have targets directly related to the responsibilities of local and regional governments. As such, the achievement of the SDGs depends greatly on the ability of local governments and agencies to promote integrated, inclusive and sustainable national development. The search for the most suitable strategies to localize the SDGs is critical to the design, implementation and success of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. To better examine SDG experiences around the world, a session looked at the ultimate aim of the SDGs in ending poverty, protecting the planet and ensuring prosperity for everyone. Each goal has specific targets that need to be met by 2030. So how close are countries to meeting them? While some countries are using the SDGs as a tool for framing national strategies and for establishing strong public-private partnership mechanisms, other countries are held back by tedious government planning and budgeting processes. 18 9 19 COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE 20 9 In addition, a session was dedicated to the most influential generation of our time – millennials. The Millennial Generation is inheriting a damaged future. As the most tangible representatives of the future, discussions focused on the need to actively engage at the top in the key power structures of the present. With more than half the world’s population currently under the age of 30, millennials have the power to drive lasting change. But what can young people do personally to take action in their communities? The sessions were led by international expert Martin Wright, a UK-based writer, editor, adviser and speaker on environmental solutions and sustainable futures. The Forum concluded with a first-of-its-kind open dialogue session, coordinated by BLOM Bank in collaboration with The Hult Prize and dedicated to youth, with the intentions to listen to their sustainability projects, their views on sustainable development and corporate social responsibility and discuss their role in achieving the SDGs. The 8th CSR LEBANON Forum would not have been possible without the continuous patronage and support of the Governor of Banque du Liban, H.E. Mr. Riad Salamé who continues to encourage and conserve a culture of proper CSR and engage banks to enrich their environmental, social and governance profiles towards a more sustainable and impactful banking philosophy. 21 COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE 22 9 The Transformative Power of Millennials to Join Forces and Call for Change During the 8th CSR LEBANON FORUM, and in line with CSR LEBANON’s commitment to support the next generation of sustainable business ventures led by ambitious leaders, the final session of the Forum highlighted three CSR programs run by BLOM Bank, aimed at supporting and fostering the entrepreneurial capabilities of young people in Lebanon. The premise of this session was to highlight the Hult Prize in Lebanon in which BLOM Bank has been a driving force, not just in the country, but the wider Middle East region. The program has helped to train thousands of young people in social innovation and entrepreneurship. Through it, the problems of Lebanon can be solved with thoughtful entrepreneurship, which makes a profit and resolves problems, and is therefore scalable to achieve change. The hope is that the Hult Prize opens the entire nation to the idea of business for good. As a primer, the Hult Prize is the world’s largest student platform for SDG-aligned, impact-centered start-ups with an ultimate prize of $1m (and a team prize in Lebanon of $250,000). In 2018, the Hult Prize process had reached more than 30 universities; more than 500,000 people; and six finalists took part in accelerators to help them prepare their business case. It is estimated that for the next cycle, 70 universities were lined up to take part. 23 COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE 24 9 Supporting Students and Universities In 2018, more than 150 students and professors from more than 12 leading universities in Lebanon were invited by CSR LEBANON to attend and participate at the CSR LEBANON Forum, training courses and workshops. Students were mainly introduced to the concept of CSR, the role of the academic sector in the field, as well as to social entrepreneurship and offered opportunities. CSR LEBANON is also continuously and voluntarily assisting senior education students from various universities in successfully completing their MBA thesis tackling the topic of CSR, dedicating time and providing advice, contacts, resources, and mentorship. 25 COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE The Third 18-21 April 2018 SAVE THE DATE 26 9 CSR LEBANON SPRING WEEK CSR LEBANON held its 3rd annual CSR LEBANON Spring Week #CSRLBSW3 from April 18-21, which engaged different stakeholders and trained CSR novices and executives, actively engaged CSR professionals as well NGOs and specialists on CSR insights. The goal was that by continuing to bring together experts and apprentices, we would be one step closer to reaching our slogan of over a decade and successfully work “Towards a National CSR Strategy”. One of the most efficient ways to ensure employee engagement and business success is to raise awareness about CSR and Sustainability internally to every single employee, regardless of their position. As such, the aim for the 3rd CSR LEBANON Spring Week was to ensure that every CSR practitioner who took part in this week would be made aware that the sustainability agenda is no longer in the hands of only one person or committee. CSR LEBANON has always positioned youth at the forefront and believes in the starring role youth have in making a difference in this world. The success from the previous editions of Spring Week called to organize a workshop on April 18th with youth who have a vested interest in learning about CSR and sustainability. This workshop was curated to help ensure a solid foundation for their future, that not only look to spurring commerce, but also build a society filled with citizens with the potential to contribute to its strength and sustainability. The Spring Week also hosted a private lunch held for nearly 15 key figures in the IT startup sector on 19 April in Beirut, to instil a proper definition about what is CSR to help influence a more thorough understanding of CSR, sustainability and social entrepreneurship. Through the transmission of stimulating ideas such as “Social Impact”, “Social Entrepreneurship”, and “Responsible Business” CSR LEBANON fulfilled its role in communicating the importance of striving for tangible impact in the social sphere as well as sustainability. The Spring Week also organized a one-day “CSR for Professionals” intensive training course on 20th April, intended to enable participants to conduct stakeholder engagement, materiality assessments and draft a strategy that’s in line with their company’s objectives. Some of the topics covered in this training course were related to embedding CSR and providing a general understanding of the term; identification of stakeholders; CSR reporting standards; and the role of SDGs to ensure a sustainable economy. 27 COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE 28 9 Sustainable Impact Global Network The International Visitor Leadership Program (IVLP) is a professional exchange program of several weeks that yields long-lasting effects in terms of alumni professional development, improving alumni perceptions of the United States and the American people and culture, increasing their understanding of democratic values, and enhancing their roles as influencers and opinion makers in their countries. Lebanon, represented by Mr. Khaled Kassar from CSR LEBANON, took part in this 3-week program in February 2018. The participants of the 2018 IVLP in CSR have also marked a remarkable achievement; the foundation of a global network, tentatively named Sustainable Impact Global Network (SIGN) in Charlotte, North Carolina on 21 February 2018. The mission of SIGN is to develop and share the ideas and best practices of corporate social responsibility, sustainability and ESG (Environment-Social-Governance) globally. The network will be open to anyone interested in CSR and sustainability issues. All the founding members will serve as ambassadors of their country in the network. One of the main goals is to encourage international and cross-sectoral participation through shared knowledge of the founding members and future members. Another one of SIGN’s motivations is its function as a multi-sector network that unites the private sector, social entrepreneurs, and the government in a common effort to achieve the SDGs. The Sustainable Impact Global Network will be a legacy of the first ever IVLP Corporate Social Responsibility program. The founding members are 17 people from 16 countries around the globe, including: Australia, Bangladesh, Brazil, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Egypt, Finland, Greece, Greenland, Honduras, Lebanon, Mexico, Morocco, Pakistan, Palestine, and Saudi Arabia. 29 COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE Responsible Business Quarterly ReviewTM Magazine The first and only specialized CSR Magazine in the Middle East Responsible BusinessTM Quarterly Review is a unique media platform covering the latest CSR and sustainability trends, initiatives, stories, case studies, reports and expert viewpoints. The magazine aims to broaden and deepen the understanding of CSR and provide road maps for improved adoption and implementation of the concept within a local and regional cultural context. Responsible BusinessTM magazine published its 28th edition at the publication of this report and has received positive stakeholder feedback locally and internationally from the CSR, media and corporate sectors. The quarterly magazine provides readers with an overview of CSR developments in the region and internationally as well as in-depth features. It is the first and only publication in the Middle East specialized in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and has fast become one of the top 3 business magazines in Lebanon. Responsible BusinessTM is an authoritative reference on CSR and builds the business case for corporations committed to improving their practices by offering accurate information and guidelines. Its CSR credentials are further boosted by the production process which uses 100% recycled paper. Key Facts Mixed Sources Product Group from well-managed forests, controlled sources Distribution and recycled wood or fiber. 15,000 copies in Lebanon and the Middle East Cer number C015523 © 1996 Forest Stewardship Council (market and free distribution) Ecological Features Readership Printed on Oikos, recycled paper obtained with 50% of recycled FSC certified fibers and 50% pure FSC certified pulp for high qualMore than 50,000 ity recycled, finely mottled papers and boards. Areas of coverage Mainly Lebanon, the UAE, Qatar, KSA, Jordan and the United Kingdom 30 Five Years of Responsible Business Your Ultimate Source for Corporate Social Responsibility Knowledge COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE CSR LEBANON Consulting Services CSR LEBANON provides leading consultancy services in the CSR field, helping corporations do business in a responsible and sustainable way. Our consultancy services include: • Setting CSR frameworks, policies and strategies. • Developing innovative CSR projects closely related to the company’s core business • In-house training • Establishing CSR departments and providing the necessary education and training • CSR preliminary assessment • Encouraging stakeholder engagement, including stakeholder mapping and dialogue planning • Developing and communicating CSR reports and providing quality assurance Consultancy services are still at a very early stage due to the weak market readiness to integrate strategic CSR into businesses especially in Lebanon. Due to the instability of the political and economic environment in the country, businesses mostly operate within a short term spectrum and restrain from investing in long-term strategies and programs. CSR LEBANON expects to be more active in the consultancy area within the next five years. This will be mainly due to the fulfillment of our National Program for raising awareness about CSR which includes intensive conferences and educational workshops in collaboration with business schools and aimed at eliminating misconceptions heavily existing in this field. Philanthropic and marketing perceptions of CSR as well as the disengagement of senior leadership are among the main challenges encountered in driving integrated CSR forward. 32 CSR LEBANON, under the guidance of Mr. Khaled Kassar, is building momentum for sustainable business practices in Lebanon and the region. Mr. Georg Kell, Former Executive Director of the UNGC 33 COMMITTING TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNGC 9 The following section outlines our approach to the UNGC and summarizes how we are seeking to support the ten principles. Method CSR LEBANON undertook a self-assessment at the end of the reporting period using the UNGC Self-Assessment Tool to evaluate our progress to date. This was undertaken with input from the editorial and management team. Included in our evaluation was an analysis of our supply chain which is described below. Follow-up actions were identified which will be implemented in 2019 and are listed at the end of this section. Our Supply Chain In assessing our supply chain, we identified the magazine as the main product we produce therefore having the most significant impact. Where other suppliers opt for single purchases such as stationery items, we have long-term extensive relationships with the companies procuring them. Our utility requirements (water, electricity and sewage) are met by the government and/or the management of our building and are largely outside of our control. Production of the magazine is undertaken by Salim Dabbous Printing Company sarl, a Lebanese printing press. The paper used in the magazine is 100% recycled Oikos (FSC certified) and is sourced by CSR LEBANON directly from Nahhal Paper Co. in Lebanon. Such paper quality is unfortunately not available locally nor through regional suppliers. Following production, distribution is undertaken by Messageries du Moyen-Orient de la Presse et du Livre S.A.L. The magazine is also distributed in other Middle Eastern countries, especially in the United Arab Emirates, again using a distribution agent (Abu Dhabi Media Company – Tawzea, in the UAE). Using distribution agents allows the magazine to be distributed alongside other publications to the same vendors, which reduces the carbon footprint of the magazine as well as the cost. Courier delivery is used for smaller magazine distributions, for example to particular companies, and is undertaken by Aramex (www. aramex.com), a large distribution company in the Middle East with an established track record in CSR and sustainability. 35 COMMITTING TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES THE 10 PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses • CSR LEBANON supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and seeks to ensure that its principles are embedded in its organizational practices. • CSR LEBANON seeks to provide a safe and healthy workplace environment for its employees. • CSR LEBANON seeks to ensure that wages, hours and leave allowances meet international and national standards. Assessment, Policy and Goals • CSR LEBANON seeks to provide fair treatment for all staff in handling grievances. • An assessment of the company’s environmental and social impact on the local community in terms of negative impacts has concluded that they are negligible. The company has a small office which has not displaced any local inhabitants and it has limited interaction with the local community. • The company does not manufacture any products which may have human rights impacts. • The company remains engaged in human rights issues related to the business community in Lebanon as part of its awareness-raising activities but does not consider the business itself to be at risk of involvement in human rights abuses. • The company’s supply chain is very limited. It includes office stationery equipment providers and the publisher of the magazine. No formal contractual arrangements currently exist with these suppliers to facilitate a contractual agreement to promote international human rights standards. However, CSR LEBANON makes sure that its suppliers have the minimum requirements of accountability and ethical business practices, like having at least a basic knowledge of sustainability issues and having plans or working towards enhancing their business processes and supply chains. • CSR LEBANON actively and consistently promotes international human rights standards in its interactions with partners. 36 9 • CSR LEBANON uses its media products to portray social concerns and human rights malpractices. Through its publication, Responsible Business, it aims to promote support and respect for human rights in Lebanon and the Middle East. Implementation • CSR LEBANON hosts regular events and meetings to bring together individuals from Lebanon’s business community to discuss CSR and sustainability issues, including human rights. • CSR LEBANON has adopted an Ethics Code which supports international human rights frameworks. • CSR LEBANON is in an advanced stage of developing a Health & Safety Policy and Grievance Policy in support of its implementation of the UN Global Compact. • CSR LEBANON assures that no human rights abuses are taking place within its company, or amongst suppliers and business partners. Measurement of Outcomes • CSR LEBANON has published four quarterly magazines entitled ‘Responsible Business’ during 2018. The publication seeks to educate Lebanese and Middle Eastern businesses about CSR and sustainability, including human rights issues. • During the year, CSR LEBANON hosted the 8th CSR LEBANON FORUM on “SDGs and Millennials: Leaders of Sustainability”. Issues related to the workplace, consumer and employee rights were discussed by more than 500 participants who attended the Forum. • CSR LEBANON delivered a training course and workshop on mastering materiality in CSR strategies and reporting, where more than 50 participants attended. “Human Rights” was one of the key pillars of the workshop. 37 COMMITTING TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES LABOR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy • The company recognizes the rights of its workers to freedom of association and collective bargaining. • Child labor and forced labor are not considered risks for the company due to the nature of our work and our workforce. and Goals • CSR LEBANON ensures that employment decisions are based on objective criteria. This is enforced by the aim of promoting CSR in a multicultural and multi-religious country like Lebanon through promoting social collaboration and inclusion. • CSR LEBANON actively campaigns against all forms of forced or compulsory labor and child labor. • CSR LEBANON commits to and respects its Ethics Code. This includes reference to the right of emImplementation ployees to form associations and undertake collective bargaining. • The Ethics Code of the company includes a commitment to avoid discriminatory behavior, including recruitment, based on religion, race, ethnicity, or gender. • CSR LEBANON continues to undertake awareness-raising activities to promote greater understanding of labor issues within Lebanon and the Middle East. • CSR LEBANON promotes an open policy inside the organization where employees are free to express their opinions, needs, share their problems, and seek advice. 38 9 • Employees of CSR LEBANON have not engaged in any trade union or collective bargaining activities during 2018 but have not suffered any restrictions in doing so. • There are no children under the age of 19 who have worked or are working for the company or its main suppliers. Measurement • CSR LEBANON has published four quarterly magazines entitled ‘Responsible Business’ during 2018. The publication seeks to educate Lebanese and Middle Eastern businesses about CSR and sustainabilof Outcomes ity, including labor issues. • During the year, CSR LEBANON hosted the 8th CSR LEBANON FORUM on “SDGs and Millennials: Leaders of Sustainability”. It included discussions about investment decision-making and CSR in relation to the workplace and labor rights. • CSR LEBANON undertook a training course and workshop on mastering materiality in CSR strategies and reporting, which featured labor principles as one of its pillars. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, • CSR LEBANON seeks to lead by example in taking actions to be an environmentally sustainable business. Policy and Goals • CSR LEBANON continues to undertake awareness-raising activities to promote greater understanding of environmental responsibility and uptake of new technologies in the Middle East. 39 COMMITTING TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES • Responsible BusinessTM is the only magazine of its kind in the Middle East printed on 100% ecofriendly Oikos recycled paper obtained with 50% of recycled FSC certified fibers and 50% pure FSC certified pulp for high quality recycled, finely mottled papers and boards. The whole company stationery (letterheads, brochures, business cards, folders, envelopes, notebooks, etc.) is printed on high quality FSC certified paper, the Oikos paper. We always mention paper specifications on our print-puts to Implementation encourage our partners to shift to the same. • The company has taken measures to reduce its energy use by turning off all electrical equipment overnight and using printers which turn off automatically when not in use. Natural light is also used whenever possible within the office. • CSR LEBANON is in continuous communication with its suppliers to discuss environmental issues. • The company has implemented a recycling initiative to recycle paper but this has to be better enforced and monitored. Printing is also being minimized and double sided. It is worth noting that CSR LEBANON, as a small company, does not generate a large amount of waste. Thus, segregated waste cannot be collected by local agents because of cost inefficiency of waste collectors. Accordingly, CSR LEBANON is working on promoting this practice among their neighboring companies and partners to gather waste in one area for more efficient collection. • 100% of magazines and stationery are printed on recycled paper, using environmentally sound ink. Measurement of Outcomes • No environmental incidents or complaints were made against CSR LEBANON during 2018. • CSR LEBANON has published four quarterly magazines entitled ‘Responsible Business’ during 2018. The publication included features on environmental issues such as alternative/renewable energy, case studies on businesses engagement in environmental sustainability, environmental paradigms in the Middle East, and an in-depth review about the financial value of ESG. • During the year, CSR LEBANON hosted the 8th CSR LEBANON FORUM on “SDGs and Millennials: Leaders of Sustainability”. It included discussions about sustainable supply chains and green initiatives, and CSR in relation to the environment. • CSR LEBANON undertook a training course and workshop on mastering materiality in CSR strategies and reporting, which included “environmental principles” as one of its pillars. 40 9 Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • CSR Lebanon takes an active stance against corruption in all its forms both within its own Assessment, business and the business community at large. It is committed to ethical behavior, accuracy and transparency. • CSR LEBANON’s employment agreement states that unethical business practice is a reason Policy and Goals for terminating the employment contract. • The company considers that the risk of corruption within its own business relationships is very low. Implementation • CSR LEBANON Ethics Code incorporates anti-corruption commitments. • The company is in an advanced stage of developing a grievance procedure to ensure that employees are able to raise concerns and report non-compliance with the Ethics Code without fearing personal consequences. • CSR LEBANON continues to conduct awareness-raising activities on the subject of corruption. • There have not been any reports of corruption within CSR LEBANON’s business during the Measurement reporting period. • CSR LEBANON has published four quarterly magazines entitled ‘Responsible Business’ of Outcomes during 2018 including articles that promote ethics and best practice. • CSR LEBANON undertook a training course and workshop on mastering materiality in CSR strategies and reporting, which included “anti-corruption principles” among its pillars. 41 COMMITTING TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES Comments: Although this means an opportunity cost in terms of funding, CSR LEBANON’s commitment to transparency led the company to be established as a for-profit company rather than an NGO for two reasons: 1. The generally poor reputation of many national NGOs in the country. 2. Inexistence of a relevant legal status in the Lebanese laws for social enterprises. Follow-Up The action points identified to improve our compliance with the Global Compact for 2019 are as follows: 1. Activate a Health and Safety policy for the workplace 2. Activate a Grievance policy for the workplace 3. Activate a policy on Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 4. Ensure pregnancy and adoption/childcare leave is included in standard employment contract 5. Activate an environmental policy including a strategy to monitor recycling performance in the workplace and advance lobbying among neighboring corporations 6. Develop an arrangement, contractual or otherwise, with major suppliers which will support our compliance with the UNGC ten principles (if applicable in Lebanon) 7. Assess feasibility of monitoring indirect outcomes of awareness-raising activities such as relevant external events and press coverage of CSR /sustainability issues in other news publications 8. Actively promote the adoption of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the Business for Peace Guidance among Lebanese corporations. 42 9 43 44 9 CSR LEBANON joined many other Lebanese companies to celebrate the launch of the 17 United Nations (U.N.) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through our member support of the Global Compact Network Lebanon and UNDP Lebanon. With such a shared vision, the SDGs will provide ways for the Lebanese to work together for a better and more equal future for themselves and the future Lebanese generation. We believe CSR LEBANON is in a position to contribute directly to eight of the goals aligned to our current 2020 targets, in a meaningful way. Our Strategy CSR LEBANON demonstrated its commitment to the Global Goals through a series of actions that it undertook throughout 2018. It primarily aimed at guiding companies to advance the SDGs by operating responsibly in alignment with universal principles and finding opportunities to innovate to address societal challenges. During the CSR LEBANON Spring Week, the youth CSR workshop engaged in a strong discussion about the influence the SDGs have on the future of the country, with special focus on the influence that the private sector can have to advance these goals, since they can play an important role as an implementer, translating profits into sustained economic growth, social inclusion, and environmental protection. Financial institutions can provide positive incentives to such companies – those that incorporate sustainability, long-term thinking, and environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance criteria in core business models – by allocating assets accordingly. Such a move would go a long way toward promoting long-term progress on the SDGs. In addition, during the 8th CSR LEBANON FORUM, a backdrop of the Goals was placed at the Forum for all dignitaries, speakers, attendees and special guests to see and understand more about CSR LEBANON’s commitment to the Goals, as well as use these Goals as a backdrop for their Forum pictures. This area became a meeting point for several attendees who wanted to know more about the SDGs whle demonstrating CSR LEBANON’s commitment to addressing the Goals. 45 COMMITTING TO THE SDGs SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS Within CSR LEBANON • Creating an exceptional experience for its employees • Upholding professional values and behaviors to adopt sustainable practices • Empowering and promoting an inclusive and diverse culture • Listening to, and recognizing its people • Developing purpose-driven leaders who contribute to society’s welfare Community Investment • Driving inclusing growth • Working with others to instill positive change • Supporting the next generation • Aligning action through global coordination and collaboration • Investing over 500 hours of professional services and skilled volunteering for capacity building of social enterprises Supply Chain • Driving responsibility in its supply chain • Increasing supplier diversity The above demonstrate CSR LEBANON’s contribution to Goals: 46 9 ANTI-CORRUPTION OBLIGATION Our Business • CSR LEBANON supports its clients and profession by living by its values • Upholding the highest professional standards • Engaging with stakeholders in a clear and transparent way • Reinforcing its commitment to quality Serving Public Interest • Tackling corruption in all its forms • Helping businesses to innovate with purpose • Building confidence and trust in all markets The above demonstrate CSR LEBANON’s contribution to Goals: ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Acting with Integrity • CSR LEBANON supports environmental sustainability by positively influencing change • Managing our own impact • Engaging with responsible and sustainability-conscious suppliers • Helping our clients and people become more sustainable The above demonstrate CSR LEBANON’s contribution to Goals: 47
