PARCO COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 www.parco.com.pk Pak-Arab Refinery Limited (PARCO) PAKARAB REFINERY LTD (PARCO) is a Joint Venture between the Government of Pakistan and the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, incorporated as a public limited company in 1974. As an integrated energy company, PARCO is the leading player in Pakistan`s petroleum industry with major operations in refining, transportation, storage, marketing, oil supply and logistics. PARCO has the most modern refinery in Pakistan having a capacity of 100,000 BPD (representing about 25% of the country`s refining capacity), over 2000 kms of cross-country pipeline network including its JV subsidiary Pak-Arab Pipeline Company Limited (PAPCO) with a strategic storage of over one million tons, and a rapidly expanding retail network of TOTAL PARCO (TPPL) – a joint venture with TOTAL of France. With the acquisition of Chevron’s fuel business in Pakistan, TPPL is now the second largest Oil Marketing Company in the Country. PARCO is also marketing nationwide LPG under the brand name of Pearl Gas. High quality asphalt is being marketed as Biturox. PARCO Pearl Gas (Pvt) Ltd (PPGL), formerly known as SHV Energy Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd is a 100% owned subsidiary of PARCO, having the largest LPG marketing and distribution network. PPGL manages storage, processing, filling and distribution of LPG. The performance of the company can be judged by the fact that it has maintained its AAA and A1+ long and short term credit rating by Pakistan Credit Rating Agency (PACRA) for twenty consecutive years. The company set another first in Pakistan when it obtained three simultaneous international certifications: ISO 9001:2015 (Quality Management System), ISO 14001:2015 (Environmental Management System) and ISO 45001:2018 (Health and Safety Management System). PARCO has also received the Environment Excellence Awards for the last several years and is rated among the top 10 organizations in Pakistan for outstanding achievement in Environment Management. As a good corporate citizen, the company focuses on meeting the expectations of its internal and external stakeholders in a professional and strategic manner. PARCO not only invests in its employees, makes efforts for customer satisfaction and operates ethically, but also undertakes a wide range of projects to benefit society in areas of education, health, environment, sports, culture, community development, road safety, and response to natural calamities. Processing and handling hydrocarbons is our business and it comes with its share of hazards. PARCO proactively identifies, minimizes and mitigates situations that have the potential to cause harm to the health and safety of its employees, customers, service providers, communities, public and the environment. The focus and diversity of technical, social and environmental projects of PARCO speak for themselves. Our cross-country pipeline network makes us next-door neighbor to many remote and underprivileged communities. PARCO’s Schools & Clinics Support Program is aimed at providing basic education and health facilities. The program is an ongoing initiative in which new schools and clinics are identified and existing ones are improved by providing basic infrastructure and other necessities that are beneficial for the surrounding communities. Communities are happy that PARCO is there for help, when they need it most. PARCO has always responded passionately to the nation’s distress calls during natural calamities such as earthquakes or floods. PARCO also supports culture and heritage by patronizing indigenous music, poetry and the arts. As a member of WWF, PARCO helps in the conservation of nature, with several initiatives to its credit. In keeping with the values of the company and our traditions, PARCO makes philanthropic contributions to institutions that are making significant efforts to help the underprivileged. From producing environment-friendly products to efficient, world class engineering facilities and infrastructure, building a highly competent human capital, and major social initiatives, PARCO is doing its utmost in Providing Energy with Responsibility. CORPORATE RECOGNITION DURING 2018 PACRA Maintains “AAA” Entity Ratings of Pak-Arab Refinery Limited for 20 Consecutive Years The Pakistan Credit Rating Agency (PACRA) has maintained long term and short term entity ratings of Pak-Arab Refinery Limited at AAA (Triple A) and A1+ (A One Plus) respectively for the past 20 years. The ratings denote the lowest expectation of credit risk emanating from an exceptionally strong capacity, for timely payment of financial commitments. President of Pakistan Award 2018 The Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FPCCI), the apex body representing Pakistan`s Industry and Services, held its 42nd FPCCI Export Awards Ceremony to recognize the services of organizations contributing in the progress of Pakistan. PARCO is honored by the esteemed President of Pakistan award for the seventh consecutive time for its outstanding services in refining and transporting of petroleum products. In the distinguished award ceremony, Honorable Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mr. Imran Khan Honorable Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mr. Imran presented the Award to Mr. Tariq Rizavi, Managing Director, PARCO. Khan, presenting the Award to Mr. Tariq Rizavi, MD-PARCO FPCCI Achievement Awards 2018 The Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FPCCI) held its 6th FPCCI Achievement Awards 2018 Ceremony to recognize the services of organizations in various sectors contributing towards the progress and prosperity of Pakistan. PARCO was selected by the FPCCI’s jury in the category of Energy, Power and Petroleum Sector for the 6th consecutive year. The then President of Pakistan, Mr. Mamnoon Hussain, presented a Gold Former President of Pakistan, Mr. Mamnoon Medal to CEO PAPCO, Mr. Shujauddin Ahmed in a prestigious ceremony Hussain, presenting the Gold Medal to held at Sindh Governor House. Mr. Shujauddin Ahmed, CEO-PAPCO PARCO Wins EFP’s Employer of the Year Award 2017 PARCO has won First Prize in recognition of its Best Employment Practices, for the sixth consecutive year. PARCO was included in the category of Large National Companies. The Employer of the Year Awards were introduced by the Employers’ Federation of Pakistan in 2012. This year, EFP announced the awards in the categories of Multinationals, Large National Companies and Medium & Small Enterprises for their contribution towards creation of skilled human resource, respect for human rights and compliance to labor laws. The First Prize in Best Employment Practices recognizes the Company’s world class Human Resource strategy which is continuously enhancing its human capital, upgrading HR practices and processes, and providing a supportive workplace environment. Deputy Managing Director (Finance & Corporate Affairs), Mr. Shahid Mahmood Khan received the award. DMD (Finance & Corporate Affairs), Mr. Shahid st Mahmood Khan receiving the 1 Prize in Best Employment Practices from Mr. Zulfiqar Bukhari, Prime Minister’s Special Assistant on Overseas Pakistanis and Human Resource Development PARCO Wins Excellence in Women Empowerment Award The Employers’ Federation of Pakistan held a ceremony on 21st March, 2018 to mark “International Women’s Day”. The aim was to recognize business organizations having outstanding record of contributing to gender mainstreaming and women empowerment in their organizations. In this prestigious ceremony, PARCO was awarded with the Excellence in Women Empowerment Award in the category of Multinational Companies. Ms. Sharon Dias, General Manager, Corporate Affairs-PARCO received the award from the chief guest, Ms. Naheed Memon, Chairperson, Sindh Board of Investment. Ms. Sharon Dias, GM (CA)-PARCO, receiving the award from chief guest, Ms. Naheed Memon, Chairperson, Sindh Board of Investment The panel of judges voted unanimously to give The Women Empowerment Award to PARCO for the Company’s vision and its Women Empowerment initiatives and practices. PARCO believes in providing equal employment opportunity and enabling a safe and healthy working environment for all its employees. Environment Excellence Award 2018 PARCO has been awarded the 13th consecutive Annual Environment Excellence Award by the National Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH). PARCO for the tenth consecutive time has been placed amongst the 10 best organizations of Pakistan in Environment Management. A Special Recognition Certificate for outstanding achievement in Environment Management was also awarded to PARCO by NFEH. The panel of judges voted unanimously to award the excellence certificate to PARCO for the company’s vision, environment protection policies and Mr. Hafiz Saifullah Khalid, Station In-charge, Shikarpur Station, PARCO receiving practices, and its Corporate Social Responsibility program. These awards Environment Excellence Award reflect our good management practices, the efforts of our team and our concern for the environment. CSR Leadership Excellence Award 2019 The 11th International Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Summit was organized at a hotel in Islamabad in January, 2019. The objective of the event was to recognize and promote organizations that are making outstanding contributions for a sustainable future through CSR initiatives. In a prestigious ceremony, PARCO was awarded with the 8th consecutive Corporate Social Responsibility Award for its vision and implementation through contributions in the field of CSR. As a member of United Nations Global Compact, PARCO has a clear vision to implement Sustainable Ms. Saba Ahmed, Senior Management Executive, PARCO receiving CSR Leadership Development Goals (SDGs) in all its spheres of business. Ms. Saba Ahmed, Excellence Award from Honorable President of Senior Management Executive, Corporate Communications received the Pakistan Dr. Arif Alvi. award on behalf of PARCO from the chief guest, Mr. Arif Alvi, Honorable President of Pakistan. Prominent personalities belonging to the corporate sector, Government officials and many NGO’s were also invited to the event. First Prize for PARCO’s Corporate Garden PARCO has been winning prizes for its Corporate Garden for the past several years. During the Flower Show, PARCO secured First position for its Corporate Garden in a competition held by the Horticulture Society of Pakistan. PARCO has been winning first position for several years in this competition. Col. Retd. Salman Ahmed Khan, Section Head-Administration Department receiving the award. Fire and Safety Award 2018 PARCO’s safety initiatives, policies and practices have been recognized by the National Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH) and Fire Protection Association of Pakistan (FPAP), awarding the company with Fire and Safety Award 2018. This is the sixth consecutive award that the Company has won. Mr. Parvaiz Ahmed, Manager Stations & Terminals received the award on behalf of PARCO. PARCO is one of the leading energy providers in the country. Due to the nature of our business, the Company has always given priority to occupational health, safety and environment protection. Mr. Pervaiz Ahmed, Manager Stations & Terminals, PARCO receiving the Award Our policies and practices ensure safer modes of business and operations for the betterment of our internal and external stakeholders specially the environment. The role of HSE in PARCO is crucial for eliminating and mitigating all occupational hazards and risks involved in handling hydrocarbons. All procedures and processes are timely revisited to avoid unforeseen events proactively. The Company gives special importance on the safety trainings and has an extensive program that runs throughout the year. PARCO Receives UNGC Best Practices Sustainability Award 2018 United Nations Global Compact Network, Pakistan organized “Living the Global Compact Business Sustainability Awards 2018” to acknowledge organizations demonstrating the UNGC Principles and SDGs in action through Best Practices, not just a specific CSR project or program. Reputable Pakistani companies and institutions are signatories to the United Nations Global Compact and have committed themselves to adopting its universal Ten Principles. PARCO, an active member of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), has been Ms. Saba Ahmed, Senior Management awarded the UN Global Compact Best Practices Sustainability Award 2018 Executive-Corporate Communications, PARCO for the fifth consecutive time. The Award nominees underwent a rigorous receiving the Award and documented process of successive stages of short-listing by multi-disciplinary local and foreign experts, who assessed the performance of companies in each of the four areas of the UN Global Compact, namely Human Rights, Environment, Labor and Transparency. The UN Global Compact Award not only acknowledges PARCO’s commitment towards strategic and sustainable CSR, but also appreciates its efforts in reporting globally the practical implementation of SDGs through its various CSR projects. On this prestigious occasion, Ms. Saba Ahmed, Senior Management Executive, Corporate Communications, received the Award from the chief guest, H.E. G.L Gnanatheva, The Consul General of Sri Lanka. The Jury appreciated PARCO’s efforts in making important and substantial investments in Society, especially the initiatives pertaining to Community Engagement, Women Empowerment and Employee Care. Occupational, Safety, Health and Environment Award PARCO was recognized by the Employers Federation of Pakistan at its 13th EFP Annual Awards Ceremony in the area of Occupational Safety, Health and Environment (OSHE) for the year 2017. The event was planned around celebrating the International Day on Safety & Health at Work, which included presentations, keynote addresses and panel discussions by eminent professionals to share their expertise. Awards were conferred after a thorough and transparent evaluation of nomination papers submitted by participating companies. The evaluation Mr. Tariq Saeed, Manager HSE-PARCO receiving the OSHE Award was done by an independent jury consisting of experts in the field of OSHE. PARCO was recognized for its excellent workplace environment and won the “Overall Platinum Award”. Mr. Tariq Saeed, Manager HSE, received the award. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment At PARCO, we deliver “Energy with Responsibility”. PARCO respects all human beings and considers employees as its greatest asset, striving to support employees, their families, nearby communities and other stakeholders in accordance with Human Rights. Management Systems HR Management, Administration HR Management, HSE, Security Communities Actions Education Health Work Safety Stakeholder Involvement &Community Investment Results Employee Development Employee Care  The PARCO management expects from all employees to The social contribution by PARCO in the society it operates, has been well received since the past  PARCO has been continuously endeavoring to enrich its human capital by  PARCO provides 100% free medical cover to its employees, their spouses, strictly follow safety and housekeeping instructions several years. The company is striving towards making a positive impact in the lives of the adopting new techniques and methods for developing its people. PARCO dependent sons (up to 21 years, dependent daughters (till their marriage) which results in better living conditions but also protects communities by adopting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs have already been helps and guides its employees, through appropriate training, to make the and reimbursement of 60% medical costs of employees’ parents. For employees from unexpected accidents. embedded in our CSR strategy and are playing significant role in shaping a better future. Following best use of their talents. employees who are offered Monetized Compensation Package, PARCO offers initiatives were undertaken in the year 2018. a fixed monthly medical allowance as well as Hospitalization coverage  PARCO has also instituted an annual ‘Safety and  Training Needs Analysis, Personal Development Plan and Career Planning are through insurance. Housekeeping Award’ which is awarded to the station Access to Education and Health formalized processes for all employees. which has maintained the best safety standards and  Our cross-country pipeline network makes us next-door neighbor to many remote and  All female employees including trainees are eligible for maternity leave of 12  PARCO provides its employees with developmental opportunities to acquire weeks. immaculate housekeeping during the year. underprivileged communities. Since 2007, PARCO has been managing an extensive Schools & knowledge and build up skills through training and self-development, to the Clinics Support Program which aims at improving the education and health infrastructure in  PARCO helps its employees and their families with economic protection  PARCO ensures that Personal Protective Equipment mutual advantage of the employees and the Company. The ‘Educational adjoining communities by supporting Rural Health Clinics, Primary, Middle and Secondary against loss of earnings in the event of an employee’s death or disability (PPEs) are provided to all employees. Service Providers Refund Plan’ is one such initiative intended to provide financial assistance to Schools, being run by Government of Pakistan. occurring as a result of illness, accident or otherwise under the ‘Death & are also required to provide PPEs to their staff. eligible employees who wish to undertake studies or trainings not directly  Till 2018, PARCO has provided assistance to more than 118 institutions along its pipeline and Disability Benefit Plan’.  The PARCO`s Pipeline Division had successfully covered by Company initiated programs or plans. refinery across Pakistan. Thousands of children are receiving education in PARCO supported  Under the Company’s Wellness Program, employees in the age of 45-50 years completed more than 9 million man-hours without Lost  In order to encourage employees to enhance their professional competence, schools. PARCO`s assistance to these institutions has raised communities` interest to enroll are required to undergo medical check-up every two years and employees Time Accident (LTA) in October 2018. PARCO provides membership of reputable professional bodies and their children in these refurbished and well-maintained schools diverting them from child labor above 50 years are required to undergo medical examination annually to organizations which impart technical, professional and managerial knowledge  As a standard operating procedure, communication and to primary education, raising the literacy rate. determine the quality and level of their health and fitness. command level is established to report security to the employees through the ‘Organizational Membership’ policy.  During 2018, PARCO has continued its support to various institutions for mentally challenged  To provide full medical cover to its employees and dependents, PARCO has on incidents, accidents, natural calamities and other risk  PARCO provides 1-2 years Traineeship program for Engineers, Technologists and deaf children. These institutes are managed by professional NGOs and rely mostly on its panel, a large number of hospitals, consultants, laboratories, pharmacies situations. and Business Graduates. Under this program a sizeable number of graduates philanthropic contributions. They help these children in developing skills to manage their lives across the country. are inducted who go through a rigorous classroom and field training.  Before mobilization, Service Providers’ staff undertakes in less challenging manner. PARCO’s contributions have helped these institutes sustain their Employee Family Orientation & Training covering Health, Safety & operations and create a positive difference in the lives of special children.  PARCO has an extensive Management Development Program (MDP) for Environment procedures and practices.  Ibn-e-Sina Hospital at Mid-Country Refinery (MCR) ensures timely medical employees. All trainings are planned and coordinated in a systematic manner by the Company in terms of the needs and the talents required. The training assistance to the employees and their families residing at the Refinery in  Toxic Gas areas are marked with toxic gas signs and no Housing Colony in Qasba Gujrat which is a remote area. one is allowed to enter the area without proper gas efforts are not confined to a few formal classroom courses but extend in all directions to remove employees’ weaknesses and accentuate their strengths. masks.  The Company also covers medical/traveling expenses of employees and their Last six years of Training Man-Hours data is given below. dependents if the patient is suffering from such a disease which requires a  The drinking water is checked on a monthly basis to  CO has an extensive Management Development Program (MDP) for our vital organ transplantation that cannot be done locally. eliminate any bacterial contamination. employees. All trainings are planned and coordinated in a systematic manner  All PARCO drivers are provided training annually to by the Company in terms of the needs and the talents required. The training Healthy Working Environment comply with Road Safety Rules and Pakistan Traffic Code. efforts are not confined to a few formal classroom courses but extend in all  PARCO is an ISO 45001:2018 (Health and Safety Management System) There are proper road markings and road safety signs directions to remove employees’ weaknesses and accentuate their strengths. certified Company. The Company has been receiving National Environment installed within all PARCO facilities and locations for Last six years of Training Man-Hours data is given below. Excellence Awards for the past 13 years in a row.  This year, PARCO distributed school bags along with stationary items and note books to the strict compliance. Wearing seat belts is compulsory for children at PARCO supported government schools in Ibrahim Hyderi near PARCO Corporate  PARCO’s annual Inter-Station Competition for the Best Housekeeping at all drivers. Headquarters and nearby its Mid-Country Refinery at Qasba Gujrat. The initiative has helped Pipeline Stations and Terminals continued this year where all the Stations  Marketing Department of PARCO conducts regular the schools in improving attendance and the schools have reported increased enrollment as and Terminals were scrutinized. During 2018, TS-4 at Machike was awarded meetings with Motorway Police and different cartage well. Such initiatives motivated children to choose education over child labor. the Best Station Trophy. contractors to discuss various issues regarding fuels’ transportation. Mr. Munawar Ahmad, Manager  PARCO continues to provide a healthy and green working environment to its Marketing, and Mr. Bashir A. Swati, Section Head-M&C, employees. During 2018, the Company secured a Gold Medal with First PARCO, participated in these sessions to amicably Position in the Best Corporate Garden Category in a competition held by the address the issues related to transporters and Oil Horticultural Society of Pakistan. PARCO has been winning prizes for its Marketing Companies. Corporate Garden for the past several years.  PARCO provides international quality facilities for sports including Cricket  Emission testing of vehicles, diesel driven engines and (Floodlit ground), Hockey, Football, Volleyball, Swimming, Tennis, etc. Indoor generators is carried out periodically to avoid any sports facilities are also provided in a Club Complex which include Bowling environmental hazard. Alley, Gymnasium, Badminton, Table Tennis, Snooker, Squash, etc. at its Mid Medical tests of all employees of different age groups Country Refinery as well as Stations and Terminals. are carried out periodically and respective treatment (if required) is prescribed by Company Doctor. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2019 (Page 2 of 17) HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Contd. BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment At PARCO, we deliver “Energy with Responsibility”. PARCO respects all human beings and considers employees as its greatest asset, striving to support employees, their families, nearby communities and other stakeholders in accordance with Human Rights. Management Systems HR Management, Administration Communities Actions Work-Life Balance Education Stakeholder Involvement & Community Investment Results Employee Family  Under the umbrella of Schools and Clinics Support Program, PARCO has supported several Basic and Rural Health Centers based in small villages near PARCO cross-country pipeline and  PARCO ensures a very balanced work environment for all employees for  The School at PARCO`s Mid-Country Refinery Stations and Terminals. The clinics are providing basic healthcare to the local communities within their villages. As a result, community members are no longer required to travel for long rest and relaxation, recuperation after sickness and for attending personal (MCR) Housing Complex provides subsidized hours to the cities for basic treatment. affairs. education to the employees` children till preuniversity level. The School also has a board which  PARCO’s Mid-Country Refinery at Qasba Gujrat is surrounded by many underprivileged communities, which are deprived of the basic education and health facilities. PARCO operates a  An employee proceeding on Annual Leave may request for advance salary includes PARCO management and parents of the Community Welfare Clinic in order to provide basic health facilities to the domestic workers working at the Mid-Country Refinery, their families and other people from nearby areas. The payment for approved leave period. In addition, employees are also children. clinic is being run successfully and treats approximately 3,000 patients annually. In order to ensure sustainability of its operations, the clinic is supervised by the Company doctor and entitled to ‘Leave Fare Assistance’. provision for its operation is kept in yearly CSR budget.  PARCO has also been supporting the educational  The Company provides opportunities for employees to socialize with endeavors of its employees and their children.  In Pakistan, there are various hospitals that serve the underprivileged who cannot afford medication, hospitalization etc. Hospitals that are selected are run by NGOs with transparent professionals from other walks of life. To facilitate this inter-relation, the ‘Scholarship for Children of Employees’ is operations, supervised by a proper Board of Directors and regular external audits. PARCO has helped several such hospitals through philanthropic contributions in capacity building. Company sees that the employees have the facility and use of a reputable intended to support the employees by providing Support for Sports club in the city where they are posted. This is called the ‘Club financial assistance to help defray the cost of their children’s professional education on the basis of a  PARCO has a decade long history of promoting sports within and outside the Company. Sports’ events like Cricket, Squash, Hockey, Volley Ball, Swimming, Water Polo, Badminton, Table Membership’ policy. formal procedure that recognizes academic merit. Tennis, Lawn Tennis and other tournaments are supported by PARCO. Over the past several years, PARCO has been a major sponsor of the Squash tournament that has helped in promoting  Employees posted at remote stations, work on ROTA System, where they young talent. The Company has been holding a cricket tournament for the Pakistan’s oil & gas industry and various sports events inside the company. work for 20 days and then enjoy 8 days paid leaves with their families.  Educational Awards which include a certificate and cash rewards are given to school going  The Company has also undertaken various inter-station tournaments of Squash, Cricket, Volley Ball, Table Tennis and Lawn Tennis, etc. The Pipeline Division organized “Sports Gala 2018” at  During 2018, PARCO sponsored 6 Non-Management Staff and 2 children of the employees, based on good TS-3, Faisalabad Station to build up healthy teams and sportsmanship qualities amongst the employees. The three-day mega event comprised of Badminton, Snooker, Volley Ball and Cricket Management Staff to perform “Hajj” (Holy Pilgrimage). This is done on performance in their Secondary Education. This matches. Various teams of Oil Marketing Companies (OMC’s) also participated. All teams participated with great zeal and tough competitions were seen during matches. On 15th May, 2018 annual basis. recognition helps motivate children to further the prize distribution ceremony took place in which the chief guest of the event Mr. Raheel Ahmed, Manager HR distributed prizes among winners of the sports gala.  In the event of an employee’s or spouse’s death, the Company provides enhance their educational performance. During  PARCO held its “Triangular Cricket Tournament 2018” with three teams competing in the tournament: Spartans (Telecom/SCADA and S&T Maintenance), Knight Riders (S&T Operations and transportation of the deceased and ‘Funeral Assistance’ to the family. 2018, 114 children of PARCO employees were C&ES) and Warriors (Pipeline Maintenance, HSE and Security). Round matches were played in Karachi. After a sensational match played between the two finalist teams, the Team Warrior provided Educational Awards. came out victorious. In the award distribution ceremony, Mr. Adil Aziz Khan, GM Pipeline presented the Winners’ Trophy to Warriors.  PARCO has a cafeteria for employees where healthy meals are served at more than 70% subsidy. PARCO employs 2 cooks at each Station and Terminal for cooking meals for staff.  PARCO provides financial assistance to support the non-management staff for their daughter’s marriage and education assistance for their children.  In January 2018, PARCO organized the Annual Family Day for all employees and their families where they enjoyed fun rides, puppet show, magic show, games, food, etc. More than 2,500 PARCONIANS and their family members visited the Annual Family Day where they all spent quality time together. Supporting Internal Stakeholders The event helps employees to unwind from their busy schedules and enjoy  PARCO provides education assistance to employees’ children by providing scholarships to deserving students, seeking professional education. the day with their families and socialize with their fellow PARCONIANS.  PARCO cares for its internal and external stakeholders. PARCO provides assistance for funeral, daughter’s marriage and medical support on case to case basis. Educational awards are given to children of employees including non-management staff in recognition of their performance in Secondary Education. The Company also supports its service providers’ staff in many ways on case to case basis, whenever they need financial, medical or other support. All in all, PARCO acts as a Socially Responsible Corporate Citizen in all possible ways to help its internal and external stakeholders. Increasing Self-Reliance through Vocational Training  PARCO had been keen in investing and fostering the culture of vocational training and entrepreneurship under its CSR Program. During Phase I, the Company provided operational support to government vocational training centers in Sindh and Punjab. Currently, there are 23 centers being aided by PARCO to fulfill their infrastructural needs and equipment requirements. This support has resulted in students getting better training on modern equipment and increasing their chances of employment.  In 2015, PARCO had successfully setup a Sewing and Display Center for Women at Qasba Gujrat near PARCO Mid-Country Refinery. The aim of this Center is to provide advance sewing and embroidery skills to the underprivileged women who have already done basic courses in sewing. Moreover, the Center is providing six months training, which also includes additional courses on personal development and building entrepreneurial skills. These courses will educate them on how to use technology to get better access to markets, advertise their products to reach a wider customer base and remain updated on modern trends. The Center is helping the rural women in developing profitable business models, uplifting them economically. During the year 2018, a total of 37 students have passed out in two batches.  The 23 vocational training centerssupported by PARCO are performing well. They offer different courses for women to help them improve their standard of living by utilizing their learned skill set.This year, PARCO distributed sewing and embroidery machines to women who had completed their Dress Making & Embroidery courses from Mahmood Kot Vocational Training Institute, near PARCO Mid-Country Refinery. Senior PARCO officials distributed sewing machines among these women so that they can be financially independent and lead a better life. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2019 (Page 3 of 17) HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESSES SHOULD MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Our Commitment PARCO makes all possible efforts to avoid complicity in Human Rights Abuses and abides by the laws of the country. Management Systems HR Management, Operations, Contract Management, Communities, etc. Actions Ethical Standards and Fair Dealings with Shareholders, Staff, Equal Opportunity Employer Women Empowerment Customers, Suppliers, Service Providers and Other External Partners Results  During the joining process, every employee of PARCO signs a declaration agreeing to PARCO`s Guiding  All appointments in PARCO are based on merit for filling approved vacant  Being an equal opportunity employer, PARCO makes efforts in taking initiatives to empower women among its internal Principles which include a complete set of guidelines on fair and ethical dealings with customers, internal and positions. Our recruitment process ensures fair and competitive matching of and external stakeholders. Some of these initiatives are given below. external stakeholders and communities. Violations of these principles are viewed seriously, have resulted in candidates with job specifications. Non-job factors e.g. gender, origin, religion,  The Government of Pakistan promulgated Protection Against Harassment of Women at the Workplace Act, 2010 with disciplinary action, and in some cases have led to termination of service. Following are some highlights of and external influence are not considered. Underage employment is strictly an objective to create a safe working environment for women which is free of harassment, abuse and intimidation so PARCO`s Guiding Principles: forbidden. that they can work with dignity. PARCO enforces this Act throughout the company and has placed it on its intranet portal and notice boards to educate women at workplace about their rights. PARCO has a committee to deal with  We practice a merit-based equal-opportunity policy for recruitment and reject any influence of gender,  PARCO Job Advertisements clearly state that use of any extraneous influence will harassment complaints, take suggestions and give recommendations to the Management. Employees, including head color, caste, faith, ethnic origin or recommendations by influential persons. disqualify the candidate. of departments, are advised to report any acts of harassment, as harassment is considered misconduct, liable to  PARCO provides equal career growth opportunity to both male and female disciplinary action. No case of harassment against women has been registered since the inception of the Company.  PARCO believes in tempering its policies with human values that can raise the human capital of the Company and the Nation. employees, some of whom are also heading key departments and sections in the  PARCO has built and supported three schools with The Citizens Foundation – a reputable NGO working in the area of Company. The company has females working in Engineering, Finance, Projects, IT, imparting quality education – at Karachi and Qasba Gujrat, near PARCO Mid-Country Refinery. These schools employ all  PARCO believes that valid profits are made by good businesses through efficient services, productivity of Telecom, Marketing, HR, and Medical functions. Our target is zero discrimination female staff belonging to the nearby communities. The existence of these campuses has generated employment for operations, value addition, innovative financing and strategic management of PARCO assets, talent and in a male dominated society and industry. these local women to earn a decent living. There are 1,069 children receiving quality education at PARCO TCF schools. skills, while contributing to the wellbeing of the Society.  Management and Engineering Trainees, upon successful completion of their  PARCO’s Schools and Clinics Support Program has reached upto total of118 institutions compared to 110 during last  As a professionally managed organization, PARCO ensures that all the stakeholders are provided equal training, are considered on merit against vacant positions, as permanent year, with 96 schools and 22 clinics. Out of these 96 schools, majority are situated in the rural areas, with maximum opportunities. Be it customers, employees, communities, etc. we ensure equal treatment at all levels. employees without discrimination, in case if there is vacant position. female staff.  PARCO believes in the value of transparency, openness and self-examination, and consider them as  During 2018, 18 Trainee Engineers, 12 Management Trainees and 75 Trainee  The Community Welfare Clinic at the PARCO Mid-Country Refinery caters to more than 3,000 patients a year of which safeguards against potential faults. Technologists were inducted.  majority patients At the PARCO treated are Mid-Country women the Refinery, children. andfemale spouses of the Company employees have formed a Ladies Club which is  Benefits, facilities and allowances, as specified in the Company`s policies are financially supported by PARCO. The club undertakes several social activities and events organized by the women  We consider our Suppliers and Service Providers as our business partners and deal with them with the same provided to all employees and their dependents without discrimination. residing at the Refinery Housing Complex. At its Mid-Country Refinery Housing Complex, the Company has separate fairness that we reserve for our employees and customers. housing for women. There are separate sections and timing for facilities and club sports for women.  As a Company we are acknowledged as a responsible corporate citizen in the community of business and  PARCO’s Sewing and Embroidery Center at its Mid-Country Refinery is playing an instrumental role in training women industry of Pakistan and have received multiple awards from various external stakeholder bodies as  on latest fashion design and marketing techniques to become successful entrepreneurs. During 2018, PARCO continued mentioned in the COP. its support to many well-known vocational training institutions. The basic aim of the project was to facilitate these institutions in building capacity for incorporating latest techniques in building competencies amongst Pakistani youth.  We strive for minimal impact on the environment and contribute significantly to reducing the damage done PARCO supported Vocational Training Institutes in areas near PARCO facilities and assisted 23 centers at Machhike, to nature by man. Faisalabad, Kot Addu, Mahmood Kot, Qasba Gujrat, Muzaffargarh, DG Khan, Multan, Fazilpur, Shikarpur, Bubak and  We do not tolerate unsafe and hazardous-to-health work practices in transit or at the work place. Karachi. The institutes were provided help through setting up state-of-the-art computer labs for conducting various professional courses and vocational trainings pertaining to sewing and embroidery by providing electrical embroidery sewing machines and furniture.  Most of the students enrolled are women. The learned skill has helped the women in these communities; take care of their own economics after trainings from these well-equipped Vocational Training Institutes.  On 21st March, 2018 Employers’ Federation of  PARCO is providing Vocational Trainings to the inmates at Women Central Prison, Karachi under its CSR Program. The aim is to help Pakistan held a ceremony to mark “International them learn various vocational training skills like sewing, cutting, stitching, embroidery and beauticians’ courses. It provides them an Women’s Day”. The purpose was to recognize opportunity to achieve self-reliance and become an independent member of the society after their release. This year the 5th batch of business organizations having outstanding record trainees successfully completed their course among which certificates were distributed by PARCO. Jail Superintendent, Ms. Sheeba of contributing to gender mainstreaming and Shah appreciated PARCO’s efforts in imparting necessary vocational skills to inmates which give them the courage that they can also women empowerment in their organizations. become useful member of the society.  In this prestigious ceremony, PARCO was awarded  A Breast Cancer Awareness Campaign was organized by Shaukat Khanum Memorial Hospital & Research Centre at Total PARCO with the Excellence in Women Empowerment Pakistan Limited, Karachi. Pakistan has one of highest incidences of breast cancer in Asia, therefore, the purpose of the session was to Award in the category of Multinational Companies. create awareness among women regarding breast cancer and the measures that can be taken to control it. More than twenty ladies On this occasion, GM (CA)-PARCO, Ms. Sharon Dias from PARCO participated in the event. A month later, similar session was arranged at PARCO Mid-Country Refinery (MCR) by Ibn-ereceived the award from the chief guest, Sina Hospital in collaboration with Shaukat Khanam Memorial Hospital (SKMH). The title was “5 Minutes for Me”. The session was Ms. Naheed Memon, Chairperson, Sindh Board of attended by female staff of MCR along with other females residing in PARCO Housing Colony. During these sessions Dr. Kashifa from Investment. PARCO believes in providing equal SKMH gave detailed presentation on breast cancer, its stages, early detection, prevention and treatment. Everyone took keen interest employment opportunity and enabling a safe and Ms. Sharon Dias, GM (CA)-PARCO, receiving the award from in the discussion and actively participated in the question and answer session. In the end, all ladies took oath that they will take all healthy working environment for its female chief guest, Ms. Naheed Memon, Chairperson, Sindh Board of precautionary measures to prevent the risk of breast cancer. employees. Investment www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2019 (Page 4 of 17) LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our Commitment PARCO believes in addressing Employee issues practically and providing the right of collective bargaining to all its workers by complete compliance to all Industrial Relations Ordinances and Laws. Management Systems HR Management, Industrial Relations, Operations, CSR Actions Freedom of Association Collective Bargaining Negotiations and Proactive Focus and Redressed Employee Grievances to Maintain a Good Organizational Climate Union Charter Signing partners Results  PARCO workers are free to form or join a trade union of  PARCO has a history of good management – employee  Employees are encouraged to voice their suggestions for improving the Company’s performance and efficiency through an ‘Employee Suggestion Program’, which is an ongoing program. The their choice without fear of intimidation or reprisal. relations. There has never been a labor strike since objective of this initiative is to provide employees an opportunity to come up with innovative and creative ideas for process improvement, cost savings, operations effectiveness, safety and PARCO`s inception, and all CBA agreements have been efficiency. Under this program, employee suggestions towards improving organizational efficiency are recognized and rewarded. Suggestions made by the employees are reviewed by the Managing  The Company complies with Industrial Relations negotiated in a friendly atmosphere. Director and the Executive Committee Members which Include Company’s top management. Ordinance 2012. PARCO has one registered trade union  Free and fair elections of CBA were held during May 2017.  In order to obtain feedback from exiting employees on the problem areas in the Company and on the employee’s concerns, complaints and suggestions, an exit interview of all exiting employees comprising of all non-management employees Next elections will be held in May 2019. are also conducted and remedial actions are taken accordingly. represented by 10 Collective Bargaining Agents (CBA).  Management and CBA work together on many Employee  For answering queries/suggestions/complaints of employees, the PARCO HR Department has a dedicated Help Desk. Development and Welfare Programs.  The Human Resource Department at PARCO regularly conducts visits of PARCO installations at remote locations, to gather employee feedback, complaints and suggestions. The HR department also conducts Employee Focus Group sessions and Organizational Climate Survey where employees are randomly selected from each department at all locations irrespective of their grade or level. The objective of these discussions is to gather information pertaining to issues faced by the employees. Station visits and Focus Group sessions for the financial year 2018-19 have been planned for February – March, 2019. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Our Commitment PARCO completely disallows any form of forced or compulsory labour in all its functions. Management Systems Business Partners, Operations Human Resource Management Actions Maintaining Industry-competitive Compensation and Benefits The Terms of Employment at PARCO Provide Maximum Freedom to Compliance by checking of Employees to Voluntarily Enter or Leave the Organization on Free Will Vendors/Suppliers/Service Providers Results partners  PARCO’s policy is to pay employees at all level salaries commensurate with responsibility. Salaries and wages are compared with prevailing salaries  PARCO`s employment contracts do not violate human rights or labor laws. PARCO does not have a  Vendors/Suppliers/Contractors are checked by PARCO, for similar work in comparable organizations. For this purpose, salary surveys are regularly conducted and salary adjustments, benefits and practice of service bonds. ensuring no forced labor is utilized for PARCO`s jobs. During revisions are accordingly granted, targeting 75th percentile of the industry. prequalification, PARCO employees visit suppliers and  Separation process, payment of outstanding dues, post-retirement benefits, etc. are done  All employment contracts can be terminated by giving notice of 30 days by either party. vendors to visually observe and report if any children are  PARCO benefits its employees with economic protection against loss of earnings in the event of separation from service through ‘Gratuity Fund’. expeditiously. employed or if forced labor is practiced. Besides this, PARCO also benefits its retired employees with ‘Pension Funds’. The widow/children of a deceased employee are also entitled to  Upon induction, all employees are provided an employee handbook which includes Human Resource receive pension. policies and procedures about hiring, training and development, compensation, benefits, leaves,  PARCO conducts open competitive bidding for services and  PARCO also has a ‘Transfer of Ownership of Company Assets’ policy aimed at increasing employee satisfaction and retention. Under this scheme, medical benefits and much more. Furthermore, an electronic version of the book is also placed on materials procurement to provide equal opportunity to all employees are allowed to purchase Company vehicles and household appliances at a nominal cost. PARCO’s Intranet Portal for instant access by the employees. The electronic version is updated as qualified vendors/suppliers. soon as amendments are made in the policies.  To assist employees in solving their transportation, housing problems and in acquiring hard furnishings for their homes, PARCO grants Car, Housing and Furniture Loans to its employees.  Employees who are availing the residence facility at the Mid-Country Refinery site benefit from allotment of Company–owned residential housing, hard and soft furnishings, household appliances, world class sports, club facilities, schooling, mosque, shopping centers, etc.  PARCO places utmost importance to the continuous service of its employees as being a factor to be recognized in terms of granting reward and recognition. The Company recognizes long and dedicated service rendered by employees and in recognition thereof has instituted suitable awards commensurate with the length of service. The table beside shows the distribution of 225 long service awards which have been given to employees in November 2018. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2019 (Page 6 of 17) LABOUR PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Our Commitment PARCO forbids engagement of any form of child labour in its operations or by any of its business partners. Management Systems Human Resource Management, Operations Business Partners Corporate Social Responsibility Actions Documented Procedures Prohibit Employment Third Party Audit of Labour Conditions Inclusion of Labor Laws (that Disallows Child PARCO Assists in Enhancing Primary and Secondary Schooling to Reduce Child of Child Labour Labour) in Contracts with Business Partners Labour in its Adjoining Communities Results  No child labor has ever been employed by PARCO. Minimum age  Regular third party audits are conducted by the Labor  By asking Suppliers and Service Providers to adhere to the  PARCO has been conducting a comprehensive Schools and Clinics Support Program since 2007. The program is limit for induction is thoroughly checked by birth certificates, Directorate’s labor department, health and hygiene laws of the country, they are required to comply with all labor focused on supporting schools and clinics at rural communities located near PARCO`s Mid-Country Refinery and educational transcripts, national identity card issued by NADRA department, Employees Old Age Benefit Institution laws, meet security and human rights requirements as well as its Stations & Terminals in the Sindh and Punjab provinces of Pakistan. (National Database and Registration Authority) and other age (EOBI), Social Security Department, Workers Children eliminate employment of underage workers.  Till 2018, 118 Schools and Clinics have been supported by developing their much needed infrastructure, verification documents; thus ensuring that there is no child labor Education, Sindh Employers Social Security Institution procurement of necessary equipment, etc. This helps them sustain their operations for providing basic facilities to across the company. and other authorities who ensure elimination of Child Labor and compliance of other requirements of Labor the communities. Out of these 118 institutions, 96 are schools where thousands of children are receiving Laws. education. PARCO`s assistance to these institutions has raised the communities’ interest to enroll their children in these refurbished and well-maintained schools diverting them from child labor to primary education, raising the literacy rate. PARCO and TCF (The Citizens Foundation) – A Partnership Making Differences PARCO in partnership with the TCF (The Citizens Foundation) – a reputed NGO in Pakistan has developed three campuses i.e. two primary and one secondary school at Qasba Gujrat and Karachi. These campuses are built in underprivileged communities and impart quality education to around 1,069 children. These schools are making a great difference in the lives of the underprivileged in many ways. These TCF schools ensure that children remain interested at their schools and keep their maximum attendance to achieve tangible future results. In this area, TCF schools including PARCO campuses undertook following initiatives during the past one year:  Teacher training workshops were conducted during the summer holidays. They focus on refining the techniques and skills of the teaching staff.  Staff development days during the academic year were meant for teachers and principal to review their class and school plans and discuss their curriculum priorities.  Formal parent-teacher meetings were held thrice in a year. However, parents and teachers maintain an open dialogue and meet informally as well to discuss their concerns.  Regular physical education classes and sports were held during Students Week. These co-curricular activities encourage teamwork, group participation and enhance the students' learning progress.  TCF celebrated Independence Day in its schools nationwide. The objective was to inculcate the spirit of patriotism and a sense of national pride in our younger generation.  International awareness days had also observed during the school year. The purpose was to develop an understanding of students on various humanitarian, cultural and social issues PARCO supported Schools and Clinics since 2007 till date around the world. PARCO’s Investment in Quality Education  The SDG 4 i.e. Quality Education has been PARCO’s priority since the inception of the Company’s CSR program. The Company has been supporting the government schools near its facilities with much needed infrastructure and material support. Not only this, but we have been undertaking various projects from time to time to create a happy learning environment.  Our Teachers Training program, that continued for 5 consecutive years made phenomenal progress in terms of changing the classroom culture in the government schools. Teachers have now learned easy ways to engage these energetic youngsters. This has helped children in maintaining interest in the school and above all, improvement in the attendance culture.  PARCO’s contributions through school bags, stationeries and caps distributions are being carried out since the past five years. They have played an instrumental role in maintaining children’s interest in the school. At Ibrahim Hydri, Karachi, school managements have indicated that the PARCO supported schools have high number of enrollment in the area, mainly due to the changing positive culture at the school and the support that PARCO lends. With increased enrollments, children of these areas are now able to choose education over employment in early age. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2019 (Page 7 of 17) LABOUR PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Our Commitment PARCO provides equal employment opportunity and supports diversity of human capital in all its functions. Management Systems Human Resource Management Corporate Social Responsibility Actions Ensuring Equal Employment Enforcing Code of Workforce Diversity Merit-driven Appointments Expand PARCO`s Interaction with Technology Transfer Opportunities for All Ethics and Promotions Educational Institutions Results  PARCO offers equal opportunity to all  PARCO ensures that employees  PARCO employees come from all  PARCO discourages nepotism and  PARCO undertakes regular summer and winter internship  PARCO possesses competent specialists in many areas and in order to utilize their qualified applicants on merit base, abide by the Company`s Code over the country, irrespective of every form of favoritism. Very programs for students belonging to business and engineering expertise, these internal training resources develop and deliver training irrespective of gender or their belonging of Ethics. Every employee has domicile/origin, ethnicity, religion, conducive learning environment is disciplines where the selection of internees is done on merit. programs. to various faiths, religion, origin, to sign, at the time of gender, or any other non-job provided to all employees for their During 2018, PARCO inducted 63 interns and provided them workplace exposure with challenging projects.  PARCO offers Trainee Program in the fields of management and engineering. The ethnicity, color, caste and creed. induction, a declaration dimension. Thus there are workers career growth. The policy of the training ranges from 1 to 2 years and provides the candidate learning and agreeing to PARCO`s Principles of all ages, from all provinces; Company is to develop and promote  Universities show keen interest in visiting PARCO’s facilities and exposure to different aspects of a real life working environment. Upon  PARCO ensures that no discrimination is which include a complete set from the northern most cities to employees from within the the company organizes plant visits for petroleum, chemical, civil, demonstrating satisfactory performance at the end of the training, the Trainee is made amongst employees and to date, of guidelines on avoiding the southernmost areas. organization through career and electrical, electronics, telecommunication, and other engineering inducted as an employee if a suitable vacancy exists. all male and female employees discrimination, ensuring fair succession planning. and business students belonging to different universities. belonging to different religions are  PARCO is a national employer, and ethical dealings with all  Hiring and promotions are done on  Since 1975, PARCO has trained 1360 Engineering and Management Trainees. This employed at all levels including senior internal and external employing people without merit, performance and the ultimate number is ever increasing and shows that PARCO has not stopped inducting fresh management positions. stakeholders, communities, discrimination and strictly on potential of each employee through talent even at a time when the Country was facing economic challenges. merit, from all parts of the  Employees are given holidays in customers, suppliers and professional and transparent HR vendors. Country.  To address the issue of scarcity of trained manpower in the country, an accordance with their religious processes. If any employee exerts ‘Apprenticeship Program’ has also been introduced. The objective of this sixcustoms.  Despite being a petroleum industry external pressure of any sort s/he is month program is to provide technical training to fresh graduates and  PARCO provides employment and engineering organization, automatically disqualified and faces develop/upgrade their skills. opportunity to handicapped applicants PARCO encourages women for disciplinary action. and has to-date, employed 5 such employment in all business areas  PARCO has a reservoir of highly skilled and experienced human capital. Please people. including the Mid-Country refer to the graph below, showing our Talent Inventory in different areas. Refinery, which is located in a  See Women Empowerment in Principle 2. remote area, by providing separate accommodation for single women. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2019 (Page 8 of 17) ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges; PRINCIPLE 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment PARCO is committed to comply with the National Environment Quality Standards (NEQS) and ensures minimal impact on the environment. Management Systems HSE, Operations and Administration Actions Environment Friendly Efficient Effluent Management Environmental Auditing, Certification and Awards Solid Waste Management Supply-Chain Results  Crude Oil is the basic raw material in any  Effluent monitoring is carried out at all Stations and Terminals and the  PARCO is a fully IMS Certified Energy Company and amongst the first in Pakistan to simultaneously achieve  Disposal of solid waste at PARCO is done in such a way that it does not affect the oil refining industry. Environmental Mid-Country Refinery (MCR). Reports are sent to Environment three international certifications. Two ISO standards 9001:2008 (QMS), ISO 14001:2004 (EMS) are revised ambiance. All the Hazardous waste from Refinery, different Stations & Terminals is stewardship is a prime motivation while Protection Agency (EPA) against SMART Program. while OHSAS 18001:2007 was obsolete and a new standard ISO 45001:2018 was launched by ISO in collected at Hazardous Waste Yard present at MCR. The SOP has been devolved to PARCO manages transportation of crude replacement of OSHA Standard. There were major changes in all these standards requirements which disposed-off Hazardous waste. An online waste disposal procedure has been  Impact on the environment from the refining process is controlled by needed various revisions in documentation and processes to align with the revised standards. All the launched in MCR with more influence regarding the proper maintenance of data from the Keamari Port in Karachi to our treating and managing emissions. Low NOx (Nitrous Oxide) burners and necessary phases are completed according to the plan and PARCO CHQ and Pipeline Division have acquired with respect to segregation of waste and it also helps to prompt the paper less Mid-Country Refinery (MCR) in Sulfur removal from fuel gases are examples. the certification against the revised standards of ISO 9001 & 14001 as well as ISO 45001. environment. Mahmood Kot, through 864 km long  Effluents are treated in a state-of-the-art Effluent Treatment Plant having  Corporate Headquarters (CHQ) have successfully achieved renewal of IMS Recertification of the ISO pipeline which is approximately 400 ft  Two drums (yellow and green) are placed in each area i.e. plant, maintenance capacity of 340m3/hr involving extensive chemical and biological 14001:2015 (EMS) and ISO 9001:2015 (QMS), first time certification of ISO 45001:2018 standards till above sea level. The pipeline ensures building, truck loading and laboratory etc. Yellow drum is designated for dumping treatment. The waste water from the refinery is collected and through September 2018 following an external Re-certification Audit conducted by a third party certification body the hazardous waste and the green drum is for non-hazardous waste. that each drop of crude oil is transported skimming, neutralization, dissolved air floatation, aeration, clarification, in May 2018. to MCR without affecting the filtration and drying operations the effluent water is brought within  The Solid Waste Management yard is established near the north side boundary NEQS limits before being discharged.  PARCO Mid-Country Refinery had its first IMS surveillance audit conducted based on revised ISO standards wall of the refinery. It is a well-organized area catering for everything from spent environment. by a third party in December 2018. They would be revising the OHSAS standard to ISO 45001 in 2019. catalyst and chemical drums to used batteries. A third party of international repute  We have Leak Detection System,  All effluents are checked and verified regularly before discharging by  During IMS Certification Audit, risk assessments were conducted in which high risk areas/activities were is contracted for disposing the waste. All types of solid wastes are collected in the Emergency Shutdown System, intelligent third party EPA (Environment Protection Agency) approved Labs to identified and objectives were established to eliminate, reduce and minimize the risks. The process is now waste yard and separated according to their nature. There are five separate yards pigging, corrosion protection, and comply with NEQS. continued through IMS objectives. according to the nature of waste. microwave towers for communication,  Audits of housekeeping, gas masks, noise, work permits, closed sampling box, regular third party vehicle  Scrap Yard is situated near the south side boundary wall of the refinery in front of  All contractors’ equipment is checked for compliance to NEQS. SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data emissions monitoring, bi-annually third party stack emissions and liquid effluent monitoring, ground water Solid Waste Management Yard. All the waste generated at the Mid-Country Acquisition) system to avoid leakages,  Various chemicals in use are stored in a well-ventilated warehouse and it monitoring within the refinery and neighboring areas are done. Refinery, Stations and Terminals is stored in the Solid Waste Management & Scrap thefts and intermediate storage tanks at is ensured that a minimum level of inventory is kept to minimize the  Regular HSE Audits of operational areas and office buildings are carried out to ensure safe environment in yard. Environment section keeps the record of Solid Waste Management Yard. hazard. The chemical warehouse is equipped with deluge valve system to the office areas. Any discrepancies found during the audit are analyzed for their risks on safety and Hazardous waste yard gate is kept locked and the keys are available with Fire 5 different pumping stations. suppress any kind of contamination. Plastic trays and HDPE sheets have appropriate recommendations are provided as key performance indicators. To-date 120 Plant Safety and Station round the clock.  During the year 2018, approximately 4.04 been placed under the chemical drums to meet the required level of Housekeeping Audits of MCR have been conducted. protection.  The non-hazardous waste is stored in green drums and shifted to the non-hazardous Million Metric Tons of crude oil was  Annual Pipeline HSE and Housekeeping Audits ensure the same commitment towards housekeeping and waste yard. Administration Department keeps the record of all the municipal waste transported from Karachi to PARCO`s  The results of the past eleven years from 2007 to 2018, are within the clean environment both in operational areas and office buildings at all stations and terminals. Senior and submits the record to the Environment Engineer on monthly basis for proper Mid-Country Refinery (MCR) at Mahmood NEQS (National Environmental & Quality Standards) now SEQS (Sindh Management Audit is carried out on monthly basis in which the Senior Management visits the plant and monitoring, treatment and/or disposal. To increase awareness regarding the waste Kot through an 870 km long pipeline Environmental & Quality Standards) limits conducted by renowned conducts its audits based on their expertise and also interacts with employees to gain insights. disposal methodology a training session is conducted on regular basis. network, ensuring safe and secure Laboratories which are EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) certified  The refinery has been divided into 12 major units and audit teams to conduct management audits on Bodies.  In 2018, approximately 64,970 Kgs of hazardous waste was disposed of and transportation. This efficient supply chain monthly basis. Action points are identified and sent to concerned departments for implementation. Overall  incinerated through EPA approved facility. This is an annually recurring activity. eliminates the movement of oil tankers  SEQS Tests of Liquid Effluent: Temperature, pH, COD, BOD, TSS, TDS, Oil performance in 2018 remained 90.6 %. This objective shows a high management commitment and significantly contributing in reduction of & Grease, Chlorides, Phenolic Compounds. SEQS Tests of Air Emission: communication with employees. PARCO’s Guidelines for Disposal of Hazardous Waste air pollution. CO, No, CO2, Sox, H2S, Smoke & Noise. Air Quality Tests: SO2, CO, Oxides  PARCO has been awarded the 13th consecutive Annual Environment Excellence Award by the National The hazardous waste is disposed-off through Environment Protection Agency (EPA) of Nitrogen as (NO & NO2), Ozone (O3), Particulate matter PM10, Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH). PARCO for the ninth consecutive time has been placed amongst approved third party on an annual basis through open bidding and stringent evaluation  In 2018, the 362 km Mahmood KotOxygen level. the 10 best organizations of Pakistan in Environment Management. A Special Recognition Certificate for outstanding achievement in Environment Management was also awarded to PARCO by NFEH. criteria to comply with all the legal requirements i.e. Faisalabad-Machhike (MFM) pipeline  EPA’s No Objection Certificate (NOC) for disposal of hazardous waste. transported approximately 2.25 Million  Recognizing our HSE initiatives, procedures, safety measures and business processes throughout our Metric Tons of refined fuel from PARCO  Safe handling and transportation of hazardous waste methods and statements. installations across Pakistan, the National Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH) and Fire Protection Mid-Country Refinery at Mahmood Kot to Association of Pakistan (FPAP) bestowed upon PARCO the Fire and Safety Award 2018.Mr. Parvaiz Ahmed,  Incineration through EPA approved facility. Machhike via Faisalabad where gantry Manager, Stations & Terminals operations received the award on behalf of PARCO. This is the sixth  Recycling of used lubricant oils through government approved reclamation plant. facility is available for product off-take. consecutive Fire & Safety award given to PARCO.  Safety of workers for handling of hazardous waste. This has also reduced quite a number of  The Top Management Review is a continuous monitoring process of IMS in order to maintain and enhance  Necessary packaging and labeling requirements. tank lorries off the road and has improved IMS activities as per standards to ensure its continuity, suitability, adequacy and effectiveness as well to  Provision of waste disposal/recycling certification and undertakings. road safety. determine an opportunity for improvement and the need for change. Last Management Review meeting was held in April 2018. This review includes,  Similarly, during 2018, the 786 km WOP o results of internal / external audits, environmental performance of the organization, (White Oil Pipeline) transported o status of corrective and preventive actions, approximately 2.22 Million Metric Tons of o internal / external Customer Feedback, o trend analysis, HSD (High Speed Diesel) from Karachi to o status of compliance with HSEQ legislative and legal requirements, Mahmood Kot. o follow-up actions from previous management reviews, o risk assessments, o major issues discussed in the departmental HSEQ meetings, o EMS Training Status Review, o analytical reports, results of effluents o recommendations for improvement. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2019 (Page 10 of 17) ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 (Contd.) BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES PARCO UNGC-COP 2014(Page 11 of 17) Our Commitment PARCO is committed to comply with the National Environment Quality Standards (NEQS) and ensures minimal impact on the environment. Management Systems HSE, Operations and Administration Actions Efficient Effluent Management Environmental Auditing, Certification and Awards Air Emissions Monitoring Environment Friendly Products Results  Results of some key parameters are shown below.  During this year, 5 OHS risk assessments and one consolidated EMS Aspect Impact were carried  Air emissions monitoring is being carried out on monthly basis through  PARCO proactively works to ensure that its products out as per requirements of the new standard ISO 14001:2015, in which significant aspect and PARCO’s laboratory and bi-annually through EPA approved third party for and fuels are environment friendly. Lead free their impacts were also identified at corporate level. Moreover, Risk Assessment procedure is Carbon Monoxide, NOx, SOx, and Particulate Matter etc. The result of all Gasoline complies with the standard having sulfur revised to include Life Cycle perspective and Significant Aspect Criteria. environmental parameters remains within NEQS limits throughout the content less than 150 ppm. year. Graphical representation of some results are as follows:  Regular HSE Audits of operational areas and office buildings are carried out to ensure safe  With the investment of 132 million USD on a Diesel environment in the office areas. Any discrepancies found during the audit are analyzed for their Hydro Desulfurization unit, Diesel produced by risks on safety and appropriate recommendations are provided as key performance indicator. PARCO is on Euro II specifications i.e. less than 500 ppm. This positions PARCO at the top in Pakistan  About 21 HSEQ Internal Audits have been conducted since 2017 till 2018. The 20th Internal Audit where the running standard is 5,000 ppm of sulfur in was held in February 2018. A total of 12 observations were raised, out of which 11 have been diesel. The extracted sulfur is solidified and sold as a closed while 1 observation is in the closing process. The 21st Internal Audit was carried out in byproduct. November 2018 by PARCO's Certified Auditors. A total of 28 observations were raised on which concerned departments are working for their closing. In-house Gap Assessment of ISO  The MCR Revamp Project is the capacity 45001:2018 prior to re-certification audit was conducted in April 2018. All the identified gaps are enhancement in the existing units to facilitate addressed and certification of ISO 45001:2018 is successfully obtained. processing of 120,000 BPSD of the crude blend from existing 100,000 BPSD to reduce the burden of  During the year, one new procedure Context of Organization is developed. Six IMS Procedures foreign imports and meeting the increasing demand have been revised, which include Non-conformances, Corrective and Preventive Actions , of fuel in the market. HSEQ Internal Audits , Measurement & Monitoring , HSE Laws & Regulations , HSE Communication & Consultation and HSE Assessment Procedure .  Isomerization Unit is the environment friendly project that will reduce benzene contents of gasoline  Eight forms have been revised during this period, which includes Environmental Aspects & from 5% to 1% and Aromatic Contents to 42% (by Impacts Register, Master list of HSEQ Documents, Master list of HSEQ Forms, Master list of HSEQ volume) as well as high RON number and decreasing Documents of External Origin, Legal and Legislative Requirements Register, Context of sulphur contents to 350 wt ppm in HSD Product Organization, Process KPIs Monitoring and Corrective / Preventive Action Request. Specifications to meet the Euro III gasoline  In order to meet the revised ISO standards requirements, HSEQ Legal Aspect study was specifications imposed by Government of Pakistan. conducted in Dec 2018 to evaluate the requirements of Laws related to HSEQ and their Hydrogen purification system i.e. Pressure Swing compliance. At the end of the study a workshop was conducted in which all observations related Adsorption (PSA) will recover hydrogen and purify it to compliance are shared with concerned department representatives / HODs and HSEQ Legal to 99.9% by volume, meeting downstream processing Register is updated. requirement. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2019 (Page 11 of 17) ENVIRONMENT Principle 8 COMPANIES SHOULD TAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment PARCO and its employees show responsibility in operations and in adjoining communities. Management Systems HSE, IMS, Operations, CSR Actions Increasing Health & Safety Awareness andPerformance Reduction in Pollution and Initiatives Promoting Greater Environmental Responsibility Community Environment Monitoring Results HSE Newsletters and Bulletins  Fire, rescue and emergency drills with different scenarios are regularly conducted at all Community Environment Monitoring  The surrounding areas of PARCO’s facilities have a lot of independent Service Stations  The company magazine “Pulse” has a section dedicated to HSE, highlighting the promotional activities, HSE performance and new Pipeline Stations and Terminals to ensure preparedness for emergencies. An active participation is ensured from Pipeline Division to train its employees on Emergency Response. for trucks, tankers and other vehicles which are potential contaminants for ground initiatives. Monthly newsletters and company magazines are used to propagate the clean environmental practices. Environmental Water. Moreover in the recent past; many oil depots have been constructed and are standards and our activities are also shared in the articles being published in these publications. During turnaround, 3 daily  PARCO encourages employee participation, maintained in the planning and implementation of operational in the vicinity around PARCO. Realizing this environmental aspect, a newsletters are printed and displayed at prominent locations of MCR for employee’s awareness and updated information regarding OHSE-MS activities like: comprehensive ground and soil monitoring plan has been developed to ensure that no Occupational Health, Safety and Environment. o Job Safety Analysis for all new and critical jobs contamination in soil and water is done, and created a base line data for continuous monitoring. It includes following monitoring twice a year: Appreciation Program for Best Environmental Practices o Risk Assessment for Occupational Health Safety and Environment o Departmental Safety committee meetings 1. Ambient Air Quality monitoring at 8 points inside and outside Refinery. PARCO has always been at the forefront in minimizing the impact of its business operations on employees, environment, customers, o Incident Reporting and Investigation 2. Ambient Particulate Matter monitoring at 8 points inside and outside Refinery. shareholders and communities. From producing environment-friendly products to immaculate plant facilities and infrastructure, o Training and implementation of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) 3. Offsite Ground Water monitoring at 10 different locations. everything points towards the vision of PARCO “Preserving Mother Nature and Making the Environment Purer”. In support of 4. Noise Level monitoring outside the boundary wall. o Tool Box/ Safety Talks appreciation for the commitment of employees towards environmental initiatives and best practices, PARCO has a very sound Community’s Ground Water Monitoring awarding system: Occupational Health Safety and Environmental Management System are implemented through  With respect to CSR initiative, surrounding ground water of refinery premises is being  Gardening competition conducted among the employees residing in the MCR housing complex to promote green environment. well-structured management review program at all levels in the company. monitored biannually through third party laboratory certified by EPA in order to More than 20 awards were given in 6 different categories on this occasion.  Corporate Executive committee meetings ensure safe usage of water by local community. There are 16 different parameters i.e.  Tree plantation activities on Environment day by employees and children. Approximately 5,000 trees are planted at housing  Mid-Country Refinery safety committee meetings pH, color, TDS, taste and odor, total hardness, coliform organism, arsenic, chloride, complex, refinery and by pipeline division.  Departmental Safety committee meetings sulfate, iron, cyanide, lead, elenium and manganese are being tested from different  Appreciation Letter are given to employees on promoting environmental stewardship.  Turnaround core committee meetings locations outside the Refinery as per PEQS standards.  Environmental quizzes on yearly basis.  Technical review meetings Noise Survey  Appreciation letter to the employees on preventing spills and fires.  HAZOPs Review Meeting  Comprehensive noise surveys are also carried out within all operational areas,  Plantation day is organized to celebrate Environment day at PARCO.  Pipeline Inter-station meetings Stations & Terminals and Refinery. Ear muffs and ear plugs are made mandatory accordingly. Generator/ turbine housings, fired heaters, compressors and similar Environmental Safety Walk  Regular lectures on various health topics (e.g hypertension, obesity, diabetes mellitus, Polio, potentially high noise equipment are monitored periodically. In addition to these  Safety Walk was celebrated at MCR on May 15, 2018 with great zeal and etc.) are conducted by Company Doctors. Similarly, Medical Bulletins are also issued on the internal surveys, noise monitoring is also conducted by third party outside boundary Company’s intranet portal and emails are sent to all employees to increase health awareness enthusiasm. The theme of this walk was “Fire prevention is the best control, as walls just to make sure that communities surrounding our facilities are not affected by on various topics among the employees. what burns never returns”. Children from school within PARCO housing complex any noise generated due to operations. as well as the families of employees actively participated in the event. More than  To enhance health and safety awareness among employees, trainings like Road Safety, Fire Fighting, Emergency Response Planning, Anti-Terrorist Attack, Risk Assessment and Procedures 600 people participated in the safety walk. of Waste Management, Occupational Health and Industrial Hygiene Management, First Aid,  Mr. Syed Ali Abid Naqvi, then General Manager-Refinery was the chief guest. All etc. are organized from time to time. senior management from the refinery also participated in this very important event. Banners were placed at different locations on the Safety walk route to enhance safety awareness among participants in terms of Safety Behavior, Driving Safety, Fire Safety, Home Safety and Environment.  The Safety walk was followed by award distribution ceremony in which awards were given to winners and runner-ups of Plant Safety and Housekeeping Audit 2017-18.Prizes were also given to the housekeeping coordinators. PARCO efforts and capacity for prompt response was highly appreciated by civil government in preventing a major disaster. Refreshment was distributed among the participants after the address of Manager HSE Tariq Saeed. Home Safety Awareness  In order to enhance safety culture in the Housing Complex, HSE organized a Safety Awareness Session in the Auditorium on 15th February, 2018. Its objective was to provide awareness to children and families about the safety hazards in the housing complex.  Children are the future of our community and thus developing safety culture among them is necessary. This one-hour session highlighted the importance of safety practices while working at homes and workplace. Different potential hazards and the safety precautions against them were discussed. Awareness on the importance of cleanliness with respect to increasing environmental pollution was also highlighted. General knowledge based quiz activity was also the part of session for kids and prizes were distributed among them. Families and children participated in the event with great zeal. Overall feedback and response was good. Active participation of HSE team in arranging this session was appreciated. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2019 (Page 12 of 17) ENVIRONMENT Principle 8 (Contd.) COMPANIES SHOULD TAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment PARCO and its employees show responsibility by keeping its operations safe and in protection of adjoining communities in case of any emergency. Management Systems HSE, Operations, CSR Actions Health Safety Environment (HSE) Training Programs Results HSE Training Overview at PARCO Mid-Country Refinery Regular HSE trainings help to ensure employees are trained on environmental challenges, NEQS and other legal requirements. It also helps to ensure that the employees are well aware of their personal safety as well. The Company has developed a positive health and safety culture, where safe and healthy working environment becomes second nature of the individual. This also reduces the cost that would be incurred in case of accidents or occupational ill health of an employee. The main objectives are to take into account the capabilities, training, knowledge and experience of employees; and to ensure that the work-life does not causes any risks to themselves, others and the environment.  Trainings are carried out twice a week for all PARCO employees.  Trainings are based on the training need analysis, audits and incident reports.  A three-day refresher training session for Senior Management was conducted on ‘Safety Management System and its Importance’.  A comprehensive two week HSE training plan is in place for all new employees and trainees.  Emergency Response Team (ERT) was provided ERT training along with various refresher courses. These sessions were planned for over 20 days.  All contractors before mobilization on site go through detailed Orientation & Training covering both aspects of Occupational Health, Safety & Environment.  The contractual staff including labor also attends in house HSE training program once a week. On-site safety talks are carried out each morning before commencement of work.  HSE trainings were also provided to other refineries of Pakistan such as Attock Refinery Limited, Enar Petrotech’s refining facility, Fauji Fertilizer Company, etc.  Mutual Aid Partners were provided trainings on Emergency drills.  HSE trainings to the internees and students of different institutions. Emergency Response Team (ERT) Training PARCO HSE conducts in-house ERT training on quarterly basis to train its employees from different engineering/technical disciplines. The aim of ERT training is to enhance preparedness of PARCO Employees in order to deal with the emergencies and thus increase additional vigilance and response to mitigate any emergency at the very initial level. There have been remarkable achievements at many occasions when our ERT members have proved useful by using their training skills in extinguishing a fire that had a potential of developing into a huge fire, if the response was delayed. These trainings were initiated in the year 2001 and till now 485 participants from MCR, 258 participants from Pipeline Division and 36 PPGL employees, as well as 15 contractor’s staff members have been trained in the form of batches; thus creating a huge number of ERT members which are still increasing. The participants were provided with comprehensive two weeks ERT training followed by field trainings pertaining to Fire Management System, different types of Fire Equipment installed at PARCO, use of Emergency Equipment, Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs), Life Saving Emergency Equipment, Work Permit Systems implementation, classification of Hazardous Area, operation of Fire Water Suppression System, Crisis Management, Emergency Response Plan, practical Fire Fighting Training and Fire Tender Operation. HSE Trainings for New Employees New talent management is one of the key areas for PARCO’s strategic growth and development process.In this regard, the HSE department organized a comprehensive training program for the new batch of trainees at MCR. The training program was spread over two weeks of classroom sessions and practical field trainings. As a result, the new inductees are now fully trained in HSE systems and procedures and able to identify potential hazards. For analyzing the effectiveness of training, a post training evaluation test was also arranged by HSE which shows their interest in training elements and promotion of safe working culture. Training Statistics  More than 6 IMS training sessions on EMS14001:2004 were conducted during the last one year.  IMS-MCR has organized a 2-day in-house training for PARCO employees as per ISO 45001:2018 “OH and SMS Standard” through Third Party Services. A total of 33 participants attended that session.  Moreover, HSEQ policy of PARCO is also revised in September, 2018 based on revised standards of ISO 9001:2015 (QMS), ISO 14001:2015 (EMS) &ISO-45001:2018. Environmental Training Topics  Environmental protection act 1997 to understand legal requirement and fulfill company’s obligation for companywide legal compliance  EMS 14001 requirements and implementation across the company  Punjab Environmental Quality Standard (PEQS) for front line workforce to fulfill legal compliance regarding air emissions, effluent disposal, noise monitoring, vehicle emission and ground water monitoring  Solid waste management and importance of waste segregation at source point and to find out ways and means for waste recycling, reduction and reuse  Environmental aspects and impacts assessments to find out environmental risk and its control measures  Global warming and Greenhouse gases monitoring and control  Hazards of chemicals and control measures to save human health and environment  Awareness session for contractor work force to understand environmental requirements during new and modified projects and fulfill the requirements  Environmental and safety promotion walks in community and housing complex to educate general public on environmental challenges  Environmental and safety quiz among employees to enhance general knowledge regarding environment and safety  Awareness sessions on reduction of electricity consumption to save energy and protect environment  Gardening competition in plant and housing complex  Environmental awareness session and posters’ competition in PARCO School to educate new generation www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2019 (Page 13 of 17) ENVIRONMENT Principle 9 COMPANIES SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment PARCO makes all efforts to minimize the impact of its operations on environment by utilizing technologies that are environment friendly. Management Systems HSE, Operations Actions Automated Incident Reporting System Energy Conservation Program Results  The Online Incident Reporting System (IRS) was successfully launched in January  Heaters and Boilers are the major sources of energy utilization at a refinery plant. PARCO has taken following steps for Energy Conservation and Energy Efficiency: 2012. The purpose of the online system is to combine the IRS system of Mid Country Refinery and Pipeline Division. Furthermore, vision of paperless Heaters environment was also driving force to develop this system. Now, Incident 1. Efficient heaters are being operated at above 85% efficiency 2. Regular heater efficiency monitoring program is in place Reporting System from “raising an incident report” till completion of “incident 3. Access air monitoring is done on daily basis investigation” and “implementation of recommendations” is all carried out 4. Heater efficiency monitoring is done on monthly basis online with zero paper use. For the investigation of online reported near misses, 5. To save energy and environment we have dual fire system heaters operated on accidents or injuries we have a standard operating procedure for incident furnace oil and fuel gas investigation. Boilers 1. Boilers are operated at highest efficiency above 90%  All the incidents occurring in PARCO are reported / recorded and then 2. Boilers are annually inspected and certified by government agencies investigated appropriately according to a procedure through an online IRS system company wide. Key features of the IRS System are: Heat Exchangers 1. All heat exchangers are monitored for their efficiency and energy consumption on o Online reporting system – a companywide program daily basis and corrective actions are taken to maintain the highest level of o Incident reporting criteria for major and minor incident efficiency 2. Proper schedule for equipment inspection and maintenance o Information to the senior management within 24 hours 3. Dismantling and overhauling of all equipment in turnaround to maintain efficiency o Investigation by cross functional teams o Root cause analysis and recommendations Motors o Implementation verification through safety audits  Standard specification power driven motors are used to achieve; 1. Highest levels of efficiency o Sharing of incident learning with employees 2. Low energy losses o All major international accident investigations collected are shared with employees during training sessions and key findings are considered during Solomon Benchmarking incident investigation process.  PARCO Mid-Country Refinery has presented its systems for international benchmarking by Solomon Associates, USA in March 2013, for key performance indicators:  All leakage/ spillage incidents are followed by rehabilitation work to restore 1. Manpower utilization environmental condition and legal compliance. 2. Energy Index 3. Operation efficiency Carbon Dioxide Emission Monitoring  CO2 emission monitoring is carried out on monthly basis and Carbon Emissions Index (CEI™) is calculated as per Solomon guidelines.  Although our organization CEI is very good as compared to many refineries of our region, we always strive towards the benchmark. The feasibility study for flare gas recovery system and vapor gas recovery system in this regard has already been carried out. Energy Savings at Stations and Terminals Company ensures saving of energy resources by adopting suitable economical pumping configurations, gravity transfer and electrical load management. Initiative for replacement of conventional lights with LED lights was also taken this year and approximately energy up to 550,000 KWH is saved every year with installation of LED Lights at Stations & Terminals. Moreover, occupancy sensors are installed to conserve more energy. Total Energy saving on account of electricity is about 2,900,000 KWH during 2017-18. DRA Injection in Refined Products Transportation through Pipeline In order to continuously improve and meet higher demand of customers, Pipeline Division conducted R&D of injecting Drag Reducing Agents (DRA) in refined product Pipeline. Several vendors were approached in this regard and successful test runs were carried out. As a result, Injection of DRA has started in Mahmood Kot Faisalabad Machike (MFM) Pipeline to enhance pumping capacities of refined products as well. Refurbishment of Storage Tanks Pipeline Division strives for the best possible maintenance techniques to ensure efficient operations. Accordingly, crude oil storage tank of capacity 15,000 MT at Kemari and HSD storage tank of capacity 27,000 MT at Mahmood Kot underwent cyclic maintenance involving extensive repair. Due to continuous operation, sludge accumulates at the bottom reducing the available storage capacity as well as accelerating internal corrosion rate of the tank bottom plates. Modern Non-Destructive techniques (NDTs) were performed for internal and external inspection of the tanks along with repairing of its foundation to increase equipment’s life and ensure the overall integrity of the tank. Major activities included cleaning, sand and garnet blasting of external and internal shell and tanks bottom along with application of epoxy paint coating internally and externally to protect the structure from corrosion. Horizontal Directional Drilling and In-Line Inspection of Pipelines Pipeline Division ensures working of our pipeline network functional round the clock, avoiding breakdowns and arranging permanent safeguard, company opted for Horizontal Directional Drilling (HDD) . Currently, HDD over ten overhead Canals has been successfully completed. Similarly, to maintain pipeline integrity, it is necessary to conduct comprehensive internal and external inspection of pipeline through In-Line Inspection (Intelligent Pigging). This method enables us to find out the degradation of pipeline with passage of time. Consequently, catastrophic failures of pipeline and environmental pollution will be prevented. Recently, inspection of MFM and Transfer Line (Keamari to Korangi) has been completed while hiring of services for In-Line Inspection of KMK pipeline is under process. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2019 (Page 14 of 17) ENVIRONMENT Principle 9 (Contd.) COMPANIES SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment PARCO makes all efforts to minimize the impact of its operations on environment by utilizing technologies that are environment friendly. Management Systems HSE, Operations Actions Environmentally Friendly Technologies Environmental Stewardship Results Effluent Treatment Plant  PARCO takes into account all it can to reduce emissions far below NEQS limits, develop products on Euro II standards and preserve natural habitat by diverting its oil pipeline. The 2000 km of oil pipelines traversing the  PARCO has Effluent treatment plant having a capacity of 340m3/hr. Here the waste water from all country, save thousands of gallons of fuel and reduce pollution that would otherwise have been caused by tank lorries traffic. over the refinery is collected and through Skimming, Neutralization, Dissolved Air Floatation,  The refining complex at PARCO’s Mid-Country Refinery is equipped with a state-of-the-art effluent treatment plant, low NOx (Nitrous Oxide) and SOx (Sulfur Oxide) burners and a Sulfur Recovery Unit. Aeration, Clarification, Filtration and Drying operations the effluent water is brought within PEQS limits before is discharge into local Saim Nala. The laboratory tests for effluent water are carried  Occupational Health and Safety Management and Environment Management systems in PARCO are fully complied with the National as well as International, standards such as ISO, OSHA, NEQS, NFPA, Pak EPA, API and out on daily basis and after ensuring that parameters are within the PEQS limits it is allowed to ASTM. discharge. If any parameter is not within PEQS limits then the whole batch of effluent water is diverted back to diversion tank of capacity 25,400m3, and processed again.  PARCO has a very comprehensive occupational health monitoring program to manage health of employees exposed to occupational health related risks, for example: o Noise control program (covering area noise level monitoring, noise reduction and controls, sign posting, personal exposure assessment, audiometry). Even at the boundaries, a noise survey is carried out by a third  During the year 2018, effluent water treated was 1,473,630m at a rate of 168.2m /hr. 3 3 party, in order to make sure that communities surrounding our facilities are not affected by any noise generated due to operations o Equipment modification to control noise from recourse by engineering means Effluent Monitoring Plan o Dust monitoring program Daily monitoring for PH, COD, temperature, sulfates, suspended solids, total dissolved solids, BOD o Volatile organic compound monitoring monthly monitoring, third party environmental monitoring (all parameters) twice a year. Prior o Audiometric testing for noise permission is obtained from the concerned authority before disposal of liquid waste after treatment o Employees health management program into Ghazi Ghat Saim Naala.  PARCO has recently started VOC Monitoring considering its impact on environment and personal health.HAZMAT document has been prepared by MCR HSE for all the chemicals used in the plant and lab. In this regard, a Tree Plantation/ Horticulture one page MSDS document is prepared for each chemical being used along with the factsheet of all chemicals. This provides a great ease for employees in considering the first aid requirements, handling and storage PARCO always takes keen interest when it comes to preserving and improving the Eco system. As tree procedures, environmental aspects, etc. plantation plays an important role in the improvement of Eco system, PARCO Mid-Country Refinery Enhancement of Mahmood Kot-Faisalabad-Machhike (MFM) Pipeline Utilization keeps massive budget for Tree Plantation/Horticulture annually. In the year 2018, plantation of  Pak-Arab Refinery Limited (PARCO) owns 364 KM long 18”/16” dia MFM Pipeline. The pipeline was originally designed for transporting High Speed Diesel (HSD) and Superior Kerosene (SK) since it’s commissioning in 1997. approximately 500 trees had been carried out. An additional 5000 trees would be added. The pipeline begins from Mahmood Kot near Muzaffargarh and terminates at Machhike near Sheikhupura.  The MFM motor gasoline transportation project has been commenced. The main purpose of the project is to add and modify facilities for receiving, storing, pumping and delivering Motor Gasoline and make MFM Pipeline suitable for handling and transporting Mogas in batches along with HSD.  This project has been divided into two phases. In the initial phase, existing infrastructure of Kerosene / High Speed Diesel at MFM stations is modified for handling motor gasoline. In second phase, an intermediate pumping station PS-6 at Kot Bahadur Shah along with additional storage capacities at Faisalabad and Machhike are being constructed. In addition to above, existing gantry facility at TS-3, Faisalabad Station is being expanded with more loading arms. Independent headers have been installed to deliver motor gasoline to Oil Marketing Companies through pipelines in the periphery of TS-3 and TS-4. Transmix tanks along with blending and truck loading facilities are also being built to receive transmix at TS-4, Machhike and transporting it back to Mahmood Kot for processing at PARCO Mid-Country Refinery. White Oil Pipeline Optimal Utilization  PARCO’s subsidiary company, Pak-Arab Pipeline Company Limited (PAPCO) owns 780 km long White Oil Pipeline (WOP), which runs from Port Qasim (Karachi) in the South to Mahmood Kot in the North, where it ties into PARCO owned 364 km long Mahmood Kot-Faisalabad-Machhike (MFM) Pipeline.  The WOP was originally designed for transportation of Crude Oil and HSD. Presently, it is only being used for the transportation of HSD and it is operating below its design capacity. PARCO engaged an international Weather Station Weather Hawk consultant to conduct a feasibility study which concluded that Mogas can be pumped along with HSD in batches after necessary addition and modifications in WOP system. The Front End Engineering Design (FEED) & The PARCO Mid-Country Refinery has installed its own weather station to keep itself updated on daily Bidding for Engineering Procurement & Construction (EPC) contract has been completed, contractor has been mobilized and field construction works are in progress. After commissioning of these projects, we will be able to weather conditions and keep the record of historical data. It measures wind speed, wind direction, enhance the utilization of our pipeline system to its maximum capacity. In addition, heavy bowsers traffic load on the trunk roads will be alleviated as well. temperature, relative humidity, barometric pressure, solar radiation, and rain, etc. Isomerization Unit and MCR Revamp Project The Isomerization Unit at the PARCO Mid-Country Refinery will convert and upgrade Light Naphtha into environment-friendly Benzene free gasoline with reduced sulphur and aromatic contents. This will also have an effect on Hazardous Waste Sludge Pit increased Motor Gasoline production and will serve as a substitution for imports, and greatly offset the requirement of expensive imported Motor Gasoline. Environmental NOC for construction phase of PENEX and PSA units PARCO has developed a sludge pit having the capacity to accommodate 500 tons of hazardous waste was successfully achieved in year 2018, subsequent hiring of contractor and construction has also been started and quarterly environmental compliance report is submitted to EPA. sludge. HDPE sheet was used during its construction so that leaching of sludge and ground water contamination is avoided. Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) PARCO is always committed to comply with all the legal requirements of EPA. For this purpose, effective and Diesel Hydro Desulfurization Plant Producing Euro II High Speed Diesel comprehensive Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) has been conducted by the EPA approved 3rd Parties for all  With the commissioning of the DHDS plant at the Mid-Country Refinery in 2010, PARCO has the the projects that are undergoing in PARCO as well as work has been monitored by Environmental Agencies / Funding capability of producing High Speed Diesel conforming EURO II standards. This product is helping Agencies. EURO II compliant automobiles to perform better through fuel efficiency and low emissions. A third party was involved in conducting the EIA for the recent revamp project:  During 2018, the DHDS plant at PARCO has processed more than 1.1 million metric tons of High 1. Capacity enhancement from 100,000 bbl/day to 120,000 bbl/day Speed Diesel on EURO II specifications. 2. Installation of Penex/Isomerization unit and Hydrogen purification plant. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2019 (Page 15 of 17) ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Our Commitment PARCO does not allow any form of corruption and monitors its business transactions with internal and external stakeholders to eliminate this malpractice. Management Systems All Corporate Functions Actions Corporate Governance Transactions with Suppliers, Contractors, Service Providers Elimination of Discrimination Results  Compliance with Statement of Ethics and Business Practices is pursued at all levels and locations.  Since the commencement of PARCO`s operations in 1974, there has been no instance of extortion  Elimination of discrimination during selection of Vendors/Contactors/Service Providers by check and or bribery. balances against introduction of discriminatory conditions.  All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly recorded in the Books of the Company.  Compliance with the Company’s Financial Authority Manual specifying fiscal limits for transactions  Pre-qualified Vendors/Contractors list is periodically updated through advertisements placed in at various levels and positions.  Compliance with regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan. newspapers and evaluations based on predetermined criteria.  Company Procurement Policy is approved by Board of Directors.  No discrimination is made on basis of gender, religion, caste, origin, etc., while hiring an employee.  PARCO employees, if found involved in corruption in any form or contravening with any Company Policy on Ethics, Finance, Procurement, HR, Operations or any other function, face disciplinary action. Such deviations HR policies are transparent and merit based where there are no influences or pressures as mentioned  Any form of extortion and bribery, given or taken, is a very serious misconduct according to the HR in Principle 6. can lead to termination of service and are reflected in the employee’s performance appraisal. Policy of the company and the concerned employee is liable to be terminated for such misconduct.  PARCO has IMS, HSE, Environment, CSR, Financial, HR and other audits done to ensure compliance with best practices and ethical standards.  Separate committees are constituted for transparent and merit-based prequalification, quotations opening, tender opening, etc.  PARCO has NEVER been involved in any court case related to corporate malpractices or corruption or bribery, etc.  Development of Annual Procurement Plan and plans for contractual work and services by external Service Providers which are pre-approved by the Company and subsequently monitored in monthly and quarterly management review meetings.  We adhere strictly to the internationally accepted Accounting Principles, SECP (Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan); the Country’s Financial/Tax/Labor/Environment and other national and provincial legislations.  All contracts, business activities, operations, procurement, etc., are subject to Internal and External Audit.  PARCO developed and implemented a comprehensive Business Continuity Management Plan (BCP). The scope of the document is to have risk assessment of core business areas, identification of contingencies that can lead  To ensure transparency, sealed bids are invited against request for quotations, except for to loss of business reputation, credibility, a companywide or a national crisis and resources that need to be proprietary items. mobilized for business continuity while establishing the structure, responsibilities and communication necessary for crisis management. Business Continuity Management is a holistic process that a framework for  Purchase Orders are issued to technically compliant commercially lowest bidders for procurement. building organizational resilience with the capability for an effective response. It safeguards the interests of key stakeholders, reputation, brand and value-creating activities.  Centralized Procurement with due diligence.  BCP is a documented collection of procedures and information that is developed, compiled and maintained in  PARCO is not allowed to commit any terms and conditions with any Supplier/Service Provider readiness for use in an incident and enables PARCO to continue to deliver its critical products and services. against any law of Pakistan.  At PARCO, transparency in all our operations and management systems is considered top priority and ensured  Payment to any Supplier/Service Provider/Contractor is made after proper inspection by the at all levels. concerned Department and confirmation of acceptance.  PARCO has an independent Internal Audit Division that conducts periodic audits for compliance and business  The IMS department at PARCO takes periodical feedbacks from different vendors on PARCO’s process improvements to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. This is achieved by bringing a performance and their treatment. Vendor’s grievances are heard and dealt with due care. systematic approach to evaluate and improve the risk management processes, making Internal Controls robust yet business friendly, and fostering a Good Corporate Governance Process.  To maintain the transparency of the process, end users are not permitted to have a direct contact with the vendors and contact is only through materials function, prior to award of procurement.  In exceptional cases, where it’s deemed necessary, price negotiations are carried out by a Committee approved by Managing Director. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2019 (Page 17 of 17) Corporate Headquarters Korangi Creek Road, Karachi-75190, Pakistan UAN: (021) 111-392-567, Ext: 2270/2179 Email: info@parco.com.pk Designed and Developed by PARCO Corporate Communications Team Web: www.parco.com.pk For further information/queries, please email at salmanzakir@parco.com.pk
