The bank that stays true to its purpose is the bank Australia needs. 2018 Corporate Report Our purpose Bank Australia exists to create mutual prosperity in the form of positive economic, social, environmental and cultural impact. Contents Welcome 1 Appendices 48 A1 How this report was developed 49 Hear from our Chair and Managing Director 4 A2 How we’re governed 53 1. Our reporting approach 6 A3 Our approach to risk 55 2. Our business in brief 8 A4 Our people and culture 56 3. Our financial performance and growth 12 A5 Bank Australia Impact Fund 59 4. Responsible banking 14 A6 Our customer profile 62 5. Our customers 22 A7 Our lending portfolio 64 6. Our staff 28 A8 EY statement of assurance 66 7. People and planet 34 A9 Our responsible banking commitments 68 A10 Environmental management 70 A11 Bank Australian Conservation Reserve 74 A12 Global Reporting Initiative Index 76 Glossary 84 Acknowledgement of Country Bank Australia acknowledges the Traditional Custodians of the land on which we live and work in Australia. We pay our respects to Elders past, present and emerging, and acknowledge the ongoing connection that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples have with Australia’s land and waters. Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Welcome Like Ryan and Matt, all of the people featured in this report are Bank Australia customers who joined the bank because of our values. Or, if you’ve been with us a while, welcome From this report, you’ll get a clear picture of our performance and the impact we made in the period back! Sticking together for the long haul 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018, including measures of: is exactly the reason Bank Australia exists • our financial and cultural performance today to serve our customers: we share • our creation of prosperity for our customers a belief in a responsible future, together. • our support for people and their communities That’s why this report is important. • our contribution to making our planet healthy. It shows you how we worked to achieve If you have any thoughts to share on this report, the best outcomes for our customers please email us on mail@bankaust.com.au or call and stayed true to our purpose in 2018. us on +61 3 9854 4666. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 1 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet 2018 in numbers. Total assets Net profit after tax $5.7 billion $26.1million (up from $5.1 billion in 2017) (up from $23.5 million in 2017) Lending growth 9.3% (down from 33.4% in 2017) Deposit growth Impact Fund investment 11.3% (down from 22.6% in 2017) $854,471 (down from $969,206 in 2017) Lending for people, planet and 9.05% ($425 million) prosperity As a share of total loans (down from 10.76% or $403 million in 2017) Staff engagement Our staff 67% (down from 73%) 411 (up from 394 in 2017) Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 2 Our customers 135,786 (up from 123,322 in 2017) Customer satisfaction 91.2% (up from 86.4% in 2017) Justine switched to Bank Australia because she wanted to bank with an organisation that was not investing in the fossil fuel sector. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 3 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Hear from our Chair and Managing Director. On behalf of the Board We are proud to be a We performed well and management of customer-owned bank financially in many areas, Bank Australia, we are and we will always focus on and we maintained our pleased to present the providing the best outcomes competitive interest rates 2018 corporate report. for our customers, their and fees in a low growth In a year when the financial sector communities and the economic environment. has experienced unprecedented planet we all share. Overall, our financial performance scrutiny and is the subject of was strong, and we grew at a higher But it wasn’t all smooth sailing. widespread public discussion, we rate than the overall financial system, Several years of strong growth put stayed true to our purpose and put while continuing to offer competitive pressure on some dated internal customer interests at the centre rates and fees for our customers. We systems and processes, so we of our business. delivered a profit of $26.1 million, decided to slow our growth to focus on necessary improvements across which was 24% above our target. During 2018 we focused on improving the bank that will ensure customers Our growth in loans (up 9.3%) and customer experience, as well as continue to receive the high levels overall assets (up 9.6%) was strong internal systems and processes, of service they expect. We were also too, although we fell just short of our so we can better serve you – our disappointed to see staff engagement targets by 3.9% and 3.0% respectively. customers. We also rolled out levels decline to 67% which is below Our deposit growth was 11.3% (22.6% important projects to support people our target of 80% or more. in 2017), at 4.8% above our target. and the planet, such as our customer Our financial performance reflects grants through the Bank Australia In light of the Royal Commission our focus on improving systems Impact Fund, and our transition into Misconduct in the Banking, and processes and developing our to renewable energy through the Superannuation and Financial workforce this year. Melbourne Renewable Energy Project. Services Industry, we reflected on Our efforts in these areas were our approach to responsible banking. We still have plenty noticed: our customer satisfaction This gave us the opportunity to of work ahead rose to 91% in 2018 (from 86% in identify areas that we need to 2017), and we were announced the address. The Royal Commission will In 2018 we continued to work on CANSTAR Customer Owned Bank 2018. likely have far reaching implications increasing our lending to people and for our whole industry, including the planet, developing our workforce, During 2018 we launched the regulatory changes and additional and investing in technology. These bank Australia needs campaign to compliance requirements. plans saw us: draw attention to our responsible • invest in affordable housing, by banking approach. This campaign Throughout this report, we touch funding developments such as has attracted a large number of new on these themes, and outline our the MS Society project (page 21) customers who share our values. plans for the 2019 financial year. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 4 We’re not just a responsible bank. We’re a purpose driven business. In 2018 we worked to embed purpose into everything we do, and the role of all of our staff. • improve our customer experience We are committed to 3. Enhancing our digital banking by launching real time payments services and our response to the future of responsible (page 25), redesigning our customer customer needs complaints process, and developing banking. 4. Driving national conversations new features for our banking app The Royal Commission is calling the that are essential to the financial and internet banking (page 24) financial services industry to account. wellbeing of our customers, • increase our net promoter score While far from finished, it has already including the call for more (the likelihood that customers prompted us to look at the instances affordable housing will recommend us to others) to in which our behaviour did not meet 5. Increasing our capacity to lend 46.8 from 37.2 in 2017, and our the expectations of our customers to projects that benefit people, customer satisfaction score to and community. We know our the planet, and prosperity. 91% from 86% in 2017 (page 23) customers want us to be a responsible 6. Sourcing funding that aligns with • invest in our staff experience by bank. They also expect us to have our purpose and values to help refurbishing our contact centre in a strong governance culture and us grow including issuing our first Moe and creating new jobs in the robust processes and systems to help sustainability bond early in the Latrobe Valley (page 30) us avoid preventable mistakes. Our 2019 financial year. reflection on the Royal Commission • employ more people to deliver also reminded us of our enormous Signing off this 2018 report, we thank on a better customer experience responsibility as custodian of our you. As we hold firm to our values, and and support growth (page 30). customers’ funds, and the need to continue efforts to develop our bank, But we have work to do to: keep being vigilant about managing we know the support of our customers • improve our staff engagement risk and compliance. and staff is essential. Together, we will levels (page 29) grow responsible banking and truly be Looking ahead, we have clear the bank Australia needs. • improve customer awareness priorities: of the responsible and sustainable 1. Continuing to grow the bank features of our everyday banking sustainably, for the benefit offering (page 24) of our customers • increase our levels of lending to 2. Serving and supporting our benefit people and the planet, and customers in the face of slow to enhance prosperity (page 39) economic growth, low wages Judith Downes, Chair • ensure our supply chain is better growth, and increasing levels aligned to the values of the bank of financial hardship (page 19). Damien Walsh, Managing Director Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 5 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet 1. Our reporting approach. Henry switched to Bank Australia because he is passionate about the bank’s work protecting threatened species through the Bank Australia Conservation Reserve. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 6 We report on what matters most to you (and us). To understand what matters most to our customers, From the assessment, we identified and ranked topics our staff and other stakeholders, we regularly consult that mean most to our stakeholders. We’re prioritising with you, and assess current and emerging issues. 15 topics (appendix 1) that met the assessment’s threshold for inclusion in this year’s report. We’ve broken those topics In the first half of 2018, we asked our customers, our staff into four broad themes: responsible banking (chapter and other key stakeholders what was most important 4), our customers (chapter 5), our staff (chapter 6) and to them. We assessed these topics against the issues people and planet (chapter 7). These themes inform on which Bank Australia could have the most impact, in the structure and content of this report. line with the materiality principle of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Integrated Reporting Framework For a full list of the disclosures included in this report principles (appendix 1). We also conducted a formal against GRI Standards, please see appendix 12. assessment with our senior management, executive and Board, to confirm the list of topics that are most relevant to the bank. Who has a say? Because we’re a customer owned bank, a unique mix of stakeholders informs our strategy, planning and reporting. As a part of our reporting cycle, we consult formally and informally with a range of these stakeholders, including: • our personal customers • our staff • our community customers (organisations that bank with us) • our regulators – the Australian Securities and Investment Commission (ASIC) and the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) • our Board of Directors • our sector – the Customer Owned Banking Association (COBA), the Global Alliance for Banking on Values (GABV), the Business Council of Cooperatives and Mutuals, the United Nations Global Compact, and the Australian Banking Association (ABA). Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 7 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet 2. Our business in brief. Justine switched to Bank Australia because she wanted to bank with an organisation that was not investing in the fossil fuel sector. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 8 Let’s start with the basics… How we’re set up • Our business model seeks to offer competitively priced products and services to our customers, including • Bank Australia Limited (ACN 087 651 607) deposit and transaction accounts, home and personal is a customer owned bank. loans and credit cards. • We are a mutually owned authorised deposit-taking • Our customers, as owners of the bank, each have an Institution (ADI) and an unlisted public company. equal vote in the governance of their bank (appendix 2), • We are 100% owned by our customers. such as electing Directors and approving total Director remuneration. How we operate • Customers can play an active role in their bank’s future. They have a voice in the banking products • We are governed by an Australian based Board and services that matter to them. of Directors. • Our day-to-day operations are led by a single executive The company we keep team, and our 411 staff are 100% Australian based. • We represent more than 135,000 customers, and we’re • Our full range of deposit and home lending products are custodians of $5.7 billion in assets (at 30 June 2018). certified as ‘responsible’ by the Responsible Investment Association of Australasia (RIAA). • We are primarily a retail bank, with a small business banking portfolio that we offer to schools, not-for-profit • We were the first Australian member of the Global entities and small businesses. Alliance for Banking on Values (GABV) – an international network of banking institutions that use the business • Our head office is in Melbourne, our National Customer of banking to create social and environmental good. Contact and Lending Centre is in the Latrobe Valley, and We continually engage with other GABV members from we have 27 branches in 5 states. around the world to collaborate on how we can all deliver on our purpose as values driven banks, in ways What customer owned banking means that increase awareness of the importance of ‘banking on values’. • Customer owned or mutual banks evolved from the Australian credit union movement and are guided by • We’re active in banking and mutual sector industry the International Cooperative Principles. Customer forums as a member of the Customer Owned Banking owned banks exist to benefit their customers, not Association (COBA), the Australian Banking Association to deliver profits to external investors. (ABA) and the Business Council of Cooperatives and Mutuals (BCCM). • As bank owners, our customers share in the prosperity that we create. We return part of the bank’s profits to • We also work with partners that share our values, such customers through better rates and fees and service as Environment Victoria, Greening Australia, The Big improvements, retain some as capital to ensure the Issue, and Australian Progress. These partnerships help bank remains strong, and use a portion to create to raise awareness of social and environmental issues positive social and environmental change. and support shared goals. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 9 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet We put our customers first because they own the bank. That’s why we work to meet their needs. What does values based banking mean? As a member of the GABV, we uphold 3. Long term relationships with its principles: customers, and a direct understanding of their economic 1. A triple bottom line approach activities and the risks involved at the heart of the business model (people, planet, prosperity) 4. A business model that is long term, self-sustaining, 2. A grounding in communities, and resilient to outside serving the real economy and disruptions enabling new business models to meet the needs of both 5. Transparent and inclusive governance. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 10 Our strategic plan Our strategic approach Our purpose and values In 2018 the Bank Australia team and We’ve identified three focus areas that Purpose Board reviewed and updated our will drive our growth, distinguish us in Bank Australia exists to create mutual corporate plan. The new plan provides the market, and prioritise our business prosperity in the form of positive long term clarity for the bank, and plans and projects. economic, social, environmental outlines our performance goals and 1. Putting customer wellbeing and cultural impact. projects over the next three years. at the centre Brand We care for our customers, basing We are the bank Australia needs. our decisions on their wellbeing. Our commitment to customer Aspiration ownership enables this capability. To be Australia’s leading customer 2. Looking after owned responsible bank. our staff and culture Values Our staff are engaged and empowered We developed these five core to be the champions of responsible values with our customers and staff, banking. We care for our staff, support to reflect the values we all share: each other’s needs, and work together to provide responsible banking. • Honesty and integrity • Compassion and caring 3. Raising the bar for • Belonging and empathy responsible banking • Future and generational thinking Our commitment to responsible • Transparency and authenticity. banking is demonstrated in everything we do – our products, our services, our leadership. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 11 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet 3. Our financial performance and growth. Henry switched to Bank Australia because he is passionate about the bank’s work protecting threatened species through the Bank Australia Conservation Reserve. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 12 Our 2018 financials. Total assets Loan growth Our financial performance We were pleased to exceed our $5.7billion 9.3% profit target this year, which saw ($5.2 billion in 2017) (33.4% in 2017) our customer owned reserves increase to $510.2 million. We also exceeded our deposit Deposit growth Net profit after tax 11.3% $26.1million growth target by 4.2%. While we fell just short of our lending and asset growth targets, we still grew more than the overall (22.6% in 2017) ($23.5 million in 2017) financial system in a low growth economic environment, which was a good result. This outcome reflected our focus on improving Costs as percentage Customer owned internal systems and processes of income reserves so we are better positioned to serve our growing customer base. 69.6% $510.2 million (69.5% in 2017) ($484.9 million in 2017) For more information on our financial performance, please refer to the 2018 financial report. Capital adequacy ratio Total liquidity as (capital held against a percentage of on risk weighted assets) balance sheet liabilities 16.7% 14.8% (17% in 2017) (13.4% in 2017) Loans 30 days or more in arrears as percentage of total loan portfolio 0.3% (0.2% in 2017) Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 13 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet 4. Responsible banking. Ryan joined Bank Australia because he wanted a bank that was 100% customer owned and delivered a great customer experience. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 14 Our approach to responsible banking is at the heart of everything we do at Bank Australia. It guides how we lend The Royal Commission has Our submission identified two themes: money, how we support been cause for reflection • a small number of process and system underperformance issues social and environmental In 2018 the Royal Commission that resulted in adverse customer issues and, most into Misconduct in the Banking, outcomes Superannuation and Financial Services importantly, how we • minor examples of policy and Industry raised a number of serious look after our customers questions about the role of financial procedure non-compliance that resulted in adverse customer and staff. institutions and how they act in the outcomes. best interests of customers. As the inquiry continues, we are reminded The review also confirmed that in that our commitment to responsible those instances, we communicated banking is more relevant and with our customers and where important than ever. relevant compensated them for any loss caused. Like other Australian banks, Bank Australia provided a submission to Developing our submission for the the Royal Commission, which began Royal Commission gave us the in December 2017. To develop our chance to reflect on our values based submission, we reviewed complaints approach to banking and reaffirmed and feedback, incident reports, our commitment to responsible audit reports, board papers and banking, our culture, and our staff. merger documents over 10 years. We will continue to work on enhancing The review confirmed Bank Australia our approach to responsible banking had no serious cultural and conduct while we await the Commission’s issues during that period. But, we did findings, which we expect will have find instances when we did not deliver far-reaching consequences for the on our promises to customers. financial services industry in Australia. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 15 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet The bank that doesn’t pay executive bonuses is the bank Australia needs. Our approach to bonuses Affinity partners Effective 1 July 2018 our commission payments will be 0.6% plus GST and commissions Affinity partners are organisations (upfront commission) and 0.15% We want our people to focus on that refer customers to Bank Australia. plus GST (trail commission) for brokers serving customers in ways that are These organisations receive a who are part of an aggregator, and in customers’ best interests, which commission payment for successful 0.5% plus GST (upfront commission) is why we don’t provide financial customer referrals. For customers and 0.15% (trail commission) for incentives to drive sales. Instead, who switch their loan to us, we pay brokers holding their own Australian we pay our staff fair salaries that 0.4% of the total loan amount plus Credit Licence who have a direct reflect their position, qualifications, GST to the affinity partner. In 2018 relationship with the bank. Upfront experience and overall performance. we paid a total of $35,522 to partners commission payments are based We don’t pay any sales-based through this program. on the settled value of the loan commissions or bonuses to our and trail commission payments are executives or any other staff. Mortgage brokers assessed on the closing balance of the We outline our staff remuneration We started working with mortgage loan, less offset balance each month. principles on page 30 and you can brokers in August 2015. We now work find our executive and Director We work closely with our broker with over 2000 brokers, generating remuneration on page 7 of our partners to help them understand over $504 million in new loans in 2018 financial report. Bank Australia’s unique value 2018. proposition and purpose. Our Growing the business and attracting This year we reviewed our commission research found that more than new customers are important to our structure paid to brokers, which 30% of customers referred to us future, so we do pay commissions resulted in the introduction of one by a broker had been recommended to brokers and affinity partners that common commission structure across for the bank’s values. encourage new customers to join all products. the bank. We take appropriate steps to ensure our partners reflect Bank Australia’s values in promoting our brand and products. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 16 The bank Australia needs marketing campaign We want people to know about Bank Australia and the values that we embody. Why? Because we want people to know there is an alternative approach to banking. Third party product Our ‘bank Australia needs’ Campaign results campaign, launched in partnerships September 2017, highlights After 10 months in market, the Our customers sometimes need our unique approach to banking. campaign has exceeded its access to products that are not part brand awareness and customer Campaign messages include: of our core product suite, such as acquisition targets. The campaign The bank that puts people has seen a 17.5% increase in new general insurance. before profit is the bank customers per month over the We have a longstanding relationship Australia needs previous 10-month period, and with Allianz Australia Limited to offer 26% prompted brand awareness The bank that is 100% owned our customers general insurance against a target of 23%. by its customers is the bank and consumer credit insurance, Australia needs Most pleasingly, over the campaign where we earn a commission on the gross written premium of products The bank that protects period there has been a 51% increase in new transaction and taken up. Allianz also provides us endangered species is the with a marketing allowance and we savings accounts. This tells us bank Australia needs can receive a profit share payment that people are thinking about us The campaign features Bank as a genuine alternative and are depending on the performance of the Australia customers, many of bringing their everyday banking to partnership. whom are doing amazing things us. More than 70% of this growth Following a review of third party for people and the planet such as: came from New South Wales, products we no longer offer health • empowering newly arrived Queensland and the Australian insurance, superannuation or financial migrants and people seeking Capital Territory, which is outside planning products to our customers. asylum the bank’s strongest historical We will continue to monitor the presence in Victoria. • finding solutions to poverty performance of other partnerships in Australia, Africa and Asia In 2019 we will build on the to ensure they deliver value for our customers and align with our • clearing rubbish from campaign and continue to commitment to responsible banking. waterways promote our approach to responsible banking. • reducing carbon emissions by building solar farms or diverting coffee grounds from landfill to community gardens. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 17 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet The bank that doesn’t lend to the fossil fuel industry is the bank Australia needs. Living up to our promise and meeting your We asked you how you want us to invest expectations your money We’re continuing to develop our In June 2018 we conducted research with Bank Australia approach to risk management customers about the issues that are important to them practices to ensure we’re living up and how they would like to see us act on those issues. to our responsible banking promise. We have strengthened In particular, we were keen to Customers said they did not want our governance structure by understand how customers wanted us to lend to organisations deriving establishing an Executive Responsible us to lend their money. income from arms production and Banking Committee – one of our sales, gambling, live export and four executive committees. The The research showed nearly 95% intensive farming, fossil fuels, and committee will oversee a ‘whole of our customers saw responsible tobacco production and sales. of bank’ approach to responsible lending as important. Alongside banking, including ensuring lending funds to personal While we have previously our approach is embedded in customers for home, personal and communicated our approach departmental plans, monitoring staff car loans, customers want us to to avoid lending to the fossil fuel engagement, managing risk, and lend money to organisations that industry, we will more clearly ensuring we deliver all the bank’s work to address important social explain other included and public commitments (appendix 9). and environmental issues such excluded areas of our lending as affordable housing and policy in the 2019 financial year. We recognise our approach to renewable energy. responsible banking also needs to change with customers’ expectations. This year we conducted research to better understand customer and staff expectations of responsible banking. This work will inform our approach into the future. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 18 How do you see This research helped us understand helping them to avoid falling customers’ expectations of the bank, into financial stress and hardship responsible banking and ‘responsible banking’ into the • Investing in and lending to in the future? future. It also helped us develop a set industries and organisations of values that the bank’s corporate Living up to the promise that share our values plan now incorporates. of being a responsible • Always looking for ways bank is no small task. The research showed us that our to meet the expectations To continue to build on customers and staff see responsible of our customers and other banking as many things, including: stakeholders our approach, we worked with researchers from • Offering financial products and • Rewarding people who RMIT University Melbourne services that are competitive embody our values but can generate social and who used human centred • Helping people and the planet environmental benefits design research to engage • Treating our staff and with our customers • Helping our customers and customers with care, empathy communities to build financial and compassion. and staff. capability and wellbeing and Investing your money Working on a responsible • testing a new procurement tool with five of our larger suppliers responsibly supply chain which includes questions on We established a responsible lending A responsible supply chain is an operating practices, human rights and investment policy in 2006. important part of being a responsible and environmental management. Customer feedback indicated we bank. We believe the goods and should provide more information services we purchase shouldn’t But, we identified gaps in our policy about how and where we invest do harm, and that our approach and process for procurement across customers’ money. In response, our to procurement should support the business which we intend to Board approved a new Responsible businesses and other organisations improve in 2019 by: Banking Policy in 2018, and we will that are aligned with our values. • updating our procurement policy release a Public Policy Statement, to reflect Bank Australia’s values before the end of the 2018 calendar We progressed this in 2018 by: and public commitments year that articulates our approach • monitoring our supply chain to • evaluating our procurement to responsibly investing our ensure the absence of deforestation processes to manage our supply customers’ money. as part of our We Mean Business chain exposure to modern slavery commitments (appendix 10) in preparation for the 2018 Modern • setting a target to increase the Slavery Act’s reporting requirements products and services that we • increasing our procurement from purchase from businesses owned organisations that are owned by by Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait or employ people with a disability. Islander people Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 19 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Jasmine joined Bank Australia because she felt that the bank’s values aligned well with her personal values. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 20 We’re part of the conversation on Funding specialist disability accommodation affordable housing with MS Queensland Access to affordable housing remains We’re the first Australian bank to lend to specialist a significant issue in Australia, and disability accommodation (SDA) under the National we want to be part of the solution. Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS). We funded several affordable housing developments in 2018, helping people who are on low incomes or experiencing disadvantage to access more secure, safe and affordable housing. We became part of the Victorian Government’s HomesVic pilot. It is helping up to 400 eligible first home buyers enter the market through a shared equity approach where the government will take a stake of up to 25% in the property to reduce the amount of deposit needed to purchase a home. We also ran an interactive session on the future of housing in Australia at the Purpose 2018 conference in The NDIS changes how we support Roger Burrell, Chair of MS Sydney in February 2018. Our session Australians with a disability, by Queensland Board, said of the brought together leaders and experts creating individual funding plans development: in sustainable communities and that allow people to choose the MS Queensland’s Springfield housing, who shared their vision health, accommodation and Apartments project is the first of 10 for Australia’s future. They also support services they need. Now, specialist disability accommodation considered how we can address people who need SDA can rent, projects we aim to deliver across current social, economic and buy or build accommodation, the state under the banner of environmental challenges, and create depending on their needs. our visionary Project Dignity 120 communities that are more accessible, campaign for people living with Disability service providers have sustainable, healthy and meaningful. multiple sclerosis and other chronic started constructing thoughtfully progressive neurological diseases. designed accommodation that people with a disability Our cutting-edge housing solutions, can rent using their NDIS plan specifically designed and adaptable accommodation payments. to a person’s changing needs and circumstances, are giving people Our staff have been working with back their dignity and the choice organisations, and individuals and and control over where they live their families, to develop bespoke and who they live with. … [the] loan options to better assist people Springfield Apartments project was with a disability into housing. only made possible with the help of Bank Australia, and we value our An example of a project we’ve partnership with them greatly. funded is a development by MS Queensland, for a four storey We will continue to support residential development in solutions addressing housing Springfield that includes 15 affordability. SDA units. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 21 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet 5. Our customers. Julia joined Bank Australia because she wanted to feel confident that her money was being invested responsibly. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 22 The bank that puts people before profit is the bank Australia needs. Our banking products In 2018 we looked closely at how We offer better rates our customers interact with us and and services should wish to access our services. This and fees help our customers to information helped us think about As a customer owned bank we work achieve their financial the role of our branches, recognising to offer competitive rates and fees that customer expectations of banks to our customers. and personal goals. are changing as new technologies are developed. We reaffirmed our Helping customers avoid fees and get commitment to maintaining our the most out of their banking is an branch network to meet the needs important part of the value provided of our customers, while deciding to by customer owned banking. For this invest more to improve our digital reason, we improved our automation experience. processes in 2018 so we can better: • identify customers who are paying We were delighted to see our avoidable fees on their accounts, customer satisfaction lift to 91% and let them know how to avoid (from 86% in 2017). We see this these fees outcome as an endorsement of our • identify customers who may be brand values, improved customer better suited to another product experience, and high levels of customer service being provided • help customers to set up convenient by the people in our branches, banking tools such as PayID, our contact centre, lending team internet banking and digital banking and across the bank. apps, and digital wallet services such as Apple Pay, Google Pay Customer satisfaction and Samsung Pay. 91.2% (up from 86.4% in 2017) Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 23 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet As a customer owned bank we work to offer competitive rates and fees to our customers. And we’re offering better Improving customer • We continued to make banking more accessible. We upgraded our products too experience was a focus Bendigo branch to allow wheelchair We see an opportunity to include this year access, and we’re changing our responsible and sustainable features We improved customer experience cards in 2019 so they’re easier as part of our everyday banking this year, by improving systems and to use for people with a vision offering, to help our customers platforms that customers use for impairment. meet their goals and to create their daily banking, and by improving • We introduced a new complaints more positive impact. customer service provided by our staff: handling process to increase the • We worked with our research ability of our frontline staff to resolve This is why we: agency, Forethought, to map simple complaints quickly, without • offer a family pause and an and identify the parts of our loan having to escalate issues. We also eco-pause with our home loan application and approval process established a cross-departmental • offset carbon emissions from that customers find frustrating. team to assess and resolve the the cars we finance We’re continuing to make this more complex issues. • balance the loss of land from process easier and more customer • We invested in systems and construction loans we finance by friendly including automating processes to make them more protecting an equivalent amount the all-important process of robust. A number of staff completed of land on the Bank Australia keeping customers up to date continuous improvement training, Conservation Reserve (see with information about the status so they can recognise when we appendix 11). of their application. can make processes more effective • We launched a new app in February or efficient to better serve our Research we conducted with 2018. Changes included a more user customers. customers in 2018 suggested we have opportunities to improve friendly dashboard, a quick balance awareness of these features and feature, faster payments (via Osko), to design new product features easy setup of PayID, and a simpler that have positive social and payments process. environmental impacts. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 24 Growing use of our digital services 40% 178% 65% Increase in Increase in number Increase in number of of customers number of customers using using digital customers signed our mobile app wallet services up for PayID (June 2017: 31 570, such as Apple Pay, (Feb 2018: 7433 (first time reported) June 2018: 44,177) Samsung Pay June 2018: 12,274) and Google Pay (June 2017: 3474, June 2018: 9289) In 2019 we will: • focus on staff training and capability, to ensure our staff feel confident to deliver the high levels of service that our customers expect • find more opportunities to use automation to improve communication so customers have the right information at the right time to help them with their banking • launch a new customer onboarding journey and digital solution to make the process of joining the bank simpler and more user friendly. Faster payments • PayID means our customers can use their mobile number, email at your fingertips address or ABN to make and Bank Australia was one of 50 receive payments. institutions to connect to the • Osko enables customers’ New Payments Platform (NPP) in payments to be processed 2018. The launch of this platform in minutes. gave our customers access to PayID and Osko, which offer faster, simpler payments: Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 25 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Banking should create a more inclusive society. If we can help people secure affordable housing, we’re being true to our fundamental principle of mutual prosperity. Your financial goals are In 2019 we will: • When customers do experience • conduct a financial capability financial hardship, our Credit important to us Integrity team helps them program to equip customers with A critical role we play is helping more skills to manage their money manage their loan repayments, support our customers’ financial goals and budget and varies the loan if needed. and wellbeing. In 2018 we provided In 2018, our team varied 174 • explore how our products and digital more resources for our customers: loan accounts, up 6.1% from banking tools can help customers to • We now include simple tips on 164 variations in 2017. set and reach their financial goals managing money in our monthly • We developed our first Hardship • work with the Victorian Women’s customer e-newsletter. Communications Plan and Trust to develop more resources • We remind people of product improved how we communicate to assist in developing women’s features that can save them money with customers about hardship financial knowledge and capability or benefit them – for example, the support. • continue to implement our Financial eco and family pause on mortgage • We engaged with other Inclusion Action Plan (appendix 9). repayments to assist customers organisations such as Gippsland at different life stages. Water in the Latrobe Valley, a We’re supporting community experiencing economic • By partnering with the Victorian Government for the HomesVic customers experiencing transition with the closure of the pilot program, we are helping financial difficulties Hazelwood Power Station, to people to buy their first home. identify how we can work together Supporting customers who are to better support customers But we recognise some customers experiencing financial difficulties experiencing hardship. are finding it harder to maintain is a high priority for us. Here’s a • Our Credit Integrity team completed and build their financial wellbeing. rundown on our efforts in 2018: training to help them better identify Reflecting these pressures, customers’ • Our numbers of loans in arrears the ‘silent’ signs of hardship. personal satisfaction with their remained low, as a result of our financial situation declined to 69.8% responsible approach to lending in 2018 (from 74.3% in 2017). (0.3% of loans in total portfolio at 30 days plus in arrears, compared with 0.2% in 2017). Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 26 Fraud is on the rise, Our help for customers includes: In 2018 we improved our approach • constantly improving our fraud to managing fraud by: so we’ve escalated monitoring activities to inform • introducing a new fraud monitoring our response customers quickly of suspicious process to track real time payments, Fraud is a serious and growing issue activities on their accounts which pose a unique risk for fraud in Australia and internationally. • providing fraud training to our staff, • increasing customer awareness Our team works hard to mitigate the so they can identify activities that of second factor authentication risk of fraud, notify our customers may be consistent with fraud • implementing further fraud of suspicious transactions, and offer • staying abreast of trends and new awareness training for our staff, support to those who have been types of fraud, and regularly sharing so they are confident to act on defrauded. the Australian Government’s Stay and escalate concerns about Smart Online updates with our potential fraud activity customers • reducing internet banking limits, • supporting customers affected so substantial sums of money by fraud. are less likely to be lost. Helping customers buy their first home, with the Victorian Government Our customers have told us that housing affordability matters to them. That’s why we’re working with the Victorian Government to help Victorians buy their first home. The Victorian Government’s $50 people who would have found million HomesVic scheme helps first home ownership out of reach. home buyers by sharing the upfront costs of home purchase and taking “This program, without a doubt, up to 25% proportional interest in the has been life-changing. I have property. The home buyer contributes the house I had hoped for when a minimum 5% deposit and Bank everyone, from family, friends, Australia finances the remainder of mortgage brokers and real estate the purchase cost. agents, had advised me to aim for far less or leave town. I can now Following strong interest in the scheme provide the family home every child since its launch in February 2018, we deserves, with a possibility now have processed 413 applications, and of having pets!” – HomesVic started advancing loans for many and Bank Australia customer Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 27 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet 6. Our staff. Naomi works as a customer service consultant in our Moe branch in the Latrobe Valley. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 28 This year we invested in developing the capability of our staff so we do an even better job of meeting our customers’ needs. We are also building Our workforce continues …and we’re focusing a more diverse and to grow... on engaging our people inclusive workforce. Our workforce grew to 411 people in We run an annual staff engagement 2018 (from 396 in 2017), with all these survey to measure overall levels roles located in Australia, in line with of engagement. The results of this our commitment not to offshore jobs. year’s survey showed our overall staff engagement was 67% in 2018 (a We’re also helping our staff engage decrease from 73% in 2017) against with the bank’s purpose: our target of 80%+ engagement. • We launched a new staff engagement platform, Workplace, in Our employees confirmed a number September 2017. At 30 June 2018, of areas that they like most about 96% of staff had a profile, and Bank Australia including the people 75% were using the tool regularly. they work with and the bank’s purpose and values. There was • In 2018 we completed a renovation a very strong endorsement by staff and upgrade of the bank’s National of the importance of the bank’s Customer Contact and Lending values, direction and risk culture. Centre in the Latrobe Valley to support our growing workforce They also drew our attention to some in the region. areas that we need to focus on. Our • We developed a new workforce people are keen to see us provide plan that looks at the roles we will greater opportunities to learn and need to support the bank’s growth grow, to see us continue to improve plans for the next five years. internal communication, to consult Our staff more widely on changes to the bank, and to further improve processes and 411 systems that will support a quality customer and employee experience. (up from 394 in 2017) Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 29 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Our aim is to have a highly engaged culture and so we are strongly committed to working with our team in ways that will encourage people to fully contribute to the bank’s program of work. We’re creating jobs Our approach We’re working to in regional Australia to remuneration ensure gender equality On 27 June 2018 we officially Our approach to salaries and We are committed to pay equity for re-opened our National Customer other staff payments is focused our staff and do not discriminate Contact and Lending Centre and on generating the best possible based on gender, background, or Moe Branch, following a $2.6 outcome for our customers. identity. Every year we assess gender million refurbishment. gaps in pay. This assessment accounts Here are a few of the principles for factors such as performance, Using local contractors where that we apply: skill set and experience, tenure at possible, the revamp added an • We don’t pay bonuses or sales the bank, and differences in roles. outdoor deck, a staff wellbeing based commissions to any of A formal review in 2018 identified a room, new furniture and our staff including executives small number of discrepancies, and equipment, green walls and a 32.5 kW solar panel system. Building • We believe in rewarding our staff we corrected these salaries. accessibility has been improved for behaviour that drives Bank with the installation of a lift. Australia’s purpose as a responsible bank, which we recognise in two The result is an enhanced inways: branch experience for customers, – Frontline staff can receive a small and a bright, modern and more recognition payment when their sustainable working environment manager wants to recognise they for our 100+ staff in Moe. What’s more, we now have room for more have gone above and beyond in local jobs. their role. These payments are not linked to sales targets. This investment is the latest in – Our staff (except executives) can Bank Australia’s long history in the be nominated for our 3P Awards, Latrobe Valley. Today, one third of which recognise outstanding our national workforce is based behaviours linked to people, in the region, and we continue to planet and prosperity. The award create traineeships for local people winners receive a gift card to and support programs including thank them for their work. Latrobe Youth Choices to create better outcomes for young people. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 30 Staff trips to the Bank Australia Conservation Reserve We made one of our two annual trips to the Bank Australia Conservation Reserve (appendix 11) in May 2018. We’re investing in staff On this trip, staff from different While the day was incredibly parts of the business experienced wet, the rain didn’t dampen the capability and training the reserve, and learned more spirits of our staff. James from Investing in our workforce is essential about its purpose and importance our Fitzroy branch said: for our success as a values based to the bank and our customers. “The passion and knowledge from bank. In 2018 we: the staff who help maintain the Expert staff from Greening • delivered brand training in the reserve was priceless, and made Australia and Trust for Nature lead up to the bank Australia me realise that in a world that joined our staff to explain the needs campaign (82 staff) is fast paced and ever changing, biodiversity in the reserve, and • offered cybersecurity training that we really need to take a step why environmental conservation to all staff (92% completed) back and understand that we and the restoration of important can do small things that really do • provided awareness training for landscapes are vital. We also make a big difference for future our Reconciliation Action Plan invited Traditional Custodians of generations.” commitments (74% completed) the land on which the reserve • took two groups of staff from across is based, from Barengi Gadjin We will continue to use the Bank the business to the Bank Australia Land Council. They generously Australia Conservation Reserve Conservation Reserve (46 staff) shared their culture, stories and staff trips as an important way knowledge with our staff, and to connect our staff with the • ran customer service training for explained significant sites such bank’s purpose. the leaders in our retail network as scar trees on the reserve. (66 staff) Staff also participated in citizen • provided compliance training science activities such as tree for all staff (95% completed) hollow mapping, placement of • provided change leadership wildlife monitoring cameras and training for the bank’s senior tree planting to deepen their leaders (14 staff). experience of the project. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 31 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Workforce diversity and In 2018: • We launched a monthly accessibility • We expanded our financial services newsletter that features stories inclusion is a priority from our staff and customers. traineeship program. Alongside Staff diversity and inclusion are existing places for people from These stories show how we’ve critical for our continued growth and a refugee and/or asylum seeker improved accessibility by making success. We want our workforce to background, and for Aboriginal and/ reasonable adjustments for our represent the varied cultures and or Torres Strait Islander people, we workforce and customers. life experiences of the Australian now offer three places for people • We launched our GLOW network to community, and our staff to with a lived experience of disability. celebrate and support lesbian, gay, champion making the bank bisexual, trans, queer and intersex • We campaigned in support of more accessible and inclusive. (LGBTQI) staff and customers and marriage equality in the lead-up to the same sex marriage postal their allies (page 33). survey in late 2017. We shared staff stories on both our public social media and our staff social media, so people could explain why they would vote ‘yes’. We also recognised not all staff and customers share the bank’s view on this issue. We’re committed to an inclusive workforce We continued to improve our employment opportunities for people with a lived experience of disability, through the launch of our disability internship program. Cameron was our very first participant to go through the program, and he now works with our IT team, taking care of daily troubleshooting, password configuration and much more. He has become an integral part of the Bank Australia team and a strong contributor to the culture across the organisation. He explains: Bank Australia is one of the rare workplaces that motivates you to get out of bed in the morning. Every day is different and the staff are very supportive. The bank lives and breathes its mission statement and is truly about responsible banking. The internship program is one of the first steps in implementing our Disability Action Plan, which launched in 2016. Through the plan we’re finding meaningful ways to create a more inclusive society by focusing on customer experience, employment, staff and customer awareness, and community impact. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 32 Staff with different life experiences bring an array of perspectives, which helps us deliver better customer service and experience. We stand by the LGBTQI community On 17 May 2018, to coincide with the International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia, we launched our GLOW network. GLOW is a staff led network that GLOW members wear rainbow pins supports and celebrates LGBTQI staff to show solidarity with their fellow and customers, and their allies. staff and our customers. GLOW also leads events and fundraising to GLOW exists to promote a diverse mark significant days in the LGBTQI and inclusive work environment community calendar. through education and awareness. After less than three months, GLOW had 35 members from across the bank. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 33 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet 7. People and planet. The Bank Australia Conservation Reserve is a 927 hectare private land reserve owned by the bank and its customers. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 34 Our purpose is to have a positive impact on people and the planet. As social and environmental issues become more complex, thinking about our impact is even more vital. Impact Fund expenditure Our Impact Fund supports projects that customers $854,471 care about (3.4% of 2017 after tax profits) The Bank Australia Impact Fund (appendix 5) funds projects that deliver positive outcomes for People impact Planet impact 57% 43% people and the planet. In 2018 we disbursed $854,471 from the fund (3.4% of 2017 after tax profits), split across programs (for programs that benefit people) (for programs that benefit the planet) that benefit people (57%) and programs that benefit the planet (43%). The Bank Australia Conservation Reserve Bank Australia Conservation Reserve $304,781 (appendix 11) is the fund’s largest project, with funding of $304,781 in 2018. (the fund’s largest project, see appendix 11) Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 35 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet New projects supported in 2018 Each year, 4% of the after tax Customer grants from the include a three year partnership profit from the previous financial with Human Rights Watch and a year is allocated to the Impact Fund. Impact Fund partnership with Ladder to support In 2018, we did not disburse the full Our annual customer grants program young people in the Latrobe Valley allocation because we are conducting supports our community customers experiencing disadvantage and a review to ensure the fund can have to do great work in the community. homelessness. We also continued to: the strongest impact and we are Since introducing these grants in • fund significant partnerships with waiting to complete it before we 2016, we have funded over $220,000 The Big Issue, the Woodlands and fund new projects. in projects. Wetlands Trust, and CSIRO We will allocate the 0.6% of profit In 2018 we provided grants of up • address educational disadvantage not spent this year to fund new to $10,000 to 10 customers for through our scholarship with projects next year. Our review will projects addressing environmental the Queensland University of look at the role of the Impact Fund sustainability, gender equality, Technology, our partnership with to be sure we’re delivering what reconciliation, disability and State Schools Relief, and our customers expect of the fund, educational disadvantage. Intech Bank scholarships with and measuring our impact in line Swinburne University and with best practice. The grant recipients included: University of Technology Sydney. • a support service for young mothers who are studying or looking for work • a revegetation project at Mount Burr Swamp Habitat Restoration Reserve • a physical activity program for people with complex care needs in Gippsland. For a full list, please see appendix 5. Responding to your According to the United Nations High Our support of HRW’s refugee Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), research program will help HRW call for a humane every minute 20 people leave their staff to defend the rights of response to refugees homes to flee war, persecution or refugees, asylum seekers and terror. In 2018 more people were displaced people worldwide. On World Refugee Day in displaced than at any other time in June 2018, we announced history, with an estimated 65.6 million These staff respond to emergencies the Bank Australia Impact people forced from their homes. and chronic situations, document Fund would provide funding human rights issues, and take to a refugee research Bank Australia customers have told their findings to policy makers, us that they want us to do more to legislators and the media. program run by Human support a humane response to the Rights Watch (HRW). refugee crisis. We’ve heard this call to action. We’ve created employment opportunities for refugees and asylum seekers, made Impact Fund customer grants to community customers who work to support refugees, and supported the human rights awareness activities of HRW and others. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 36 Supporting Moe This not-for-profit organisation Dr Carole Broxham, CEO offers training and individual support of MLSCC, explains: LIFE Skills in the services for people with a lived … many people, especially those Latrobe Valley experience of disability in the Latrobe with an intellectual disability, Valley. LIFE Pilates classes bring often remain apart from, rather We continue to support together community members and than a part of, the community. Moe LIFE (Local inclusive people with complex support needs, The LIFE project encourages fitness for everyone) improving fitness and social inclusion. people to have those personal Skills Community connections, and to see the Centre (MLSCC). The LIFE program provides less person behind the disability. … structured activity for people living participants find … people with with disability. It works through disabilities are far more similar communication barriers and physical than different to themselves. support requirements that can limit participation in activities (particularly We’re proud to be able to community activities). It also helps support Moe LIFE Skills through break down stigma that may prevent the Bank Australia Impact Fund community members from socialising customer grants. and building connections with people who live with a disability. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 37 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Eddie lives in Melbourne’s north and has been a Bank Australia customer since 2012. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 38 Lending more through As a member of the GABV, we report on our lending to three areas – impact finance will help lending that benefits people, lending us create prosperity that benefits the planet, and lending At our 2018 strategic planning day, that benefits prosperity. We’re proud our Board endorsed a proposal to that 9.05% of our loan portfolio in grow the bank’s commercial loan 2018 aligned with these three portfolio in ways that will create GABV principles. positive impact on economic, social We have now started to develop the and environmental issues. In other bank’s approach to impact finance, words, we want to lend more money aiming to increase the percentage to projects where the loan will benefit of our lending each year that creates people and/or the planet, and bring a positive impact. For more detail about prosperity. on our lending portfolio, please see appendix 7. Breakdown of our lending portfolio across GABV lending principles Total value People lending (e.g. commercial loans to the community and disability sector and $160 million to affordable housing developments) (3.41% of total portfolio) Planet lending (e.g. car loans with emissions offsets, commercial loans with $240 million (5.11% of total portfolio) an environmental benefit) Prosperity lending (e.g. shared equity home ownership schemes and loans for the purposes $25 million of economic inclusion) (0.53% of total portfolio) Total $425 million (9.05% of total portfolio) Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 39 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet We will respond to climate change by maintaining carbon neutral operations, meeting our renewable energy target, supporting community action on climate change, and providing products with environmental benefits. We’re stepping up our • We supported activities that further • We set an emissions reduction climate change conversations, target. To do so, we used a science climate action including: based method that helps companies Our commitment to the environment – Paul Hawken’s Drawdown tour determine how much they must remains strong. This year: of Australia, where he presented cut emissions in line with the scale • As a member of the Melbourne his research on solutions to of reductions needed to keep the Renewable Energy Project, we global warming at roundtable global temperature increase below joined 13 organisations to support events for business leaders and 2°C. Our target is to reduce our the development of a wind farm two public events at Australian scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas near Ararat in regional Victoria. National University (Canberra) emissions by 16% by 2025 (from The project will become operational and the University of Queensland a 2017 baseline). In 2018 we were during 2019, enabling us to meet (Brisbane). able to exceed this by purchasing our commitment to purchase 100% GreenPower, reducing our scope 1 – Bill McKibben’s Accelerate Climate renewable electricity. and 2 emissions by 26%. We expect Action tour of Australia, with to continue exceeding this target • We switched our energy supply from public events in Sydney, Canberra, once we start buying renewable standard to green power at our Kew, Melbourne and Adelaide. The electricity through the Melbourne Moe and Bendigo sites in January events shared firsthand stories Renewable Energy Project. 2018, which led to a reduction in about the impact of climate our net greenhouse gas emissions change in our communities, and • We continued to offset the (appendix 10). called for us to initiate change. emissions associated with the cars we finance. • We installed a 32.5 kW solar system – Climates’ series of climate on the roof of our National Customer change panel discussion events In 2019 we will switch to renewable Contact and Lending Centre in Moe in Melbourne, offering fresh electricity in all Bank Australia as part of the refurbishment project. perspectives on the climate locations once the Melbourne The system provides around 30% discussion. Renewable Energy Project is fully of the building’s electricity needs. • The bank has been carbon neutral operational. since 2011, and we maintained this in 2018 (appendix 10). We also raised emissions awareness among staff. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 40 How are we a part of the switch to renewable energy? Bank Australia is part of the Melbourne Renewable Energy Project, a group of organisations led by the City of Melbourne that joined together to support the development of a wind farm that will be built near Ararat in regional Victoria. Bank Australia Managing Director, The project will also help us Damien Walsh, says the project meet the expectations of our will be a key part of the bank’s customers, who have told us environmental strategy: renewable energy is a priority for them. The majority of our current greenhouse gas emissions are The project has united 14 from electricity. The Melbourne leading universities, cultural Renewable Energy Project will help institutions, corporations and us make big emissions reductions councils to source energy from and meet our commitment to the new 80mw wind farm. purchasing 100% renewable Bank Australia will transition electricity by 2020. all sites to renewable electricity once the wind farm is up and running in 2019. Image provided by Pacific Hydro – developer of the Melbourne Renewable Energy Project wind farm Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 41 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet In 2018 we started work on an initial approach to managing and disclosing climate risk more effectively. We’re also addressing From an initial assessment, we deem associated with community assets our highest risks are to physical assets and (b) the role of a responsible climate risk that we own and manage, and to bank in addressing climate related The Task Force on Climate related the customer owned assets that we issues for our customers and their Financial Disclosures (TCFD) was set finance. communities. up in 2015 by the United Nations • identify any potential threats to the Environment Programme’s Finance In 2019 we plan to: assets that we own and manage Initiative (UNEP FI). The taskforce • formally assess the geographic (such as our branches and offices). developed voluntary, consistent regions in which we operate and • develop a climate change resilience climate related financial risk provide finance, particularly areas plan to protect the precious disclosures that companies can use prone to inundation or to weather biodiversity on the Bank Australia to inform stakeholders and to manage events such as fires, cyclones and Conservation Reserve in partnership climate change related risks. storms. This assessment will largely with Trust for Nature and Greening involve looking at personal loans for The taskforce published its final Australia. assets such as cars, and our home recommendations in June 2017. Some loan portfolio. global banks are now participating in • look more generally at the a pilot to develop analytical tools and climate change threat facing indicators to improve their assessment the communities in which we and disclosure of climate related risks operate, because climate change and opportunities. will have flow-on effects to our In 2018 we started working on an customers and their communities. initial approach to managing and This assessment will look at (a) disclosing climate risk more effectively. how we manage financial risk Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 42 Money matters for The Big Issue vendors Bank Australia runs budgeting and saving workshops with The Big Issue magazine vendors across the country. We’re standing with At these workshops, vendors pick The workshops have been well up useful skills for managing their received by vendors, with a The Big Issue money. In 2018 we delivered the Brisbane vendor commenting: We’ve supported The Big Issue workshops in Melbourne, Adelaide since 2016, as a principal partner and Brisbane. That for me so far has been the and vendor uniform partner. The most informative, insightful and Big Issue is a social enterprise that Matt Stedman, Vendor Support educational budgeting workshop works across Australia to create Manager in Adelaide, says the I’ve personally been involved with job opportunities for people who workshops deliver a lot of useful attending. experience homelessness and information to support vendors in an easily digestible way: In 2019 we will continue rolling disadvantage, and are marginalised. out these workshops to vendors. We provide funding to The Big Issue Alex from Bank Australia facilitated through the Bank Australia Impact a brilliant workshop for eight of our Fund, offer volunteering opportunities vendors in Adelaide. He tailored with The Big Issue to our staff, and each of his financial tips to the use our Sydney branch as a restocking context of selling magazines on the site for vendors in central Sydney. street, which meant the vendors We’re also running financial capability could easily relate to what he was sessions for The Big Issue vendors, saying and see how it could assist helping them to develop skills and their financial future. confidence in managing their money. In 2018 we had 63 staff across the bank volunteer with The Big Issue, including cooking breakfast for vendors, and joining soccer tournaments with inmates of Port Phillip Prison. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 43 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet We will continue to elevate the voices of our First Australians and work towards Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people being represented in more areas of our business. We’re embedding • commenced the bank’s annual Early in the 2019 financial year general meeting with a Welcome we’re launching our fourth plan – reconciliation in all to Country. a Stretch level Reconciliation Action parts of our business • supported Reconciliation Victoria’s Plan – which will further embed In December 2017 we completed our Community HART Awards, which measurable targets across the bank. third Reconciliation Action Plan. Over acknowledge organisations and the plan’s three years (2014–17), we: groups across Victoria that further • expanded the number of Indigenous reconciliation and celebrate the rich leadership programs that we cultures, histories and spiritualties support from four to five. We’ve of Australia’s First Peoples. supported 21 Aboriginal and/or • worked closely with Traditional Torres Strait Islander scholars to Owner representatives to develop complete leadership programs our 10 year strategy for the Bank since 2012. Australia Conservation Reserve. • continued to employ Aboriginal • started work on our fourth and/or Torres Strait Islander people Reconciliation Action Plan. through our traineeship program. Our Chief Risk Officer joined the We’ve employed 13 Aboriginal working group as our executive and Torres Strait Islander trainees representative in 2018. since 2011. • commenced Board, executive and Board planning meetings with an Acknowledgement of Country. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 44 How we’re supporting Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander leaders Since 2012 we have supported emerging Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander leaders to gain skills and knowledge for community leadership. Our partners in 2018 were Community Leadership Loddon Murray (Bendigo), Northern Mallee Leaders (Mildura), Community Leadership Ballarat, the Gippsland Community Leadership Program They help participants build skills and He told us what the scholarship and the Leaders Institute SA confidence, introduce them to local meant to him: (Adelaide). Through these and regional issues, allow them to Without Bank Australia’s support partnerships, we fund one network with community and business and sponsorship, I would not have scholarship each year for an leaders, and expand their professional been able to participate in this life emerging Aboriginal and/or Torres and personal networks. changing experience. The new skills Strait Islander leader to participate and confidence that I now have James was the most recent recipient in these year-long leadership will help further my community of the Bank Australia scholarship for programs. leadership journey. the Gippsland Community Leadership The programs support people who program, graduating in November Having completed the program, are passionate about and active in 2017. James is Aboriginal and also has James is looking for more their local community or sector. a lived experience of disability. opportunities to study and grow his leadership skills and knowledge. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 45 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet The Bank Australia Conservation Reserve has a large parcel of remnant vegetation which features older trees with hollows. These hollows provide vital habitat for native species like the endangered South Eastern Red Tailed Black Cockatoo. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 46 The bank that protects endangered species is the bank Australia needs. Our Conservation Reserve Our ongoing work on the reserve in • We supported the Wimmera 2018 involved onground maintenance, Biodiversity Seminar to encourage continues to thrive strategy, communications and dialogue and information sharing, We continue to work with our partnerships, with the following as part of our ongoing commitment partners Greening Australia and highlights: to support a landscape scale Trust for Nature to manage the • We engaged Barengi Gadjin approach to conservation in the Bank Australia Conservation Reserve. Land Council to provide land West Wimmera. management services, including A highlight this year was the We’ve started to plan our approach pest management. launch of a new 10 year strategy, for 2019, which includes: ‘Reimagining the future’, in late • We developed plans to improve • developing a traineeship program 2017. This strategy sets out our high food and habitat for the endangered for an Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait level goals underpinned by a clear species that live on the reserve, Islander person to learn ecology set of actions and a measurement such as the South Eastern Red and land management skills framework. We developed the Tailed Black Cockatoo, as well as other threatened plant and • preparing a climate change strategy in consultation with local animal species. adaptation strategy and national conservation experts and Traditional Custodians, using • The Barengi Gadjin Land Council • promoting our project to encourage the International Standards for the also performed a cultural heritage other businesses to follow our lead Practice of Conservation. It has five survey of the reserve, to identify • developing new research action areas: wildlife conservation, key sites of cultural significance. partnerships that enable us to be climate change, community We’ll share the results of this even more effective in protecting engagement, thought leadership, survey in 2019. threatened species and habitat. and engagement of customers • We planted an additional 7500 and staff. For more detail about the Bank native plants and trees. Australia Conservation Reserve, • We started work with neighbours please see appendix 11. and local groups to coordinate fire and pest management plans. • We ran a community day in October 2017, as a part of Trust for Nature’s Spring into Nature series. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 47 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Appendices 1. How this report was developed 7. Our lending portfolio 2. How we’re governed 8. EY statement of assurance 3. Our approach to risk 9. Our responsible banking commitments 4. Our people and culture 10. Environmental management 5. Bank Australia Impact Fund 11. Bank Australian Conservation Reserve 6. Our customer profile 12. Global Reporting Initiative Index Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 48 Appendix 1: How this report was developed Purpose of this report Reporting frameworks We produce a corporate report to be transparent to In developing this report we applied the following customers and stakeholders about how we are pursuing sustainability reporting frameworks to guide our thinking: our purpose, which is to create mutual prosperity in the form of positive economic, social, environmental and GRI Standards – to guide how we identify disclosures for cultural impact. reporting that are relevant to our customers as determined by our materiality process. This report presents Bank Australia’s performance against its strategic plan for the period 1 July 2017 – 30 June 2018 Integrated Reporting Framework – to guide our reporting (called 2018 in the report), unless otherwise stated. It does process for the bank and how we identify links between not include the performance of third party organisations our strategic plan and the indicators selected for reporting. that provide services to Bank Australia and our customers. To date, the bank’s annual report has been assured against Bank Australia also produces statutory financial accounts the AA1000 framework a sustainability reporting standard (the 2018 financial report) to support this report and as used to assess an organisation’s reporting against a set required by law. of stakeholder engagement and issues identification principles. In this 2018 corporate report, the bank reports on: From 2018, the report will continue to reflect Integrated • performance against the bank’s strategic plan and Reporting principles and will be assured against the GRI associated key performance indicators Standards’ materiality principle (priority issues identified • progress towards meeting the bank’s public on page 51) as well as assuring selected non-financial commitments. disclosures. Assurance against the GRI framework reflects • the bank’s responses to priority issues, which are the bank’s maturing reporting approach as well as GRI’s defined as those issues that: emphasis on balancing stakeholder priorities with the a) substantively influence the assessments and economic, environmental and social impacts of the decisions of stakeholders and, organisation. b) can be influenced or impacted by the bank’s operations as well as its pursuit of positive economic, environmental and social impacts. This definition aligns with GRI’s Standards. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 49 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Reporting issues that matter 2. Organisational impact An issue meets the threshold for materiality if it So this report sufficiently covers the issues that matter, is an economic, social or environmental issue that: Bank Australia conducts a materiality process to select and prioritise issues. This process ensures our report is • the bank has an existing impact or influence on, or balanced, comprehensive and strongly informed by the • the bank’s core competencies are well aligned to expectations and views of our stakeholders. In 2018 our contribute to, or materiality process was informed by ongoing stakeholder • the financial/banking sector as a whole considers engagement that ran for the duration of the year, and by to be a topic or future challenge, as identified by a formal materiality process that ran in March – June 2018. peers, competitors and industry experts. How we applied the GRI materiality How we identified issues principle We identified issues using: We applied the GRI materiality principle by assessing a) Data gathered from internal and external data issues using the following criteria: sources (see below for a list), 1. Stakeholder decision making b) Staff interviews with key Bank Australia staff. An issue meets the threshold for materiality if it has been identified in feedback provided by stakeholders, and it: • has an impact on assessment or decision making by stakeholders, and • such decision making has the potential to impact Bank Australia (for example, the brand, financial performance, staff or customer satisfaction or strategic plan). Data sources Internal External Risk Appetite Statement Participation in national and international conferences Bank’s social media platforms Participation in industry working groups Corporate Plan Media coverage and commentary Board planning session (April 2018) Royal Commission into Misconduct in the Banking and Financial Services Industry Financial Inclusion Action Plan Stakeholder engagement with not-for-profit sector Reconciliation Action Plan partners and customer organisations Disability Action Plan Engagement with bodies associated with the bank’s Environmental Management Action Plan public commitments (e.g. We Mean Business, UN Global Bank’s public commitments Compact, Reconciliation Australia, Good Shepherd Microfinance) Bank policies GRI’s Standards Bank’s annual general meeting: questions raised, feedback and discussion Staff research: satisfaction and diversity Customer research: responsible banking and customer experience and satisfaction Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 50 Staff interviews How we prioritised issues We conducted unstructured interviews with staff in key We ran a workshop with Bank Australia’s departmental roles across the business including staff responsible for: heads in May 2018. A list of 22 preliminary issues was banking integrity and fraud, compliance, operational risk, circulated in advance for consideration. The workshop lending assessment, the bank’s contact centre, digital went through a process of discussing and prioritising support, marketing, customer experience, people and issues using a GRI matrix, to prioritise issues against culture, and social media. (a) stakeholder importance and (b) the bank’s impact. This workshop identified 15 individual issues, within four We also conducted a group interview with four staff broader themes. responsible for the bank’s public commitments – including our Reconciliation Action Plan, Financial Inclusion Action Plan, Disability Action Plan, and Environmental Management Plan – to identify issues. Priority issues for this report Themes Material issues Definition Page Customers Customer experience Ensuring customers experience an excellent and 23, 24, 25 consistent customer experience through face-toface, over the phone, and digital channels. Online-led distribution Maintaining the bank’s national branch network 23, 25 while investing in an online-led distribution strategy, so customers can interact with the bank online with ease and convenience. Better rates and fees Managing the bank’s profits so a fair share of 23 profits are returned to customers through offering competitive rates and fees. Responsible Financial performance Managing the bank’s profit, efficiency, level of 13 banking and growth impaired debt and the bank’s strategy to grow Also see 2018 sustainably for the benefit of customers. financial report Safe and secure Preventing and dealing with fraud attempts and 27 banking protecting customer accounts. Remuneration and The bank’s staff remuneration practices including 16, 30 commissions salaries for staff, executives and Directors; and Also see commissions paid to and received from third parties. page 7 of 2018 financial report Building and protecting Ensuring the bank lives up to the expectations of 17, 18, 19 the bank’s brand customers and the community. Risk and compliance Managing the bank’s regulatory requirements 9, 42, 55 as an ADI under the APRA as well as managing investment and lending risk. Responsible lending Lending funds responsibly and in line with customer 18, 19, 21, expectations. This includes having clear criteria 39, 64, 65 around lending amounts to customers that do not create financial stress, and lending for commercial purposes in line with the bank’s values. Responsible Purchasing goods and services from businesses in 19 procurement a responsible way, including procurement systems and processes. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 51 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Priority issues for this report (continued) Themes Material issues Definition Page People Action on climate Managing the environmental impact of the 41, 41, 42, and planet change bank’s operations and products, and supporting 70-73 customers to live more sustainably. Social and Providing funding and/or support for initiatives 35-37, 43-47, environmental impact that align with areas the bank’s customers care 59-61 about including: climate change, environmental conservation, renewable energy, reconciliation, educational disadvantage, and refugees and asylum seekers. Staff Staff engagement Supporting an engaged workforce that is committed 29 to Bank Australia’s purpose as a responsible bank. Workforce training and Providing education and training to staff to ensure 31 capability they can develop their careers with Bank Australia and deliver Bank Australia’s purpose. Diversity, flexibility and Providing employment opportunities for staff from 30, 32, 33 inclusion diverse backgrounds and life experiences to build a career while creating an inclusive and flexible workplace that meets staff needs. Ensuring all staff are supported to build a career with Bank Australia across all levels of seniority and departments. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 52 Appendix 2: How we’re governed We are governed by a Board of Directors. The Board Every three years of service, each member-elected Director is accountable to our customers, who own the bank. will be eligible for reappointment if they would like to stand Customers elect the majority of non-executive for the position again. This appointment occurs through a Directors to the Board and vote on issues at our customer vote at the annual general meeting – customers annual general meeting. can vote for or against reappointment of specific Directors, and can vote for alternate candidates if other candidates The Board: have nominated and passed a due diligence process to • establishes corporate objectives stand for election. The Board may also reappoint Board • develops, with management, the corporate culture, appointed Directors at its discretion. strategy and policy The Managing Director is charged with the bank’s day-to• appoints the Managing Director and evaluates their day leadership and management, supported by a senior performance management team that oversees the bank’s operations. • provides oversight for Bank Australia’s operations and ensures they align with our values Together, the Managing Director and the senior management team are responsible for embedding culture • accepts responsibility for compliance with APRA and sustainability principles within the business and prudential standards, the Australian Corporations Act delivering strategy and leadership, product development, and other regulatory and legislative requirements commercial oversight, stakeholder engagement, • approves the budget. community partnerships, and communications. The Board: The collective remuneration for the seven non-executive • meets eight times a year, plus the annual general Directors of the Board (as approved by customers at the meeting and annual Board Planning (2 days) 2017 annual general meeting) is $585,402 per year pro • has committees, which meet as follows: Risk (6), Audit rata. This sum represents total Board remuneration for (4), Governance (3), and Nominations (1) the non-executive Directors, including fees, concessions • has limited Directors’ tenure (via the bank’s constitution) and other benefits, plus all relevant taxes payable by to 12 years. either the bank or these Directors. The Board is comprised of eight Directors. Customers elected five independent, non-executive Directors and there are three Board appointed Directors – our Managing Director (currently Damien Walsh), and two independent non-executive Directors. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 53 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Our governance Board of Directors structure Judith Downes (Chair), Helen Gluer, David Wakeley, Melissa Bastian, Greg Camm, Anne-Marie Corboy, Michelle Somerville Risk Committee Nominations Committee Managing Director Damien Walsh Audit Committee Governance Committee Chief Financial Deputy Chief Chief Strategy Chief Risk Chief Operating Officer Executive Officer Officer Officer Officer Louise O’Brien John Yardley Rowan Dowland Patrick Ashkettle Lorna Heyward Our statutory financial report includes a profile of each their fitness and propriety to be and act as a Director. of our Directors. The Nominations Committee is formed and meets on an as needs basis. The Board committees are: • Risk Committee. The Board Risk Committee oversees How we’re regulated the implementation and ongoing operation of the risk Bank Australia is regulated by the APRA. This independent management framework, risk identification and control, statutory authority supervises institutions across banking, and ensures the bank meets its prudential and statutory insurance and superannuation, and is accountable to the requirements in relation to the risk management Australian Parliament. framework. It fulfils the bank’s obligations under Prudential Standard CPS 510 – Governance requiring According to regulatory requirements, we must manage a Board Risk Committee with specific responsibilities. a diversified investment portfolio across a number of ADIs, The Risk Committee meets six times per year. including the four major banks and regional banks. This • Audit Committee. The Board Audit Committee helps portfolio includes liquidity, fixed term deposits, negotiated the Board fulfil its governance responsibilities relating to certificates of deposits, bank bills, bonds, covered bonds, the oversight of the bank’s reporting obligations, audit mortgage backed securities and floating rate notes, and function, internal control and compliance framework, is required by APRA for liquidity purposes. It is not possible and promote an ethical culture of compliance throughout to determine the exact purpose of every dollar invested in the organisation. It fulfils the bank’s obligations under these APRA regulated ADI products, so we cannot be sure Prudential Standard CPS 510 Governance requiring whether the use of every dollar of these funds matches a Board Audit Committee with specific responsibilities. our responsible investment and lending policy. The Audit Committee meets four times per year. Bank Australia is also regulated by ASIC, which has • Governance Committee. The Board Governance responsibility for regulation under the Corporations Act Committee ensures the bank has a strong and 2001. ASIC is the country’s integrated corporate, markets, effective governance framework for fulfilling the bank’s financial services and consumer credit regulator. remuneration responsibilities and constitutional matters, and advises the Board on related matters. It fulfils the Transparency in our share holdings bank’s obligations under Prudential Standard CPS 510 Governance requiring a Board Remuneration Committee Bank Australia holds shares in subsidiary companies. In 2018 with specific responsibilities. The Governance Committee the bank was a shareholder in two major service suppliers: meets three times per year. • Cuscal – a provider of wholesale and transactional • Nominations Committee. The Nominations Committee banking services is responsible for determining the appropriateness • Data Action – a supplier of core banking and data of candidates for Director elections. It oversees network facilities. nominations submitted from eligible shareholders for Director elections, and interviews nominees to assess Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 54 Appendix 3: Our approach to risk To minimise and manage our exposure to risk, we maintain are well above those set by APRA, reflecting our a risk management framework that monitors the operating responsible banking practices. environment, uses reliable information to support our risk analysis, and ensures we have effective controls in place Above the three lines – risk management to manage the risks that we are exposed to. and strategy setting Our Board has ultimate responsibility for the risk Our three lines of defence to manage risk management framework and risk appetite statement. Our risk management structure has been designed To ensure their effectiveness the Board is responsible for in line with the ‘three lines of defence’ framework: overseeing our risk management operations. By acting 1. Each operational area across the bank manages in an oversight capacity, Directors can form a view of risk its own risks. This first line of defence encourages culture, identify any necessary changes to culture, and a risk culture that involves all staff. ensure steps are taken to address these changes. 2. A central risk and compliance team, led by our Chief Risk Officer, forms our second line of defence. Risk incidents This team is responsible for: In 2018 we managed a number of risk incidents as part • ensuring the risk framework is consistent with of ongoing business operations and improving controls prudential and industry practice when appropriate. Two of these incidents were considered material as they had a direct impact on our customers: • developing risk strategy and risk treatment plans 1. A banking system outage in March 2018 impacted • overseeing risk management practices customers’ access to online and mobile banking for • maintaining risk registers, incident and issue 18 hours. registers, complaints and dispute registers 2. A processing error in August 2017 saw approximately • monitoring compliance obligations 11,000 Visa card transactions posted to customer • coordinating how risk appetite applies in accounts twice. The duplicate transactions were day-to-day business. reversed the following day. 3. Internal audit provides our third line of defence, via We reviewed these incidents in conjunction with our key independent assurance. Our internal auditor, KPMG, suppliers and ensured that additional controls have been reports to the Audit Committee, which meets quarterly. put in place to prevent a recurrence. The Board’s Risk Committee meets six times per year and considers our risk management framework, There were four further incidents. Although they were not including our risk appetite and risk monitoring. Our highly material, we advised our regulator. Two related to tolerances for credit risk, capital risk and liquidity risk consumer credit insurance, one to withholding tax, and one to early breaks on certain term deposit accounts. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 55 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Appendix 4: Our people and culture This appendix contains information and statistics about our workforce, and our people and culture activities in 2017. Our workforce summary, 2018 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total staff1,2 411 394 370 335 353 Female 281 265 251 234 251 Male 130 129 119 101 102 Full time equivalents (FTEs) 367 356 338 304 315 Staff turnover rate (continuing) 9.5% 10.7% 10.2% 14.3% 9.8% Absentee rate 3.3% 3.6% 2.7% 3.9% 3.6% Occupational health and safety 38 19 18 15 14 incidents and injuries3 Days lost to injury 30 39 32 5 2 Number of staff who took paid 22 n/a n/a n/a n/a parental leave in 20184 Staff engagement5,6 67% 73% 77% 68% n/a Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 56 Notes on people and culture figures 6. Our staff engagement measure is measured by: asking staff (86% 1. Total staff includes staff on parental leave, extended sick leave, casual, participated in 2018) whether they agree with five statements. contract and trainees. Excludes Board Directors. The engagement score is based on the percentage of staff who agree 2. Most staff worked full time (73.5%) followed by those who worked part-time or strongly agree with these statements. (14.6%), those on a contract (6.8%), trainees (2.7%) and casual staff (2.4%). 1. I would recommend Bank Australia as a great place to work. These figures are broadly similar to those reported in 2017. 2. I see myself still working at Bank Australia in two years. 3. Our occupational health and safety incidents and injuries figures break down 3. I rarely think about looking for a job in another company. to 15 incidents without injury, and 23 incidents with injury. We identified no 4. I am proud to work for Bank Australia. common themes from injuries sustained. Reasons for injuries were minor 5. Working at Bank Australia motivates me to go beyond what I would slips, bumps and falls. in a similar role elsewhere. 4. Our parental leave figure refers to leave that is taken and paid by Bank 7. Percentages in this section may not always add to exactly 100% due Australia for primary carers and secondary carers. We did not report on this to rounding to one decimal point for clarity. measure before 2018 because this paid leave policy was introduced this year. 5. Staff engagement was not measured in 2014. Where our people work Staff by location, 2018 In 2018, our staff were split across our locations as follows: • 36.7% staff in metro Vic 12% • 35.8% staff in Gippsland Metro Victoria • 15.1% staff in Western Victoria 15% 37% Regional Victoria – • 12.4% staff in QLD, SA, ACT, NSW Gippsland • 50.9% of our total staff are based in regional Regional Victoria – Victoria – up 1% since 2017. This proportion Western Region reflects our commitment to creating jobs 36% NSW / QLD / and opportunities in regional Australia. ACT / SA • 87.6% of our staff are based in Victoria and 12.4% are based in other states. Employee age, 2018 Staff, by role classification, 2018 Age bracket Number % of total Role Number <25 years 55 13.4% Managing Director 1 25 years to 55 years 310 75.4% Non-executive Board Directors 7 >55 years 46 11.2% Executives 5 Total 411 Senior managers 12 Other managers 60 Frontline/sales 195 Professionals 42 Clerical and administrative 96 Total 418 Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 57 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Gender equity Employee gender split by type of employment, 2018 In 2018 we continued to employ more female staff Age bracket Number % of total (286, or 68%) than male staff (132, or 32%). These figures include Bank Australia’s Directors (bringing Full time staff our total figure to 418). We included Directors in the gender equity section, but not our workforce summary, Female 192 46.7% to align to our Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) reporting, which includes all levels of the workforce. Male 109 26.5% Part-time staff Employee gender split, 2018 Female 59 14.4% Male 1 0.2% 32% Casual staff 68% Female 8 2% Female Male 1 0.2% Male Trainees Female 7 1.7% Role classification Male 4 1% We classified roles within the bank based on the Contract staff WGEA classification of roles: frontline/sales, professionals, clerical/administrative staff, executive managers, senior Female 15 3.7% managers and other managers. In 2018 almost half of our staff (46.7%) were employed in sales roles, followed by Male 13 3.2% staff in clerical/administrative roles (30%), other managers (14.4%), professionals (10.1%), senior managers (2.9%), Total 411 executives (1.2%), our Board Directors (1.7%) and our Managing Director (0.2%). Note: These figures do not include Board Directors. Employee gender split, by role classification, 2018 Female Male 71.4% 28.6% Board of Directors 40% 60% Executives 33.3% 66.7% Senior managers 56.67% 43.33% Other managers 50% 50% Professionals 68.8% 31.3% Clerical and administrative 79% 21% Sales Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 58 Appendix 5: Bank Australia Impact Fund The bank allocates 4% of its after tax profits to the Bank Australia Impact Fund. The fund supports a number of major projects and partnerships that benefit people and planet. Our largest social partnership is with The Big Issue, and our largest environmental project is the Bank Australia Conservation Reserve. We also run an open grants round each year for Bank Australia customers who can apply for grants of up to $10,000 projects that benefit people or planet. In 2018 we disbursed 3.4% of after tax profits (generated in 2017) from the Impact Fund, or a total of $854,471. We will roll over the remaining 0.6% that was not spent this year to fund new projects in 2019. Funding for people and planet, 2018 57% 43% Planet People Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 59 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Bank Australia Impact Fund projects, 2018 Program Partner Category Amount Bettong Buddies Woodlands and Wetlands Conservation $31,500 Trust, ACT Bank Australia Conservation Reserve Greening Australia Conservation $304,781 The Big Issue The Big Issue Disadvantage $88,000 Australian Education Union Professional development Education $40,000 Intech Bank Scholarship UTS (University of Educational $10,000 Technology Sydney) disadvantage Scholarship program School for Student Educational $3,000 Leadership disadvantage Tylah West Scholarship Illawara Housing Trust Educational $5,500 disadvantage Step Up Latrobe Valley Program Ladder Educational $35,000 disadvantage Intech Bank Scholarship Swinburne University Educational $5,000 disadvantage Just One Thing Latrobe Youth Choices Educational $29,876 disadvantage Graphing calculator program State Schools’ Relief Educational $42,000 disadvantage Refugee research program Human Rights Watch Refugees and people $40,000 seeking asylum Voices for Justice dinner Human Rights Watch Refugees and people $14,000 seeking asylum Laos Savings and Financial Literacy program Australian Mutuals Foundation Financial inclusion $25,000 CSIRO Science Pathways in Central CSIRO Reconciliation $52,000 Australia partnership Indigenous leadership scholarship – Ballarat Leadership Ballarat Reconciliation $5,555 and Western Victoria Indigenous leadership scholarship – Mildura Community Leadership Reconciliation $5,500 Northern Mallee Indigenous leadership scholarship – Bendigo Community Leadership Reconciliation $5,500 Loddon Murray Indigenous leadership scholarship – Adelaide The Leaders Institute Reconciliation $7,260 Indigenous leadership scholarship – Gippsland Gippsland Community Reconciliation $5,500 Leadership Program Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 60 Customer Grants Program Partner Category Amount Port Phillip Bay sea slug census Victorian National Parks Conservation $9,959 Association Mt Burr Swamp revegetation program Nature Glenelg Trust Conservation $10,000 SheWorks program Fitted for Work Financial inclusion $10,000 Female engagement and support program Kalay Academy Warrnambool Reconciliation $10,000 Refugee hospitality traineeship program Scarf Refugees and people $10,000 seeking asylum Science and Makers Fair Echuca College Educational $10,000 disadvantage Flexible Learning Options bus Maryborough Education Educational $10,000 Centre disadvantage Young mums education re-engagement Zoe Support Educational $10,000 program disadvantage Murray River Tea Rooms social enterprise Community Living Respite Disability $10,000 Services LIFE program Moe Life Skills Community Disability $9,540 Centre $854,471 Bank Australia Impact Fund programs, by funding category, 2018 7% Conservation 11% Disability Disadvantage 4% 43% Education and educational disadvantage Financial inclusion 23% Reconciliation Refugees 10% 2% Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 61 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Appendix 6: Our customer profile We experienced strong organic customer growth in 2018. We attribute some of this to our continued competitive rates and fees offering and some to increased brand awareness as a result of the bank Australia needs campaign. More about our customers Customer numbers and demographics 2018 2017 Change 2017 to 2018 Number of customers Total customers1 135,786 123,322 +10% New customers2 14,355 10,578 +35% Customers who left the bank 9733 7830 +23% Net customer growth 4622 6140 –23% Customer retention rate 92% 94% –2% Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 62 Customer numbers and demographics 2018 2017 Change 2017 to 2018 Customer locations Victoria 68% 67% +1% Queensland 9% 9% – New South Wales 12% 11% +1% Australian Capital Territory 4% 3% +1% Western Australia 2% 2% – South Australia 2% 2% – Tasmania 1% 1% – Northern Territory 0.3% 0.2% – Other 3% 5% –2% Customer age Average age of customers (years) 51 51 0% Average age of new customers (years) 39 39 0% Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction3 91% 86% +4% Customer complaints 228 230 –1% Customer complaints as a share of total 0.2% 0.2% 0% customers Financial wellbeing Customer satisfaction with overall financial 70% 74% –4% situation Hardship Loans varied due to hardship 174 164 +6% Notes on our customer profile 1. The total number of customers reported in our 2017 corporate report was 141,071 which is inconsistent with the figures reported here. This is because the definition of a customer changed in 2018, and as a result a large number of individuals who were considered customers in 2017 are no longer considered customers in 2018. The main change to this definition was removal of customers who no longer have an active product with the bank, such as people with access facilities to a family members’ account and those who have closed all products with us but maintain a customer number. 2. In addition to these new customers joining the bank, a further 7842 existing Intech customers were added to our total customer number following a database merger on 30 September 2017. 3. We worked with research agency Forethought to measure customer satisfaction in June 2018. A representative sample of 1739 customers were asked how satisfied they are with Bank Australia on a ten point scale. Scores of 6+ (satisfied or extremely satisfied) are used to calculate overall satisfaction. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 63 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Appendix 7: Our lending portfolio This appendix contains information and statistics on Value of lending, by customer type, 2018 our lending activities for 2018. Summary of our lending portfolio, 2018 7% Lending portfolio 2018 lending1 Total lending $4,696,724,871 Home loan lending $4,239,185,250 Personal customers 93% Commercial loans Commercial lending $344,452,755 Personal lending: car loans, personal $113,086,866 loans and overdrafts Balance of broker funded loans $1,026,604,232 1. These figures include onand off-balance sheet loans. Lending to benefit people, planet Lending for people and prosperity People related assets include those used to finance social We use the GABV scorecard to report on our people, empowerment enterprises or projects delivering activities planet and prosperity lending. This figure provides such as education, health care, social inclusion, arts and an indicator of a bank’s lending activity in line with culture, or special needs housing. a values based banking model. Triple Bottom line Our current activities include commercial loans to the assets specifically refer to money invested by a bank in community and disability sector and to affordable individuals and enterprises that deliver positive social, housing developments such as the MS Society project environmental and economic benefits to society. on page 21. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 64 Lending for planet Lending for prosperity Planet related assets include those used to finance Prosperity related assets include those used to finance environmental protection or enhancement enterprises or economic security enterprises or projects delivering projects delivering activities such as renewable energy, activities such as SME lending, micro-finance for microenergy efficiency or retrofits, ‘green’ housing or buildings, enterprises, or economic inclusion. waste or pollution reduction, water efficiency and access, Our current activities include our affordable housing or sustainable agriculture. initiatives such as the HomesVic scheme (page 27 in the Our current activities include our car loans (because report), the Homes Smart Shared Equity Scheme, ACT we offset emissions associated with our loans), our Land Rent and other loans for the purposes of economic construction loans (because we protect an equivalent inclusion or microfinance. amount of land on our Conservation Reserve) and our commercial loans with an environmental benefit. Lending to benefit people, planet and prosperity, 2018 Total value % of overall loan book People lending $160m 3.4% Planet lending $240m 5.1% Prosperity lending $25m 0.5% Total $425m 9.1% Commercial lending by sector, at 30 June 2018 Sector Total value % of overall loan book Affordable housing $120m 2.6% Agriculture, forestry and fishing $2.9m 0.1% Community services $2.4m 0.1% Construction $9.4m 0.2% Disability $7.4m 0.2% Education and training $27.1m 0.6% Government and government services $1.5m 0.0% Health care and social assistance $4.1m 0.1% Manufacturing $5.4m 0.1% Rental, hiring and real estate services $96m 2.0% Services $57m 1.2% Transport, wholesale and retail trade $10.4m 0.2% Total commercial lending $344.6m 7.3% Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 65 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Appendix 8: EY statement of assurance (TBC) Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 66 Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 67 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Appendix 9: Our responsible banking commitments We’re part of a global network of banks that are guided • the ABA – a main contributor of analysis, advice and by values and pursue positive economic, social and advocacy for the banking industry and financial services environmental outcomes from the business of banking. • the United Nations Global Compact – the largest We know we need to listen to and learn from others, corporate citizenship and sustainability initiative and be open to new ideas to make our bank better and in the world. stronger. For this reason, we seek to learn from like-minded organisations in Australia and around the world. Our memberships and associations bring different perspectives to the bank. They help us network, We’re members of: share information, learn and question our own • the GABV – a global network of banks committed thinking, making sure we’re working in ways that to advancing positive change in the banking sector help us to achieve our purpose. • the BCCM – the national peak body representing co-operative and mutual enterprises • the COBA – the industry advocate for Australia’s customer owned banking sector Progress against our public commitments on values based banking, 2018 Commitment Commitment description Progress in 2018 Disability Action Plan To promote the inclusion of people with We continued work to meet the commitments a disability as staff, customers and in our inaugural Disability Action Plan. community members Financial Inclusion To understand and address the drivers of We met the commitments in our Financial Action Plan financial exclusion among groups Inclusion Action Plan. of customers who are vulnerable Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 68 Progress against our public commitments on values based banking, 2018 Commitment Commitment description Progress in 2018 Reconciliation Action To promote understanding and close We met the commitments in our third Plan the gap between Indigenous and Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP). We developed non-Indigenous Australians the fourth update to our RAP, and first ‘Stretch’ plan, in consultation with Reconciliation Australia. We will launch this new plan in July 2018. GABV To operate in alignment with the agreed We continued to operate in alignment with principles of values based banking. This values based banking through our stated commitment is articulated as a shared purpose of creating mutual prosperity mission to use finance to deliver sustainable in the form of positive economic, social, economic, social and environmental environmental and cultural impact. development, with a focus on helping individuals fulfil their potential and build stronger communities. We Mean Business To help global efforts to keep the warming We’re on track to meet our seven climate change of the earth to below 2 degrees Celsius commitments (appendix 10). action plan UN Global Compact To operate sustainably and contribute We met our commitments via a range of to global sustainable development actions on environmental and social issues, and communicated our progress to the UN Global Compact annually. Paris Pledge To help global efforts to keep the warming We’re on track to meet commitments of the earth to below 2 degrees Celsius (appendix 10). Carbon neutrality To calculate and offset the carbon We’ve met our commitment (appendix 10). emissions generated through the operations of the bank Take2 Pledge To support the Victorian Government’s We’re on track to meet commitments collective climate action program to help (appendix 10). global efforts to keep the warming of the earth to below 2 degrees Celsius Never lend to the To not invest customers’ funds in companies We’re on track to meet commitments fossil fuel sector involved in extracting or processing fossil (appendix 10). fuels Bank Australia To invest 4% of annual after-tax profits We invested 3.27% of after tax profits. Impact Fund into projects that create positive social The remainder of funds will be invested in and environmental change 2019 through new initiatives – we will review our Impact Fund strategy in 2019. Create and keep jobs To create and keep all employment with We’re meeting our commitment. We created in Australia Bank Australia in Australia, with a focus room for more regional jobs by refurbishing on generating employment in regional our National Customer Contact and Lending Australia Centre in the Latrobe Valley, Victoria. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 69 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Appendix 10: Environmental management Carbon neutrality To offset our emissions, we forward purchased offsets from a leading Gold Standard project in Timor Leste, Our operations remained carbon neutral in 2018. Our net WithOneSeed, which works with subsistence farming greenhouse gas emissions were 1404 tonnes, which was communities to replant and protect their forests. We had a decrease of 6% compared to the previous year. Emissions also banked excess offsets from 2017, which were from an per FTE staff member decreased by 8% in 2018 compared Australian savannah burning project that uses traditional to the previous year. Since 2014, we’ve decreased our land management practices in the Northern Territory. absolute operational emissions by 19%. We used 1404 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent to Our main emissions reduction activity in 2018 was offset the emissions from our operations in 2018. switching over to GreenPower at our head office, our National Customer Contact Centre in Moe and our Bendigo branch and office, and installing a 32.5kW solar system on the roof of our contact centre in Moe. Greenhouse gas emissions – tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2-e) Emissions source1 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Change Change 2017 to 2014 to 2018 2018 Scope 1 – direct emissions Car travel – company 19 21 19 16 19 -8% 0% owned Gas – scope 1 50 49 55 63 76 1% -35% Total scope 1 69 70 74 79 95 -2% -28% Scope 2 – indirect emissions Electricity – scope 2 958 1,001 978 1,184 1,243 -4% -23% Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 70 Emissions source1 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Change Change 2017 to 2014 to 2018 2018 Scope 3 – other indirect emissions Gas – scope 3 3.7 3.7 4.2 4.8 6.0 1% -37% Electricity – scope 3 99 103 117 152 165 -5% -40% Car travel – company 1.0 1.1 1.0 1.3 1.5 -8% -35% owned Car travel – employee 23 14 10 11 6 67% 273% owned claims2 Car travel – salary 54 44 31 45 47 24% 15% packaged and job needs cars2 Air travel2 221 151 99 76 94 46% 135% Office paper 0 0 12 13 14 0% -100% (4 tonnes)3 Statements paper 0 0 6 – – 0% -100% (3 tonnes)3 Printing jobs, including 19 40 140 51 62 -53% -70% paper and production Waste – general waste 62 66 56 52 53 -5% 18% to landfill Water4 0.003 N/A N/A Base building services4 37 N/A N/A Hotel stays4 89 N/A N/A Total scope 34 610 423 475 407 449 44% 36% Total gross emissions 1,637 1,494 1,527 1,670 1,788 10% -8% GreenPower purchase -232 N/A N/A (215,247kWh) TOTAL NET EMISSIONS 1,404 1,494 1,527 1,670 1,788 -6% -19% TOTAL per FTE 3.8 4.2 4.8 5.5 5.7 -8% -33% Notes 2. Increases in several emissions sources were due to: 1. Our greenhouse gas emissions are defined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: • Car travel: extra travel for training, including training new staff • Scope 1: direct emissions that we own or control (for example, owned • Air travel: international travel to conferences and meetings motor vehicles) 3. Emissions from paper use (office and statement paper) are recorded • Scope 2: indirect emissions, including emissions from the generation as zero because National Carbon Offset Standard certified carbon neutral of purchased electricity paper from Australian Paper was used. • Scope 3: other indirect emissions that are a consequence of our activities 4. Total scope 3 emissions increased as new sources of scope 3 emissions but have sources that we do not own or control (for example, air travel). were accounted for in 2018: water, base building services and hotel stays. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 71 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Carbon offsets 2018 Offset type Registry Serial numbers Year Tonnes retired of CO2-e ACCU – savannah burning1 ANREU 3,745,332,692 -3,745,332,824 2016-17 133 VER – WithOneSeed Timor Leste The Gold GS1-1-TL2017-18 1600 Standard GS4210-22-2015-5273-371 Environmental to 1770; GS1-1-TLRegistry GS4210-22-2013-5275-307 to 506 Total offsets purchased and retired 1,733 Total emissions 1,404 Surplus offsets banked for future years 329 Notes 1. 133 ACCUs were banked from 2017 surplus and carried over to 2018. We Mean Business commitments Ahead of the Paris climate change talks in 2015, Bank Australia made seven commitments as part of We Mean Business – a global platform to demonstrate business leadership on climate action. These commitments helped shape priorities of our environmental management plan for the coming years. Progress against We Mean Business commitments in 2018 Commitment Description Progress in 2018 Adopt a science based We will ensure our emissions are in line We set a target using science based emissions reduction with global budgets for limiting temperature methods to reduce our scope 1 and 2 target increase to under 2 degrees Celsius emissions by 16% by 2025 (from a 2017 baseline). Put a price on carbon We will set an internal price per tonne We used a carbon price of $16/tonne of of carbon dioxide equivalent and use it carbon dioxide equivalent when modelling in decision making scenarios for switching to 100% renewable electricity. Commit to 100% We will switch our electricity supply to We switched our head office, our Contact renewable power renewable sources. Centre and our Bendigo office to GreenPower. We installed a 32.5kW solar system on the roof of our contact centre. We signed contracts to buy power and renewable energy certificates via the Melbourne Renewable Energy Project from a new wind farm being constructed in regional Victoria. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 72 Commitment Description Progress in 2018 Responsible corporate We will engage consistently and positively We continued participating in the Victorian engagement in climate with policymakers on climate change Government’s TAKE2 pledge. policy We became a Founding Partner of South Australia’s Carbon Neutral Adelaide program. Report climate We will include information on climateWe continued to report on our greenhouse change information relevant topics in our corporate report gas emissions and offsetting in our in mainstream reports corporate report. as a fiduciary duty Remove commodity We will not purchase products We used 100% recycled paper for office driven deforestation that contribute to deforestation and statement printing. from all supply chains We reviewed our other paper purchases by 2020 for responsible forestry certifications (e.g. Forest Stewardship Council). Reduce short lived We will track and reduce emissions We continued reporting on sources of climate pollutant of greenhouse gases such as methane (e.g. gas combustion and waste) emissions hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and methane in greenhouse gas emissions accounts. Car loan offsets Bank Australia offsets emissions associated with each car loan that it finances during the life of the loan. In 2018, the total emissions associated with our active car loans was 8,011 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent. We offset these by forward purchasing certified emissions reductions from a wind farm project in India. Carbon offsets 2018 Offset type Registry Serial numbers Year Tonnes retired of CO2-e CER1 ANREU 226,265,741 – 226,266,725 2016-17 985 CER ANREU 226,266,726 – 226,273,725 2017-18 7,000 CER ANREU 226,822,569 – 226,822,594 2018-19 26 Total offsets purchased and retired 8,011 75,000 Total emissions2 8,011 74,015 Notes 1. 985 CERs were banked from 2017 surplus and carried over to 2018. 2. We calculate emissions associated with each car loan based on average vehicle emissions figures and average mileage figures for Australian vehicles (sources: National Greenhouse Accounts Factors and Australian Bureau of Statistics). For each car loan, we use the average vehicle emissions factor multiplied by the share of the year that the car loan was active. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 73 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Appendix 11: Bank Australia Conservation Reserve We continue to work with our partners Greening Australia and Trust for Nature to manage the Bank Australia Conservation Reserve. The Bank Australia Conservation Reserve received funding of $304,781 from the Bank Australia Impact Fund in 2018. Action area Objectives Progress Wildlife and land By 2026, we will maintain or improve We invested significant resources in weed conservation the quality of at least 600 hectares of and pest control in order to protect remnant our Conservation Reserve to support vegetation and native plantings. and increase the populations of up to five existing threatened plants and four We planted over 7000 overstorey trees in existing threatened animals, which have partnership with Landcare. been identified through baseline ecological We developed plans to protect the threatened monitoring. animal (13) and plant species (11) on the reserve, including endangered species (3).1 By 2026, we will extend and enhance the We conducted baseline monitoring for condition of existing revegetation across 200 threatened species in 2017 and have hectares of previously degraded land in our developed plans to support the species reserve to provide habitat for at least five we know live on the reserve. other wildlife species, which will be identified through baseline ecological monitoring. By 2020, social and indigenous ecological Land management staff from Barengi knowledge will be integrated into the Gadjin Land Council delivered pest and management of our reserve. weed management. We also initiated to discussions to develop more meaningful opportunities on the reserve for Traditional Owners such as a land management traineeship and traditional burning practices to manage bushfire risk. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 74 Action area Objectives Progress Climate change By 2026, the current extent of our We planted over 7000 overstorey trees resilience Conservation Reserve system will be as mentioned above. revegetated with native species, and managed to maximise both habitat and In 2019 we will develop a climate biodiverse carbon storage. change restoration and resilience plan and continue to invest in revegetation By 2026 our Conservation Reserve will activities. provide critical habitat for up to five identified threatened wildlife species, based on 2050 climate models. The species will be identified through baseline ecological monitoring.1 Engaging the By 2020, indigenous land management In 2018 we continued to focus on community practices and stories will be implemented and embedding Aboriginal cultures, histories celebrated within our Conservation Reserve. and stories into our community days and communications about the reserve. Each year we will run one project at our Conservation Reserve that ties in with an We ran an open day in September 2017 identified social priority of our customers which was attended by 37 school children, other than conservation (for example, as well as teachers and parents from two supporting people with a disability local schools. or refugee communities). We continued to engage with the local community through planning for weed Each year until 2021 we will engage the and pest control and fire management, local community, including children, with including meetings with local landowners, our Conservation Reserve. conservation groups and the Country Fire Authority. Demonstrating By 2021 Bank Australia will have partnerships The project was presented at two corporate with at least three research institutions and/ conferences during 2018: environmental or conservation networks relating to the – the GABV conference in Lima, Peru leadership Conservation Reserve. – the International Land Conservation Network in Santiago, Chile. At least once each year Bank Australia will inform a banking industry or corporate audience about the Conservation Reserve, such as through a conference, presentations, visit or publication. Delivering value to By 2021, 60% of Bank Australia’s customers We produced a virtual tour of the reserve Bank Australia and will be aware of our Conservation Reserve. and developed a partnership with The our customers Guardian Australia to profile the project. Every year there will be a greater number of customers who identify our Conservation We produced and promoted 6 news Reserve as being a factor in deciding to join articles, 1 video, and 2 podcasts covering Bank Australia. Conservation Reserve content for our customers and social media followers. Each year 10% of our staff will have visited We took our staff on two trips to the our Conservation Reserve and be able to reserve in 2018, with 46 staff attending share their stories with customers. (representing 11% of staff). 1. As part of developing the Bank Australia Conservation Reserve strategy, Greening Australia conducted a monitoring project in September 2017 to identify the fauna and flora present on the reserve. The project identified 227 native plants and 270 native animals. This included 13 threatened animal species including three endangered species – the South Eastern Red-tailed Black Cockatoo, the Growling Grass Frog and the Brown Toadlet. The classification of the fauna and flora by Greening Australia was in accordance with the Victorian Government’s Advisory list of Threatened Vertebrate Fauna in Victoria 2013. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 75 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Appendix 12. Global Reporting Initiative Index GRI Standard Title Disclosure Description Section Page GRI 102 General 102-14 Statement from senior Hear from our Chair 4-5 Disclosures decision-maker and Managing Director GRI 102 General 102-15 Key impacts, risks, Chapter 7 39-42, Disclosures and opportunities Appendix 9 7-73 and 10 GRI 102 General 102-1 Name of the organisation Chapter 2 9 Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-2 Activities, brands, products, Chapter 2 9 Disclosures and services GRI 102 General 102-3 Location of headquarters Chapter 2 9 Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-4 Location of operations Chapter 2 6 Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-5 Ownership and legal form Chapter 2 6 Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-6 Markets served Chapter 2 6 Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-7 Scale of the organisation Chapter 2 6 Disclosures Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 76 GRI Standard Title Disclosure Description Section Page GRI 102 General 102-8 Information on employees Chapter 6 29-33, Disclosures and other workers Appendix 4 56-58 GRI 102 General 102-9 Supply chain Chapter 4 19 Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-10 Significant changes to the Chapter 4 6, 19 Disclosures organisation and its supply chain GRI 102 General 102-12 External initiatives Chapter 7 35-47, Disclosures Appendix 9 68-69, 74-75 GRI 102 General 102-13 Membership of associations Chapter 2 6 Disclosures Appendix 9 GRI 102 General 102-46 Defining report content and Chapter 1 7, 49-52 Disclosures topic boundaries Appendix 1 GRI 102 General 102-47 List of material topics Appendix 1 49-52 Disclosures GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Appendix 1 49-52 Approach topic and its boundary GRI 102 General 102-49 Changes in reporting Appendix 1 7, 49-52 Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Chapter 1 7, 49-52 Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-42 Identifying and selecting Chapter 1 7, 49-52 Disclosures stakeholders Appendix 1 GRI 102 General 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Chapter 1 7, 49-52 Disclosures engagement Appendix 1 GRI 102 General 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Appendix 1 7, 49-52 Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-50 Reporting period Welcome 1 Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-53 Contact point for questions Welcome 1 Disclosures regarding the report GRI 102 General 102-54 Claims of reporting in Appendix 1 7, 49-52, Disclosures accordance with the GRI 76-79 Standards GRI 102 General 102-55 GRI content index Appendix 12 76-79 Disclosures Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 77 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet GRI Standard Title Disclosure Description Section Page GRI 102 General 102-56 External assurance Appendix 8 66-67 Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-18 Governance structure Appendix 2 53 54 Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-19 Delegating authority Appendix 2 53-54 Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-20 Executive-level responsibility Appendix 2 53-54 Disclosures for economic, environmental, and social topics GRI 102 General 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on Appendix 1 49-52 Disclosures economic, environmental, and social topics GRI 102 General 102-22 Composition of the highest Appendix 2 53-54 Disclosures governance body and its committees GRI 102 General 102-23 Chair of the highest Appendix 2 53-54 Disclosures governance body GRI 102 General 102-24 Nominating and selecting Appendix 2 53-54 Disclosures the highest governance body GRI 102 General 102-26 Role of highest governance Appendix 2 53-54 Disclosures body in setting purpose, values, and strategy GRI 102 General 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest Financial Report 1-6 (financial Disclosures governance body report) GRI 102 General 102-29 Identifying and managing Appendix 2 49-51, 55 Disclosures economic, environmental, Appendix 3 and social impacts GRI 102 General 102-30 Effectiveness of risk Appendix 3 55 Disclosures management processes GRI 102 General 102-35 Remuneration policies Chapter 7 16-17, 30 Disclosures Appendix 4 GRI 102 General 102-36 Process for determining Chapter 7 30 (Corporate Disclosures remuneration Financial Report report) 7 (Financial report) GRI 102 General 102-38 Annual total compensation Financial Report 7 (Financial Disclosures ratio report) GRI 102 General 102-16 Values, principles, standards, Chapter 2 10-11 Disclosures and norms of behaviour Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 78 GRI Standard Title Disclosure Description Section Page GRI 201 Economic 201-1 Direct economic value Chapter 3 13 Performance generated and distributed GRI 201 Economic 201-2 Financial implications and Chapter 7 42 Performance other risks and opportunities due to climate change GRI 203 Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure investments Appendix 7 21,39, Economic and services supported 64-65 Impacts GRI 203 Indirect 203-2 Significant indirect economic Appendix 7 21,39, Economic impacts 64-65 Impacts GRI 304 Biodiversity 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, Chapter 7 46-47, products, and services on Appendix 11 74-75 biodiversity GRI 304 Biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Chapter 7 46-47, Appendix 11 74-75 GRI 305 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Appendix 10 70-73 GRI 305 Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG Appendix 10 70-73 emissions GRI 305 Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG Appendix 10 70-73 emissions GRI 305 Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Appendix 10 71 GRI 305 Emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Appendix 10 40-41, 70-73 GRI 401 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and Appendix 4 56-58 employee turnover GRI 401 Employment 401-3 Parental leave Appendix 4 56 GRI 403 Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and rates of Appendix 4 56 Health and injury, occupational diseases, Safety lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities GRI 404 Training and 404-2 Programs for upgrading Chapter 7 31 Education employee skills and transition assistance programs GRI 405 Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance Chapter 6 32-33, and Equal bodies and employees Appendix 4 56-58 Opportunity Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 79 Welcome Our reporting Our business Our financial Responsible Our Our staff People Appendices approach in brief performance banking customers and planet Glossary Term Description Australian Credit Licence (ACL) Authorisation to provide services as a credit provider in Australia. National legislation defines credit activity, including activity related to credit contracts, consumer leases, related mortgages and guarantees, and credit assistance services. authorised deposit taking Corporations authorised under the Banking Act 1959 (Cth), including banks, institution (ADI) building societies and credit unions that must meet certain criteria. Australian Financial Services Authorisation to offer and provide consumers with specified financial Licence (AFSL) products and services in accordance with ASIC compliance standards. Australian Prudential Regulation An independent Commonwealth statutory authority that administers Authority (APRA) the Banking Act 1959 (Cth) and sets prudential requirements for ADIs, including monitoring their lending activities. Australian Securities and An independent Commonwealth statutory authority that protects Investments Commission (ASIC) consumers, investors and creditors by licensing and monitoring financial services organisations and their representatives. ASIC regulates mutual ADIs as companies under the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). capital adequacy ratio The percentage of a bank’s adjusted capital compared to its risk weighted assets, as per Prudential Standard APS110. cost to income ratio The percentage relationship between operating expenses and effective gross income. credit quality The percentage of delinquent loans 30 days or more in arrears to the total loan portfolio. Cuscal An ADI regulated by APRA, which provides payment services to the majority of Australia’s mutual ADIs. customer An account holder. Customers also hold a one share in the bank. Global Reporting Initiative Standards The current version of global voluntary guidelines for companies to report their sustainability performance and workplace practices. Impact finance Finance that is mobilised to create measurable positive social and/or environmental impact, while delivering a return on investment. incident (occupational health An occupational health and safety (OH&S) event that affects staff but does and safety related) not result in physiological or psychological change. It includes when a person or process is impacted by a hazard (for example, when a person trips on a broken floor tile). It does not include near misses (for example, when a plywood sign falls from its mounting but does not hit a person). The total number of incidents includes injury numbers. Integrated reporting A reporting approach that emphasises the integrated parts of an organisation’s strategy, governance, performance and prospects, in the context of its external environment, lead to the creation of value in the short, medium and long term. Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 80 Term Description Integrated Reporting Framework A reporting framework developed by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) to provide guidance on integrated reporting. International Cooperative Principles The cooperative principles are guidelines developed by the International Cooperative Alliance which guide how cooperatives put their values into practice. materiality Materiality is the threshold at which issues become sufficiently important that they should be reported according to the GRI materiality principle. mutual prosperity Creating prosperity for Bank Australia’s customers, their communities and the planet we all share by investing responsibly, operating ethically and allocating 4% of after-tax profits to the Bank Australia Impact Fund. net profit after tax The amount of profit achieved after tax. real economy The part of the economy that is concerned with producing goods and services, as compared to the part of the economy that is concerned with buying and selling on the financial markets. stakeholder Any person, group or organisation that has an interest in a business and can be affected by the actions, policies and objectives of the business. The Royal Commission into A royal commission that was established on 14 December 2017 by the Misconduct in the Banking, Australian government to inquire into and report on misconduct in the Superannuation and Financial banking, superannuation and financial services industry. Services Industry triple bottom line An accounting framework with three parts: social, environmental and financial. Abbreviations Term Description Term Description ACL Australian Credit Licence GRI Global Reporting Initiative ADI Authorised deposit taking institution FIAP Financial Inclusion Action Plan AFSL Australian Financial Services Licence FTE Full time equivalent APRA Australian Prudential Regulation Authority km Kilometres ASIC Australian Securities and Investment kW kilowatt Commission kWh Kilowatt hours BCCM Business Council of Cooperatives and Mutuals SDA Specialist Disability Accomodation COBA Customer Owned Banking Association RAP Reconciliation Action Plan DAP Disability Action Plan RBA Reserve Bank of Australia GABV Global Alliance for Banking on Values Bank Australia 2018 Corporate Report 81 Bank Australia Limited ABN 21 087 651 607 AFSL/Australian Credit Licence Number 238431.
