Together towards sustainable food Sustainability report 2018/19 Danish Crown’s organisation Cooperative members Board of Representatives Board of Directors of Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA Board of Directors of Danish Crown A/S Executive Board of Danish Crown A/S Group functions Danish Crown Danish Crown KLS Danish Crown Associated Sokołów DAT-Schaub ESS-FOOD Beef Pork Ugglarps Foods* companies Fresh Meat Foods Casings Trading *Name being changed from Tulip Food Company Our narrative Just like the crops in the fields continuously change, at Danish Crown we tirelessly refine and improve how we work, from farm to fork, to ensure good, safe food for people around the world to enjoy. Our history goes This back to 1887 and the Danish cooperative journey is movement, and respon­sibility towards not ours society, our employees and our owners, A alone, but the farmers, is in our genes. we promise ccording to climate researchers, meat production is having to be the a big impact on the planet, As a global leader in sustainable meat leaders of our climate and the living production, we have big obligations; not change. conditions of future generations. just to deliver, but constantly to explore new oppor­tunities. We still have a long way This is a fundamental challenge for all to go and face many challenges. But we meat producers, including Danish Crown. remain committed to improving how food We are at a crossroads. We can either carry is produced – with respect for animals, on producing meat and food as we do now. people and the environ­ment. In this quest, Or we can start doing things differently we are prepared to challenge ourselves, – by ensuring that our farmers and our our industry and the customers. supply chain take a more sustainable approach to their production. This journey is not ours alone, but we At Danish Crown we have chosen the latter promise to be the leaders of change. Only option. Towards a more sustainable future Our narrative together can we reach our goal of a more for food. sustainable food production by funda­men­ tally changing the ways in which we both produce and consume food. 3 About 3 3 Our narrative this report 1 12-19 Our sustainability strategy The Sustainability report constitutes Danish and governance Crown’s annual Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact and covers the financial year 5-7 13 Sustainability issues from farm to fork 2018/19 from 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2019. Reports The report describes our sustainability strategy and 14 Sustainability strategy activities for the past year in view of the issues that 15 Our SDG commitments are most material to Danish Crown and our stake­ 6 Letter from the chairman holders. 16 Our climate ambition 7 Letter from the Group CEO 2 18 Sustainability governance 4 The report is an integral part of the management’s review of the Danish Crown Annual Report 2018/19, and with this document, we fulfil the requirements of section 99 a and b of the Danish Financial State­ ments Act. See our reporting principles on pages 42-45. 8-11 About 20-40 As part of our reporting obligations, we also issue a Danish Crown Status on our sustainability Statement on Modern Slavery Act 2018/19, which is activities available at www.danishcrown.com. 9 Our business model 21 Feeding the world We welcome and value any comments or sugges­ 10 Financial highlights tions you may have to this report, our strategy and 23 Sustainable farming 11 Sustainability highlights performance to help us improve and meet your 28 Sustainable food production expectations. 32 Good jobs for everyone Please send your feedback to: 37 Together with customers and consumers 5 sustainability@danishcrown.com 41-46 During 2018/19, we divested Tulip Ltd. In our Reporting principles annual report, we show Tulip Ltd separated from our continued business. For this reason, all Content figures in the Sustainability report are exclusive 42 Reporting scope and methodology of Tulip Ltd. 43 Data definitions 46 Indicators 4 1 Reports Reports 5 Letter from the chairman Farmers leading the way on the Climate Track I n March, Danish Crown launched its new and to prioritise the tasks that are of importance to our ambitious climate goals and its vision for green development. As farmers, we are delighted to climate-neutral meat production. Since then, be involved. We want to contribute as constructive things have moved fast – on the farms and in our partners and to be part of the solution. We believe dialogues with the outside world. that as farmers, we can play a huge role in meeting the environmental challenges. I am extremely proud of the way that Danish Crown’s cooperative members have welcomed the Group’s climate ambition and vision. Our farmers have embraced our climate goals and set out on The fluctuating supply of slaughter pigs in Denmark is also proving to be quite challenging for us. It puts additional pressures on the industry and “ As farmers, we a shared journey of development through our has a significant impact on the resources available are motivated by, Climate Track certification programme. The pro­ for farmers to invest in green developments. and take pride in gramme helps individual farmers to identify op­ portunities for becoming more sustainable and set We have to unite in our efforts to find solutions and being involved. We specific targets for minimising the climate impact ways forward that can accelerate a truly sustain­ want to contribute of their operations. The whole thing is done on a able development. Rather than pushing problems as constructive voluntary basis. So far, we have certified 950 pig around, we need to find solutions that work. The partners. farms, which produce around 90 per cent of the entire value chain is facing a huge challenge, which ” pigs supplied to our abattoirs in Denmark. That is we must address together. Therefore, I want to strong proof that our Danish farmers can, and want encourage customers and consumers to remember to be sustainable. that the best way to support a sustainable develop­ Letter from the chairman ment is by buying sustainable products. This is the Part of the decision-making process only way that farmers and the agricultural sector as When it comes to political, consumer and NGOa whole will be able to finance the necessary changes oriented agendas, important stakeholders are and investments. increasingly looking to the agricultural sector to contribute to the debate and to take an active role in identifying solutions to key issues. We welcome this opportunity and embrace the challenge: only through dialogue and cooperation will we be able Erik Bredholt, Chairman 6 Letter from the Group CEO “ A brave leap forward Our sustainability strategy draws on the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. for sustainable meat We continue to support and align the way we conduct our business with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. ” D anish Crown is currently taking signifi­ There is a real need for systemic thinking across moving people out of unemployment and into a cant steps to transform our company and industries and sectors of society to make sure that working community with good job prospects. prepare it for a future that is all about we focus and invest wisely in the most effective sustainability. Our climate ambition, which we an­ solutions. At Danish Crown, we base our actions on In the coming years, we will be extremely busy nounced in March 2019, has been well received and available data about environmental and climatedelivering high-quality products and driving the attracted considerable interest among all our stake­ related impacts in our value chain. We welcome change we are creating. I am proud of the shift we holders in Denmark and abroad. With the launch of dialogue and further research that can document have set in motion, and I am particularly proud of our new brand purpose and visual identity in Sep­ the climate impact of our activities – as a company the way the Danish farmers, who own our Group, tember 2019, we have shown that sustainability is in and as part of an industry. There should be no have demonstrated their commitment to overcom­ the company’s DNA – and that we mean business. doubt that we agree with the main conclusion that ing the challenges involved. Nearly all our farmers humanity’s total consumption of goods, services have now committed to our climate goal and Alongside our ambitious goals, we have also started and food is a burden on the planet, and that the defined their own action plans as part of our new a huge change process internally. Our plan involves production of meat is an important factor in this certification programme. This is modern activism innovation and transformation in all parts of the respect. in its most constructive form. Now we just need to organisation. And we are busy implementing new get the rest of the value chain on board, so we can ways of producing, sourcing, selling and marketing We must all shoulder the responsibility of ensuring work together to guarantee sustainable meat for meat that can support our development. that the sustainable transition is successful. So I consumers. call on all our stakeholders to help push consump­ Our plan for reaching our 2030 goal of halving the tion in a sustainable direction. When it comes climate impact of our meat production is clear, to meat, this means eating meat in responsible Letter from the Group CEO and we are positive that we can deliver on it. Our quantities, choosing sustainable products and not vision for climate-neutral meat production in focusing only on price. That is the only way we will 2050 will, of course, depend on innovation, tech­ be able to offer consumers the most sustainable nology, knowledge and the scaling of new and as products and production methods. This goes for yet unknown solutions – all of which will involve us as individuals and for those who decide what contributions from other parts of society as well. products make it to the supermarket shelves. However, I am optimistic and impressed by the rate at which proposals, solutions and constructive Sustainability also has a bearing on the social chal­ thoughts have started to flow across sectors, coun­ lenges that we will continue to help solve. With our tries and in political announcements. focus on creating good jobs for everyone, we are Jais Valeur, Group CEO 7 2 About Danish Crown About Danish Crown 8 Our business model Our business structure Every day we deliver food all the way from our farmers to the plates of consumers via the cold counter. We receive pigs and cattle from our farmers, slaughter the animals and sell the fresh or processed meat to Food production customers across most of the globe. Farming Our markets Your meal 6,426 farmers are cooperative members of Danish Crown – they own the company. As a cooperative, the company is obliged to accept the animals sup­ plied by our owners. Our job is to process and sell the meat on the world market in a way that ensures that the farmers are paid the highest possible price for their supplies. As a cooperative member, you are therefore certain of being able to sell your products to the highest-­ paying markets in the world. Most of Danish Crown’s earnings are paid back to the farmers, part­ ly as payments for the animals they have supplied and partly as supplementary payments at the end of the year. Danish Crown engages in the following four main activities: • Agriculture, which covers the rearing of animals by farmers • Fresh Meat, which covers slaughtering of animals, processing of the meat and sales of Farming Food production Our markets Your meal fresh meat 6,426 Danish farmers 22,979 employees process the Our business model • Foods, which covers the processing and Danish Crown’s products are sold Every year, we deliver food packaging of meat for direct consumption supply pigs and cattle to us raw material supplied by our farmers all over the world to retailers, food for billions of meals for while also owning the company into a whole range of fresh meats, cold producers, the foodservice segment consumers all over the world. • Casings, which covers the use of the by-products cuts, snacks and ready meals. and the pharmaceutical industry. of pig production Cooperative: Most of the profit generated by the company is Quality: Quality and food Exports: As one of the world’s Our products are sold to retailers, food producers, distributed to our owners in the safety are at the heart of largest exporters of pork, we The needs of our consumers are the form of a supplementary pay­ all the work performed by have built strong relations with main focus of our innovation and the foodservice segment and pharmaceutical in­ ment at the end of the year. our employees. customers all over the world. product development. dustry in approximately 130 countries worldwide. 9 Financial Revenue in the world highlights 72% Europe 16% Asia 12% Other Deliveries: pigs and sows Deliveries: cattle 19 0.9 million million Employees 22,979 Revenue, DKK Revenue share EBIT share Cooperative 57 8% 17 % members 6,426 billion EBIT, DKK 32 % 26 % 60 % 57 % Financial highlights 2.5 billion Fresh Meat Foods Casings Fresh Meat Foods Casings 10 Sustainability North America Europe highlights Production sites: 1 Production sites: 88 Employees: 98 Employees: 20,724 Feed efficiency COD in waste water Lost-time accidents feed units per kg gain, kg per produced tonne per 1,000 FTE Danish pig 8.7 28 2.63 South America CO₂ emissions Production sites: 5 kg CO₂ eq per kg Danish pork Employees: 680 2.82 Africa and Middle East Asia Production sites: 0 Production sites: 2 Employees: 179 Employees: 1,298 Animals: Organic, free-range and Water withdrawal raised without antibiotics 1,000 m3 785,000 Carbon emissions 10,437 Energy consumption Sustainability highlights 408,865 MWh tonnes CO2 from own facilities and operations (scope 1 and 2) 1,330,727 11 3 O  ur sustainability strategy and governance Our sustainability strategy and governance 12 Sustainability issues A s a cooperative owned by farmers, the values and traditions of good farming practices and modern food production from farm to fork are deeply ingrained in our business. This implies resource-efficient food production with minimum waste and minimum emissions. However, it is a fact that agriculture and food processing in general exert pressure on the planetary boundaries. As a global food company, we recognise our responsibility to address sustainability issues associated with As a global food company, we recognise our responsibility to address sustainability issues in our entire value chain risks and adverse impacts in our value chain. and to contribute to further progress towards a sustainable future for our industry. We group our material sustainability issues into two categories: issues where we see a need and an opportunity for driving transformation towards a Material sustainability issues in our value chain sustainable future for our industry; and issues that we address through principles of responsible busi­ ness conduct. Our materiality assessment is part of our annual mapping of sustainability risk at our production sites as well as our ongoing engagement with stakeholders to identify the challenges faced by our industry. Farming Food production Markets Our owners and livestock Our business activities Our customers and consumers This includes our MEAT2030 multi-stakeholder forum launched in September 2018. The purpose of this forum is to share knowledge and develop new Driving • Climate change • Climate change • Food waste solutions for environmentally, socially and econom­ transformation • Biodiversity loss • Circular bio-economy • Meat consumption ically sustainable food production. and food loss • Protein sources • Healthy and • Inclusion and diversity nutritious diets • Use of antibiotics Sustainability issues from farm to fork Responsible • Feed efficiency • Food safety • Labelling and marketing business conduct • Animal welfare • Use of water, energy and other • Product range natural resources • Animal health • Packaging and plastic • Use of chemicals • Emissions of nutrients and odours • Organic carbon in waste water • Use of water and energy • Non-organic waste • Human and labour rights • Health and safety • Business ethics • Human and labour rights • Business ethics and anti-corruption 13 Sustainability strategy Under the new heading MEAT 2030, our sustainability strategy covers the entire value chain and sets the direction for how we Sustainable farming will contribute to the UN 2030 Agenda for We will build a strong future Sustainable Development. for our farmers. Together with customers and consumers Together with customers O ur sustainability strategy builds on the We will earn customers’ and consumers Sustainable issues that we have identified as material and consumers’ confidence farming to Danish Crown and to our stakeholders. and meet their needs with It is our overall ambition to contribute to promoting healthy, safe and responsible and fulfilling the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable products. Development and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Feeding Our strategy has five main focus areas that support the world selected SDGs and address the main challenges Sustainable food production which we need to overcome to ensure the longWe will operate a sustainable, term development of our business. It covers our efficient and high-performing ongoing efforts to minimise risks and adverse food production. impacts in our value chain as well as our initiatives for further progress towards sustainable agriculture Good jobs for everyone Good jobs Sustainable and food processing. for everyone food production We will attract and retain people with good jobs and Launched in September 2017, the strategy is de­ opportunities for everyone. signed to accommodate the needs of our business as well as developments in our markets and in soci­ Feeding the world ety at large. We are now two years into the strategy Sustainability strategy We will find a way to feed period, and in 2019, we have set new and ambitious the world with sustainable sustainability goals which also incorporate our new meat and protein. climate ambition. 14 Our SDG commitments We have specified our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the associated targets in our strategy towards 2030. Thus, we have added SDG 4 on quality education and SDG 6 on clean water and removed SDG 3 on health because the definition of healthy food is already included in SDGs 2 and 12. Target 2.4 Target 4.4 Target 6.4 Target 8.8 Target 12.2 Target 12.3 Influence food production Contribute to increasing the Increase water-use efficiency and Protect labour rights and pro­ Achieve sustainable manage­ Reduce food waste at the retail systems and implement resilient number of youth and adults who ensure sustainable withdrawals mote safe and secure working ment and efficient use of natural and consumer levels and reduce agricultural practices. have relevant skills, including of freshwater. environments for all workers. resources. food losses along production technical and vocational skills, and supply chains. for employment. Our SDG commitments Target 12.5 Target 13.1 Target 15.9 Target 17.17 Reduce waste generation through Strengthen resilience and Support the integration of Drive partnership projects to prevention, reduction, recycling adaptive capacity to reduce ecosystem and biodiversity accele­rate and overcome high and reuse. negative climate impact. values into farming practices. impact chal­lenges for sustainable meat production. 15 Our climate ambition 2030 goal We envision a future where our meat production will be climate-neutral. By 2030 we will reduce the The first milestone is to halve the carbon footprint from meat by 2030. carbon footprint of our meat production by 50 per cent. C limate change is a global crisis, and the Intergovernmental To respond to the urgency, Danish Crown and Danish Crown’s owners Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has made it clear that current have intensified our commitments to combating climate change. Our efforts are insufficient to change our course. This year, IPPC ambition is to become the world’s most sustainable and successful has highlighted the severity of the impacts we are already experiencing meat producer. In March 2019, we launched our new climate vision and stressed that keeping the increase in global warming well below 2°C will require that all sectors – including agriculture and food – which commits to achieving a climate-neutral value chain by 2050. 2050 vision reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, and that we achieve net-zero Climate neutrality implies that we take action to remove as much carbon emissions by 2050. This calls for radical changes in global land carbon dioxide from the atmosphere as we put into it. The overall In 2050 we envision a future use, agriculture and human diets, which, in turn, pose a challenge goal of carbon neutrality is to achieve a zero carbon footprint. It is still for the food industry at large. While meat is part of many people’s uncertain which solutions will be the most suitable and efficient for our where our meat production will diet worldwide and a source of vital protein, meat production also industry. However, with our vision, we have defined the challenge we be climate-neutral (net-zero). contributes to climate change, and this must be addressed. are facing towards 2050 and our commitment to address it, by working with partners to discover new innovative solutions. Distribution of carbon emissions from feed production to abattoir CO2 eq. per kg pork, Danish pigs 2016 In the production chain for Danish pork, farming accounts for more Pig than 90 per cent of the climate impact. Farming includes feed pro­ Farming Abattoir By-products duction and manure handling, which by far account for the largest transportation greenhouse gas emissions. 91 % 3% 8% -2 % Read more about the carbon footprint and our efforts to reduce the Our climate ambition climate impact from meat production on page 24. Source: ‘Grisekød produktivitet og miljøpåvirkning år 2005 vs 2016 Table 6', Department of Agroecology, Aarhus University, 2019 . The report was prepared for Danish Crown. Information on university reports In June 2019, Aarhus University published a report on “the climate impact of beef and veal throughout the value chain research. Subsequently, other reports published by Aarhus University were also found to be questionable. In this context, compared with nutritional aspects in different dietary patterns”. Following criticism of the university’s collaboration Danish Crown has asked the Danish law firm Kammeradvokaten/Poul Schmith to assess our collaboration with research with Landbrug & Fødevarer and Danish Crown A/S, the report was withdrawn in September 2019 (the report is no institutes, especially regarding the beef report from 2019 but also in relation to reports from previous years. longer available). It was put forward that the preparation of the report did not live up to the principles of independent 16 Key actions towards the goal Farming Food production Delivering the Certification programmes including climate targets Energy optimisation Feed efficiency Green energy 2030 goal Manure management Low-emission processes F or more than a decade, Danish Crown developing a similar programme for Danish veal and our owners have been addressing the production. Read more about the Climate Track on climate challenge, and our experience gives page 25. us a strong foundation to build on. The report 'Grisekød produktivitet og miljøpåvirkning år To deliver on the 2030 goal we have also defined a 2006 vs. 2015' from Aarhus University shows that number of cross-organisational projects that focus Distribution Customers the climate impact of producing 1 kg of pork was reduced by 25 per cent between 2005 and 2016 on energy efficiency improvements in food produc­ tion and distribution as well as new opportunities Low-emission & consumers – with agricultural operations accounting for 18 for reducing our carbon footprint together with transportation Packaging per cent. This reduction is mainly due to increased customers and consumers. feed efficiency with higher production outcome Food waste per feed unit. As we continue to detail our roadmap and imple­ Our climate ambition ment new initiatives towards 2050, we are entering Optimising feed efficiency remains a key focus into a learning process that calls for flexibility and area for all our farmers. It is part of Danish Crown’s responsiveness. Some farms and business units 2030 goal sustainability certification for pig production, may progress faster than others; and we may come which helps our farmers identify opportunities for across new knowledge and disruptive solutions that minimising their climate impact. The certification we have to take on board, if we are to move forward programme, which is called the Climate Track, faster. The actions initiated towards 2030 will help was launched in March 2019, and we are currently us shape our long-term journey towards 2050. 17 Sustainability Key policy Sustainability governance statements platform Our CSR policy builds on the UN Global Compact principles: Commitments Our sustainability platform and governance structure constitute the framework • UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development for realising our strategic ambitions and ensuring that we conduct our business and the Sustainable Development Goals in a responsible manner. • UN Global Compact Human rights • UN Guiding Principles on Business and In all Danish Crown operations and Human Rights activities, we respect human rights and I avoid infringing the human rights of n addition to our support for the UN 2030 As disclosed in last year’s report, we have launched Vision & strategy involved individuals. • 2050 vision: Climate-neutral meat production Agenda for Sustainable Development and the a strategic development project aimed at improving • Sustainability strategy: MEAT 2030 SDGs, Danish Crown has since 2011 been a the quality of our sustainability data and KPIs. In Labour rights signatory to the UN Global Compact principles and 2018/19, we have defined and implemented groupDanish Crown is committed to ensuring fully supports the UN Guiding Principles on Busi­ wide data collection principles for a number of Policies healthy and safe workplaces for our ness and Human Rights. Through our policies and environmental and social indicators (see pages 30 • Code of Conduct employees and thus respect their right to management processes, we aim to implement these and 35). We are continuing these efforts through • CSR policy just and favourable working conditions. principles within our business and supply chains. the introduction of additional groupwide measures • Anti-corruption policy • Diversity and inclusion policy and the establishment of related baselines. Climate and environment • Supplier Code of Conduct We have strengthened our sustainability platform Danish Crown pursues a sustained and and introduced a Code of Conduct as well as a systematic approach to environmental new diversity and inclusion policy. We have also Management processes challenges and is committed to taking developed a policy on anti-corruption which will be • Certification programme for sustainable action to combat climate change and rolled out in 2019/20 and be accompanied by inter­ pig production protect the environment. nal standards and practical advice on how to avoid • Groupwide environmental management • Groupwide occupational health and facilitation payments and bribery. Anti-corruption safety management As a responsible company, Danish Crown • CSR risk and due diligence processes on Business integrity and legal compliance also form works against all forms of corruption. production sites, acquisitions and suppliers part of our Code of Conduct. In 2019/20, we will Sustainability governance • Stakeholder forum: MEAT2030 continue our compliance trainings and introduce Read the full policy at an e-learning module on anti-corruption. We are www.danishcrown.com Reporting also in the process of establishing a whistleblower • Annual report function to strengthen our internal compliance • Sustainability report (Global Compact culture. Communication on Progress) • Statement on Modern Slavery Act 18 Roles and Sustainability governance structure responsibilities Danish Crown AmbA I Board of Directors n 2019, we have reviewed and strengthened our governance struc­ ture in view of our climate ambition and sustainability strategy. The new approach is to facilitate the implementation of sustainability decisions into our core business through three levels of governance. Danish Crown A/S Board of Directors Our new Group Chief Operating Officer function is responsible for delivering on our sustainability strategy and our goal of halving our climate footprint per kilogramme of meat by 2030. This ensures Senior a quick and agile decision-making process and progress in direct Management contact with all business units. Group Decisions with groupwide, strategic or significant impact on the business will be shared in the Senior Management Group. This team Group Chief is responsible for the 2050 vision, defines our strategic direction, Operating Officer prioritises engagements and reports to the Danish Crown A/S Board of Directors on our progress. Group Sustainability reports twice annually to the Senior Management Group on key sustainability issues as well as opportunities and challenges for progress. Group Sustainability Group Sustainability provides support for all governance levels and organises annual Business Review meetings with all business units to discuss the implementation of our sustainability strategy. In 2019, the function was strengthened through additional manpower and Tulip Food KLS Pork Beef DAT-Schaub Sokołów ESS-FOOD Company Ugglarps specialist expertise. Timetable towards 2050 2019-2021 2021-2023 2023 + 2030-2050 Sustainability governance Act Build Drive Lead Baseline Implement Continue and strengthen The leading climate-neutral and Targets and KPIs Scale activities and performance sustainable meat producer Working principles Adjust Roadmaps Share experience Pilots and testing Continuously implement planned projects 19 4 S  tatus on our sustainability activities Status on our sustainability activities 20 Strategic priorities Activities 2018/19 MEAT2030 dialogue Built outcome from MEAT2030 conference into our climate ambition and sustainability strategy. and Feeding partnerships Participated in high-level discussions with international organisations on our climate ambition. the world Developed sustainable feed and soy strategy. Conducted MEAT2030 dialogues with highimpact stakeholders. Completed Ongoing Every day, we deliver vital proteins, nutrients and great-tasting food products to people all over the world. Through partnerships and investments in innovation, we strive to make our products and processes more sustainable. I n 2050, the world population is expected to reach 10 billion. At our MEAT2030 conference in 2018 in Copenhagen, Denmark, we Planned activities That is 2.5 billion more than the current figure. This population increase will put a massive strain on the Earth’s resources, experienced an overwhelming interest in discussing future prospects and partnering with us to address the challenges facing the food 2019/20 ecosystems and climate. The UN estimates that the combination industry. As a follow-up to this event, in 2017/18 we intensified our → Host MEAT2030 conference in 2020 to involve of population growth, changed dietary habits and a growing global engagement with other companies, research institutions and nonstakeholders in further collaboration. middle class will double the demand for protein. governmental organisations with a view to sharing knowledge and ideas on how to improve our products and processes so they become → Develop soy policy. Naturally, Danish Crown sees meat as an important source of protein. sustainable. We believe that by producing meat in a clever and sustainable way, it → Look into establishing science-based targets. will be possible to continue to eat meat in the future. We also believe Our partnerships range from collaboration with peer companies on → Identify key agendas for collaboration on selected that a balanced diet, consisting of plant-based foods combined with how to work strategically with the SDGs to participate in research impact projects related to sustainable meat. high-quality meat produced sustainably in low greenhouse gas emis­ projects that transform the industry. Our latest partnership is the sion systems, will help us to limit climate change. Danish Alliance for Responsible Soya, launched in September 2019. → Take part in high-level dialogues on a sustainable As one of the founding members, we have committed to support and global food system. With our new climate vision and goals, we have reconfirmed our accelerate progress towards the sourcing of responsibly produced soy. Feeding the world commitment to sustainable meat production. Our ambition is based That is just one of the steps we are taking to reduce the climate-heavy on extensive and interdisciplinary collaboration. Only by joining burden of soy protein production. More actions will follow. forces across sectors and industries can we develop the solutions that will make it possible to feed more people while using fewer of the world’s resources. 21 Closer Reflections Partnership Purpose of our engagement stakeholder on our climate ambition Concito – Denmark’s green think tank Get support in developing and qualifying on climate solutions. Danish Crown’s climate ambition and initiatives dialogue We have asked keynote speakers from to ensure alignment with the Paris Agreement. Frej – Danish independent food policy Engage in dialogue with farmers on how O our MEAT2030 conference to comment on our think tank where Danish Crown holds to bridge the gap between agriculture and ur MEAT2030 conference, held in Copenhagen in Septem­ new climate ambition. Here is what they say: a seat on the Advisory Board. consumers. ber 2018, was the first step in a systematic approach to in­ volve farmers, food developers, sustainability experts, retail “Achieving net-zero emissions The Danish Protein Innovation Contribute to research projects within Danish chains, politicians, researchers and NGOs in the development of a from a grain-fed pork production Partnership – consisting of trade as­ production of sustainable protein for feed and Danish Crown fit for the future. The conference laid the foundation system stands at the very limits sociations, companies and knowledge food as an alternative to imported soy protein. for a dialogue forum between stakeholders with knowledge and new of environmental and technical institutions. ideas for a sustainable future for meat. In 2018/19, we continued our feasibility. I commend Danish stakeholder dialogue on how to rethink our way of farming in order to Crown for establishing this Patrick Holden target. Danish Crown is to be SDG from philanthropy to business Get inspiration from other companies on how achieve a more sustainable production of meat – and how to increase CEO of congratulated on establishing – partnership with Danish companies to work strategically with the SDGs and trans­ transparency in the value chain and accelerate consumer demand for The Sustainable this very challenging technical hosted by the Confederation of Danish late them into new business opportunities. sustainable, high-quality meat. Food Trust and environmental target.” Industry (DI). Our continued stakeholder dialogue has provided valuable input to DRIP – Danish partnership for Re­ Participate in the development and testing the formulation of our new climate ambition. It has also inspired the “Are animals responsible for source and water-efficient Industrial of new technology to reduce fresh water con­ development of new concepts for plant-derived food products and climate change? People raising food Production comprising food sumption and increase the use of purified our new premium brand, ‘Dyrbar’ in Denmark, which aims to increase animals should change the way companies, technology suppliers and recycled water. consumer interest in high-quality meat (see page 39). we feed! Instead of getting the research institutions. cheapest price per kilo, let’s get Our climate ambition has already made Danish Crown an international the best nutrition for all and the The Danish National Bioeconomy Participate in the discussion on how to obtain showcase on sustainable livestock systems. In 2019, we have shared our Gunther Pauli finest chance to regenerate the Entrepreneur and ecosystems.” Panel – composed of leading firms more economical and sustainable biomass to approach with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development author of The Blue and researchers, key organisations advance the Danish bioeconomy. (WBCSD), the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Economic Economy and authorities. Forum (WEF). We have also participated in discussions on how to meet the world’s growing protein need with a minimal climate footprint. The Danish Food Bank – a non-profit Donate food for meals to help to ensure better “Danish Crown’s sustainability organisation fighting food waste and food to socially disadvantaged people in When it comes to developing new opportunities for sustainable food strategy commitment to playing food poverty in Denmark. Denmark. production, an important research area is the exploratory work done a leading role in the transition on alternative protein sources for use in animal feed. Danish Crown to climate neutrality is good for business, good for the people The Innovation Partnership – a part­ Contribute to increasing access to healthy food is involved in a research project that seeks to find a profitable way to of Denmark, and good for the nership for healthy food in Denmark. and meals, and to influence consumers to make extract protein from grass. We participate in livestock feeding trials world in demonstrating the healthy decisions. Feeding the world Lisa Sweet to test if the extracted protein is an efficient alternative to soy in Head of Business long-term value that can be pig feed. Strategy and created through sustainable, Engagement, Centre Danish Alliance for Responsible Soya Cooperate across the value chain to ensure for Global Public inclusive growth.” – new alliance for retailers, food prod­ that all soy imported to Denmark is produced To explore opportunities for further partnerships, we are planning Goods, World Economic Forum ucers, organisations and authorities sustainably. a follow-up MEAT2030 conference in September 2020. operated by DIEH (Dansk Initiativ for Etisk Handel). 22 Strategic priorities Activities 2018/19 2030 climate ambition Revised Code of Practice for our owners. Sustainable Introduced anasthetisation of piglets during Sustainabilitycastration for all Danish Crown pigs. certified farms Launched sustainability certification programme for cooperative pig producers. farming Further reduced use of antibiotics in pig production. Completed Ongoing Danish Crown is owned by 6,426 Danish farmers. We work closely with them to develop high-quality and sustainable livestock production based on modern technology, science, skills and a deep understanding of animals and related ecosystems. Planned activities G enerations of Danish Crown farmers have protected their deliveries. The next step will be to include contract pig production in livelihood by taking good care of their livestock and more countries, and to develop customised certification programmes 2019/20 surrounding ecosystems. In addition, Danish authorities for cattle production. have enforced strict environmental policies over the years, which have → Start including contract pig production resulted in high standards for environmentally friendly production The Climate Track has been included in our Code of Practice for in certification programme. among Danish farmers. Initiatives include targeted breeding; high Danish pig supplies, which we revised in June 2019 to stay ahead of → Develop certification programme for cattle animal welfare and veterinary health; optimised feed efficiency; developments within animal welfare and sustainability. production. better soil care and new technologies for manure handling. These efforts have made Danish farmers frontrunners within efficient and We are convinced that the demand for meat will continue to exist as → Initiate project to define methane emissions sustainable livestock production. part of a balanced diet, and we will continue to use the strengths of in beef production through genetics. our cooperative to ensure a sustainable future for Danish farming and Our strong position is rooted in our collaborative work culture and our core business. This includes making sure that the price received → Strengthen data quality and calculation methods on our climate and environmental our cooperative business structure. Over the years, we have worked for the animals supplied to Danish Crown is as high as possible, impact. closely with our cooperative members and other suppliers – as well thereby delivering a return on capital to our cooperative members. Sustainable farming as researchers and associations in the agricultural sector – to develop We all have a role to play – farmers, food producers, customers and → Integrate biodiversity perspectives in cattle sustainable and high-quality meat production. consumers – by changing our buying habits to choosing high-quality, production. sustainable meat. With the launch of our certification programme, the Climate Track, → Continue reducing use of antibiotics in pig production. in March 2019, we have intensified our collaboration on sustainable farming. This is one of the key initiatives on our shared journey towards climate neutrality. The first step has been to enrol 950 cooperative pig farms which are responsible for around 90 per cent of our Danish pig 23 Significant reduction Environmental impact of our Danish pork from feed to abattoir (unit) per kg pork The figure shows that the envir­ in the environmental 45 42.2 2005 onmental impact per kg pork declined from 2005 to 2016. This footprint of Danish pork applies to all five environmental 40 indicators, and the reduction in 2016 environmental impact varies from 35 32.7 13 per cent for land use to 25 per 25.0 cent for global warming. 25 21.2 In January 2019, Aarhus University, Denmark, finalised a life-cycle assessment (LCA) of how the environmental footprint of pigs and 20 18.6 pork production developed in Denmark during the period from 2005 14.8 15 to 2016. The LCA calculations include the entire value chain from feed production until the pig is slaughtered and the meat is ready for 10 6.3 5.4 further processing. 5 3.78 2.82 The LCA confirms that the environmental impact from Danish Crown 0 pork in Denmark was reduced significantly during this period. It Global warming Eutrophication Acidification Non-renewable Land use (kg CO₂ eq.) (g PO 43 – eq.) (g SO₂ eq.) energy (MJ) (m2) also shows that the impact of agricultural operations is significantly higher than the contribution from the transportation of pigs and the Source: 'Grisekød produktivitet og miljøpåvirkning år 2005 vs 2016 figure 9',Department of Agroecology, Aarhus University, 2019. slaughter processes. This is primarily due to the feed consumption, as feed production accounts for the largest climate impact. Global warming impact of our Danish pork from feed to abattoir We are pleased to see that the greenhouse gas emissions from our kg CO₂ eq. per kg pork In Danish pork production, feed pork production decreased by 25 per cent during the period. We production and manure handling 4.00 by far account for the largest will use these results to support our continued efforts to reduce the climate impact. climate impact related to pig production across our value chain. Based 3.50 on the positive progress made so far, we are positive that we can From 2005 to 2016, greenhouse 3.00 deliver on our climate ambition. gas emissions were reduced 2.50 by 0.97 kg CO₂ eq. per kg pork. Agricultural operations account 2.00 for two thirds of the reduction, roughly equally distributed on Information on university reports 1.50 optimised feed production, higher feed efficiency and other measures In June 2019, Aarhus University published a report on “the climate impact 1.00 on the farm, including strict of beef and veal throughout the value chain compared with nutritional management of the use of manure aspects in different dietary patterns”. Following criticism of the university’s 0.50 as fertilisers in the fields. The collaboration with Landbrug & Fødevarer and Danish Crown A/S, the report remaining reduction is primarily was withdrawn in September 2019 (the report is no longer available). It 0.00 caused by lower emissions from was put forward that the preparation of the report did not live up to the 2005 2016 the transportation of pigs, where Sustainable farming principles of independent research. Subsequently, other reports published -0.50 Global warming slightly longer distances from by Aarhus University were also found to be questionable. farms to abattoirs are more than Feed Manure Energy on farms Digestion Pig transportation Abattoir counterbalanced by larger, more In this context, Danish Crown has asked the Danish law firm production energy-efficient vehicles as well Kammeradvokaten/Poul Schmith to assess our collaboration with as better utilisation of the pig research institutes, especially regarding the beef report from 2019 Other by-products Feed for fur animals Biogas Pharma Feed for pets for foods and by-products at the but also in relation to reports from previous years. abattoirs. Source: 'Grisekød produktivitet og miljøpåvirkning år 2005 vs 2016 figure 12', Department of Agroecology, Aarhus University, 2019. 24 The Climate Track Examples of parameters in the certification programme Our road to sustainable Climate and environment • CO₂ reduction pig production • Feed efficiency • Ammonia evaporation and odour • Resource optimisation • Feed content: crude protein, phosphorous and zinc • Local sources of protein B y the end of 2019, 90 per cent of all pigs 2030 goal. The farmers must set short-term tar­ addition, Danish Crown will provide inspiration and • Soil treatment delivered to our Danish abattoirs will come gets for their own farms and take action to ensure guidance on sustainable solutions, technologies • Manure handling from certified farms. This is an ambitious continuous improvement of their sustainability and innovation and facilitate the sharing of best • Medicine use, including antibiotics target, but also a necessary step on our journey performance. This includes choosing sustainable practices among certified farmers. towards sustainable meat production in 2030. solutions for ongoing investments. In addition, the Energy To underline this, our certification programme is farmer must continuously monitor and, on a threeThe certification programme for pig production is • Energy technologies, renewable energy named the Climate Track. year basis, report on performance and progress to initially introduced to cooperative members. Next and heating supply Danish Crown. step will be to include our contract production, The Climate Track is a voluntary joint-development particularly our Swedish suppliers, where our span Animal welfare and antibiotics programme where Danish Crown works with farm­ The certification is carried out by Baltic Control, an of control on slaughter pigs is also high. For other • Mortality of sows, piglets and slaughter pigs ers to raise the sustainability performance of con­ independent third-party provider, which will also suppliers where our span of control is limited, we will ventional production. To enter the programme, our help the farmer to establish a baseline for targets use our Supplier Code of Conduct to communicate Social responsibility farmers have to obtain a sustainability certification and reporting. Certified farmers will be audited at our minimum sustainability requirements (see • Workplace assessments to document their commitment to Danish Crown’s least once every three years by Baltic Control. In page 29). Since the launch of the Climate Track in March 2019, CO₂-emissions from farms certified in the Climate Track Progress on CO2 reduction from Climate Track-certified farmers Danish Crown has certified 950 farms representing Total emissions and reductions in kg CO₂ eq. per pig kg CO2 eq. per pig 87% of the pigs delivered to our Danish abattoirs this (2016 baseline, average for farms certified as at September 2019) year – or in absolute figures 10.5 million pigs. 300 2016 2019 2022 target 2005 To be able to measure progress, a 2016 baseline for 225 Feed consumption 6.8 15.4 2016 CO2 emissions per pig reared has been established 2019 2022 Manure for biogas 2.1 3.1 for each farmer. This enables farmers to evaluate 150 performance against their own 2022 targets set in Acidification of slurry 0.7 0.7 2030 target Sustainable farming the first round. A dashboard also displays the average Slurry discharge 6.5 7.3 75 progress and targets for all certified farmers, which Total CO₂ reduction 16.0 26.5 they can use as a benchmark for their own progress. Total CO₂-emission 239 223 212.5 0 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 The commitment of the farmers equals total savings Sources: 1) Grisekød produktivitet og miljøpåvirkning år 2005 vs 2016 – table 1 and of 100 tons CO2 eq. per day until 2022 if the targets 3', Department of Agroecology, Aarhus University, 2019. 2) Climate Track certification Sources: 1) Grisekød produktivitet og miljøpåvirkning år 2005 vs 2016 – table 1 and 3', Department of are met and the number of pigs delivered is stable scheme, audited by Baltic Control, September 2019. Agroecology, Aarhus University, 2019. 2) Climate Track certification scheme, audited by Baltic Control, at 10.5 million a year. September 2019. 25 Danish calves join the The production system determines the climate footprint of beef climate ambition Beef is generally proclaimed to be the main climate culprit in the climate debate. However, reference slaughtered and has a low climate footprint of around 11 kg of CO₂ per kg of meat. Less than 5 per is often made to foreign studies that do not reflect cent of the slaughterings are of beef cattle. Cattle Danish production patterns or types of beef. The en­ on grass have the greatest climate footprint but From December 2019, our 160 producers of ‘Dansk Kalv’ (Danish Veal) will also be able to vironmental and climate impact of veal and beef pro­ contribute more positively to biodiversity. get a sustainability certification. This is the first step of the Climate Track for cattle duction is very different depending on the production production, which follows three paths. system used to produce the meat – for example Climate footprint for veal and beef whether the meat originates from meat or dairy cattle. production systems ex abattoir kg CO2 per kg meat This is documented by a life-cycle assessment (LCA) C Production system attle delivered for slaughter have different dairy sector, where greenhouse gas emissions from conducted in 2015 by Danish Crown in cooperation sustainability profiles depending on which milk production are among the lowest per litre in with Aarhus University and the Danish Technological Danish calf (Danish Holstein) 10.4 production system they come from. There­ Europe. Dairy cattle contribute to milk production Institute. In the assessment, the climate footprint was Young bull, dairy breed (Danish Holstein) 10.5 fore, we are developing programmes to fit each and reproduction in the dairy sector, and beef quantified based on 13 different Danish production Dairy cow (Danish Holstein) 11.1 farming practice. We have started with the large products after slaughtering; they also deliver some systems from farm level until the products leave the Suckler cow, Limousine 11.3 and homogeneous group of male calves that are not of the finest leather in the world. abattoirs. The assessment also included the impact Dairy cow, organic (Danish Holstein) 11.5 suited for dairy production. The certification pro­ on biodiversity, acidification and eutrophication. Suckler cow, Highland 12.9 gramme is still being developed and will include re­ The last step is beef cattle, where we have to develop Diary breed bullock, organic (Danish Holstein) 18.8 quirements for continuous improvements of climate a programme from scratch. This mainly covers ani­ The LCA demonstrates that breed is of great Dairy breed bullock (Danish Holstein) 19.4 impact, animal welfare and social responsibility. mals delivered for slaughter by hobby farmers, where import­ance to the environmental impact of meat. Young bull, Limousine 31.0 our span of control is limited. The production of Danish Crown’s ‘Danish Veal’ concept, which ac­ Next step will be dairy cattle. For this group, we will beef cattle typically has a high climate impact but counts for approx. 26 per cent of the cattle slaugh­ Heifer, Limousine 30.8 draw on the efforts and experience of the Danish a positive biodiversity impact due to grass feed. tered at the Danish abattoirs, constitutes the most Calf, Limousine 32.0 climate-friendly production in the Danish market, Young bull, Highland 41.9 with a climate footprint of less than 11 kg CO₂ per Heifer, Highland 45.8 kg of meat. Dairy cattle (of the Danish Holstein Source: 'Environmental impact of Beef. By Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) – 13 Danish Crown is working with the breed) account for about 30 per cent of the cattle Danish Beef Production Systems', DCA report no. 61, April 2015. Danish agricultural knowledge centre SEGES, Aarhus University, Viking Genetics and five producers of slaughter calves to create a climate-friendly Information on university reports slaughter calf through breeding and gene technology. The aim is to In June 2019, Aarhus University published a report Subsequently, other reports published by Aarhus Uni­ develop a breeding tool which can be on “the climate impact of beef and veal throughout versity were also found to be questionable. Sustainable farming used to identify beef cattle bulls who the value chain compared with nutritional aspects in produce calves that release the least different dietary patterns”. Following criticism of the In this context, Danish Crown has asked the Danish law possible amount of methane into the university’s collaboration with Landbrug & Fødevarer firm Kammeradvokaten/Poul Schmith to assess our atmosphere; make the most efficient and Danish Crown A/S, the report was withdrawn in collaboration with research institutes, especially re­ use of their feed; and give as much September 2019 (the report is no longer available). It garding the beef report from 2019 but also in relation meat as possible. These calves will not was put forward that the preparation of the report did to reports from previous years. only benefit the climate, but also the not live up to the principles of independent research. economy of dairy farmers and slaughter calf producers. 26 Revised Code of Practice for pig suppliers Further decrease in antibiotic use At Danish Crown, we work with our pig suppliers additions: a new section on labour rights, which is to continually improve production conditions, food aligned with the requirements in our new Supplier safety, sustainability and animal welfare standards. Code of Conduct; and a new section on sustainabil­ Since 2002, we have had a Code of Practice, which ity, describing our certification programme for pig Healthy pigs should not be given antibiotics. This is a basic principle in Danish defines the minimum requirements that all our production, known as the Climate Track. pig production, which has one of the world’s lowest levels of antibiotics use. cooperative members must meet. Our Code of Over the past ten years, Danish pig farmers have reduced their antibiotics use Practice is based on national legislation, including The revised rules also include a number of new by a third and they are working to bring it down even further. the DANISH Product Standard and the DANISH animal welfare requirements. For example, farmers Transport Standard, as well as international rules must be able to document the need for tail docking and standards. and draw up action plans to minimise identified Since 2015, Danish Crown has marketed meat from In August 2018, we achieved a market breakthrough risk factors. Other examples are stricter require­ pigs raised without antibiotics (OUA/Pure Pork). in Denmark with our pigs raised without antibiotics Together with the Board of Directors and members ments for good and efficient collection practices The main difference from conventional production through a partnership with a large retail chain. The of the Board of Representatives, we have reviewed with the driver having an opportunity to assess the methods is prevention rather than cure. A conven­ past year, our production of these pigs has increased the rules, and in June 2019, we launched a revised transport suitability of the animals before loading. tional pig may have been treated with antibiotics by 22 per cent, and more farmers are keen to join the Code of Practice. The revision includes two major during its lifetime, but no residuals are left by the concept. However, the significant global market price time the pig is slaughtered. A pig raised without increases on pork (due to African Swine Fever in Asia) the use of antibiotics during its lifetime requires have given our speciality pig concepts very difficult New agreement on far more supervision. OUA farmers need to be extra careful to clean the pig buildings to keep livestock market conditions. Achieving the carcass balance where we are able to sell all parts of the concept pigs cattle transportation healthy in order to limit the spread of infection is a challenge. This year the market has only grown by among the animals. 10 per cent. The solution is to try to expand the mar­ ket size and together with both retailers and industry customers to adapt to the new market price level. Use of antibiotics g antibiotics per pig (average for Danish pigs) 4.3 4.1 In 2018/19, we made a new agreement 3.9 on all transportation of live cattle to 3.5 the Danish abattoirs. It states that the farmer must separate the animals to 3.3 Sustainable farming be collected from the herd, so they 3.1 are ready when the haulier arrives. Preventing contact between the 2.9 transport vehicle and its driver and 2.7 the cattle house reduces the risk of spreading infection. Fast loading of 2.5 the animals onto the transport vehicle 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 is also more gentle and less stressful for the animals. Source: Danish Agriculture & Food Council based on data from VETSTAT and SAF. 27 Strategic priorities Activities 2018/19 Climate neutrality Developed climate goal for our production as part of our climate ambition. Sustainable food Zero waste Launched Supplier Code of Conduct. Animal Developed anti-corruption policy. welfare production certification Adopted declaration on labour and human rights in the transportation sector. Continued pilot project as part of the Danish partnership for Resource and water-efficient Industrial food Production (DRIP). Signed new agreement for fossil-free logistics to cover 30-40 per cent of our road transportations in Sweden. Minimising resource consumption in our food production is an integral part of everyday efforts in all our business units. Especially when it comes to the consumption of natural resources, Completed waste minimisation and the implementation of cleaner technologies. Ongoing C Planned activities ircular and bio-based solutions are vital in order to address For many years, our production facilities have worked hard to reduce climate change, restore environmental balance and provide water consumption by streamlining operations and implementing a reliable and accessible food supply for the world’s growing cleaner technologies. Ongoing improvements at our Danish abattoirs 2019/20 population. For Danish Crown, responsible resource management and have reduced water consumption from 600 litres per pig in the 1980s a circular value chain are at the heart of good business. Everything to only 200 litres today. Further reductions can only be achieved → Develop baseline for CO2 reduction in our production. has value at our abattoirs, where as much of the animal as possible is through recycling and reusing process water. Therefore, a main activity processed into foods for customers and consumers around the world. for Danish Crown is to engage in innovation projects to find new → Develop baseline for waste handling, including Residual side streams are not considered as waste, but are upgraded technological water-saving solutions. animal by-products. for use in feed applications, biogas production or used as high-value products in the pharmaceutical industry. Other key focus areas include ongoing environmental management → Develop plan for low-emission transportation, and responsible procurement where a main effort in 2019 was the including optimisation of transport patterns Sustainable food production However, resource-efficient production is not only about using the launch of our new Supplier Code of Conduct. Also, high animal wel­ in the supply chain. whole carcass so that no part goes to waste. It is also about making fare standards at our abattoirs are a key priority. To develop an animal → Implement new water-saving technology as a targeted efforts to improve energy and water efficiency in production welfare certification scheme for the abattoirs, we have established an pilot project. and distribution. In 2019, we started to translate our ambitious climate internal network of animal welfare officers and internal veterinarians, goal into specific projects at our production sites. This includes pur­ who are working across the Group to define and implement shared → Develop animal welfare certification chasing and generating renewable energy as well as enhancing the approaches. programme in abattoirs. efficiency of production processes by investing in low-carbon assets. 28 Engaging closely Transport declaration ensures better with our suppliers working conditions for lorry drivers In 2018, an investigation revealed that some lorry drivers were working under unacceptable conditions in Denmark. This included drivers In January 2019, we launched our new Supplier Code of Conduct. working for some of Danish Crown’s suppliers. The code sends a clear message that we wish to work with suppliers who can Together with three Danish transport companies, help us achieve our sustainability goals. we have adopted a declaration to ensure the health and well-being, safety and rights of employees in Addressing the transport industry. high-risk areas at our O ur Supplier Code of Conduct defines the We are also in the process of integrating the code The declaration contains specific requirements re­ production sites minimum requirements that our suppliers into a new quality system. When suppliers register garding the conditions that Danish Crown’s provid­ of goods and services must comply with in the system, they approve and sign the code, and ers of transport services and their subcontractors To identify potential sustainability risks at our when conducting business with Danish Crown and they can indicate whether they have an energy tar­ must offer their employees, including improved production sites and set the baseline for the re­ reflects our commitment to the UN Global Compact. get, for example. This will help us to identify sup­ standards of accommodation compared to the quirements in our new Supplier Code of Conduct, It also draws upon compliance with applicable pliers that may be interested in closer cooperation. standards exposed in 2018. Moreover, guidelines a sustainability risk mapping was carried out at 51 national and international legislation as well as We plan to create a community of key suppliers have been provided that the companies can use for production sites in 2018, using the Sedex selfrecognised international standards on animal where we can co-create innovative solutions and auditing and self-checks. assessment questionnaire. The questionnaire is welfare, food safety, the environment, human and support each other in continuously improving our based on international standards for Social Account­ labour rights as well as anti-corruption. sustainability performance. The integration also 40 suppliers and subcontractors, accounting for ability (SA8000), Environmental Management (ISO means that we will conduct future sustainability approximately 80 per cent of Danish Crown’s 14001), Occupational Health and Safety Management In order to demonstrate compliance with the code, audits in conjunction with quality audits. Further­ transport costs, have signed the declaration – and (OHSAS18001) and Ethical Trading (ETI Base Code). suppliers are required to adopt policies and im­ more, we expect to set KPIs on responsible supply eight accommodation centres in Denmark, Poland plement management systems and are urged to chain management in 2020. and Germany have subsequently been audited and The mapping confirmed a generally acceptable enrol with Sedex – the largest global platform for approved. governance level across our business units, but managing and sharing responsible sourcing data also identified some high-risk areas where we, in on supply chains. 2018/19, took action to mitigate risk and increase compliance with the international standards. Towards 2021, we will be implementing the code step by step. Initially, we prioritise suppliers of food We have prepared a Group policy and support­ Sustainable food production ingredients, packaging and other products that are ing standards on how to stay compliant with the used directly in, or are in contact with our products. anti-corruption laws in force. High-risk environ­ This is in line with our commitment to uphold the mental areas have been handled as part of our highest food safety and quality standards for our environmental management systems that drive the products. continuous improvement of our environmental performance at our production sites. The Sedex sustainability risk mapping will be repeated regularly, next time at the beginning of 2020. 29 Our primary en­ ergy sources are Energy consumption kWh per produced tonne COD in waste water kg COD per produced tonne Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) is Ensuring valid natural gas and electricity, which 700 16 the indicator for organic material performance data count for 85% of in waste water the consumption. 600 from our cleaning Even though 12 and production we have added 500 processes. COD fuel for vehicles has become the (trucks, cars, etc.) 400 most commonly to the 2018/19 8 used method 300 Complete, reliable and timely performance data, our energy for measuring. consumption per Therefore, we data is central when establishing baselines, produced volume 200 4 have converted setting ambitious targets and evaluating has decreased our Total Organic progress against our sustainability slightly. 100 Carbon (TOC) strategy and goals. data from previ­ 0 0 ous years to COD 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 by multiplication with a factor three. To improve the quality of our sustainability data and KPIs, we launched a strategic development project in 2018/19. Running over the next few years, the project aims at developing and streamlining our sustainability data measurement and reporting Our water 65% of the principles as well as our data work processes and consumption emissions support systems across the entire Group. per produced come from our volume presents abattoirs and During 2018/19, the project focused on data and an increase another 25% from KPIs within energy consumption, water withdrawal, compared to last our processed year. Whereas Water withdrawal Carbon emissions (Scope 1 and 2) food production. waste water discharge, carbon emissions, workplace the number of m3 per produced tonne tonnes CO2 In 2018/19 we accidents and sickness absence. Measurement pigs received have included and reporting principles have been updated and for slaughtering 5.00 500,000 emissions from system processes and internal control mechanisms has declined in vehicles and are being strengthened. We have also trained the 2018/19, we still refrigerants in employees involved in measuring, calculating and need the same 4.00 400,000 our Scope 1 and 2 reporting on these data points. Sustainable food production volume of water carbon emissions, for cleaning to whereof 3.00 300,000 Going forward, we will expand this with more data maintain the refrigerants high level of account for about and KPIs, to help us measure progress and support hygiene at our 2.00 200.000 7%. A Groupour decision-making processes. facilities, which level approach counts for about to reduce carbon See health and safety data on page 36, and our re­ 25% of the water 1.00 100,000 emissions is porting scope and data definitions on pages 42-45. consumption. being prepared and will be 0.00 0 implemented 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 from 2019/20. 30 Climate-efficiency Pilot projects document water-saving potential in production and distribution Since 2017, Danish Crown has participated in the Working with a technology supplier and the Danish Danish partnership for Resource and water-efficient Meat Research Institute, in 2018/19 we have run Industrial food Production (DRIP). Comprising food multiple and comprehensive tests in every conceiv­ companies, technology suppliers, universities and able operating situation. All tests have documented research institutions, the public-private partnership that the process water can be bacterially purified to aims to develop technology that can help reduce drinking-water quality. Following dialogue with our A ll business units and production sites are At our production sites in Denmark and Poland, freshwater consumption and increase the use of customers about the test results and food safety in the process of translating our climate we are exploring ways to reclaim process heat, purified recycled water. The overall goal is to reduce monitoring routines, we are ready to proceed with goals into specific actions that can reduce using it to heat cleaning water and indoor air. Ap­ the amount of water used in Danish food produc­ the development of a full-scale plant in 2020. our carbon footprint. An important task is crossproximately 30 per cent of the heat supply for the tion by 15-30 per cent without compromising food organisational coordination to ensure know­ledgeDanish abattoirs is reclaimed heat from technical quality and food safety. Saving one litre of water per pig at the abattoir in sharing and implementation of best practise across installations like refrigeration systems, air com­ Horsens, Denmark, equates to more than four mil­ the Group. pressors and ventilation systems. Our goal for the All solutions are to be tested at food production lion litres of water a year which do not have to be Danish sites is savings corresponding to a 2.5 per sites, and in 2018/19, we continued our largest pilot discharged as waste water. This, in turn, translates In Sweden, KLS Ugglarps has already made con­ cent annual reduction in the total consumption of project at our pig abattoir in Horsens, Denmark. We into savings of approx. DKK 100,000 on water bills siderable progress in the conversion to renewable electricity and heat. In 2018/19, the Danish abattoirs are testing a pilot plant which by means of filtra­ and drainage charges. As all of Danish Crown’s pig energy. In 2018/19, we invested in a pellet boiler at in Sæby and Horsens installed new ventilation sys­ tion techniques, UV technology and bacteriological abattoirs in Denmark are designed in the same way, the largest plant in Kalmar, Sweden. This boiler will tems that maximise the heat recovery, which alone screening can purify process water from abattoir the solution holds considerable savings potential if eliminate oil consumption for steam production has resulted in savings of about 0.5 per cent. robots. To ensure that bacteria are not transferred implemented at all our sites. and thereby lower the energy costs and save 300 from one pig to the next, all abattoir robots are tons of CO₂ emissions a year. This equals a CO₂ In 2018/19, Sokołów’s plants in Tarnów and Kolo, rinsed and sterilised after operation. This process Another pilot project at the Tulip production facility reduction of 94 per cent and is one of the plant’s Poland recovered heat from air compressors and accounts for 10 per cent of the abattoir’s total water in Svenstrup, Denmark, holds great potential for most recent initiatives to become completely fossil-­ thereby reduced its energy consumption for heat­ consumption, so the potential for water savings is other production sites. This project explores the free. ing of cleaning water by about 5 per cent. In August, considerable provided that the quality of the pro­ possibilities of optimising the consumption of water, the Kolo plant also installed heat pumps to utilise cess water after treatment is sufficiently high for energy and chemicals in the cooling towers. The investment is part of our commitment under heat from the refrigeration system for heating wa­ the water to be recycled and reused elsewhere in the Fossil Free Sweden initiative launched by the ter. The resulting savings will amount to approx. 50 production. Swedish government. The commitment also entails per cent, and a similar solution will be implement­ installing solar panels before the end of 2020, and ed at the Tarnów plant in 2020. purchasing hybrid cars for domestic services after 2020. Sustainable food production We are also launching initiatives to optimise transport patterns and reduce the climate foot­ print from transportation throughout our supply chain. A first step is to establish a baseline for CO₂ emissions. This will inform the dialogue with our transport suppliers and help us track the impact of future initiatives. 31 Strategic priorities Activities 2018/19 Safe workplace Launched Code of Conduct. Launched new diversity and inclusion policy. Good jobs Social integration Established a stronger governance setup to improve skills development and blue-collar training schemes. Career for everyone paths and Prepared for a skills and motivation assessment training for at our production sites. employees Accelerated social integration initiatives. Improved monitoring of work environment incidents. Introduced Environment, Health & Safety alert system. We have nearly 23,000 employees representing no less than 80 different nationalities. More than half of our employees are blue-collar workers. In addition to diversity and social integration in our workforce, Increased focus on safety related to auxiliary we work for equal and favourable conditions as well as healthy and safe workplaces. equipment and machines. Completed Ongoing O ur employees are key to the results we have created, and within the food industry is another area where we take on a special their continued motivation and engagement is essential to responsibility, for example by committing ourselves to offer more achieving our strategic objectives. Stimulating high employee apprenticeships. satisfaction through professional HR efforts and an inspiring Planned activities workplace that is healthy and safe is of high priority. Our starting In 2018/19, we have grown our workforce, and most new hires are point is good and strong, but we want to do even more to retain employed in DAT-Schaub and Tulip Food Company as a result of 2019/20 existing employees and attract new ones. recently acquired companies. In Denmark, we adjusted the workforce with 106 employees due to overcapacity in the market. In such a → Develop online Code of Conduct training. Danish Crown continues to be one of the most diverse and socially situation, we do our best to help those affected find new employment → Share best practice approaches on social inclusive companies in the Danish and European labour markets for through specific outplacement and engagement plans. Furthermore, integration across the Group. production workers. More than 80 per cent of our employees are in view of slightly fewer slaugtherings in Denmark and to avoid based at our production sites in Denmark, Poland, Germany, Sweden layoffs, our Sæby abattoir has introduced a new flexible production → Run global work safety campaign. and the UK. Most of our sites are located in rural areas where job approach that allows them to quickly adapt their capacity to changes. opportunities can be limited, and we contribute to the communities → Introduce training programme: From unskilled Good jobs for everyone by employing many people locally. We also create jobs for people who Finally, as part of our efforts to strengthen and embed our safety to skilled worker. have difficulty finding their way into the labour market. In 2018/19, rules and behaviour, in 2018/19 we have continued the roll-out of our → Conduct competence assessment to establish we made a special effort to integrate refugees and veterans into our global occupational health and safety system and also introduced a baseline for hourly paid employees. workforce and clarified our diversity and inclusion vision. Code of Conduct. → Initiate targeted training programmes based In a labour market where the demands for formal education are on findings from the competence survey. growing, we provide blue-collar workers with the opportunity of taking an education. Raising awareness of the career opportunities 32 Embracing diversity and Code of Conduct guiding employee behaviour 1 2 W We maintain respectful and We develop our business together e want our leadership to reflect the fact diversity makes us more creative, productive and that Danish Crown is growing globally. even more attractive as an employer. We have a honest relationships with our with consumers and customers To unite employees across business multicultural working environment and are proud colleagues, communities and and in the interest of our owners. units and cultures, we launched our Code of Con­ that our Euro­pean production sites have at least five all other stakeholders. duct for all managers and employees in April 2019, different nationalities employed. At some sites, the and in September 2019, we formalised a diversity number is close to 30. We strive to strengthen the and inclusion policy. English-language skills of our employees across the Group and wish to rotate internal global candidates 3 4 To help protect our brand and reputation, we to support a global workforce and accelerate best have defined Danish Crown’s worldwide business practice sharing. principles in eight rules of conduct, which work to guide employees on expected behaviour and While we have set a number of diversity goals that We strive to uphold the highest We strive for sustainable decision-making. Implementation of the code has address gender and nationality specifically, we em­ standards on food safety and solutions in all decisions. included engagement with our business unit man­ brace and encourage diversity in its broadest terms, agement teams and top 50 managers. We are also including but not limited to age, gender, sexual orien­ the quality of our products. developing awareness films on potential dilemmas tation, ethnicity, nationality, culture, religion, physical as well as a mandatory e-learning programmes. ability, education and skills. We tolerate no forms We aim to start the roll-out of selected themes in of discrimination; and all employees are entitled to 2019/20. fair and equal treatment. Our updated diversity and inclusion policy is integrated into our core people While we, as an organisation, must act as one Danish Crown, we recognise our diverse workforce as a key competitive advantage. We believe that processes, and we will use diversity and inclusion propositions in our employer branding to further re­ tain existing employees and attract new employees. 5 6 We respect human and labour We act with integrity and rights throughout the entire transparency in all our Diversity goals in global Our workforce value chain. business operations. graduate programme 22,979 In our updated policy, we have Our global graduate programme employees Good jobs for everyone set 2019/20 goals for our global in 2018/19 comprised seven 81% 7 8 graduate programme where the graduates with a female rep­ gender split must be 50/50. In resentation of 27 per cent and terms of nationality, the mini­ mum proportion of Danes/inter­ international profiles of 40 per cent. hourly paid employees We take responsibility for the We comply with laws and national profiles is 50/50 with the aim of further increasing the share of international candidates We have also set diversity goals for apprentices and management 80 work safety of ourselves and our colleagues and contribute to a regulations in all countries in which we operate. in the years to come. (see pages 34 and 36). nationalities good working environment. 33 Promoting social Job opportunities for Diversity goals for our apprentices % refugees and veterans inclusion and good 70 65 60 60 We offer employment to refugees to help solve a 50 50 challenge in society but also because the integration career paths 50 of refugees has been a positive experience for us. 40 In 2018/19, we more than doubled the number of 40 35 refugees employed at our Danish facilities, especially 30 at Danish Crown Pork’s abattoir in Sæby, Denmark, and at Zandbergen, the Netherlands, which employs 20 53 refugees. At Zandbergen, the refugee programme 10 has been running since 2017. Here, the combination of dedicated management, close collaboration Inclusivity is part of Danish Crown’s DNA. We employ more than 18,000 blue-collar workers 0 with local authorities, and an agency specialised in and focus on offering our hourly paid employees fair conditions. We also make an extra 2023 2026 2030 integrating refugees have been key to making the effort to get people on the edge of the labour market into permanent employment. integration process work. Women Men In 2019, we have developed a concept aimed at veterans who have difficulties returning to the W e already do this in parts of our We are also determined to inform young people Danish labour market following military service organisation by integrating refugees about the career opportunities that an apprentice­ abroad. Some of them are only able to take on light as well as long-term unemployed and ship in the food industry has to offer. In 2018/19, we duties, and others are looking to move from military veterans. In the years to come, we aim to share our made a special effort to provide more apprentice­ service to a job in the private sector. Structural social inclusion practises across the Group. ships, and we will increase our annual student intake layoffs of 106 employees at our abattoir in Horsens, by 15 per cent in 2020 compared to 2018. This will Denmark, has postponed the onset of this initiative. To improve our employees’ skills and provide bring us to around 310 apprentices. Of these, our We aim to start the integration programme in good career paths, we are working on a blue-collar ambition is to take in a minimum of 25 apprentice 2019/20 enrolling up to five veterans with PTSD. training scheme in Denmark that we will refine and scale to Group level by 2021. In 2018/19, we butchers at every admission round and to have a minimum of 25 per cent adult apprentices. We have Champion This will be followed by more widespread recruiting efforts for veterans who have completed their established a governance setup to ensure proper oversight of the scheme, and we have prepared for also set diversity goals for our apprentices, and in 2018/19 we had a gender split of 24/76 per cent butchers military service. a skills and motivation assessment to be rolled out women/men among our 267 apprentices. at our production sites in 2019/20. The mapping of mathematics, language and reading skills, including An important element in profiling the education the number of dyslexics etc., will help us to target as a butcher has been to formalise it as an inde­ our educational efforts. pendent professional discipline. This has now been Good jobs for everyone achieved in Denmark. This entails, among other things, participation in the annual Danish Nation­ al Championship, where Morten Øgendahl, Alex Svingholm and Simon Kyhl from Danish Crown in 2019 came first, second and third. We are also work­ ing to promote Danish Crown to future apprentices 320 refugees in the UK and Poland. To this end, we have pro­ duced small films with role models to be shown on in job social media and at events. 34 Fostering a Work Lost-time accidents Number of accidents per 1,000 FTEs Thanks to an intense focus from all management levels on reducing environment strong health and 50 work accidents, we have succeeded in reducing the frequency of losttime accidents by 32 per cent since awards safety culture 2017/18. The target for 2019/20 is 40 an incident ratio at 20 or below. In 2018/19, our efforts to provide good jobs for everyone were 30 recognised in both Poland and Working in abattoirs and food processing In 2018/19, we also continued the roll-out Denmark. We are proud that factories can be physically demanding of our global occupational health and Sokołów in 2018 – for the second 20 and pose potential safety hazards. We safety system in Sweden, Germany and year running – received the ‘Reli­ work systematically to create healthy and the UK. These efforts will continue in able Employer of the Year’ award safe workplaces, and we have a strong fo­ 2019/20, where we will also enrol Poland 10 for complying with HR and social cus on preventing accidents. Management to cover all our production sites. The sys­ responsibility standards. at all levels attaches great importance tem formalises our work across national to communicating safety rules and be­ borders and ensures uniform registration 0 We are also proud that Danish haviour, and it is our goal to reduce the of work-related injuries, i.e. accidents, 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Crown Pork in Ringsted was nom­ frequency of lost-time accidents to 20 or occupational diseases, near-accidents, inated for the Danish ‘Working less by the end of 2019/20. We are thus prevention, fire and safety inspections etc. Environment Award’ in 2019 – for pleased to see the significant reduction This system allows us to monitor devel­ our holistic approach to health achieved in 2018/19. opments much more closely than we have and safety management. In five done before, resulting in an improved years, Ringsted has succeeded in In terms of occupational diseases, which health and safety culture. In connection significantly reducing the number typically occur after several years of expo­ with the roll-out, we have also been work­ of accidents at work by focusing Absence due to lost-time accidents sure, we have launched several initiatives ing on improving the quality of our health While the frequency of accidents on management, culture and risk. Days of absence per accident to improve our workplaces. They include and safety data and KPIs (see page 30). has decreased, we see an increase work instructions, workplace layout and 25 in the total days of absence due The number of accidents has production patterns as well as robot In Denmark, 17 sites are certified under to lost-time accidents. Unfortu­ been more than halved – from 39 technologies and high-tech auxiliary OHSAS 18001 and our seven Pork facili­ nately, we have had some serious accidents per 1,000 employees accidents causing relatively long equipment to help reduce the strain on ties also hold an ISO 14001 certificate. 20 in 2013/14 to 14 in 2017/18. These absences. our employees. We have developed an great results continued in 2018/19 Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) alert where the number of accidents system. It enables our sites to learn from was brought down to 28 per 15 each other and prevent accidents and 1,000 FTEs. incidents by adding and sharing learnings Good jobs for everyone and corrective actions. The system has 10 proved to work well and will be imple­ mented in Denmark, Sweden and Ger­ many in 2019/20. As stated in our Code of 5 Conduct (see page 33), we expect employ­ ees to proactively take responsibility for their own and their colleagues’ safety and well-being. 0 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 35 Building a stronger Diversity goals for our foundation for women management in management We have set a number of goals for the different management levels in Danish Crown. Below is a status on the current levels: Executive Board In 2018/19, we have been working on setting new goals for a diverse workforce. The role Goal: 33 per cent gender diversity of women in management has been an integrated part of this process. C  urrently, we do not have any women Status: on our Executive Board. I n line with the Recommendations for Cor­ Our past efforts have had some effect, but we porate Governance, the Board of Directors must do even more to attract and retain women has approved our formalised diversity and and ensure that we do not overlook half of the Top50 managers inclusion policy, including our diversity goals. The available talent pool. In building the foundation goals are aimed at different management levels, for more women in management, we are aware of Double the underrepresented gender graduates and apprentices and cover both gender the import­ance of limiting unconscious biases in Goal: before 2025 and double that again and nationality as we wish to strengthen the diver­ our recruiting process, for instance by choosing the before 2030 to reach 30 per cent. sity of both par­ameters in Danish Crown (see pages wording in job advertisements carefully. Going for­ 33 and 34). In our vision for diversity and inclusion, ward, we will also require that for all management The gender diversity among our Top50 Status: we state that we want to mirror our customers and positions, at least one woman should be among the managers is currently 8 per cent. consumers’ diversity in order to understand and last three candidates for the job. embrace their values and trends. While our con­ sumer groups are diverse, women often make the We are pleased to see positive developments in Gender Business unit management teams decisions when shopping in the supermarket. Turn­ ing the mirror inwards, women in management our global graduate programme where the share of female graduates has increased from 11 per cent representation at board level At least one member in each manage­ positions currently constitute 38 per cent, which in 2017/18 to 27 per cent in 2018/19. However, the Goal: ment team must be diverse in terms of is an important increase from last year where the challenge remains across the organisation. As an nationality before 2025. figure was 29 per cent. The increase of 9 percentage example, only one of our butcher apprentices is The Board of Directors of Danish Crown A/S is points can primarily be ascribed to acquisitions of female this year. Therefore, we have given ourselves composed of ten members elected by the general The diversity in terms of nationality stores in Poland, which traditionally have female the challenge that the gender split amongst all our Good jobs for everyone shareholders and three employee representatives. across our business unit management managers. The share of female managers in Poland apprentices must be 35/65 by 2023 and 40/60 by Status: Two of the shareholder elected members are women, teams is in place in KLS Ugglarps and is 58 per cent. 2026, and long term we aim for 50/50 in 2030. To­ hence we meet the goal of 20 per cent diversity set DAT-Schaub. day it is not a challenge to find female apprentices for 2021. All ten members of the Board of Directors of for casings cleaning and we need to learn from this Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA are men. success. This naturally reflects the gender balance among the owners of Danish Crown but does not yet live up to our 10 per cent diversity target. 36 Strategic priorities Activities 2018/19 Increase sales and value of Launched new sustainable packaging concept. sustainable Together Further developed the sustainable product products range. Initiated partnerships with customers to accelerate responsible consumption of food. with customers and Refined the pathway for the future role of meat. Promoted premium products. consumers Completed Ongoing Each year, we supply food for billions of meals to consumers worldwide. Together with our customers, we are constantly developing new food concepts, and our focus is increasingly on healthy and sustainable food products. Planned activities 2019/20 W e do our utmost to meet the expectations of our custom­ Danish Crown already has a leading position within organic products ers and consumers in every delivery we make. In 2018/19, and products from animals raised without antibiotics, but overall, sales → Develop strategy for sustainable packaging and we supplied food for billions of meals, and all over the of those products were disappointing in 2018/19. To stimulate sales, we plastics. world we are met by a customer focus on quality and food safety, work to influence the market and shift customer focus from price to healthy nutrition and great taste. Staying tuned to market trends and high-quality meat and sustainable food products. We do so by raising → Launch more sustainable products Together with customers and consumers engaging in market-driven innovation together with our customers is awareness about the sustainability requirements for our conventional and concepts. key. We collaborate with our customers across retail, foodservice and meat products and for our specialised concepts such as animal wel­ → Promote sustainable choices. industry as well as with consumers to develop new food concepts that fare-labelled pork. Furthermore, to increase the recycling of plastic, we meet market needs. introduced new food packaging solutions in 2018/19. → Improve internal competences in sustainability dialogues with customers. The global demand for meat is reflected in our global sales. Although Moving markets and changing habits do not happen overnight. That is the demand is expected to continue to increase, we also see other why we have to follow market developments closely and engage in the → Define food waste strategy. movements in the marketplace. Some consumers seek a sustainable public debate on the climate impact of meat and the scepticism about lifestyle and aim to make a difference through their choice of food eating meat. As we address the climate footprint of our meat production products. This includes an increased interest in organic products, to increase sustainability across the value chain, we also diversify our plant-based meals and foods with a high protein content – and ways portfolio. In 2018/19, we introduced a new premium meat brand and of reducing food waste is also a focus area. plant-based products. These efforts are grounded in our passion for pro­ ducing the best food based on high-quality raw materials from farmers. 37 Building sustainable FRILAND consumption ‘Bedre Dyrevelfærd’ (Better Animal Welfare) is a Danish state-driven animal welfare label which defines significantly stricter animal Friland has specialised in organic meat pro­ duced according to particularly high animal welfare standards. Friland was established welfare standards than those stipulated by in 1992 and has, since 1999, been part of the Danish and European legislation. Danish Crown Danish Crown Group. Friland is Europe’s lar­ has helped to develop the label, which was gest organic meat company and a significant Our customers’ purchasing choices are essential drivers of our sustainability journey. launched in 2017 for pork products, and we are supplier of organic meat to European process­ Put simply, it is all about supply and demand. That is why we call on all our stakeholders one of the main suppliers of labelled products. ing companies. Approximately 150 farmers to help move consumption in a sustainable direction, away from a narrow focus on price. supply animals to Friland. To accommodate different consumer prefer­ ences, the animal welfare label is available in Together with Animal Protection Denmark, three variants, with one, two or three hearts. Friland has developed a code of practice The more hearts, the better animal welfare – which ensures that the animals’ welfare and O ur 2018/19 sales figures for conventional However, the challenge involved in building sales of and the higher the price point. needs are met in the best possible way. This and animal welfare-labelled fresh pork sustainable products will not stop us from driving means, among other things, that animal wel­ in Denmark are stable. We see a slightly the development of these products. We will work The label is subject to state-approved inspecfare requirements regarding Friland’s organic increasing trend for conventional pork, while the to influence our markets, and in 2018/19 our sales tion and comprises five basic requirements: pigs are stricter than existing EU rules for sales of animal welfare-labelled pork have not and marketing functions focused on addressing organic pig production. For more than two picked up. Sales of organic products have increased sustainability parameters when engaging custom­ • Curly tails – no tail docking and no tail biting decades, all product labels have carried the slightly, which is also the case for pigs raised with­ ers. Danish Crown Pork often sells fresh meat in • More straw for rooting and nesting statement ‘Approved by Animal Protection out antibiotics (OUA) in Denmark (see page 27). bulk to large industry customers, which makes the • More space Denmark’. differentiation between products difficult. We are • Free-range sows Overall, we had expected a larger increase in the testing new types of dialogue and success criteria • Max. transport time of eight hours In 2018/19, Friland experienced an increase Together with customers and consumers consumption of our specialised concepts following to build a thorough understanding of the good sale. in both interest and sales in Denmark, and the growing interest in sustainability shown by We will continue and further develop this approach A label with two hearts requires 30 per cent we are working hard to expand our exports to consumers in our domestic markets. While some in 2019/20. more space and more straw, while a label with the European markets. We are also exploring people may be willing to pay a premium price for three hearts also requires outdoor areas for possibilities in the US market. these products, sales can be complicated by diver­ We believe that our efforts to supply sustainable the pigs and even more straw. ging preferences across different markets. It can be products – combined with our customer engage­ difficult to recover the additional cost of producing ment and the growing interest in sustainable food organic, OUA and animal welfare-labelled pigs products – will lead to increased demand in the when the meat is sold in markets with different years to come. consumer preferences. The partnership behind the animal welfare label has decided to expand the concept to include beef from 2020. 38 Introducing New premium The burgers are based on new food vegetables such meat brand as peas, beetroot and pumpkin and are rich in concepts fibres, protein and taste. I n addition to our various specialised concepts, we are developing ‘In taste we trust’ is the overall philosophy of our our product portfolio to provide a balanced and healthy diet new premium brand, ‘Dyrbar’, which we introduced which includes both high-quality meat products and plant-based on the Danish market in August 2019. The new food food concepts. concept focuses on good taste and high-quality meat and targets consumers who opt for less, but While meat production and processing are our core business, the better meat. diversification implies that we, in some of our home markets, will become recognised as a food company with a more diverse product Dyrbar responds to the fact that the role of meat on portfolio. the dinner plate is changing. This represents a shift from quantity to quality, where meat of higher qual­ For some years, Sokołów has been developing new veggie products for ity and intense taste is enjoyed in smaller portions. the Polish market, and Tulip Food Company has marketed a range of veggie cold cuts. Similarly, in 2019, KLS Ugglarps has introduced vege­ tarian casseroles to the Swedish market, where the main sources of We sell the premium brand’s selected high-quality pork, veal and beef through our web shop www. Plant-based burgers protein are chickpeas and sweet potatoes. We are constantly introdu­ dyrbar.dk, where we also share recipes and cooking cing new food concepts to target our specific markets and consumer tips from master chefs. preferences and hope that our diversified product range launched in 2018/19 will be well received. The flexitarian trend is growing, We see this as a diversification reflecting a large consumer ap­ of our product range, offering Together with customers and consumers Recognised for our petite for a variety of plant-based foods, and we are seeing new food fresh, high-quality and tasty plantbased alternatives to flexitarian veggie products categories developing rapidly at the moment. To tap into this consumers who seek a varied diet. In addition to being experts in trend, Danish Crown Beef has freshly delivered minced meat, In July 2019, Sokołów’s ‘Z Gruntu Dobre’ product line was awarded in introduced a plant-based burger, the process of producing minced the meatless products and meals category by the poll Dobra Marka developed in collaboration with a vegetables is a natural step for us. – Jakość, Zaufanie, Renoma (Good Brand – Quality, Trust, Reputation). Danish chain of restaurants. These With this initiative, we aim to meet The product line consists of pastes, pies and ready-made meals. The burgers are based on vegetables individual consumer preferences poll was conducted by the Business Forum magazine in Poland and is like peas, beetroot and pumpkin in our main categories. designed for people who care about a balanced and healthy diet. and are rich in fibres, protein and taste, but free from additives and E-numbers. 39 Testing new packaging solutions Waste from single-use plastic packaging is a huge environmental challenge, and many food companies are engaged in designing reusable, recyclable or biodegradable packaging that can keep food fresh and safe and comply with the strict requirements for food contact materials. The new en­ I vironmentally friendly meat n Danish Crown, we work closely with our the authorities on this matter. It also requires that the trays are cur­ customers and consumers to create sustaina­ consumer recycles the tray by quickly rinsing it under rently made ble food packaging solutions. In Sweden, for the tap before placing it in the container for hard with 80 per cent example, we introduced minced meat in tube pack­ plastic. We diligently communicate our recycling recycled plastic. aging in January 2018. This initiative has been well messages to motivate and change habits among our It is an advan­ received by consumers and saved approximately customers and consumers, and we are very pleased to tage to produce black meat trays 50 per cent of plastic packaging compared to trays. have received an award for our new packaging solu­ since it makes While introducing sustainable packaging solutions tion from one of Denmark’s largest retail chains at us independent may seem straightforward, a number of factors their annual supplier meeting in August 2019. of the colour like the product’s shelf life, portion size, impact on of the recycled logistics, food safety and how the solution fits into Our preliminary calculations show that the shift to plastic. This way, local and national waste and recycling systems can PET plastic will reduce CO₂ emissions per plastic we can access affect its success in practice. tray by 54 per cent if the tray is recycled. This figure larger amounts of plastic and will become even higher over time if the tray is ultimately reach One of our greatest challenges is meat trays. In produced entirely of recycled plastic. However, if Together with customers and consumers our goal of 100 Denmark alone, consumers annually purchase the PET tray is incinerated, the reduction is only 6 per cent recycled around 55 million trays of pork and beef from per cent. Hence, recycling of the trays is crucial to plastic. However, Danish Crown, and the packaging amounts to more realising the potential. some of the than 1,000 tons of plastic. local authorities’ sorting facilities It must be noted that the switch to PET plastic also have difficulties To stimulate recycling, Danish Crown Beef and Tulip means that Danish Crown’s consumption of plas­ handling black Food Company introduced green and black meat tic will increase by around 5 per cent. PET plastic plastic, but we trays in June 2019. These trays are made of environ­ weighs slightly more than the other types of plastic are hopeful as mentally friendly PET plastic that can be reused for used previously, which underlines the importance new technolo­ pre-packed food. The first trays are made with 80 per of collective action when tackling waste issues. gies are being cent recycled plastic, and our goal is to reach 100 per implemented to help overcome cent within the coming years. This requires, however, In 2019/20, we will also look into the potential for this challenge in that local Danish authorities scale up their plastic intro­ducing fibrebased packaging as the supplier the near future. collection capacity, and we are in close dialogue with market is developing innovative solutions in this area. 40 5 R  eporting principles Reporting principles 41 Reporting scope and methodology The report describes our sustainability strategy and activities in view of the issues that are most material to Danish Crown and our stakeholders. The materiality assessment has contributed to the content of the report. Scope Reporting approach Methodology The Sustainability report covers the financial year The basic reporting principles are unchanged com­ In 2018/19, we initiated a process aimed at ensuring 2018/19 going from 1 October 2018 to 30 September pared to last year’s CSR report. During the year, we a high quality standard of our sustainability data 2019, and the data collected reflects this period in have developed and updated our work procedures and thereby a robust basis for monitoring and the best possible way. and the definitions of selected data points (further reporting on our sustainability efforts. detail below). Entities included in the Sustainability report We have implemented a new data collection 2018/19 are the enterprises included in the Danish This sustainability reporting is largely inspired by process, based on data calculation and validation Crown Annual Report 2018/19 (refer to this report the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, how­ standards defined and formalised at Group level. for specifications on the inclusion principles and ever without meeting the in-accordance criteria. a complete list of group enterprises). For the reporting period 2018/19, the new Some of the data included in the report are ap­ approach has been applied for a selection of Key During 2018/19, we divested Tulip Ltd. In our proximate figures based on calculations for slightly Performance Indicators (KPIs) with underlying data annual report we show Tulip Ltd separated from different periods. points that we consider particularly important for our continued business. Therefore, all figures in the our business activities: Sustainability report are exclusive of Tulip Ltd. In the case of restatement of previously reported Reporting scope and methodology data or material changes in calculation methodolo­ • Carbon emissions Enterprises acquired or established during the re­ gies or principles, explanations of background and • Energy consumption porting period are included in the data from the impacts are given. • Water withdrawal and discharge date of acquisition or establishment. The acquisition • Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) is counted from the date when control passes to • Lost-time accidents / Absence due to lost-time Danish Crown. Enterprises divested or closed down accidents / Absence due to sickness are included in the data until the date of divestment or closure. The date of divestment is the date when In the years to come, we will extend the improved control of the enterprise passes to a third party. data collection approach to cover our entire sustainability reporting. 42 Data definitions Financial highlights Data and figures are derived directly from the Danish Crown Annual Report 2018/19. Sustainability figure Unit Definition Absence due to lost-time accidents Workdays per accident Content in numerator: Total workdays of absence due to lost-time accidents excluding the day of the accident. If an accident causes more periods of absence, all days of absence are included. Absence within the reporting period due to accidents in previous periods are not included. Content in denominator: Number of lost-time accidents. Absence due to sickness Workdays per 1,000 FTEs Content in numerator: Total workdays of absence due to shortand long-term illness and due to sickness of children or any equivalents hereto. Maternity or paternity leave is not included. Content in denominator: Number of 1,000 FTEs. Animals: Organic, free-range and Number of animals Total number of animals slaughtered which were raised organically, as free-range and/or without antibiotics. raised without antibiotics Carbon emissions Tonnes CO₂ Total carbon emissions (scope 1 and scope 2) from natural gas, gas oil, fuel oil, gasoline, other fossil fuels, diesel, electricity, district heating and steam, liquified and compressed gas, dry ice, vacuum-packaging, anaesthesia and refrigerant losses. Calculations are based on the latest official IEA factors or specific local CO₂ factors where relevant and possible. Data definitions COD in waste water Tonnes COD Total amount of COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand), i.e. organic substances in the waste water stemming from the production and released through the waste water. 43 Sustainability figure Unit Definition COD in waste water per produced volume kg per produced tonne Content in numerator: Total tonnes of COD in waste water. Content in denominator: Volume of produced products in tonnes. Energy consumption MWh Total consumption of fossil and renewable energy sources: natural gas, gas oil, fuel oil, gasoline, other fossil fuels, diesel, electricity, district heating and steam, liquified and compressed gas, biomass energy, other alternative energy and own production of renewable energy. Energy consumption per produced volume kWh per produced tonne Content in numerator: Total energy consumption. Content in denominator: Volume of produced products in tonnes. Feed efficiency Feed units per kg gain Figures derive from SEGES: ‘Country average for productivity, Pig production Denmark 2018’. Full-Time Equivalents (FTEs) Number One FTE is equivalent to one employee working full-time (according to the employment hours in the countries where we operate). Lost-time accidents Number of accidents per 1,000 FTEs Content in numerator: An accident is recorded when it occurs during working hours and causes at least one day of absence after the day of the accident. Accidents during travel to/from work are generally not included. Both permanent and temporary employees at Danish Crown are included. Employees working for and managed by Danish Crown’s contractors and subcontractors are not included. Content in denominator: Number of 1,000 FTEs. Water withdrawal 1,000 m3 Total withdrawal of water from all sources: Groundwater, surface water, (including collected rain water), sea water, water from municipality facilities and other external vendors, own wells or water collections. Water withdrawal per produced volume m3 per produced tonne Content in numerator: Total water withdrawal. Content in denominator: Data definitions Volume of produced products in tonnes. 44 Sustainability figure Unit Definition Water discharge 1,000 m3 Total amount of water discharged to surface water, groundwater, seawater and third-party facilities. Both water discharged to/through own treatment facilities as well as water discharged directly are included. Women in management positions % of all management positions A manager is defined as an employee with managerial responsibility for other employees. Data definitions 45 Indicators KPI Unit 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Animals: Organic, free-range and raised without antibiotics Number of animals 785,000 765,000 380,000 310,000 290,000 Feed efficiency Feed units per kg gain 2.63 2.66 2.70 2.70 2.74 Carbon emissions Tonnes CO2 408,865 441,054 1) 380,673 1) 416,417 1) 453,185 1) Energy consumption MWh 1,330,727 1,509,682 1,290,117 1,412,413 1,420,760 Energy consumption kWh per produced tonne 532 549 512 630 675 Water withdrawal 1,000 m3 10,437 10,379 10,028 10,800 10,552 Water withdrawal m3 per produced tonne 4.17 3.77 3.98 4.82 5.01 COD in waste water kg per produced tonne 8.7 9.9 12.2 13.4 12.9 Lost-time accidents Number of accidents per 1,000 FTEs 28 41 35 38 37 Absence due to lost-time accidents Workdays per accident 22.2 17.2 18.7 17.5 18.2 Women in management positions % 37.8 28.0 27.9 25.8 25.6 1) For these years, some parts of Scope 1 and 2 are not included. Indicators 46 Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA | Marsvej 43, DK-8960 Randers | Tel. +45 89 19 19 19 sustainability@danishcrown.com | www.danishcrown.com | VAT no. 21643939
