CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2018 ABOUT THE REPORT As part of Nordic Semiconductor’s commitment as a signatory to the UN Global Compact, this report is intended as our official Communication on Progress (COP), covering the period from January 1st2018 to December 31st 2018, unless otherwise stated. This is the sixth Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report published by Nordic Semiconductor, and it is published together with Nordic Semiconductor’s annual report for 2018. The reports are published on www.nordicsemi.com. This Corporate Social Responsibility report has been prepared in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) initiative and in line with RBA (Responsible Business Alliance) code of conduct and describes Nordic Semiconductor’s policies, goals, and implementation, as well as the outcome of its work with humanand labor rights, the environment and anti-corruption. CONTENTS: STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT P2 2 ABOUT NORDIC SEMICONDUCTOR P3 OUR STAKEHOLDERS P6 HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR RIGHTS P8 ENVIRONMENT P11 ETHICS P15 HEALTH AND SAFETY P17 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT P19 Corporate Social Responsibility report 2018 Svenn-Tore Larsen CEO, Nordic Semiconductor Corporate Social Responsibility report 2018 ABOUT NORDIC SEMICONDUCTOR NORDIC SEMICONDUCTOR AT A GLANCE Nordic Semiconductor is a leading provider of IC solutions for wireless connectivity and IoT based on its proprietary 2.4GHz RF, Bluetooth® Low Energy and cellular IoT, being in the business since 1983. Worldwide top position Business structure ▪ A market leader in ultra-low power wireless ▪ Innovation and high technology as the heart of the technology business ▪ Strong market share in Blue tooth Low Energy ▪ More than 500 R&D engineers working in Head quarter (Norway) and other countries ▪ Long-time record of being key contributor in the evolution of Bluetooth LE as a wireless standard ▪ A listed company on Oslo stock exchange with Operations in Norway (Head quarter), and USA, ▪ Products enabled IoT with short, medium and China, Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Poland, Finland, long range technology Germany and the Philippines ▪ Highest possible standards on energy-efficiency ▪ Fabless company with world class manufacturing and security subcontractors: ➢ Ex. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) was awarded as one of the Target market most sustainable companies in Asia in year ▪ High volume applications with Leading brands 2016 in target market segments: ▪ Global distribution partners ➢ PC and tablet accessories, ▪ Running a management system based on three Sports/Health monitors, Building & standards: retail, Mobile phone accessories, Media remote controls, Gaming ➢ ISO 9001 (Certified) controllers, Toys, RFID solutions, and Home and Industrial Automation ➢ ISO 14001 (Certified) ➢ Healthcare ➢ ISO 18001 (Certified) ➢ ISO 27001 (Certified) ➢ RBA Code of Conduct Corporate Social Responsibility report 2018 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corporate Social Responsibility report 2018 OUR VALUES AND CODE OF CONDUCT Nordic Semiconductor’s commitment and responsibility to sustainability is bundled in to our everyday business operations and actions. We believe that our business solutions and product designs must target improving life of people living in our global society both in short and long term. The high technology and knowledge bundled within our business is capable of positive impact on our society. As a UN Global Compact signatory, Ten Principles of the UNGC outlines the frame work of our Corporate Social Responsibility performance. Nordic Semiconductor’s Policy on Corporate Social Responsibility Nordic Semiconductor’s operating practices, decisions and management systems shall be guided by, and in a transparent way reflect that: Nordic Semiconductor is accountable for its impact on the society and the environment. Nordic Semiconductor respects its stakeholder's interests. Nordic Semiconductor behaves ethically and respects human rights at all times and will not tolerate any form of forced labor or child labor in our supply chain. Nordic Semiconductor respects the rule of law and international norms of behavior. Nordic Semiconductor prohibits any retaliatory action for reporting or inquiring about alleged improper or wrongful activity. CODE OF CONDUCT Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct Being an active business in semiconductor industries, Nordic Semiconductor follows Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct for core reference of our social responsibility. The RBA Code of Conduct is a set of standards on social, environmental, and ethical issues in the electronics industry supply chain. The provisions set out in the Code of Conduct are in alignment with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and derived from key international human rights standards including the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. (For more information on the RBA and its work, please see www.responsiblebusiness.org) We also actively require tier 1 suppliers to comply with this code of conduct and encourage them to require the same from their suppliers. Nordic Semiconductor manages conformance to the code a within the organization and its external surroundings through management system standards: • Environment management system – ISO 14001 (certified) • Occupational Health & safety management systemISO 18001(certified) • Information Security ISO 27001 (certified) Corporate Social Responsibility report 2018 With a global business model and a rapidly growing business, Nordic Semiconductor faces multiple stakeholders with different needs and requirements. Communication with stakeholders is important for continuous improvement on our CSR performance. Our objectives are to: understand stakeholders’ concerns and continue to improve CSR-related performance, obtain stakeholders’ trust and respect for Nordic Semiconductor, and report on Nordic Semiconductor’s efforts and performance to maintain and enhance our reputation. Stakeholders are internal or external persons or organizations that have influence on Nordic Semiconductor or can be influenced by Nordic Semiconductor. The most relevant stakeholders are identified as investors, customers and distributors, employees, manufacturing partners, authorities and the community/public. Based on this, Nordic Semiconductor has identified and analyzed CSR topics systematically to assess their materiality. The assessment is performed by evaluating the topics’ importance to our stakeholders and to Nordic Semiconductor in terms of impact on revenue, reputation and compliance. The outcome of the materiality assessment is illustrated in Figure 1. Table 1 shows the identified main topics of interest for each stakeholder, as well as references to how Nordic Semiconductor works with these topics and stakeholder communication channels.’ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Res ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Figure 1: Materiality assessment of CSR topics. The assessment is performed by evaluating the topics that are important to our stakeholders and to Nordic Semiconductor’s success. Corporate Social Responsibility report 2018 Stakeholders Stakeholder dialogue examples Main areas of interest (CSR) How we work with these issues, Investors Quarterly reporting Ethical behavior ▪ RBA Code of Conduct, Annual report UN Global Compact Annual CSR report Environmental management ▪ ISO 14001 certification Carbon Disclosure Project Face-to-face meetings Energy efficient operations, ▪ CDP Climate Change Program Annual general meeting GHG emissions reporting Telephone and email responses to investors' Water management ▪ Suppliers water consumption questions and feedback monitoring collection Customers and Face-to-face meetings and Product compliance ▪ Hazardous substances management distributors direct contact Resource efficiency ▪ Ultra-low power products Nordic Semiconductor webpage Sustainable sourcing ▪ Conflict minerals program Nordic Semiconductor Carbon footprint ▪ CDP Climate Change program Developer Zone Water risk assessment ▪ Suppliers water consumption Customer satisfaction survey monitoring Customer surveys Participation on exhibitions Human rights and labor ▪ RBA Code of Conduct, UN Global and seminars compliance Compact Customer Audits ▪ Customers satisfaction survey Data privacy ▪ ISO 27001 certification Employees Daily contact Training and education ▪ Performance reviews Performance reviews Business ethics ▪ RBA Code of Conduct Employee satisfaction survey Nordic Semiconductor Health and Safety ▪ OHSAS 18001 certification intranet Working conditions ▪ Working Environment Committee Quarterly reporting meetings Non-retaliation ▪ Whistleblower program Internal training External training Non-discrimination ▪ Non-discrimination policy Employee unions and ▪ Diversity program representatives ▪ Employee satisfaction surveys Whistle blower channel ▪ Confidentiality pledge ▪ Anti-corruption acknowledgement Data privacy ▪ ISO 27001 certification Subcontractors Quarterly operations reviews Product compliance ▪ Hazardous substances management Supplier audits Sustainable sourcing ▪ Conflict minerals program Yield improvement and waste reduction projects Human rights and labor ▪ RBA Code of Conduct Supplier qualification compliance Environmental management ▪ Carbon accounting Authorities Legislative requirements Product compliance ▪ Hazardous substances management Audits Waste management ▪ ISO 14001 certification Authorities advisory functions Newsletter monitoring Anti-corruption ▪ Anti-corruption policy ▪ Whistleblower program Working environment ▪ OHSAS 18001 certification Data privacy ▪ ISO 27001 certification Community and Press releases Ethical behavior ▪ CSR reporting, UN Global Compact public Newsletter monitoring Community Engagement ▪ Charitable contributions Business presentations at educational institutions Education and training ▪ ‘Make it Digital’ ▪ Female Student program (ADA) and master thesis ▪ Cooperation’s with Universities projects ▪ Media interviews Table 1: Stakeholders dialogue, main areas of interest related to corporate social responsibility, and Nordic Semiconductor response. Page ref. indicates reference to where in this report the work on these topics are addressed. Corporate Social Responsibility report 2018 ASSESSMENT It is our goal to have no form of human rights abuses or labor issues at any stage Nordic Semiconductor is a growing business related to production of our products. with offices and employees in different Similar to 2017, improvement in follow-up parts of the world. We aim to secure a of new suppliers and increasing knowledge diverse environment and ensure equal of our upstream supply chain are specific employment opportunities. Fair recruitment targets for the coming year. and non-discrimination is important to attract and retain qualified personnel. Under Norwegian law, employees are granted the right to organize in labor Based on our risk assessment, unions. Nordic Semiconductor respects and the issues of Conflict Minerals and forced supports this important right. labor in the value chain have been specifically identified as relevant topics pertaining to the Human Rights and Labor principles. The electronics industry supply Nordic Semiconductors policy chain unfortunately sees incidences of on Non-Discrimination trafficked and/or forced (bonded) labor or child labor, particularly in Asia and particularly via means of debt bondage and document seizure, and it is important for Nordic Semiconductor to ensure we are not complicit in this in any way. POLICIES, COMMITMENTS AND GOALS Nordic Semiconductor’s CSR policy and the RBA Code of Conduct commits to respecting and supporting Human Rights and Workers’ rights. Nordic Semiconductor shall uphold and protect internationally proclaimed human rights and workers’ rights, and to treat workers with dignity and respect as understood by the international community. Nordic Semiconductor adheres to the principle that all employment shall be freely chosen and that workers shall be free to leave their employment with reasonable notice. Child labor must not be used at any stage of manufacturing. Working hours and wages shall comply with applicable local laws or RBA Code of Conduct paragraphs (whichever is stricter). Employees shall have rights to organize collective bargaining. Corporate Social Responsibility report 2018 IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS we have no direct contact with smelters or providers of material. All such contact is As a fabless producer, engagement with our handled through our subcontractors. As such supply chain is important. Nordic Nordic Semiconductor needs to rely on 3rd Semiconductor requires all tier 1 party auditing such as RMI’s audit program. subcontractors to follow the RBA Code of Conduct, and that they should require the same from their suppliers. Since 2015 Nordic Semiconductor has required suppliers to source only from conflict-free smelters, i.e. smelters that are All our direct suppliers have their own verified as RMI compliant by RMI’s audit documented corporate social responsibility scheme. To date, no incidents of minerals policy including adherence to RBA Code of supporting armed conflicts have been Conduct, with commitment to communicate discovered, and currently 100% of reported this to next tier supplier. smelters in the value chain are RMI compliant. Raising awareness of employees on Human Rights and Labor principles and relevant For 2019 we expect Conflict Minerals to issues are regularly done by internal remain the most relevant issue related to training and as part of the introduction Human Rights, and the change of scope to program for new employees. include Cobalt, Mica, Graphite and copper amongst the minerals in focus. Nordic Supplier audits are used to review Semiconductor will continue to engage its implementation of the RBA Code of suppliers to precisely identify the origin of Conduct, such as tracing of information for all material used in Nordic Semiconductor’s conflict mineral reports and Human Rights products. and Labor performance. Modern slavery Measurements and results are reviewed Forced labor takes different forms, annually by the management team in the including debt bondage, trafficking, and Management Review. other forms of modern slavery. The California Transparency in Supply Chains Act To date, Nordic Semiconductor has never of 2010 and The UK Modern Slavery Act of experienced an incident of Human Rights 2015 are two extensive legislative abuse or Labor violation. requirements, which require certain businesses to disclose their efforts to Conflict Minerals address the issues of slavery and human Nordic Semiconductor has worked with the trafficking in their supply chains. Nordic issue of Conflict Minerals since 2010, and Semiconductor is not required to be engages regularly with our suppliers to compliant with these acts. However, we provide accurate and transparent have taken the principles from these information on the origin of minerals to regulatory acts to govern our Anti Modern concerned stakeholders. Our Conflict Slavery surveillance along through our Minerals policy is stated on our website, and supply chain. has been communicated to all relevant suppliers. As Nordic Semiconductor’s Nordic Semiconductor does not tolerate products contain 3TG (Tin, Tungsten, forced labor practices to be used in any of Tantalum and Gold), due diligence is our operations, as stated in our policy (on conducted based on OECD guidelines to page 5). The RBA Code of Conduct explicitly ensure no direct or indirect financing of bans trafficked and forced labor, as well as ongoing conflicts in the DRC-region or any form of child labor. Nordic elsewhere. Semiconductor uses sources like the Global Slavery Index to assess risks of modern Country of origin of the minerals is slavery, and the topic has been addressed in investigated based on the reporting scheme supplier audits. To date there has been no set out by the Responsible Minerals known incidents of forced or trafficked Initiative (RMI), formerly CFSI, an initiative labor in Nordic Semiconductor’s Supply by RBA and the Global e-Sustainability Chain. Initiative (GeSI). Nordic Semiconductor is far away from the minerals smelters/refiners1 in the value chain, and Corporate Social Responsibility report 2018 Diversity program and training Nordic Semiconductor’s business is based on highly specialized and skilled employees, Integration service and their level of competence and ideas are As the number of employees have increased very important to us. To ensure that all rapidly over the past few years, employees employees have equal introduction training, have been recruited from all around the all new employees undergo an introduction world. Currently more than 44 nationalities program, and have a designated mentor for are represented in Nordic Semiconductor their start-up period. Open feedback is at worldwide, whereof 38 are working in the very core of our business culture, and Norway, which is a good indicator of the employees have annual performance diversity and inclusiveness in the company. evaluations one-to-one with their nearest leader, where additional training and For foreign employees working in Norway, a education is discussed and planned for. third-party integration service is used to make sure that the integration runs Managers are responsible for fair recruiting smoothly and in the best possible way. They and fostering a diverse and inclusive culture provide aid in practical matters related to based on Nordic Semiconductor’s Nonthe relocation, such as finding a home, discrimination policy. obtaining a tax card and creating a bank account, in addition to arranging language courses, social meetings and gatherings. This service has been highly appreciated, and the employee’s feedback has been that it is greatly benefiting their integration to Nordic Semiconductor and the Norwegian work culture. MEASUREMENTS Indicator 2019 target 2018 2017 2016 Human rights and Labor Number of smelters identified in value chain 253 159 109 Percentage of smelters verified as RMI compliant 100% 100% 100% 100% Number of incidents of Human Rights abuses 0 0 0 0 Number of incidents of Labor principles violation 0 0 0 0 Suppliers documented RBA Code of Conduct policy 100% 100% 100% 100% Suppliers communicating RBA Code of Conduct to next tier 100% 100% 100% 100% Suppliers audited on RBA Code of Conduct 1 100% 1 1 Human capital and diversity Number of employees 685 601 532 Percentage female employees 14% 13% 13.3 % Turnover rate (%) <5.0% 3.7% 3.5% 3.2% Training and education Number of students/interns from universities 64 57 25 Table 2: Measurements related to Human Rights and Labor principles. Corporate Social Responsibility report 2018 ASSESSMENT POLICIES, COMMITMENTS Nordic Semiconductor recognizes that AND GOALS environmental responsibility and sustainability is integral to producing worldNordic Semiconductor’s class products and long-term business environmental policy strategies. Product compliance is required to sell Nordic Semiconductor’s products worldwide, meeting international legislation as well as customer-specific requirements to contents and production. Furthermore, Nordic Semiconductor’s business strategy is to design and develop ultra-low power products, enabling energy efficient end products for the consumer. As a fabless producer, monitoring and engaging with our manufacturing partners is important to our environmental impact reduction program, and minimizing the use of natural resources and waste generated in our operations. Nordic Semiconductor has implemented guidelines and procedures into its management system to supplement legal requirements and integrate them in daily working routines. The basic principle for the procedures is Reduce-Reuse-Recycle. Goals for the year 2019 is to continue monitoring and reporting the carbon footprint related to our direct operations and plan for GHG emission reduction in our offices. See separate section on Carbon emissions. Corporate Social Responsibility report 2018 IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS Specification for Suppliers. Nordic Semiconductor’s Hazardous Substances Nordic Semiconductor is certified to the management discipline with direct interface standard ISO 14001: Environmental with supply chain is responsible to reassure Management Systems. All Nordic the compliance of our products to defined Semiconductor’s main suppliers are required environmental requirements and to be certified to and comply with this specifications. standard, as well as RBA Code of Conduct and its provisions on environmental topics. To verify product content, 3rd party testing for hazardous substances is performed. To Raising awareness amongst employees on ensure transparency, reports for Hazardous Environmental issues relevant for Nordic Substances and Material Composition for all Semiconductor’s organization and processes products are published on Nordic is regularly done by internal training and as Semiconductor’s website in the part of the mandatory introduction program documentation library for new employees. https://www.nordicsemi.com Monitoring data in relation to environmental All Nordic Semiconductor's products meet topics and engaging with suppliers are the requirements of European directive relevant parts of decision-making and risk RoHS, REACH and the California Proposition analysis. Data from Nordic Semiconductor’s 65 regulations. In addition, Nordic manufacturing partners are periodically Semiconductor has introduced green analyzed, and supplier audits are used package technology, to ensure that Nordic specifically to control subcontractors’ Semiconductor’s products are also halogen routines with respect to environmental free. Nordic Semiconductor’s own issues such as waste handling and water RoHS/REACH Statement, declaring non-use management. Results and measurements of the hazardous substances included on the from the environmental program are initial SVHC (Substances of Very High reviewed annually in Management review. Concern) candidate list, is published on Nordic Semiconductor’s website. Nordic There were no environmental incidents or Semiconductor has implemented systems non-conformities in 2018. Any incidents are that allow us to be updated with relevant handled through Nordic Semiconductor’s environmental requirements (e.g. recent non-conformity procedures, with root cause updates in RoHS and REACH regulations) and analysis, corrective and preventive actions. we continue our efforts to ensure our compliance with these updates. Eco Design and Product compliance Targets for the products’ energy efficiency 2018 showed no non-conformities or findings are defined in the design specification of prohibited substances above limitations phase, with the goal to achieve improved in any Nordic Semiconductor products. energy efficiency, while introducing additional functionality and use cases. Waste management Nordic Semiconductor works systematically Scarcity of natural resources and to monitor, reduce and eliminate waste and conservation of raw materials are its impact on the environment. We work considered important from both an continuously with our suppliers to maximize environmental and financial perspective. By our yields, and thus minimizing the identifying substitute alternatives, such as generation of devices that need to be copper for gold in almost all products, we disposed of. Scrapped electronic have been able to reduce costs and components from production are sorted and environmental impact without sacrificing recycled according to local waste quality and performance. management regulations and the WEEE Directive. Supplier audits have been Product content is managed in the design performed at our manufacturing partners to phase by internal procedures at specific verify that waste management is performed milestones to prevent hazardous material according to Nordic Semiconductor’s from being included, based on applicable standards. regulations, customer requirements and Nordic Semiconductor’s commitments. Nordic Semiconductor has implemented Product compliance, use of hazardous routines for sorting and disposing material substances, and ozone-depleting chemicals from offices and warehouses in a are regularly addressed with Nordic responsible manner by use of certified Semiconductor’s manufacturing partners, waste handling and recycling companies. and communicated by Nordic The main focus is on EE-waste, chemical Semiconductor’s Hazardous Substances components from laboratories, and paper Corporate Social Responsibility report 2018 and packing material. Recycling of EE-waste Target set for 2019 is to monitor and report allows for re-use of metals, such as copper, GHG emissions related to our direct from waste or damaged products. operations (sum of Scope 1 and Scope 2), as these are the emissions where we have the To reduce waste and use of resources, strongest influence. This is a continuation of Nordic Semiconductor encourages re-use of projects initiated in 2016, use of renewable material where applicable. Usable ITenergy certificated electricity where equipment and furniture are donated to possible, as well as moving to more energy schools or volunteer organizations rather efficient (BREEAM certified) building for the than being scrapped. Internal auctions are Headquarter office in 2017 which caused a held to let interested employees purchase noticeable reduction of our GHG emission in outdated lab equipment. 2018. Water and wastewater management Green procurement Water management is considered to Compliance to environmental requirements represent a low risk for Nordic is considered when choosing manufacturers. Semiconductor directly, but water scarcity By practice, this is included in initial is relevant for some of our subcontractors. supplier assessment and related audits. Specifically, the risk of limited production capacity due to drought or failure to comply In addition to the closely monitored with legislative requirements is considered. production process and engagement with Subcontractors’ water usage is monitored our manufacturing partners (which are regularly, and a consolidated risk analysis is categorized as critical suppliers), Nordic presented as part of the Management Semiconductor has implemented Review. procurement guidelines for purchases of products and services not directly related to “Focused” supplier audits have been the production of our products. This performed at our subcontractors to verify includes for instance evaluating and that water and wastewater management are choosing suppliers (categorizes as nonperformed according to Nordic critical suppliers) of office material, based Semiconductor’s standards. on their ethical and environmental profile. Carbon emissions Nordic Semiconductor’s general strategy for Nordic Semiconductor has monitored annual environmental impact reduction is the carbon emission since 2011, and it reports guideline for our procurement from nonannually to the Carbon Disclosure Project critical suppliers as below. www.cdp.net. Greenhouse gas emissions represent a low risk for Nordic ▪ Semiconductor, however monitoring of these emissions and assessment of potential ▪ climate change risks and opportunities is important as potential future carbon taxations or legislative requirements could impact our manufacturing partners’ ▪ production cost or capacity. Carbon accounting is performed according to GHG Protocol standards, with ▪ differentiation between Scope 1 (direct GHG emissions), Scope 2 (GHG emissions from purchased electricity) and Scope 3 (all ▪ other indirect GHG emissions, including our supply chain). Scope 3 GHG emissions are closely related to our production volume, and our subcontractors’ capacity utilization in ▪ production, and will fluctuate beyond our control. Corporate Social Responsibility report 2018 MEASUREMENTS Indicator 2019 target 2018 2017 2016 Environmental management system Number of environmental incidents 0 0 0 0 Suppliers with documented environmental policy 100% 100% 100% 100% Energy efficiency Nordic Semiconductor offices energy use (MWh) 2 205.3 2317.0 Nordic Semiconductor offices energy use per area 0.087 0.196 (MWh/m2) EE-waste (tons) 2.4 2.2 Greenhouse gas emissions GHG emission per wafer (kg CO2e/8” wafer) 333.6 334 GHG emission per assembly (g CO2e/8” EA) 16.5 20.8 GHG emission per unit produced (g CO2e/unit 125.9 151.6 produced) Total Scope 1+2 emissions (tons CO2e) 553.4 627.4 Scope 1+2 emissions per full time employee (tons 0.918 1.179 CO2e/FTE) Total Scope 3 emissions (tons CO2e) 46 114 41 081 Percentage total emissions verified 60% 74 % CDP score1 BC B Table 3: Measurements related to Environmental performance. The measurement data for 2018 that are shown as blank will not be ready until 2019-Q2, being used in reporting to CDP. Corporate Social Responsibility report 2018 use that exceeds the value of 200 USD on annual basis. ASSESSMENT Commitment to the highest standards of Nordic Semiconductor has published privacy ethics and integrity is crucial for us to earn policies for describing the personal data the continued confidence of our processed, the purpose of the processing stakeholders namely employees, investors, and the legal basis for doing so. customers, vendors, and communities. Protection of personal data is a central topic related to legal obligations for any IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS Information Security Management System. Data privacy The EU GDPR (EU General Data Protection Regulative) puts strong requirements for We at Nordic Semiconductor ASA (including protection of personal data on Nordic subsidiaries) are committed to the Semiconductor protection of personal data. will find information regarding the types of personal data we collect, the reasons and purposes Incidents of corruption also imposes both of processing personal data, and your rights legal, as well as reputational and financial regarding our processing. risks, and ultimately impacts trust and confidence in the company by our Nordic Semiconductor formally has the role stakeholders. of ‘controller’ for the personal data processing performed. Based on risk assessment, Nordic Semiconductor and its employees needs to Data privacy as a part of Nordic Information uphold the highest standards for business Security system is based on the standard ISO integrity, anti-corruption, data and data 27001. privacy to meet social responsibilities and achieve success in the marketplace. Nordic Semiconductor’s Non-conformity reporting system ensures that Nordic Semiconductor has adopted a zerononconformities including privacy related tolerance policy on corruption and bribery – topics are analyzed and dealt with properly. as clearly stated in the RBA Code of Conduct. Data privacy is a part of regular information security awareness programs for employees Nordic semiconductor has set a goal of zero POLICIES, COMMITMENTS, data privacy related incident every AND GOALS year. There has been no known such Nordic Semiconductor and its employees incident in 2018 and the same goal remains shall respect the rule of law and for the upcoming years. international norms of behavior. Nordic Semiconductor prohibits any and all forms of bribery, corruption, extortion, Anti-Corruption embezzlement, and facilitation payments. Anti-corruption routines are included in Nordic Semiconductor employees may be Nordic Semiconductor’s management held liable for bribery or any other corrupt system. The issue of anti-corruption is acts, based on the laws of Norway or any regularly addressed by internal training and applicable region. as part of mandatory introduction program for new employees. All Nordic Business courtesies (gifts, hospitality, or Semiconductor employees are required to favors to or from persons or firms that read and sign both «Insider trading Nordic Semiconductor may do business) of regulations form» and «Non-corruption modest value, conforming to normal social acknowledgment form». customs and not intended for influence, are not considered bribes or unlawful payments. Nordic Semiconductor requires all All business courtesies exceeding the value subcontractors to follow the RBA Code of of 200 USD shall be reported to Nordic Conduct. Subcontractors are followed up Semiconductor’s administration. Employees with supplier audits to raise subjects from shall not accept a business gift for personal the RBA Code of Conduct. Corporate Social Responsibility report 2018 Registered incidents and results are Semiconductor’s HR department. Any reviewed annually by the management team reported concerns shall be investigated for in the Management Review. root-cause and corrective and preventive actions, while preserving reporter To date, Nordic Semiconductor has not had confidentiality. any incident of corruption, bribery or unethical business behavior. Nordic Semiconductor’s Social responsibility policy (on page 4), Nordic Semiconductor Whistle-blower program does not tolerate any unfavorable To ensure recording of potential incidents treatment of or retaliation against the relating to business ethics, Nordic person who reports the misconduct. Semiconductor uses its whistle-blower program. Employees and other stakeholders No reports were made through available are encouraged to report any misconduct whistle-blower channels in 2018. related to Nordic Semiconductor’s business by use of whistle-blower channels as published on Nordic Semiconductor’s intranet and external website. Reporting through a third-party service can be made if complete confidentiality is required, and such reports will be addressed to Nordic MEASUREMENTS Indicator 2019 target 2018 2017 2016 Anti-corruption Number of corruptions, bribery 0 0 0 0 or unethical business behavior incidents Numbers of reports made 0 0 0 through whistle-blowing channels Table 4: Measurements related to Anti-corruption performance. Corporate Social Responsibility report 2018 ASSESSMENT POLICIES, COMMITMENTS AND Nordic Semiconductor recognizes that in GOALS addition to minimizing work-related injuries Nordic Semiconductor is committed to and illness, a safe and healthy work ensuring a safe and stable working environment enhances quality of products environment and adheres to the standards and services, consistency of production and in RBA Code of Conduct. worker retention and morale. As a fabless producer, the risk of injury or incidents in relation to direct operations is Operational targets: considered low. There is no use of heavy machinery and equipment, operating of vehicles or handling of hazardous chemicals Work related incidents = 0 that can cause notable damage or injuries. Short time sick leave < 2.5% for Nordic Semiconductor’s OHS (Occupational each country of operation Health and Safety) risk assessment has highlighted ergonomic injuries and negative Employee turnover < 5% annual stress in the working situations as the main focus areas for improvements. As Nordic Semiconductor’s number of employees has grown considerably in recent years, the target has been to maintain the low level of sick-leave and high employee satisfaction from previous years. Due to the growth, necessary changes have been made Nordic Semiconductor to the organizational structure. Ensuring Occupational Health and Safety motivated and competent leaders on all Policy levels in the organization is important to continue developing and producing world class products. IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS To ensure a positive and continuously improved working environment, Nordic Semiconductor has implemented an Occupational Health and Safety management system, certified to the standard OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System by DNV GL. Working Environment Committee Nordic Semiconductor’s Environmental Management Committee is a crossfunctional committee working to continuously improve the working conditions and ensure a safe working environment. Based on the 2018 employment satisfaction survey and reports from Occupational Health Service, Nordic Semiconductor employees are very satisfied with their workplace. The main areas of focus for the Committee’s improvement plan for 2018 has been reducing negative stress in the workplace and arranging for management training due to changes in the organizational structure. The emergency Corporate Social Responsibility report 2018 team has been trained according to the Low sick leave emergency plan, and this will be continued in 2019. Good focus on ergonomic review as preventive actions The «Inclusive Work Life» focus has Supplier Management continued in 2018, and internal surveys show that employees highly value the All Nordic Semiconductor subcontractors are certified to OHSAS 18001, and this is a company’s flexible working hours, paid overtime and good insurances. The results prerequisite to become a Nordic from these surveys will also be the basis for Semiconductor manufacturing partner. defining a Life Phase Policy in 2019. Subcontractors are also required to follow the RBA Code of Conduct. Occupational Health Service Occupational health controls are conducted frequently by a third-party Health Service. The results from these controls is 2018 show: High employee satisfaction with the working environment and working community MEASUREMENTS Indicator 2019 target 2018 2017 2016 Health and safety Work related incidents 0 1 1 0 Total sick leave 2.32% 2.21% 2.4% Short time sick leave3 < 2.5% 1.30% 1.31% 1.5% Turnover rate (%) <5% 3.74% 3.51% 3.2% Table 5: Measurements related to Health and Safety performance. Corporate Social Responsibility report 2018 EDUCATIONAL PARTNERSHIPS ‘Make it Digital’
