UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Aiming high THOUGHTS FROM THE MANAGING PARTNER AND THE CSR PARTNER Welcome to the annual report and CSR goals we set one year ago. presentation of Plesner's CSR Programme. Plesner's CSR initiatives are still based Plesner's CSR programme is one of the on the ten principles of the UN Global most extensive in the legal profession. But Compact, which are now embodied in 17 more importantly, CSR is deeply rooted in Sustainable Development Goals. These our organisation and is an essential aspect goals are extremely ambitious. It is quite of our everyday life pivoted on knowledge simply necessary that we all do our best and with knowledge sharing, inspiration and then some more. and development as the unifying principle. We benefit from our highly dedicated Our goals commit us to pursuing the employees, and there is every reason highest ethical and professional standards to express our heartfelt thanks to our when providing legal advice, to run our staff, partners and clients for their great firm in a socially and environmentally attention, recognition and support for responsible way, to provide pro bono legal our CSR work. We are humbled and proud advice and to support the local community that we through this teamwork effort can in general. contribute and perhaps even inspire others. As you can read in the report, these words Thank you so much for your attention. We are backed by concrete actions, with wish you happy reading. satisfactory progress being reported in all our focus areas. In particular thanks to our many committed people, good progress has again been made with respect to the Copenhagen, June 2019 Tom Kári Gitte Holtsø Kristjánsson CSR Partner Managing Partner 1 R E A D M O R E ABO U T PL E S NE R S P O L ITI C S O N PRO BO N O Pro Bono Renewed energy in pro bono advice sought legal advice to ensure compliance Positive circle with common bylaws and guidelines. There is still a great difference as to how DURING THE PAST YEAR PLESNER HAS CREATED A MORE FLEXIBLE FRAMEWORK FOR PRO much the individual organisations consult BONO WORK THAT EFFICIENTLY SUPPORT PROBLEM SOLVING AND STRENGTHENS PARTResource-efficient specialisation Plesner. Through regular contact we will NERSHIPS WITH SELECTED DANISH CHARITABLE ORGANISATIONS. help and advise the charitable organisations According to Lars Mygind Bojsen, Plesner is define even more types of work in respect still in a position to accept more pro bono The charitable organisations that receive advice. Today most organisations are good at of which Plesner can provide relevant legal work. But in the long term an increasing free legal advice from Plesner today are now requesting advice in relation to both large and assistance in the future. amount of work will make it necessary to reaping the benefits of the internal process small matters. I consider it as an indication decentralise the organisation of such work. optimisation implemented a couple of years that our setup with the organisations has beThe more the charitable organisations use us, Dividing responsibility among more people ago for the purpose of streamlining the pro come more mature and flexible. This flexibility the better we get to know them, and the more internally at Plesner may turn out to be the bono programme. has not only created new energy in the contact targeted and specialised assistance will we be way to further optimise the internal processto the charitable organisations, it has also able to provide. Increased interaction creates a es in relation to free legal advice. It is safe to say that the pro bono programme created more incentive among our own peopositive circle that makes us more efficient in works much better today. Focus and efficiency ple, who can tell that resources are being used terms of our problem solving, and the individThe seeds for an additional development improvement of the programme has made us efficiently. I consider this a great advantage. ual organisation will to a higher extent receive of our internal organisation of the pro bono more agile when it comes to the organisations. the necessary assistance supplementary to work have already been sown. Make-a-Wish We are able to respond in a quicker and more its own efforts, emphasises Lars Mygind Complex work Denmark is a good example. Since the start efficient manner, and we avoid bottlenecks Bojesen. of the collaboration in 2015, the organisation because inquiries are often addressed directly All eight charitable organisations are fohas received assistance writing and targetto the relevant and specialised people. It has cusing specifically on vulnerable children ing applications at charitable foundations to certainly contributed highly to increasing the and young people as well as those who are ensure donations for the benefit of children organisations' benefits from our work, says critically ill. No new organisations have been with life-threatening medical conditions. The Attorney Lars Mygind Bojsen, who is Pro added during the year but the extent and daily responsibility is placed with two assistant Bono coordinator at Plesner. the complexity of the work performed for attorneys who, together with dedicated law the existing organisations are increasing. students, are specialised in precisely this type Several charitable organisations are growing Mature and flexible setup of work and are in regular, direct contact with rapidly and require Plesner's legal assistance Today, Plesner has partnerships with eight the organisation. The collaboration is more and professional services during the proselected charitable organisations that have efficient and is a fine example of how decencess. received pro bono legal advice and specific tralisation and specialisation save time and help to solve large and small matters for a resources for all the involved parties. This is the case of Children's Welfare, which number of years. The organisations increasrecently opened a new office in Aarhus and ingly act as ordinary clients seeking assisreceived legal assistance for contract netance for specific matters. gotiations and other matters in connection with the setting up of the office. Also, MakeTo begin with, the organisations typically a-Wish Denmark has strengthened its ties to needed help to identify their requirement for the worldwide Make-a-Wish Foundation and 2 3 As a central element of Plesner's CSR Programme we provide pro bono legal advice to selected charitable organisations in order to make a difference for vulnerable children and young people as well as those who are critically ill. More children than ever are calling and year. In connection with our many external writing to the Child Helpline. The number collaborations with membership recruitment of children calling the line is such that the agencies, international suppliers of IT sysvolunteers have not been able to respond tems and media purchases and advertising to all them. In 2018, Children's Welfare has agencies, Plesner provides critical assistance focused on reaching more children who in connection with the review and assessneed help. During 2019, the opening hours ment of contracts. Break the Silence The Child Brain of the Child Helpline have been increased, Cancer Foundation and new digital solutions have been introOur collaboration is very quick and flexible, duced to attract more volunteers all over and mutual expectations have always been the country. Moreover, Children's Welfare aligned. It is a great advantage to have fixed has opened a completely new office in points of contact so we can always be sure Aarhus, and Plesner advised on the legal that our inquiries end up with the right peoaspects related to the set-up and the rentple at Plesner. Children's Welfare The Christmas Seal Foundation ing of office space. It is important to us that Children's Welfare is regarded as a professional player that is also Children's Welfare is a private, humanitarin control of all the legal aspects of its activiian organisation that has been working for ties. Through the financial support we are all children in Denmark since 1977. The Make-A-Wish Denmark The Muscular Dystrophy shown great trust by a large number of large organisation works to ensure that children Foundation and small charitable foundations, public get the help they need and to safeguard authorities and, not least, the many private children's rights to a safe life and a good individuals who support our work year after childhood year. It is important for us to constantly manage this trust – and financial support – in the Rasmus Kjeldahl, best and most professional manner. Plesner Danish Child Rights The Danish Multiple Executive Director, Children's Welfare: is one of our most important partners in Ambassadors Sclerosis Society Children's Welfare has many contact points terms of ensuring such professionalism. to children, young people, professionals and almost 30,000 supporters. Consequently, GDPR and personal data have played an important part in 2018. Plesner's assistance has During the past reporting period, some 40+ of our assistant been indispensable in relation to processes, attorneys, attorneys and partners undertook more than 1,000 drawing up of policies, declarations etc. As hours of pro bono work. To this should be added a significant an organisation with a quickly-growing staff, number of hours committed by secretarial and administrative staff. we have also received very useful advice in relation to employment law during the past 5 During the past year, Make-A-Wish Denqualified legal assistance is often required to In recent years, Break the Silence has Secretary-General, I have in particular benmark has strengthened its ties with the ensure that we are acting within the agreed worked at enhancing the professional efitted greatly from the assistance we have global Make-A-Wish Foundation that framework. level of its human resources department. received with regard to employment law. The helps to grant the wishes of children with Plesner has provided regular assistance in fact that we have contracts and agreements life-threatening medical conditions every We are proud to have come this far. But we relation to the drawing up of formal emunder control, not least in terms of secrecy, day. Our collaboration with Plesner has in would like to become much bigger in Denployment and collaboration agreements gives us peace of mind in our daily collaboparticular consisted of legal assistance in mark. Therefore, we persistently work at for the permanent staff of the secretariat ration with staff, volunteers and external relation to the interpretation of internarecruiting new people who are quick to learn as well as for temporary project employees partners. tional bylaws and adjustment to common the way we work. In that connection Plesner and the many volunteers who do imporguidelines across cultures. Since the start also stands on the sidelines to ensure that tant work for the organisation. Moreover, For a small organisation like Break the of the collaboration in 2015, Plesner has we comply with and work in accordance with Plesner has provided assistance in connecSilence it is a great help in everyday life that also assisted Make-A-Wish Denmark writapplicable rules. tion with Break the Silence's accreditation we can consult Plesner at any time when it ing applications to foundations and assowith the umbrella organisation, Rådgivcomes to all types of legal questions, great ciations whose donations are an important In order to fulfil our principal objective, ningsDanmark [Counselling Denmark] – a as well as small. part of the basis for its work. that is to grant the wishes of children with seal of approval ensuring that the organilife-threatening medical conditions, we are sation measures up to common standards In general, our collaboration works smoothly completely dependent on grants and sponfor social counselling. with one point of access to our contact Make-A-Wish Denmark grants the wishes sorships. I would therefore also like to draw person, who is always lightening quick to of children with life-threatening medical attention to Plesner's invaluable help writing The objective of Break the Silence is help us get in touch with the people who conditions between the ages of three and 18 applications to foundations. A lot of work is to inform about and prevent childhood have the right legal expertise. This enables years in Denmark to enrich the human exput into identifying the relevant foundations exposure to violence and intimate partner us to save time and resources, as we do not perience with hope, strength and joy. So far, and associations and drawing up the apviolence among adolescents. Since 2002 have the legal insight to target our inquirthe foundation has granted more than 1,900 plications correctly. It enables our very small we have helped children and adolescents ies. In that way, our collaboration becomes wishes in Denmark. staff to focus their time and resources on the exposed to violence breaking the silence both efficient, quick and very pleasant and children. By providing this assistance, Plesner by providing advice and a wide range of safe for us. In Break the Silence we feel really Christian Erfurt, helps to grant the greatest wishes of children activities to help them break the pattern privileged to be one of Plesner's pro bono board member, Make-A-Wish Denmark with critical illnesses and to create hope, and not bring violence into their adult life. partners. Plesner has been with us on the journey from strength and joy where it is most needed. being an independent organisation to beIrrespective of whether general legal adIsabella Wedendahl coming a valid member of the Make-A-Wish vice or fine-tuning of small assignments is Secretary-General, Break the Silence Foundation's international set-up. Today, we required, our collaboration with Plesner is During the past year we have been advised are part of a large organisation that operalways frictionless and responses are always on a wide range of matters and issues, and ates globally and have to comply with comquick and spot on. we consider it a fantastic luxury to have a mon international bylaws and guidelines. It share in Plesner's bro bono programme. is complicated work streamlining so many Work in relation to personal data and the cultures and interpreting the common rules drawing up of necessary policies has taken for seeking sponsorships and financing, and up a lot of time during the past year. As 6 7 FOR ALMOST TEN YEARS PLESNER'S SCHOOL PROJECT HAS INSPIRED CHALLENGED YOUNG PUPILS IN THE INNER-CITY DISTRICT OF NØRREBRO TO TAKE EDUCATION SERIOUSLY AND BREAK THE NEGATIVE SOCIAL LEGACY. AS SOMETHING NEW, THE PROJECT ALSO FOCUSES ON STRENGTHENING THE YOUNG PEOPLE'S PUBLIC SPIRIT. h o o l P r o The School Project has followed two lower To us, there is a clear line between running a S c j secondary school classes at Nørrebro Park School (NPS) where a large proportion of the pupils have non-Danish ethnic backschool and the contribution we make as role models. We are not assistant teachers, and we never interfere with school lessons. We focus ec 2.0 grounds. When the approximately 50 pupils on motivating and inspiring the pupils in relaThe finish 9th grade in June 2019 it marks the tion to all the possibilities on the other side of t end of Plesner's third School Project at NPS. In spite of major academic challenges and school and how they can best prepare to move on. a large turnover of pupils, action plans are ready to ensure that all pupils get the necesA good example is a recent exam workshop sary support to continue in the education where teachers gave lessons while Plesner's system. volunteers dealt with personal preparation, including the importance of being well preIt is a bit of a success story considering that pared, special techniques to get a grip on many pupils are facing both academic and sopreparations and how to handle exam stress cial challenges. In the course of the three years and nervousness. we have seen them move in a positive direction in many respects. For many pupils their Fresh thinking and focus on society ambitions to have an education and a career From originally comprising two schools in have grown since they started lower secondthe Nørrebro district, the School Project will ary school, tells Hussain Al Alhaidary, who is focus on NPS in the future. Plesner has just part of the new coordinating team together entered into a partnership agreement with with Nina Bech Damgaard Pedersen. The the school's management about two new 7th two assistant attorneys are responsible for grades starting after the summer holidays. running the project and are part of Plesner's This also includes new ideas for developing team of voluntary role models. and improving the School Project. Partnership based on trust The central point will still be the value of education and the importance of continuing Throughout the years the partnership and education. But we would also like to change the communication with NPS have been opthe pupils' outlook on the world and how to timal. Hussain Ali Alhaidary ascribes this to be part of society. While the school system the mutual trust and the clear assignment focuses much on educational standards and of tasks between the school's management, grades, we would like to contribute to shaping the teachers and the role models. 9 the pupils' personal character and help them We will of course continue to draw on our Meaningful volunteering to become good citizens, explains Nina Bech external role models, a permanent group of For both Nina Bech Damgaard Petersen and Damgaard Pedersen. resource persons who have chosen the School Hussain Ali Alhaidary it is of great personal Project with their hearts. They have made importance to be part of the School Project. In practice, this means adjusting the strucan enormous contribution for many years by ture of the School Project which has so far making themselves available as mentors for There is no doubt that it is cool to help our involved monthly visits by the role models the pupils. But they are also busy people with clients when you are an associate attorney. alternating with company visits. In the demanding jobs who are not always free to But the fact that I can also make a difference future, there will be fewer company visits in join in. Therefore, our own team of volunteers to pupils who are facing challenges provides favour of more direct dialogue between the will play a bigger role in the School Project in another angle to my daily work. I get so much pupils and relevant professional individufuture, tells Nina Bech Damgaard Petersen. pleasure and energy from interacting with als from whom they can more easily take the pupils. It makes so much sense, and it is example. In the long term there are plans to involve an enormous privilege that we also get supformer pupils as role models as well. For port from Plesner to take social responsibility, We want to meet the pupils where they are that purpose new initiatives will be initiated points out Nina Bech Damgaard Petersen. and involve them more actively. We will do on social media, for example Facebook, that so by inviting guests to visit them in school are to make it possible to stay in touch with Hussain Ali Alhaidary has chosen to be acand give short, practice-related talks. A talk both former and current pupils and follow tive in the School Project because he can recould be given by a journalist, a nurse, a police the young people on their journey through late to the pupils' challenges and problems. officer or a politician or other professional ineducation or jobs. dividuals who can tell about their work or give I attended upper secondary school in the a talk about a current topic that is relevant to Nørrebro district myself. I know the milieu Network, network, network the pupils' everyday life. The short talk will be and I know which challenges the pupils face Together with closer personal contact to the followed up by relevant case studies, exercises because I have been there myself. At the time, pupils, establishing a strong network is an in how to work together or actual workshops I could have used outside help. I now have an important focal point for the School Project where the young people are active themopportunity to make a difference to children version 2.0. selves. and young people who really need support. As role models and examples we can motivate If you are a pupil at NPS you may feel that Closer to the pupils and inspire the pupils and help opening doors the world is somewhat against you. But if in a completely different way than the school. In recent years Plesner's employees have they open their eyes and look around, well-reI know that the School Project works and that shown increasing interest in becoming part sourced people are ready to help. In the School we are actually helping many to move on. It of the School Project and being role models. Project we become part of their network, and means a lot to me, emphasises Hussain Ali In the short term the involvement of more we would like to show the pupils that it is OK Alhaidary. volunteers will mean new opportunities for to reach out and ask for help and mentorthe partnership. The plan is to divide the ing. We are just happy when they contact us classes into small groups of approximately directly because then we know that it works. If ten pupils and assign a Plesner contact they are well prepared we are only pleased to person to each group. With closer relations help, says Hussain Ali Alhaidary. to the pupils it will be easier to follow up on concrete matters, tasks and agreements. 10 Freedom of speech high on the agenda Briefly about the School Project Claus Brandt Jacobsen, teacher, Nørrebro Park School: Approximately 50 pupils in two 9th grades The purpose of the School Project is to at Nørrebro Park School listened intensely inspire young people to take school and As class teacher it has been my experience when Kashif Ahmed, a candidate for the education seriously and to motivate over the years that the School Project role Danish Parliament for the Danish party them to focus on the many job oppormodels are people who want to become The Alternative, gave a talk on freedom of tunities and freedoms that continuing involved in the lives of young pupils and help speech. He did so in late April against the education can offer. them make the right decisions in terms of background of demonstrations headed by education and choice of career, even if there Rasmus Paludan, the founder of the Danish Through the School Project, Plesner has are not always any easy solutions. Hard Line party, and the ensuing unrest in established a long-term partnership Nørrebro. Kashif Ahmed talked about how with selected lower secondary school Through the partnership the pupils are able to to handle the fact that other people may classes at Nørrebro Park School, where put a human dimension to abstract job funchave views with which you do not agree, many pupils face both language and tions. You may have all sorts of ideas of what and pointed out that violence must never social challenges. In August 2019, the a metalworker or a lawyer does. But when you be the response to other peoples' extreme three-year partnership with two new 7th visit a company the abstract ideas become statements. grades will start. more concrete, and the pupils discover that human beings are involved. We live in times where extreme forces are Since the beginning in 2011, more than emerging. But words should be met by words, 150 pupils have participated in the The greatest advantage for the pupils is that never by violence, and being curious and tolerSchool Project and the vast majority the meet real people. Parents and teachers ant is a better approach than mistrust and of these have chosen to continue their do not always count in the minds of the pupils anger. You, the young people, are our future, education. but they see the role models as real people and you have to deal with this. Education is from the real world, just as the people we the way forward in order that you may stand meet when we visit companies. on your own feet and make a difference as citizens, said Kashif Ahmed. The dialogue meeting is a good example of how Plesner's School Project will put current and relevant topics on the timetable and teach the pupils debating culture so they may learn how to discuss and reflect with respect for each other's views. RE AD M O RE ABO U T PLE SNER S SUPP O RT TO THE LO C AL CO M M UN IT Y 12 13 RE AD M O RE ABO U T PL E SN E R S SO CI AL RE SP O N SI N B I L IT Y Sustained focus on women and careers One of the greatest challenges we face more employees looking for interaction is to include more women in the group with an external mentor with a background of partners. It is of little comfort that the in areas other than law. same applies to other major Danish and international law firms, or that the business Women More inspiration community in general continues to face the challenge of achieving equal gender repreIn the past year, we continued to invite our sentation at senior management level. female talents to regular working lunches & Career centered around themes relevant to the Our basic view is that anyone with the target group. By way of these lunches, a necessary professional and business skills strong sense of cohesion has been estabshould be given the opportunity to become lished among the participants – for mutual a partner at Plesner – irrespective of their inspiration and benefit of all parties since IT REMAINS AN IMPORTANT OBJECTIVE FOR PLESNER gender. However, there is no mistaking many mental barriers can be broken down TO IDENTIFY THE KIND OF FLEXIBILITY AND the statistics, and we need to improve the through open and constructive dialogue. In CAREER TRACK THAT WILL OPEN THE DOOR TO conditions for our talented female lawyers order to prepare the ground for continued MORE FEMALE PARTNERS. THIS REQUIRES who appear on course to meet our partnerinspiration based on current research and US TO BREAK DOWN BOTH MENTAL AND ship requirements, so they will stay with us. experience, the intention is to arrange a STRUCTURAL BARRIERS. We do not intend to lower our qualification new round of working lunches with internal requirements, but management continues and external speakers during the up-coming its efforts to map our career paths and exreporting period. amine how we make structural adjustments and increase flexibility in order to smooth The working lunches have proved to be a the path for more female partners. good forum for brainstorming on ideas for adjusting our internal processes which may contribute to removing structural barriers. Special focus via mentoring scheme Thus, the group’s input has provided inspiIn the reporting period, we maintained ration for an extended and more consistent the strong focus on our female talent – for before-during-after-maternity-leave proOur objective is to JUNE 2018 JUNE 2019 example by way of Plesner's targeted mencess which will be implemented before the reach out to employees PARTN ER S I N TOTAL PARTN ER S I N TOTAL toring scheme which dates back to spring end of the year. Similarly, in the most recent 2014. Inspired by the positive feedback reporting period we have also made efforts 62 63 with young children to retain them and prepare from the first years' programmes, we apto further develop our feedback culture especially the women plied in 2016 for permission to extend the via a management training programme. To scheme, and the Ministry of Justice granted clarify how the individual colleague can best to continue their career us permission to extend the mentoring qualify for the career she or he wishes to track when they return F EM ALE PARTN ER S F EM ALE PARTN ER S scheme for five years until 2021. In the past pursue, we use career talks to give our talfrom maternity leave. 11 12 year, we have launched additional mentoring programmes on the same level as in the ents the right feedback about their development potential at an even earlier stage. preceding reporting period. We have also seen an interesting development towards 15 OUR EMPLOYEES' DEVELOPMENT, SATISFACTION AND ABILITY TO WORK ACROSS THE ORGANISATION ARE INSEPARABLY LINKED – AND BENEFIT EACH INDIVIDUAL EMPLOYEE AND THE RESULTS WE ACHIEVE FOR OUR CLIENTS. Plesner's ambition to be a leader in the dedicated performance is an extremely imporindustry when it comes to job satisfaction tant managerial task. Next is a natural part of our CSR policy. One way to achieve this goes through leadership Strength-based leadership training. In the spring of 2019 a new group of attorneys started an intensive training Many organisations often focus too much generation programme taking strength-based leaderon that which does not work. Strengthship as its starting point. based leadership focuses on that which works. It is easy in theory but difficult in leadership Strategic focus on enhancing the leaderpractice. According to recent research, ship culture in Plesner is not new. The traincommitment grows significantly in organiing programme provides our attorneys with sations which use that which works well training an opportunity to zoom in on their personal as their starting point and focus on the leadership skills. The programme prepares our strengths of their employees. Focusing on talented specialists for professional leaderstrengths and opportunities rather than ship and ensures that they build up a strong weaknesses and problems may play a part Job satisfaction is inextricably linked to good network on the way, explains HR Manager in creating forward-looking and positive deleadership A new group of attorneys have Mette Lock Carlsson. velopment both of the individual as a leader had a successful start on a strengthand of his or her employees. based leadership journey. Leadership responsibility at an early stage Collaboration and bridge-building Everyone with at least two years of experience as an attorney has the necessary Personal leadership is to a large extent a experience to benefit from the programme. question of being able to collaborate and According to Mette Lock Carlsson this is not build bridges in your relations to others. The only about personnel management in the typology tool JTI is an efficient tool for gettraditional sense. ting to know yourself and your colleagues better. When you are a young attorney at Plesner, you will get leadership responsibility at an For the fourth year running Plesner is using early stage. It happens when you delegate JTI as a development tool for the purpose of work, for instance when you are a project understanding that we are fundamentally manager in connection with complex cases motivated by different things. The better we across disciplines. In that situation you are know each other's preferences and differresponsible for the efficient performance of ences as leaders and employees, the easier the work in an environment that inspires your it is to recognise and value our colleagues subordinates and colleagues to do their best. – all for the benefit of the collaboration Creating the framework for an efficient and culture in the organisation and our ability to perform work to a high standard. 17 Plesner's leadership programme is centred FULL-CIRCLE LEADERSHIP ASSESSMENT around three themes or skills that, according to employee and leader assessments, At Plesner we endeavour to enhance good are essential to the working environment leadership culture at all levels of our orgaand everyday life in an organisation like nisation. We do so through training, leaPlesner, ie that the leader dership assessment and regular feedback, among other things. In the autumn of 2018, • is framing we introduced a new 350-degree leadership • allows development assessment for partners and experienced • shows appreciation attorneys. Using these three themes as the underlyThe assessment indicates how the individual ing basis, the programme enhances young leader's immediate superiors, colleagues attorneys' ability to become visible leaders, and subordinates evaluate strengths and Successful kick-off set clear targets for work, handle conflicts, possible areas of growth. The aim is to proIn addition to the focus on personal leadprovide constructive feedback, and motivide leaders with personal and structured In three workshops in 2019, the twentyership, the participants will receive supvate others by focusing on strengths and feedback regarding their leadership characnine participants were introduced to the plementary training in client and market potentials. teristics, including how they are perceived new tools that help them to become more understanding. by others. visible leaders, create motivation by setting clear targets for work, handle conflicts and The 360-degree assessment should be seen provide constructive feedback. Through Managing tomorrow's employees as a development tool and a springboard for intensive training in small groups and At Plesner we do our utmost to train and further professional and personal developregular personal follow-up the individual develop tomorrow's employees. And that is Curiosity ment. The subsequent feedback and diaparticipant gets a concrete result that can why leadership is at the top of our agenda. s logue leads into a personal action plan that be transformed directly into daily manageIt creates a healthy corporate culture and on Appreciative is to be used by the leader to focus on the Talent f at ment practice. i employees demand it – perhaps more than pe areas of development in the future. ocu ct ever. Balancing o s ck Mette Lock Carlsson had the role of coordiba f ex nator at the kick-off seminar in April. The young generation of employees make ed Strength-based new demands and have new expectations management eloping I witnessed a team with great commitment Fe to their leaders. A leadership style based on Dev and joy at being away together. We made a zero error culture and no-news-are-good heavy demands on them in terms of long days news is outdated. Young people want to be with various presentations and challenging g involved and take responsibility and demand t in exercises in which everyone took a very active en Fra frequent and constructive feedback on both em m part. They discovered new sides of themselves performance and learning. Our leadership nflic and their colleagues by training body lantm training sets new tones in terms of how an a rit guage, tone of voice and non-verbal communa g Co y Cla employee may be long-lasting in a high perfornication, and on the way they certainly had mance environment, points out HR Manager some aha moments that may strengthen their Mette Lock Carlsson. personal impact. 18 R E A D M O R E A BO U T PL E S NE R S P O L ITI C S O N THE E NV I RO NME NT A ND C L I M ATE All-in on energy optimisation Valuable to the environment amount of cardboard packaging. We have established an environmentally sound system Workplace lighting is a major challenge, as it by arranging with our suppliers that delivery has been a problem finding LED light sources REPLACING ALL OFFICE LIGHTING WITH LOW-ENERGY SOLUTIONS REDUCES ENERGY be made in reusable cardboard crates that with the right quantity and quality of light. CONSUMPTION, IS ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY AND SAVES ON THE ELECTRICITY BILL. are returned directly to the supplier without In order to obtain the best result it would having to go through a recycling process. previously have been necessary to replace Plesner has been focusing on energy optimiMore specifically, energy consumption has all existing lamps with new LED lamps – a sation for several years, in particular since been reduced from 32W to 13W per light The Danish Veterinary and Food Administrasolution which Plesner does not find environ2015 when we started a gradual transition source. With more than 1,100 ceiling lights tion has renewed Plesner's silver ecolabel – mentally sound. to LED lighting. distributed on 17,000 m2 office a fine proof that we meet the requirement space it means a total reduction that 60-90% organic raw materials and other But the development has been quick in terms During the past year we have of the annual electricity conproducts must be used in the canteen. of low-energy solutions, and in 2018 we thereexpanded the project and have S I N C E W E S TA RT E D TH I S sumption of approximately fore started collaborating with LED specialist gone all-in to find the best EN E RG YO P TI M I S I N G 90,000 kilowatt hours, Lumigen who has helped us find the right lowsolutions for office lighting J O U R NE Y, W E HAV E R E D U C E D equalling around 10% of the Ten healthy weeks energy solution for the existing lamps, says O U R OV E R A L L E NE RG Y energy-wise. Starting by reCO N SU MP TI O N BY 30% . total electricity consumpCharlotte Lindahl. In the spring of 2019, Plesner participated in placing individual light sources tion. As electricity consumpthe Danish Cancer Society's campaign Dethat were not direct workplace tion from light sources makes Not only has the light quality of LED light cathlon –Ten weeks for a healthier life . The lighting, we have now replaced up around 50% of the total bulbs become much better during recent purpose of the campaign was to promote lighting in all offices in the building. electricity consumption, savings years. Their useful life has also health and prevent lifestyle diseases. It has resulted in a marked reduction of the amount to approximately 20%. Since we become twice as long as that of Every Monday for ten weeks, environmental impact and savings on our started this energy-optimising journey, we traditional light sources, which the participants received an electricity bill , says Service Manager Charhave reduced our overall energy consumpcontributes to reducing I N 2018 W E email with the challenge of lotte Lindahl. tion by 30%. the environmental impact THEREFO RE S TARTED the week as well as tips and CO LLABO RATI N G W ITH even more. The project will inspiration on how best to LED SPECI ALI S T LUM I G EN continue during the coming meet the challenge. During year by the replacement of the ten weeks focus was on light sources in all other areas reduced smoking, less alcohol in the building. and less processed meat and more fruit, vegetables and whoOV E R A L L E NE RG Y CO N SUM P TI O N R E D U C TI O N legrain products, and Plesner's canteen supA system for recycling of packaging has ported the project by making more healthy been established and green food available. In the spirit of the Decathlon, the campaign was followed PE R L I G HT In recent years we have reduced out meat by other health-promoting activities consumption in the staff canteen significantsuch as a workshop on running ly in favour of more greens and vegetables. and running injuries. As a consequence, we receive large quantities of fruit and vegetables every day, which has caused a corresponding increase of the 21 The UN Global Compact's 10 principles HUMAN RIGHTS: • Our firm should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within its sphere of influence • Our firm is to make sure that it is not complicit in human rights abuses EMPLOYEE RIGHTS: • Our firm should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the employee's right to collective bargaining • Our firm should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour • Our firm should support the effective abolition of child labour • Our firm should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation THE ENVIRONMENT: • Our firm should support a precautionary approach to environ mental challenges • Our firm should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Our firm should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION: • Our firm should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 22 23 Facts about Plesner's implementation of Employee Rights The Environment UN's Global Compact 2019 Plesner makes determined efforts to develop all our talented employees and facilitate For many years, Plesner has strived to limit the company's environmental impact. We their career planning. This includes specific focus on constantly reducing our carbon When Plesner joined the United Nations the best possible framework for a positive endeavors to ensure equal opportunities for emission, primarily by minimizing energy Global Compact in 2012, we committed to development of the individual leader and men and women to achieve senior manageconsumption, using less paper by optimizthe ten universally accepted principles of his employees. (Read more in the feature on ment and partner positions in the company. ing the transition to electronic processes Human rights, Employee rights, EnvironEmployee satisfaction on page 16). During the reporting period, the gender and by environmentally correct removal of ment as well as Anti-corruption. In 2019, distribution in senior managemet, ie the waste. our CSR policy as well as all objectives and A key element of our CSR commitment is partner group was 20 % women and 80 % initiatives in our comprehensive CSR proapplying our core competencies to provide men an underrepresentation of women. During 2019, our intensive focus on energy gram are reflected in these four main areas. legal advice for charitable work in the local During the period, there were no women on optimization, including the gradual transicommunity (pro bono). Plesner currently the Board of Directors, since there has been tion to LED lighting in office spaces, has cooperates with eight selected charitable Human Rights no replacement of boardmembers. We have resulted in a 20 % reduction of electricity organisations which over the past year have Our employees' well-being and developintroduced a specific goal to increase the consumption. Since Plesner initiated the received free legal advice and specific assisment are important focus areas in Plesner's proportion of women on the Board of DirecLED-project in 2015, we have succeeded in tance to solve a number of large and small CSR program. It is our goal that our emtors to 20 % by the end of 2023. reducing our aggregate power consumption assignments. (Read the feature on our Pro ployees consistently rank among the most by approximately 30 %. bono counseling on page 2). satisfied in the business at any time. To Throughout 2019, we have worked steadily attain this, we maintain persistent focus on to create more opportunities for our female Another important element of Plesner's sostrengthening the good leadership and cotalents. (Read the feature on Women and cial responsibility is expressed in the School Anti-corruption operation culture at all levels of our organiCareer on page 14). Project which during close to ten years Plesner has developed and implemented an sation. – has motivated and inspired challenged It is our overall goal that Plesner's employAnti-Bribery policy for preventing and counschool pupils to take education seriously tering corruption, bribery and other unethiIn 2019, 29 junior lawyers completed the ees experience an honest and open-minded and break their social heritage. In 2019, we cal behavior. Among other initiatives, the first part of an intensive leadership develculture enabling the individual to unfold his concluded the third school project at Nørpolicy is translated into action by establishopment program with a special focus on or her competencies to the best possible rebro Park School in Copenhagen when two ing systems and procedures for case manpersonal leadership. The leadership training extent regardless of gender. We believe that 9th grades completed Danish primary school agement while ensuring effective internal program includes an education in client and this goal has been met during the reporting (Folkeskolen). In agreement with the school communication. In 2019, we continued to market understanding. Over the past year, period. management, we continue our co-operation refine our screening program in relation to we have also introduced and completed a with two new 7th grades classes starting anti-corruption. new 360-degree leadership assessment for in August 2019. (Read the feature on the our partners and experienced executives. School Project on page 8) For further description of Plesner's corpoThe purpose of the assessment is to create rate social responsibility, please refer to our CSR policy at www.plesner.com. 24 25 Plesner Advokatpartnerselskab | Amerika Plads 37 | DK-2100 Copenhagen | Tel +45 33 12 11 33 | www.plesner.com
