Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Interactive menu 3 Messages from the leadership 41 Digital transformation Summary 03 Message from the Board of Directors 41 A new look at the market 04 Message from the CEO 42 Shopping experience 45 New store concepts and formats 6 About the Report 47 Innovation and new business 7 2018 highlights 49 Operation and efficiency 49 Investments in logistics 9 Our businesses 52 Transformation in the value chain 09 GPA 57 Conscious consumption and supply 13 Business model 60 Environmental impact management 15 Brands and businesses 21 Repositioning of Private-Labels 63 Engagement with society 22 Financial results 63 Social vocation 65 Production chain of healthy 24 Integrated management and transparency and sustainable food 24 Corporate governance 66 Vocational training 27 Risk management 67 Support for entrepreneurship 28 Ethical conduct 68 Mobilizing actions 29 Sustainability management 69 Institutional projects 30 Valuing our people 70 Attachments 30 Profile and corporate culture 70 Voluntary commitments 35 Recruitment and selection 71 Memberships 37 Training and development 72 Awards and recognitions 40 Internal dialogue 74 2018 performance indicators 78 Assurance statement How to use this document Interactive menu Menu Arrows Home Print Navigate through the Navigate page by page Click this icon Use this shortcut to interactive menu for the using the arrows in the to return to the print PDF content chapters of your interest lower right corner Summary 2 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Message from the Board of Directors I am pleased to present the main highlights that led the adjustments to the store base, generated very positive Group to achieve solid results in 2018, the year in which results in developing an offer that is increasingly adapted GPA celebrated its seventh decade of assertive expansion to customer needs and to the size of the market. as a Brazilian retailer. Confident about GPA’s assertive strategic planning In a macro-economic environment showing some signs in Brazil and of a recovery in consumer spending, of improvement, 2018 was shaped by a number of the company sustained a high level of investment, important achievements. GPA made headway with digital amounting to BRL 1.7 billion for the year. Focusing With every step we take, we are guided by a commitment and multi-channel initiatives, as part of a continuous on the businesses with the highest returns on to the excellence, value and diversity of our employees, innovation process, boosted the operational excellence of investment, GPA maintained its ability to meet encouraging the adoption of best practices throughout our its banners and further developed the innovative services, customers’ current and future expectations, with a focus value chain and in the products and services we offer, thus formats and concepts that are offered to its customers. The on projects and initiatives that raise it to a level above ensuring the sustainable growth of our business. Group also continued to optimize its store base, through the rest of the market. renovation, expansion and conversion projects based on In 2019, we will push ahead with our strategy of the Company’s multi-format, multi-channel and multiThere were significant strategic partnerships formed accelerating deployment of GPA’s differentiating regional strategy. and transactions completed during the year, including strengths, with a focus on delivering a genuine shopping the acquisition of James Delivery, a platform for the experience and providing a service that is increasingly aligned At Multivarejo, a significant improvement in sales purchase and delivery of products and services, and the with customer needs, based on relationship of trust that is was reported on a sequential basis, mainly due to the partnership with Cheftime for the sale of fine dining kits. increasingly personalized. implementation of dynamic sales policies, with The innovative Pão de Açúcar Adega was also launched, profitability rising to the highest levels seen in recent years. a platform that delivers an omni-channel experience to We will be focusing on developing our business, identifying At Assaí, the rapid expansion in the number of stores and Brazilian consumers. opportunities for growth and profitability, and renewing the success of the store model led to yet another year of and strengthening our commitment to Brazil. Above all, we strong sales growth and profitability for the banner. In line with the process of improving customer loyalty as will continue to express our commitment to our employees, well as the competitiveness of our banners, a full review customers, suppliers and shareholders, in a continuous The digital transformation initiatives set out in the was carried out of the Private-Label product portfolio process of innovation, value creation and sustainable growth. Group’s business model, which were enhanced by sold in the Group’s stores, strengthening our brands in innovations throughout the year, together with the the market and delivering products of higher quality and Jean-Charles Naouri accelerated expansion of the physical network and more value-added to consumers. Chairman of the Board of Directors 3 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Message from the CEO The year 2018 brought excellent results for GPA. We gross sales of R$53.6 billion, 10.7% higher than in 2017, delivered sequential important market share gains and solid and market share gains at both Multivarejo and Assaí, with results for the Group’s businesses. The accelerated store sequential improvements in our results, which led net expansion at Assaí over recent years supported strong sales income to more than double to R$1.3 billion in the year. and substantial net income growth. At Multivarejo, sales improved sequentially, accompanied by higher profitability. At Assaí, 2018 was marked by solid and strong sales growth, which was leveraged by the banner’s nationwide Our multi-channel, multi-format and multi-region footprint. Assaí, which ended the year with 144 stores, portfolio, combined with the optimization of our store maintained its accelerated pace of store openings: 18 new portfolio through conversions, renovations and new units. The highly effective strategy for determining the sites concepts, has ensured a better offering of products of these stores supported above-expectation performance and services for our customers, further strengthening and the best result in sales per square meter of the last their power of choice. We also advanced in the digital five years. This year, Assaí also was included on the list of transformation of our businesses, reinforcing GPA’s Brazil’s Most Valuable Brands compiled by Interbrand. pioneering efforts on fronts such as food e-commerce and loyalty programs, which supported efficiency gains in our Meanwhile, Multivarejo delivered important revenue search for new revenue streams. growth, reflecting the more dynamic commercial actions, the better positioning of banners and the higher Despite a macroeconomic scenario still marked by recovery, penetration of loyalty tools and customization of the “My we maintained a high level of investment in the year of over Discount” app and “My Rewards” initiative. Over the year, R$1.7 billion, or 28.8% more than in 2017, which reinforces the Extra Super and Proximity formats posted significant our confidence in the execution of our business strategy improvement in their performances, while the Pão de and in the recovery of the Brazilian economy. We posted Açúcar banner maintained its high profitability. 4 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu We made important adjustments in the portfolio, the acquisition of James Delivery, a multiservice for Gender Equality and created two other with improvements within the formats: 15 Pão de delivery platform for various products. We also Affinity Groups, for Racial Equality and LGBTI+, Açúcar stores, totaling 20 stores renovated to the inaugurated Pão de Açúcar Adega, a platform which complement the activities of the Gender new model, which focuses entirely on the shopping formed by an exclusive online wine shop with Equality Committee created in 2013. All these experience and on strengthening the banner’s nationwide delivery, an application and a brick-andactions, combined with others to value our value proposition. Another 23 Extra Super stores mortar store (in São Paulo city) to give consumers a people, promote conscientious consumerism, were remodeled under the Mercado Extra concept truly omnichannel experience. protect the links of the production chain, and 13 stores were converted into Compre Bem, preserve the environment and engage which since their conversion already have been Looking to the future also means having our society reinforce the pillars that guide our delivering strong growth. management integrated with sustainability business strategy. principles, assessing risks and identifying Another important action was the repositioning opportunities to create value for all our We ended 2018 with very positive progress of our Private-Label portfolio with a priority on stakeholders. As a transformational agent and solid and sustainable results in our improving quality and price competitiveness, and a link in a chain, we adopt responsible businesses, which are accomplishments that which has led to an increase in the share of sourcing management that include aspects reflect the engagement and capacity of our these products in the Super, Hyper and Proximity such as preserving species, animal welfare, entire team. We continue working to ensure formats. Additionally, it has strengthened our combating deforestation and verifying a store portfolio that meets consumers’ competitiveness in regional markets and our adequate work conditions. needs, products and initiatives that offer the loyalty-building efforts. In 2018, we launched 500 best options to our shareholders, suppliers, new products, supported by a new communication We have a highly motivated and diverse team of employees and, most importantly, a permanent model and promotional campaigns. more than 102,000 employees across Brazil. We focus on our customers. were able to surpass the mark of 30% women in We also created the Digital Transformation leadership positions (managerial level and higher) department and began working more closely and increased to 21% the percentage of persons with foodtech startups. We prospected over 350 with disabilities on our team. companies in the industry, which resulted in a partnership with Cheftime, online subscription Consistent with our commitment to diversity, we Peter Estermann service and sales of gastronomic kits, and in launched the Manifesto of Senior Male Leaders Chief Executive Officer 5 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu About the Report Our material topics Respecting our customers’ power of choice and as one of the largest food retailers in Brazil, we can help bring about the transformation into a more sustainable model Valuing customer of supply and consumption in our society. The purpose of experience our Annual and Sustainability Report is to show all our stakeholders how our businesses are connected to these Generation of employment, This materiality matrix was compiled in 2017 based on guidelines and geared towards minimizing negative employee development consultations with and the engagement of strategic impacts while heightening positive effects on economic and retention stakeholders and senior executives of GPA, besides the analysis and socio-environmental aspects. of sectoral benchmarking and internal documents that guide our Consumer strategy of action. In 2018, we worked to reflect these aspects awareness This edition* covers the period between January 1 and in our management, updating and enlarging the pillars of our December 31, 2018, and explains how we practice our Product quality, sustainability performance. strategic sustainability vision through the investments, safety and traceability projects, goals and KPIs we adopt. The environmental The procedures, reporting tools and a selection of main indicators presented here apply to the period from Supply chain management indicators were assured by EY, whose verification is based on October 2017 to September 2018. The content was built and transparency the internal guidelines of the Corporate Social Responsibility on the basis of the ten most relevant topics listed by our Reporting Protocol of the Casino Group (further information Electricity stakeholders for the short, medium and long-term value on the methodology can be found in chapter 3.9 of the 2018 management creation of our business. Reference Document). Waste management and reverse logistics In this Report, we disclose relevant information about our business model, our impacts and governance, adopting Water resource transparency with our customers, shareholders, employees, *GPA’s Board of Directors, continuing with the process of evaluating strategic alternatives involving the Company’s investment in Via Varejo, management suppliers and all other stakeholders as an assumption. We authorized the executive board to start selling the capital stock of believe that this structural basis will enable us to continue being Via Varejo, which was disclosed to the public through a material fact released in November 2016. As a result of this process, the activities of Climate change the best choice in food retail. Via Varejo are now being processed by the Company on a single line in and emissions the statement of income as “discontinued operations”, and on a single line in assets and liabilities as held for sale, according to IFRS 5, for which reason the data relating to the activities of Via Varejo are not Relationship with Please send your questions, comments and included in this report. For information about the Annual Report of Via the local community suggestions about our Report to the email Varejo, please visit www.viavarejo.com.br. address comunicacao.corporativa@gpabr.com 6 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu 2018 Highlights OUR PEOPLE 21.0% 35.7% of black employees increase in the employment of people with in our teams and in leadership OUR NUMBERS disabilities positions (management and above) Presence in 18 Brazilian states R$ 53.6 40.0% 32.3% of participation of growth in the number of and in the Federal District billion young people women hired as apprentices in leadership positions of gross sales (management and above) 22 Distribution Centers and warehouses R$ 1.3 billion PRIVATE-LABELS More than of net income in the 1 thousand stores food segment Relaunch Review Growth of of the Qualitá of Qualitá and Taeq assortment with More than 22.3% brand repositioning 102 thousand in EBITDA** from food of the portfolio and the launch of more than employees* products in the comparison with 2017 Better quality 500 products *Employees active and on leave in and competitive pricing December 2018. **Adjusted, excluding other income and expenses and non-recurring effects. (Qualitá and Taeq) 7 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu OPTIMIZATION SUSTAINABILITY OF THE STORE PORTFOLIO 100% of suppliers from critical countries 10.7% reduction in energy 15 Pão de 18 Assaí stores have undergone working condition consumption as compared to audits – Private Labels and 2015, approaching the goal of generic brands achieving a 15% reduction in Açúcar stores inaugurated consumption by 2020 revitalized into the new Generation 7 concept, which 13 conversions More than 11 percentage points 5,500 tons enhances the shopping of Extra stores into Compre Bem of growth in sales of experience 23 Extra Super stores cage-free chicken eggs of recyclable materials collected at as compared to the start the Pão de Açúcar Unilever Recycling of 2017 – Private Labels revitalized into Mercado Extra Stations at 94 sites across the country DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION GPA INSTITUTE R$ 8.8 million R$ 1,9 Partnership with More than Cheftime 3.7 million invested in sociocultural projects million for the sale of gastronomic kits downloads of the Cliente Mais and (GPA Institute) both in-store and via e-commerce Clube Extra loyalty apps in 2018 allocated to Launch of culture-incentive Pão de Açúcar Adega, More than 180 Acquisition of resources a wine platform integrated into James Delivery, partner organizations a startup for rapid 1,100 tons the virtual store, the app and the brick-and-mortar store, guaranteeing shopping deliveries an omnichannel experience More than 865,000 of food staples collected Growth of 44% in food e-commerce in 2018, of which 63.5% people benefited directly and indirectly from the programs and projects of the on Solidarity Day, up 20% over 2017 occurred in the 4th quarter of the year, reaffirming industry leadership GPA Institute 8 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu GPA GPA has been present in the lives of thousands of Brazilians for more than 70 years. With over 1 thousand points of sale in addition to 22 distribution centers and warehouses located all over the country, we work to guarantee and respect our customers’ power of choice. In our opinion, this is always the best choice. Our more than 102 thousand employees devote their efforts to this purpose on a daily basis, always seeking to innovate and improve to enhance the shopping experience of consumers, ensure a fair relationship with our partners, guarantee gains for our shareholders, and generate positive impacts on society. We adopt a multi-channel, multi-format and multi-region strategy through the Pão de Açúcar, Extra, Assaí and Compre Bem banners, besides Proximity formats and Specialized Businesses such as malls/ shopping arcades, gas stations and drugstores in order to glean an intimate understanding of all customer profiles. Our Brand share of GPA’S businesses net sales in 2018 2.4% 5.0% Assaí We are one of Brazil’s largest retail and distribution groups. Our Extra* and Compre Bem business model values our customers’ power of choice as well as fair Pão de Açúcar and transparent relationships with all our stakeholders. We are part of 13.9% Proximity** the lives of millions of people and, aware of our ensuing responsibility, Other businesses*** seek to contribute on a daily basis to the well-being of our consumers, 46.4% * Extra Hiper, Extra Super and suppliers, employees, shareholders and local communities. We innovate Mercado Extra. and evolve to refine the shopping experience at our brick-and-mortar **Minuto Pão de Açúcar, Mini Extra and Aliado Mini Mercado. 32.3% and virtual stores, and to ensure that the impact of our relationship ***Malls/shopping arcades, drugstores and gas stations. network is increasingly positive for society as a whole. 9 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Share of sales by region* We have nationwide presence, northeast with more than 1 thousand points RR AP of sale in 18 states and in the Federal District 18.7 % Our people *In December 2018. CE AM PA MA RN 102,562 PI PB PE employees AC RO TO AL north SE *Includes employees both active and on BA leave in December 2018. MT 2.3 % DF 50.9 % 49.1% GO women men Midwest MG 8.3 % MS ES 44.01% 47.75% SP RJ aged 30 or under aged between 31 and 50 8.24% Assaí (17 states and in the Federal District) PR southeast over 50 Compre Bem (SP) SC 68.9% Extra (16 states and in the Federal District), Mini Extra (SP and PE) and Mercado Extra (SP) RS 36% 3,719 Pão de Açúcar (12 states and in the Federal south 1.8 % District), Minuto Pão de Açúcar (SP and PE) blacks employees with and Pão de Açúcar Adega (SP) disabilities 10 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Our Purpose Our Values According to GPA, the ability to choose is always the best choice. GPA believes in the... From food to technology, from retail to wholesale, from minimarket to hypermarket, and from e-commerce to Customer’s Power of brick-and-mortar stores. Our customers can buy whatever they power of choice impacting people want, whenever and wherever they want. Our suppliers enjoy the We value and recognize our power to Everything we do is to be, certainty of fair and transparent negotiations and practices. positively impact the lives of thousands always, the first choice Our investors have the opportunity to diversify their investments, of our customers. of people, building a better and more and our people have countless opportunities to put their talent to diversified society. work. Aware of our role as an agent of transformation, we strive to help build a more diverse and inclusive society. We choose to evolve and innovate, creating trends, refining business formats Power of Power of and building opportunities and experiences tailored to the needs and profiles of consumers. simplifying performing each day We simplify our discussions, Our people are driven by processes and plans, being the ability to perform, to work together, pragmatic to ensure that our to lead proudly market changes and, thus, actions are efficient and take place grow along with our business, building in the right way. the future every day. 70 years of GPA In September 2018, • Celebratory event with the international speakers we celebrated our 70th Sheena Iyengar and Brian Solis for the 368 guests of anniversary with several GPA from the investor market, the press and associations, commemorative events. alongside suppliers and partners. Here are some of them: • Meeting of leaders and store managers of all the Multivarejo banners, with targeted speeches and s tands of suppliers for the 900 participants. • Production of exclusive content, with testimonials of executives and Company partners on the power of choice in their careers. • Distribution of Qualitá products to customers, impacting more than 28 thousand people in highway tolls and flights offered by domestic airlines. 11 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive 1976 menu 1971 GPA acquires Our trajectory Launch of Supermercado Eletroradiobraz, which resulted in the creation of the electronics 1959 Jumbo, the Group’s first segment, then the Bartira 1948 hypermarket, in the ABC chain two years later. Inauguration of the Paulista district in 1971. Opening of Doceira first supermarket Pão de Açúcar 1980 of the Pão de Açúcar (confectionary store). chain. Acquisition of the 1993 1989 Superbom, Peg-Pag and Mercantil chains, as well 1995 The Group goes as the Bazar 13 stores Creation of the live with the and Morita chain. GPA makes its debut in first Ombudsman in the Brazilian Extra banner. the capital market with its initial public offering (IPO). retail industry. 2000 2001 1999 Installation of the Launch of the first Pão de Açúcar 1998 The Casino Group loyalty program Unilever Recycling acquires an important Pão de Açúcar Stations. Creation of the stake of 25% in the Mais. GPA Institute, the Company. Company’s social 2002 branch. 2007 2004 Inauguration 2011 GPA takes on the of the first operation of Assaí and Drogarias Extra Launch of the (drugstores). Inauguration of magnifies its presence Posto Extra gas Mini Extra, the as the largest retail and station format. banner’s Proximity distribution group in 2018 format. the country. GPA celebrates its 70th anniversary. Launch of the Compre Bem and Mercado Extra formats and the Pão de Açúcar 2014 2016 2017 Adega platform. Acquisition of James Delivery and partnership with Cheftime. Minuto Pão de Açúcar Inauguration of the Launch of “Meu The Group also launches the “Meus is launched. The chain’s first unit with a Desconto” Prêmios” [My Rewards] functionality, loyalty program Clube photovoltaic plant, [My Discount] strengthening the connection with Extra is created in in Campinas (Minuto functionality, in customers and digitalization. the same year. Pão de Açúcar). the apps. 12 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu BUSINESS MODEL Our customers are at the core of our business model and Priorities for are the reason for everything we do at GPA. Our purpose translates this commitment to the Power of Choice and 2019-2021 directs each initiative undertaken at our stores, which Greater number more than one thousand, and in the corporate Private-Labels adaptation to areas. The multiplicity of our portfolio is one of the most Another customer loyalty driver, these brands relevant distinguishing features of our performance. The offer high quality products at lower prices, each geographical diversified, multi-channel, multi-format and multi-region and, in many cases, are placed in a prominent region proposal enables GPA to be part of the life of each Brazilian, position in retail display cabinets. This is the case, with stores and value propositions geared towards each for instance, of Taeq, which focuses on healthy customer profile. nutrition, and of Qualitá, which underwent strengthening actions in 2018. We repositioned New formats the brand, reviewed the assortment and improved Optimization The Company’s set of banners is continually optimized, product quality (find out more on page 21). of the store areas: enabling us to anticipate trends and acting as a guideline increase in profits for business planning according to the consumption Digital transformation per m2 aspirations of our customers, based on regional surveys on Allowing our customers’ the power of choice also shopping habits, income growth and population growth involves serving them in their preferred channels. projections. In 2018, this was showcased by the launches of To this end, we have invested in the e-commerce the Mercado Extra, Compre Bem and Pão de Açúcar Adega channels of our brands and in the multi-channel brands as well as the acquisition of the James Delivery strategy, integrating website and brick-and-mortar startup (find out more on pages 16, 17, 18 store purchases for the best consumer experience Strengthening and 19, respectively). (find out more on page 41). of major differentials: Private-Labels and Sustainability CRM and loyalty Our operations as a whole are based on the commitment to sustainable development and enhancement Employees at the strengthening of networks that create shared GPA’s Customer House value with all our stakeholders. Our Sustainability Policy, based on six cornerstones, ensures the systematic management of actions, with the constant monitoring of goals and indicators (find Focus on out more on page 29). omnichannel strategy and digital transformation 13 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Our business model Financial Manufactured Intellectual Human Social and Natural capital capital capital capital relationship capital capital • Investment for the evolution • Return to shareholder with profit of the business model • Gain in market share and other financial indicators • Investment in financial • Own business cash generation services and solutions • Expansion and new generation of stores • Conversion of brands according to the profile of the • Stores locality, increasing the quality of services • Distribution Centers and logistics fleet • Productivity increase • Technological infrastructure system • Implementation of new models, such as multichannel and e-commerce • Administrative offices and other properties • Development and improvement of strategies for the provision of financial services and products • Implementation of more innovative models to increase • Expertise of employees on the the quality of service to the customer consumer profile and retail sector • Development of Business Intelligence (BI) • Partnership with suppliers and to improve the relationship with customers and the startups to promote innovation management of employees and digital transformation, Resources Impacts • Brand portfolio management and to increase the competitive differential (institutional, business, banners and products) • Generation of direct and indirect jobs throughout Brazil • Employees and third parties • Investment in development and training, contributing to the present in stores, Distribution Centers improvement of qualification of retail professionals and raising the and offices, among other operations awareness of employees regarding citizenship • Other workers present throughout • Investment in the creation of a more inclusive and the value chain diverse working environment • Relationship and investment with communities • Programs of differentiated relationship with the customer surrounding the stores and other GPA operations • Promotion of social and cultural transformation in the communities • Relations with customers, press, NGOs, government, surrounding the operations through citizenship and education for suppliers and other social players work programs, in addition to partnerships with social institutions • Reducing environmental impact through programs to control • Use of natural resources in the and monitor our operations and the value chain, operations, such as water and energy CO2 emissions, energy consumption and waste recovery • Indirect use of natural resources • Raising the awareness of suppliers and customers for the in the value chain adoption of healthy and sustainable habits Stakeholders that have negative or positive impact Customers | Employees | Suppliers | Investors | Government | Surrounding communities | NGOs | Trade associations and unions | Press 14 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu BRANDS AND BUSINESSES Consumer Assaí operates in the self-service wholesale segment (Cash&Carry), electronics and focused on serving customers of micro and small businesses, as appliances sector well as final consumers seeking savings. The stores have more than of Extra store 7 thousand items of major national and imported brands. Assaí holds a competitive position, offering fair prices all year round, as customers can pay wholesale prices even on small quantities of 112 Extra goods. More than 600 thousand exclusive Passaí store cards have Hiper already been issued. In 2018, as part of the strategy of providing stores innovation and a positive shopping experience, the chain installed Wi-Fi in all its stores, improving customer service and enabling customers to obtain more information about offers. In the same 150 Extra stores Super year, the wholesaler appeared in the ranking of the Most Valuable Brazilian Brands (Marcas Brasileiras Mais Valiosas), organized by 144 stores Interbrand and published in Exame magazine, for the first time. Assaí ranked 23rd, with a brand value of R$ 459 million. Extra is a nationwide, multi-format and multi-channel brand that offers a complete assortment of products with quality and low prices. The chain’s Checkout in mission is to facilitate the purchasing power of consumers, and some Assaí store indicators of the success in this challenge are the banner’s presence in the ranking of Brazil’s 20 most valuable brands of 2018, compiled by Interbrand, and the fact that it has been Top of Mind in the segment 12 times. At Extra customers can find the best offers, promotions and payment terms, and the chain also offers exclusive benefits to users of the Clube Extra loyalty program. The banner is democratic, with a presence in different regions and formats, including e-commerce. Extra Hiper with the one-stop-shop concept – that is, the possibility of doing all of your shopping in the same place – has fresh products and a differentiated line of Private-Labels of food, fashion and home essentials, as well as electronics. Extra Super adopts the assumption of improving the customer experience, its coverage and scope, focus on the perishables category and operational excellence. In addition, the banner has a new supermarket model: Mercado Extra. 15 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu The layout of Mercado Extra highlights the display of fruit and vegetables and the Butchers, Deli and Pão de Açúcar is a modern neighborhood supermarket from the Premium segment that Bakery services offers customer service, quality and a variety of products in a practical and welcoming environment. Sustainability is a strategic part of its makeup and also generates value for the business. The supermarket shows its appreciation for the relationship with customers through different initiatives, such as the Cliente Mais loyalty app, in which it is possible to customize the shopping experience and reward consumers, and always seeks to promote healthy living concepts. With nationwide coverage and an omnichannel strategy, its pillars are differentiation, innovation and balance. To create an emotional connection in customers by means of a better shopping experience and interactivity, Pão de Açúcar invested throughout 2018 in 20 renovated stores that, 23 stores together, represent approximately 20% of the banner’s sales. In 2019, it is planning to undertake 12 to 15 store reforms. 186 stores Mercado Extra is a new supermarket model focused exclusively on the needs of customers seeking practicality and quality, pillars of the brand’s value proposition. Customers have access to a huge “market” with fruit, legumes and vegetables and reinforced customer service teams in all areas, especially in the Butchers, Fishmongers and Bakery sections. The store also has a grocery area with appealing prices and a full range of Fruit and Vegetable Private-Labels. The Mercado Extra launch project began in May 2018 section of the new following a comprehensive market analysis. This led to store conversions generation of Pão de from Extra Supermarket into Mercado Extra, a banner that focuses on Açúcar stores operational simplification, increasing productivity while cutting costs. This business model has attracted more customers and brought about an increase in sales as well as more results for the business. 16 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu The goal of the new Compre Bem banner is to be the best supermarket chain in its region. The business model is regional, that is, focused on customers according to their whereabouts and particularities. The stores have more than 7 thousand items and fully customer-oriented operation, with very competitive prices, excellent customer service, and a product mix focused on daily necessities such as Fruit and Vegetables, delivered directly by the supplier, and Bakery, Butchers and Deli Services. Some stores feature self-checkout technology, which enables customers to scan and pay for their shopping in a fast and practical way. Moreover, all the checkouts are equipped for payment using the Apple Pay and Samsung Pay apps, thereby eliminating the need for card use. 13 stores Proximity and facility at Mini Extra store 156 stores The Proximity format of the Extra brand is present in urban agglomerations and densely populated locations. Compre Bem It provides consumers with a practical and streamlined storefront shopping experience, catering to different stages – from supplies to last-minute shopping – and has approximately 4 thousand items. 17 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Entrance of brick-and-mortar store The proposal of Minuto Pão de Açúcar is to become the most pleasant and convenient neighborhood option for day-to-day shopping, offering staple foods, healthy and differentiated products, with the friendly customer service and reliability of the Pão de Açúcar brand. It has an assortment of more than 6 thousand items, with solutions for immediate consumption, convenience shopping and replenishment. 79 stores Pão de Açúcar Adega, launched in 2018, is a platform for beverage sales, integrated into e-commerce, app and brick-and-mortar store, with more than one thousand wine labels from 16 different countries. Besides offering premium wines, the meeting point for those who appreciate wine and other special beverages also features attendants trained by Carlos Cabral, one of Brazil’s greatest fine beverage specialists, Convenience accessories, and an excellent selection of alcoholic and agility at beverages, spirits, and a calendar of courses and events. Minuto Pão de For more information, access the online platform. Açúcar store 18 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Aliado Minimercado is a B2B business model for small retailers that wish to boost their sales through the partnership with GPA. To become an Aliado Minimercado associate, a partner must be registered and shop both frequently and in ever-increasing amounts via the GPA operation. The main business prospects for the next three years are strong growth in the market with expansion of the sales force and development of an online channel to sell to more partners from small retailers, and also to James Delivery new formats such as bars, restaurants and hotels, thereby shopper building the confidence of ‘allied’ customers in purchasing more products from GPA to increase their sales and profits. Presence in Curitiba (PR) More than 500 units and Balneário Camboriú (SC) 700 deliverers Partnership with small retail with Aliado Minimercado brand In 2018 GPA acquired James Delivery, a Brazilian startup that offers a GPA Malls is GPA’s real estate business unit, responsible multiservice order and delivery platform for sundry products, ranging for the management and development of commercial from items sold in supermarkets to restaurants and drugstores. With spaces in Extra, Pão de Açúcar, Assaí and Compre Bem Management headquarters in Curitiba, in the state of Paraná, it was declared a stores. It seeks to offer the best in terms of structure of more than finalist in the Liga Retail (Retail League) Program, the first program focused on the acceleration of startups dedicated to retail, and service provision, serving as a platform for external brands to develop and 250 and shopping arcades sponsored by GPA, and in December of the same year, expand their franchises. For retail was acquired by the Group. James Delivery is the first startup in the world to enable deliveries by voice stores it serves as a magnet to increase customer traffic, 2 neighborhood malls command. In Brazil, it pioneered the delivery of supplementing the space Almost 300 the service for any product, including those sold with additional services in malls, and the use of ergonomic backpacks and products in malls. thousand m ² for deliverers on bicycles. Furthermore, it is the of gross leasable only one in the country with a call center that area administered GPA Malls’ shopping nationwide relies entirely on human agents. arcade at Extra Itaim in São Paulo (SP) 19 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Drugstores Gas stations Drugstores, which are mostly located inside the Pão de Açúcar Pão de Açúcar, Extra and Assaí and Extra stores, are a convenient choice for customers, gas stations work with cohelping improve their experience shopping for drug products, branding of the main fuel toiletries and others. About 100 thousand consumers frequent distributors, strengthening these stores, totaling 840 thousand shopping tickets per differentiation with customers month. Drogarias Extra are undergoing a reformulation through the association of project aimed at completely revitalizing the units, bringing a recognized brands and price new store layout designed to make the customers’ shopping attractiveness. To stand out 123 units experience more comfortable in addition to modern, renovated from among their competitors, visual communication. In 2018, 17 units were inaugurated they rely on the implementation under the new concept. of the “Perfect Gas Station” concept, which encompasses technological modernization, review of equipment and the visual standardization of brand concepts. Pão de Açúcar Drugstore in São 71 gas stations Paulo (SP) Extra Gas Station in operation Private-Labels GPA pioneered the launch of Private-Labels in Brazil back in the 1970s, and since then has maintained a process of monitoring and continuous development of these products. GPA operates the Private-Labels Taeq, Qualitá, Casino, Club des Sommeliers, Finlandek, Bronzini, Arkitect, Cast, Bambini, Boomy, Chef, Econobom and Assaí, which encompass product categories ranging from hygiene and cleaning to food, including textiles and kitchen/homeware. 20 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu REPOSITIONING OF PRIVATE-LABELS An important pathway for building profitability the brand has also undergone a thorough and customer loyalty, Private-Labels have portfolio overhaul. Qualitá has 1.3 thousand The repositioning of the Qualitá brand was considerable potential to grow in our business items ranging from food to cleaning products, innovative in several aspects. I was very glad model, providing quality assurance and and is expected to incorporate a further one to see GPA investing to establish a positioning more competitive prices. Private-Labels are thousand products over a 2-year period. Since strategy that creates an emotional connection currently accountable for 11.5% of total sales, we presented the new model of communication with customers, and goes beyond quality assurance with more competitive prices. In addition, and we expect to reach the milestone of and started the promotional campaigns of the whole process was highly transparent and 20% in the coming years. Private-Labels, the average growth of sales has shared extensively: we sat down together to risen from 21% to 40%. Another highlight of discuss ideas, market valuations and opportunities In 2018, we launched more than 500 products. the year was the strengthening of the Taeq for economies of scale and optimization. The most prominent event in the year was brand, whose proposal to democratize healthy Raul Matos, partner of Dauper, the repositioning of Qualitá. Besides having a eating habits holds special appeal in view of the supplier of Qualitá products new visual identity, reflected in the packaging, growing search for this type of product. New visual identity The new Qualitá brand, with the golden “Q” and in purple, was printed on the product packaging 21 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu FINANCIAL RESULTS The results achieved in 2018 confirm the Gross revenue effectiveness of our strategy. We focus on the adequacy (R$ millions) of our store portfolio, seeking to fortify our multi-channel, +7.7% +10.7% multi-format and multi-region presence, with greater 53,616 adherence to consumer demand. 44,969 48,440 This development has led to actual growth of sales above market levels, with progression of results in all segments. GPA’s gross revenue from the Food business totaled R$ 53.6 billion, a significant increase of 10.7% due to Assaí’s solid performance and the continuous improvement in Multivarejo. GPA Food more than doubled its net income, 2016 2017 2018 reaching the milestone of R$ 1.3 billion in the year. Our solid financial structure has enabled us to maintain Adjusted EBITDA a low level of leverage, with the Net debt/EBITDA ratio of 0.32x, and with a net debt of R$ 973 million*. (R$ millions)* Net income (R$ millions)** We ended the year with a solid position of R$ 4.4 billion in cash and cash equivalents, besides R$ 1.8 billion in + 22.3% 2,846 1,300 pre-approved credit facilities. + 21.6% 2,327 +120.0% *The figure includes unanticipated credit card receivables. 1,913 591 n.a. We more than doubled 2016 2017 2018 -55 2016 2017 2018 our net income in 2018, *Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted by other income and expenses, **Net income – controlling reaching the milestone of excluding tax credits and non-recurring effects. shareholders. R$ 1.3 billion 22 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Multivarejo We had our best performance of recent years in terms of gross sales, totaling R$ 28.7 billion, owing to the assertiveness of the initiatives that brought greater commercial dynamism, progress in banner positioning, and greater penetration of the “My Discount” and “My Rewards” loyalty and customization tools. The resumption of revenue growth, which resulted in market share gains, Retail aligned with the decrease in operating expenses, guaranteed an adjusted EBITDA** of R$ 1.5 billion, market up 13.0% over 2017. The margin totaled 5.5% and The retail industry is one of the was in line with the guidance of the year, while net important drivers of Brazilian income totaled R$ 246 million, 4.8 times the amount economic growth. In 2018, recorded in 2017. according to data from the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), this industry Assaí recorded growth of 2.3% in the Gross sales amounted to R$ 24.9 billion, up 24.2% annual comparison, above the in the annual comparison (and up 6.3% in the increase in the Gross Domestic “same-store” concept), reflecting the success of Product (GDP), which was 1.1%. the banner’s commercial strategies and growth in The performance is also the best of customer traffic and volume. The maturation of the the last three years: the year 2017 stores opened in recent years has contributed to the Expansion of had been closed with an increase Assaí and loyalty growth of gross income and the decrease in selling, enhancement of 2.1% after two years of negative general and administrative expenses. As a result, we in Multivarejo growth rates. The outlook for 2019 exceeded the projected growth of adjusted EBITDA**, contributed to the includes a 2.4% rise in the GDP results of the year which reached R$ 1.4 billion with a 6.0% margin, and (according to the Brazilian Central achieved net income of R$ 1.1 billion, an increase of Bank) and a 3% increase in retail 95.2% in the annual comparison. sales (according to the Associação **Adjusted EBITDA excluding non-recurring effects. Brasileira de Supermercados [Brazilian Association of Supermarkets] – Abras). Click here for further information about GPA’s financial results in the Release of Results for 4Q18. 23 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our governance model comprises policies, guidelines and decision-making bodies that leverage our ability to grow, with sustainability and transparency. We strive to preserve efficiency and symmetry in the disclosure of information, a commitment to the capital market and respect for shareholders and investors. GPA complies with all the rules applied to publicly traded companies, such as the adoption of national accounting standards and recordkeeping for these companies with the CVM (Securities and Exchange Commission). In Brazil, our shares are listed at Level 1 of the B3 (Brazil, Stock Exchange and Over-the-Counter Market), and we voluntarily adopt practices applicable to B3’s topmost level of governance, the Novo Mercado, or New Market: Integrated • Board of Directors management and composed of three independent members. • Four advisory committees transparency to the Board of Directors. • Dividend policy. • Annual self-assessment We have established fair and transparent relationships with all our stakeholders, and maintain an ethical conduct in all our activities. With dedicated structures, we ensure the adoption of best practices in of the members of the Board of Directors. • Manual for participation of shareholders corporate governance, evolve in the integration of sustainability aspects in our strategy, and disseminate a culture of compliance in all our operations. We believe that by acting in this manner, doing the right thing in General Meetings. the right way, we can build lasting and sustainable relationships with our employees, suppliers, customers, shareholders and society. 24 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu In the United States, GPA issues Level III American Depositary Board of Directors Receipts (ADRs) on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and abides Currently composed of nine members, three of whom are independent, by SEC (Securities and Exchange Commission) and NYSE decisions it is responsible for the strategic guidance of the business and for foreign companies listed in the United States. monitoring of the Executive Board. Its members are elected by the General Shareholders’ Meeting for a two-year term, with re-election In GPA’s corporate governance model, the Board of Directors and permitted. The Board of Directors meets at least six times a year and is the Executive Board have defined roles and responsibilities that are advised by four committees, consisting of board members who discuss essential for the smooth running of business. specific topics related to their scope of activity, qualifying decisions made at meetings of the Board of Directors. BOARD MEMBERS TITLE DATE ELECTED END OF TERM Jean-Charles Henri Naouri Chairman 4/27/2018 April 2020 Arnaud Strasser Co-Deputy Chairman 4/27/2018 April 2020 Ronaldo Iabrudi dos Santos Pereira Co-Deputy Chairman 4/27/2018 April 2020 Carlos Mario Giraldo Moreno Member 4/27/2018 April 2020 Eleazar de Carvalho Filho Independent member 4/27/2018 April 2020 José Gabriel Loaiza Herrera Member 4/27/2018 April 2020 Luiz Augusto de Castro Neves Independent member 4/27/2018 April 2020 Luiz Nelson Guedes de Carvalho Independent member 4/27/2018 April 2020 Manfred Heinrich Gartz Member 4/27/2018 April 2020 The Board of Directors is responsible for strategically driving business and for monitoring the Executive Board 25 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Advisory committees of the Board of Directors Human Resources and Remuneration The committee is responsible for examining candidates for the position of Board of Audit Directors and Executive Board members, proposing criteria for manager performance appraisals, and defining the remuneration and incentive policies, besides reviewing Composed of four members, its main duties are to analyze and monitor the quality the recruitment and selection methods adopted by the Company. and integrity of the Company’s quarterly information, Financial Statements and management report, evaluate the effectiveness and adequacy of the internal control structure and of the internal and independent audit processes, and to Members: monitor risk exposures. • Arnaud Strasser (coordinator) • Carlos Mario Diez Gomez Members: • Carlos Mario Giraldo Moreno • Luiz Augusto de Castro Neves • Luiz Nelson Guedes de Carvalho (coordinator) • Ronaldo Iabrudi • Eleazar de Carvalho Filho • Gisélia da Silva • Renan Bergmann Corporate Governance and Sustainability Created on April 27, 2018 from the merger of the Sustainable Development (created on February 11, 2014) and Corporate Governance (created on January 29, 2013) committees, it is responsible for guiding and ensuring the adoption of best corporate Financial governance practices by the Company, monitoring the fulfillment of requirements The committee is made up of four members and its main duties include: stipulated by the Brazilian legislation and other market inspection bodies, and for reviewing the financial/economic feasibility of investment plans and guiding the strategy of GPA and its businesses with regard to sustainability topics. Its programs; recommending measures for the negotiation of any merger, duties also encompass keeping track of macro indicators and assessing critical and acquisition or transaction; reviewing the cash flow, debt management policy high impact policies and sustainable practices, based on the economic, social and and capital structure; and recommending opportunities related to funding environmental dimensions. transactions capable of improving the capital structure. Members: Members: • Luiz Augusto de Castro Neves (coordinator) • Eleazar de Carvalho Filho (coordinator) • Arnaud Strasser • Arnaud Strasser • Carlos Mario Giraldo Moreno • José Gabriel Loaiza Herrera • Hélio Mattar • Luiz Nelson Guedes de Carvalho • Ronaldo Iabrudi 26 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu RISK MANAGEMENT Executive Board GPA’s guidelines and risk management structure Among these 85 risks, ten comprise the Responsible for the administration of our business, the Executive are aligned with the Casino Group methodology, Casino Risk Solution (CRS) matrix, three Board, elected by the Board of Directors for the two-year term, which follows international standards and best of which are monitored by the Board of manages the Company in accordance with the long-term practices. The integrated and comprehensive action Directors: business continuity management; strategic planning guidelines approved by the Board of Directors. of all the processes seeks to ensure the continuity succession; and leakage of information. Its duties also include preparing shortand medium-term of activities, value creation across the chain, and The executives responsible for each of the planning as well as the tactics, programs and actions necessary to the dissemination of the risk management culture risks periodically track the development of achieve the results. Performance indicators are monitored weekly among employees. Throughout 2018, the company key indicators and the status of the action and business performance is presented to the shareholders monitored 85 risks prioritized in 2017, continuously plans. This management is coordinated by quarterly at a General Meeting. refining internal control mechanisms and GPA’s the Business Risk Management area, which exposure mitigation actions. reports to the Board of Directors through the Audit Committee. MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD TITLE Peter Paul Lorenço Estermann Chief Executive Officer Christophe José Hidalgo Deputy Chief Financial Officer Daniela Sabbag Chief Investor Relations Officer Belmiro de Figueiredo Gomes Chief Wholesale Business Officer 85 Click here to learn more about the composition of the governing bodies of GPA and to access the minutes of meetings of the Board of Directors, the risks Company’s Articles of Incorporation, policies and bylaws on the Investor Relations website. prioritized 10 of these aligned with the Casino Risk Solution (CRS) matrix 3 of these monitored by the Board of Directors 27 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu ETHICAL CONDUCT Our Compliance Program relies on the commitment Integrity and transparency are part of our values and supervision of senior management, strengthening and are present in our business. Accordingly, we the commitment to ethical conduct and integrity across all operations. Structured on three fronts have posted a video about the Code of Ethics on our institutional website. In 2018, we held training sessions Ombudsman (Prevent, Detect and Respond), the Program covers on the topic for 187 service providers in the areas of This is GPA’s official channel for formal guidelines for the topic, such as conducting Equipment, Construction Works and Maintenance. We allegations of violations of the legislation, online and face-to-face training sessions, awareness have also distributed some materials and held internal the Code of Ethics, internal procedures enhancement campaigns for the employees, and events for employees. and policies. adequate mechanisms for the identification, This channel enables the Company to investigation and handling of deviations. We believe receive allegations involving employees, that by acting in this manner, doing the right thing suppliers and customers, regardless the right way, we can build lasting and sustainable of the position or status of the person relationships with all our stakeholders. who has committed the violation, ensuring the handling of deviations and continuous improvement of The Code of Ethics is the main guidance internal policies and procedures, document for this Program. We also have an training programs, and consequently, Anticorruption Standard designed to satisfy the improvement of our Compliance the requirements of Law no. 12,846/2013 Program. (Anticorruption Law), the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act – FCPA, and the French Anticorruption Law (Sapin II Law). Opening hours: Monday to Saturday from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Assaí and Compre Bem ouvidoria@assai.com.br 0800 777 3377 GPA ouvidoria@gpabr.com 0800 55 57 11 Multivarejo ouvidoria@multivarejogpa.com.br 0800 55 57 11 GPA’s corporate team 28 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT At the beginning of 2018, in the annual strategic sustainability planning Our Sustainability Policy, aligned with the guidelines of the Casino review process, we revisited our five pillars and included another: Integrated Group, steers our efforts to integrate the sustainable development management and transparency. This process was based on three assumptions: agenda into the business strategy. It is the starting point for the strategic guidelines of Casino; the materiality matrix (which had been the planning of actions, based on pillars, with specific goals and revised in 2017); and the market positioning and specific characteristics of indicators monitored to ensure the effectiveness of initiatives and each of our businesses. The results were presented to the Board of Directors the delivery of value to all stakeholders. and included, among others, the definition of deliverables for 2018 and the objectives for the 2018-2020 triennium. VA L U I N G Environmental O U R people I M PA C T M A N A G E M E N T Minimize and prevent Be a role model company that promotes environmental impacts diversity, inclusion and sustainability caused by GPA operations among its employees Conscious consumption ENGAGEMENT A N D S U P P LY Our purpose is to be an agent of transformation, with society Expand the offer of healthy and Build up the relationship between optimizing and innovating sustainable products as a form of customers, suppliers, employees our way of doing business and social organizations close to our strategic value in our brands and businesses, influencing our chain in order to build a stores to work together as agents of and making consumers more diligent more responsible and transformation of society when choosing these products inclusive society T R A N S F O R M AT I O N I N T E G R AT E D M A N AG E M E N T in the value chain and transparency Engage players from our value chains to make Integrate sustainability in our business them more accountable for the environment, model and boost transparency in the people and animal welfare relationship with our stakeholders 29 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu PROFILE AND CORPORATE CULTURE We are more than 102 thousand employees strengthened by a unique corporate culture and a differentiated way of doing things. One of the most relevant traits of this culture is the promotion of inclusion and diversity in all their forms. We view the representativeness and development of our employees as a priority. We understand that diversity is a value and also a lever of performance and socioeconomic innovation, besides being essential in a customeroriented business. Over the last few years, we have selected five topics as a priority for the strengthening of policies and processes to guarantee the rights, respect, appreciation and equality of all people: • Inclusion and Valuing development of people with disabilities our people • Age diversity We pride ourselves on being the largest private employer in Brazil in the retail segment, and one of the main references • Gender equity for those seeking their first job in the country. We value our people and offer opportunities to all those who want to put their talent to MATERIAL TOPIC • Racial equality • Respect of good use. We promote inclusion and cherish diversity and respect Generation of for people and their beliefs. With this engaged team, we promote employment, the best shopping experience for our customers on a daily basis, along with lasting and ethically correct relationships with our employee development and LGBTI+ rights business partners and positive impacts for local communities retention and all of our stakeholders. 30 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu In 2018, we established affinity groups to cultivate dialogue and the transformation of the work environment for the sake of the diversity and I have always felt inclusion agenda. appreciated and welcome here in the Company, as if it were an actual family, both in the store and • GPA Madiba Group while training. I consider it a privilege to Established in July, it was dubbed Madiba as this was the nickname wake up every day and come to work, given to South African Nelson Mandela, known for his fight for racial with my name on the Pão de Açúcar badge equality. This group is made up of about 40 employees from all of and all the respect and affection GPA’s business units. Its pillars of action include employee attraction, of my coworkers. I have had discomforting experiences at other retention, development, engagement, awareness and consciousness companies but have never building initiatives. experienced anything of the kind here. I know I will always grow • LGBTI+ affinity group along with GPA. Formed in October by around 20 employees, its purpose is to adopt Kiara Silva, best practices for an environment that respects each person’s sexual employee of the orientation, sexual identity or gender. The pillars of action include Pão de Açúcar store talent attraction, development and retention initiatives through internal and external affirmative and awareness building actions, in favor of the LGBTI+ community. Participants of the GPA Madiba Group 31 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Women’s empowerment Succession The Gender Equality Committee is the group responsible for monitoring and development and proposing GPA’s actions in this area, engaging the Company’s senior management so that every possible effort is made on this front. Committed Intensify actions tailored specifically Priorities listed in the to reflecting social reality in our workforce, women made up 50.9% of our for women Manifesto for gender equality at GPA staff at the end of 2018. Their participation in leadership roles (management and above) is a continuous effort undertaken by our management, which made progress last year with the growth of this percentage: women occupied 32.3% of these positions at the end of the period. Workplace Constant gender equality promotion actions range from public commitment Organize campaigns and to the topic to the adoption of internal initiatives and practices. In 2018, educational actions for gender a noteworthy initiative was Fale com Eles [Speak to the Men], a meeting issues, aiming to eradicate with a male leadership group to further the discussion about the role of unacceptable behaviors men in the promotion of gender equality. From this engagement and from benchmarking practices with companies that are an example in Brazil and the rest of the world, we defined points requiring improvement and had Wages a manifesto signed by executives during Diversity Week (learn Develop policies and more on page 34). processes to ensure equal pay between genders Women in leadership Employees of corporate GPA (management and above) departments 33% 2018 Goal Attraction and selection 31.7 32.3 Review processes to 28.0 reduce the incidence of 19.6 488 500 unconscious biases 347 211 Parental leave Improve policies 2015 2016 2017 2018 and benefits related to parental leave Number of women in leadership positions Percentage of leadership positions occupied by women 32 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu People with disabilities (PwDs) The hiring, development and retention of Actions People with 4% professionals with disabilities is a challenge in the at Assaí to disabilities 2018 Goal value the management of our business. In Multivarejo, we launched an internal campaign for employees to 3.6 3.0 nominate professionals with disabilities to work at GPA. In total, we received 94 nominations, of which PwDs 2.3 2.7 3,719 3,069 54 resulted in the hiring or inclusion of the PwD in our base of potential employees. Implementation 2,292 2,661 and availability of a training course Another initiative is the Sementes [Seeds] Program in Brazilian Sign Language in the distance of the Extra banner, through the GPA Institute, education format. • which organized the vocational training of PwDs as bakery assistants (bread-making, confectionery 2015 2016 2017 2018 and customer service) for the São Paulo class, and training as cashiers for the Rio de Janeiro class, Creation Number of people with disabilities of inclusive training videos Percentage of the staff consisting totaling 45 trainees. All the participants were of employees with disabilities and materials with translation into Brazilian invited to join our staff and 18 of them have already sign language and subtitles for the been hired. other employees. At Assaí, the inclusion of PwDs is part of the • Employee of Extra Itaim strategy in the planning of new stores. With the defined schedule of expansions, the teams seek Insertion store in São Paulo (SP) of content on diversity and entities at each location to support the selection management of different professional of these professionals, identifying in advance those profiles in all the leadership education with the potential to occupy these posts. With this programs of Assaí University. • strategy, the banner has achieved its goal of hiring PwDs in all its store openings. As a result of these efforts, we ended the year Assurance that all the new stores are 100% with a 21% increase in the number of people with accessible not only for customers but disabilities working at GPA. We want to have 4% also for employees, in compliance with ABNT of our workforce consisting of employees with (Brazilian Association of Technical Standards) disabilities in 2019. standards and regulations. 33 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Panelists and participants of the 2018 Diversity Week Summary of goals Status 2018 Goal Comments Achieve the goal of 32.97% At the year-end we of leadership positions achieved the threshold of (management and above) 32.3% of our leadership occupied by women positions occupied by women, up 0.6 percentage point over 2017 Achieve the milestone The participation of PwDs in of 4,142 employees with our teams grew 21% in the disabilities on the staff year, totaling 2,674 people at Diversity Week the end of 2018 (equivalent to In 2018, we held the second edition of Diversity 3.6% of our staff) Week, with a special program covering five days to boost awareness of diversity among our employees. The presentations featured external Launch Diversity Due to a number of guests from several companies, civil society Channel on the online internal definitions, the organizations, consulting firms and educational training platform for the launch was postponed institutions, assembling 25 panelists and more employees until 2019 than one thousand participants from inside and outside the company. The event also marked the formation of the racial equality affinity group, GPA Madiba, and the launch and invitation of the LGBTI+ group, besides the presentation and signing of Status the Manifesto of Senior Male Leaders for Gender Achieved Partially Not achieved Equality (presented on page 32). achieved 34 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION Getting this job at the Mauá store Assertiveness in the hiring or internal movement of employees through the internal recruitment program according to the profile of each vacancy is essential for us to guarantee was very important to me, as I now enjoy the sustainable growth of operations and the reduction of the turnover rate. better quality of life and am more positive To this end, we rely on meticulous selective processes and about my future. It used to take me two structured internal recruitment programs. hours by bus and train to get to the Santo André store. Now I take only 30 minutes to commute. I have more time to take In Multivarejo, our online recruitment platform reached the milestone of my children to school and for household 644 thousand registered resumes and involved more than 353 thousand chores, and I feel much happier and people in selection processes. The cross-referencing of data via the platform more motivated to contribute made it possible to both increase the number of candidates approved in towards the Company’s results. the final stage of the selection process by 80%, and to reduce Glauce Laure Oliveira Vaz, the turnover rate during a professional’s first 90 days head cashier at the on the job. The use of internal talent is facilitated Mauá (SP) store of Assaí by the Internal Selection Process (Prosin), with transparency and widespread internal disclosure of vacancies and of eligibility and selection criteria. Furthermore, in 2018 we expanded Prosin’s At Assaí internal recruitment programs such as Prosin, connection with Avance, Operations Trainee and the recently launched Career in our integrated career Operations (program designed to allow employees from management system. the corporate areas to migrate to the operations area and take on the role of assistant manager or store manager within 12 months) were responsible for 26% of internal promotions. In Expansion, in addition to the first-hand opening of vacancies for the staff, with the Oportunidades de Expansão [Opportunities for Expansion] Program, during the opening of the 18 stores in 2018 we selected and hired people from the local communities, totaling more than 5 thousand new hires for Expansion alone. A Human Resources team is always picked to work exclusively on the selection and training of the new teams. One strategy GPA employees adopted by the Company that facilitates the onboarding of new employees is the definition, at an early stage, of the store leaders, who then keep track of and participate in the selection processes of the unit’s entire team. 35 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu This approach, combined with the use of more internal talent for the new positions, has favored the dissemination of the corporate culture in a more natural and organic way. In some cases, the relocation of current professionals was record-breaking, as was the case in Mauá (SP). The unit, located in the metropolitan area of the capital city of São Paulo, was inaugurated with 90% of its team coming from other stores, people who already GPA interns lived in the city and who now have a far shorter commute to their new workplace. Compre Bem formed its staff in record time. More than 7 thousand candidates were involved in the selection process, which GPA Internship Program took three months, resulting in more than With each edition of the program, we have the 1,400 new hires. To support the admission of opportunity to receive new generations of employees employees to the operation, the vacancies were with other types of experiences and expectations filled within 13 business days on average, with on our staff, which helps us to keep up to date around five candidates assessed per vacancy. To on the changes and demands of society at all support the structuring of the business, a new times. Our experience in developing talents and More than 150 interns compensation model and benefit package was our responsibility for technical training, as well as developed for the banner, with the negotiation emotional and relational upskilling, helps them to of new collective bargaining processes with the identify their true vocation. During the program, have spent time working for the Group since the class of 2017 trade unions as well as a differentiated job and which lasts at least a year, interns participate in salary structure. an onboarding process that features training on More than 13 thousand interns our competencies and on project management and presentation, since, as part of the program, they need to develop and deliver a project to enrolled during the year 2018 introduce improvements in their particular area. This onboarding process includes meetings to monitor and provide guidance on the projects, some of which 57 selected candidates were taken on as of 2019 deliver results with noteworthy distinguishing (20 men and 37 women) features for the business. 36 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Career Week The preparation of employees aligned to our values, with strategic orientation and a commitment to achieving The event, held between September the outlined results, is one of the priorities of our 3 and 9, was aimed at encouraging management. This investment contributes to talent a proactive attitude towards one’s retention, sharing of knowledge and the continuous own career and promoting employee improvement of our customers’ experience, with the self-development through businessdevelopment of solutions to serve them and internal related topics, such as leadership, engagement to captivate them. future and innovation. More than 2 thousand corporate employees took Corporate universities part in the mini-courses, lectures and The GPA Retail University and Assaí University consolidate training sessions. the offer of training options to our employees. In Multivarejo, more than 20 courses on topics such as self-development and leadership were launched between May and December. Online access allows the professional to view the courses they have already completed, monitor total training hours, and sign up for lectures and events. Training at In addition, the Retail University has also organized Assaí Corporate classroom activities with topics related to leadership, time University management and innovation. The five schools at Assaí offer more than 30 training programs featuring about 350 courses for the different hierarchical levels and 1,883,585 hours business areas. All the training initiatives are concentrated of training in 2018 (Multivarejo and Assaí) in the Corporate University, which makes it possible to maximize investments, align content to the business More than 150 thousand hours strategy, and record and disseminate self-service and wholesale know-how in a systematic way. In 2018, the banner launched its distance education platform, of classroom training and technical expanding the scope and diversity of content for education at the Compre Bem employees. Assaí Corporate University also opened its Supermarket School doors to the creation of the Compre Bem Supermarket School, dedicated to the training and education of supermarket employees in the basic, compulsory, technical 55,673 employees trained and operational formats. The School has six programs and by the Retail University more than 30 courses such as Technical Books, Integration, in 2018 Leader in Action and Motivation. 37 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Customer orientation Several employee upskilling initiatives are aimed at improving the quality of customer service and the Formation of leaderships shopping experience of our customers. • Leadership Development Program Multivarejo Designed for managers and coordinators, A noteworthy case is that of Movimento Click [Click the program addresses the competencies Movement], held at 288 Extra stores and that, through an of managers, preparing them to face the entertaining methodology, contributed to the alignment challenges of the current scenario and to I am glad to see that our leaders and standardization of customer service. In 2018, the potentiate key business strategies. On this front came from the operations area, and initiative involved over 1.8 thousand classes totaling 25 we also include aspects of self-development, I realize that we are responsible for thousand professionals. an approach that should be strengthened in our own growth inside the Company. I started off as a contract worker, the coming years. In 2018, the initiative had became an operator, and today am Special lectures and events focused on the topic, such more than 750 participants, of whom a store leader in the Click and Collect as Semana do Cliente [Customer Week], are also on 240 were women. area. I tell everyone who joins the the annual calendar. Held in Multivarejo, the initiative Company: work hard and pursue your goals for the future, because addressed consumer trends, the evolution of digital • Explore Program the Company believes in each one of transformation, consumer behavior and the performance International exchange program with Casino us, gives us the opportunity to grow of Casa do Cliente [Customer House], an area of the and GPA talents, which involves young people and rewards individual performance, Company dedicated to serving consumers. External guests with excellent potential in the positions of forming leaders from store teams. participated in the event and more than 100 employees senior analyst, coordinator and consultant. Wendel Pereira de Lima de Sousa, were involved. A spirit of leadership is encouraged in the Seven Brazilians were selected for the employee of the Pão de Açúcar Real employees through the Ideas Contest, in which we receive 2019-2021 cycle and will take on challenges in Parque store (São Paulo, SP) suggestions of actions to improve customer experience. In France and Colombia. During the same period, 2018, we had 212 entrants and three award winners. Brazil will receive another five foreigners. • Multivarejo The Trainee, Store Leaders and Talented People programs prepare future store managers of the Pão de Açúcar and Extra banners, with technical Qualification actions and behavioral training over two years for strengthen the employees’ trainees and a sixto nine-month duration for Store Leaders and Talented People. In 2018, protagonism in the development 13 professionals joined these initiatives as a of their careers trainee, with 264 employees in the Leadership Succession programs. 38 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu • Assaí Avance [Advance] Program We launched the Dono do Negócio [Business Owner] Launched in 2018, the Avance Program integrates all the human resource program for store managers, and Atuar [Act] for heads of distribution centers, and continued with our processes – targets and rewards, performance appraisal, development, succession and talent management – in a digital platform. The initiative 2.2 thousand ongoing programs: enabled us to gain a broader view of each employee, identifying the ideal targets tracked career plan, individual goals and vocations at a more detailed level. As 5 thousand • Operations Trainee: a result we were able to strengthen the meritocracy culture, encourage in its eighth edition, three simultaneous classes were excellent performance, and inspire our managers to deliver better results formed in 2018 with 44 participants. and to train people. It is worth mentioning that our succession plan development plan actions stipulates the nomination of at least one woman among the candidates, • Acelerar [Accelerate]: including for leadership positions. designed for store assistant managers, this program is 389 aimed at accelerating training, performance, and the performance-based promotion process for the position Avance Program: referrals for promotions, merits and of store manager. integrated career management model movements • Crescer [Grow]: Targets 202 talents the objective of this program is to produce section and Rewards heads, all with solid training in business aspects 1 4 and behavioral topics. Over the past year, 1,800 Breakdown of VS Feedback/ identified as strategic professionals were engaged in four training programs. Goals 2 3 Objectives Company resources Verification Variable Salary • Aprende Mais [Learn More] Program: of Target and Appraisal with the Language module, the program aims to prepare people to become fluent in a second language Objective Achievement 5,689 (English) due to the introduction of our business model 5 employees with an interest in acting in all the banners into other countries. 9 Competency Evaluation Assessment 85% Succession and Succession • Aprende Mais Corporativo [Corporate Learn More]: Map Performance 6 an upskilling program for professionals from the corporate areas. Performance adherence Mapping in the self-assessment stage • Compre Bem The section heads were trained in People Career and Development 8 7 Career and Talent Management processes by the Leader in Action Talk Identification program. Over 90 participants received more than Committee Talent Management 1.5 thousand hours of training. and Development 39 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu INTERNAL DIALOGUE ChatBot Due to the intensity and speed of changes in We offer a virtual service via robotic automation to respond to consolidated access to internal documents and systems, the context of our business, transparency and to queries and requests from our employees. In 2018, the tool enhancing the security of our information. On this channel streamlining in communication with employees facilitated the clarification of the most common and simple employees can also access videos and photos and other materials and when responding to their needs are even issues, contributing to a 10% decrease in the number of in line with our expansion strategy. more important for strategic alignment across the queries regarding the health care plan and a 3.2% decrease in Company. We maintain several channels for this questions about the transportation voucher. Structuring of the internal relationship with our internal audience, connected to dialogue strategy at Compre Bem the digital transformation trend. RH + Digital Compre Bem’s Internal Communication was established to A self-service app that allows users to keep track of working convey the same proximity that the business adopts as a pillar Workplace hours, hour bank, overtime, holiday schedules, pay slips, in the relationship with customers. The internal channels were This is the social network implemented in timesheet, and the wage and tax statement. In addition, developed with simple and accessible language, addressing Corporation and in Multivarejo that makes employees use the app to suggest changes such as absences, strategic guidelines for understanding the context of the banner. communication much more efficient, simple lateness, and pending timesheet entries. The manager grants Both the Mural Newspaper and the Intranet were launched at and bilateral. Employees actively participate via the appropriate approvals and makes any annotations on his the same time as the inauguration of the first store. At each unit Workplace, and can access the network on or her cell phone or desktop. The platform currently has about opening, the employees can keep track of the full coverage with their cell phones besides having the autonomy 80 thousand users. video testimonials. to share content relevant to their areas or to the retail industry. TV Assaí Launched in 2018, it was one of the most significant internal communication projects undertaken by Assaí, because it has achieved the goal of informing, sharing and engaging more than 36 thousand employees in real time and in a dynamic fashion. It is an internal digital channel, humanized and present in more than 150 locations – 6.6 thousand whether stores, distribution centers or offices – where each screen displays a specific program schedule with local and active employees corporate content. All the management is handled internally by the Internal Communication team, providing even more 510 interaction groups assertiveness in information. New Assaí Intranet 2.7 thousand Keeping abreast of the digital transformation process in Assaí’s internal communication, the channel was also monthly publications on average implemented in 2018 and provides both information and services that support the employees in their daily activities: from the creation of the digital electronic signature through Visual communication at IT department 40 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu A NEW LOOK AT THE MARKET We are pioneers and leaders in Brazilian food e-commerce and invest continuously to offer customers the best shopping experience. Our omnichannel strategy, integrating brick-and-mortar stores with the online shopping platforms, showcases this objective. The partnerships with startups that we clinched in 2018 drive innovation and provide opportunities for us to pursue new business while diversifying revenue streams and ways of serving our customers. The development and evolution of applications bring our brands closer to consumers and boost customer loyalty, while also allowing the customization of offers and customer service. To accelerate this advancement, we have a Digital Transformation and Electronic Commerce Board, created in 2018, responsible for working on and disseminating the topic across the Company. Digital transformation MATERIAL Digitalization and new technologies have changed the way TOPICS consumers shop and relate to brands. Our digital transformation Valuing strategy is geared towards the adaptation of the business model, customer making it more streamlined and connected to innovations. In experience the online platforms and in their integration with the brick-andClick here to watch the video with GPA’s chief Consumer mortar stores, we materialize our purpose of always respecting awareness digital transformation initiatives. customers’ choices in order to be their first choice. 41 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu SHOPPING EXPERIENCE Our investments and advances in 2018 50 stores were aimed at strengthening and in12 states structured with the accelerating our omnichannel strategy, Click and Collect service which improves the shopping experience, optimizes services, and establishes a new 70 stores form of relationship with our customers. with Delivery Express operation Examples of this are Click and Collect, in which purchases made via the Pão de We are expecting to expand to Açúcar and Extra e-commerce channels 120 stores in 2019 can be collected at the brick-and-mortar store chosen by consumers with safety and comfort, and Delivery Express for delivery in up to four hours. These two formats More than 300,000 Pão de Açúcar and Extra have their own in-store logistics, which e-commerce orders in 2018 allows for fast delivery. Equivalent to 30% of total sales Exclusive checkout area in Pão de Açúcar store for customers who schedule payment using the Pão de Açúcar Mais app Loyalty in apps In March 2018, customers who use the Pão de Açúcar Mais and Clube Extra apps witnessed the arrival of the “My Rewards” functionality, a loyalty program that distributes rewards which can be redeemed in our stores or through our network of partners by customers who have reached individual and personalized targets. Consumer adherence to the program has been remarkable – we distributed almost 2 million rewards in 2018, from March to December. In November, GPA innovated Extra Itaim once again and formed a partnership with Livelo, in which store in São Paulo (SP) customers of the program can use their points to choose products and services from the “My Rewards” catalog. 42 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu In November 2018, Pão de Açúcar Mais customers gained access to “My Preferences”, an app that IN 2018 stores information and individual preferences such as requests for the CPF (Individual Taxpayer ID) to More than 3.7 million appear on the receipt, and the habit of topping up About 1 million cell phones at the checkout counter. Thus, with the app connected, this information is already displayed to the attendant beforehand, making the whole downloads, double the number recorded in the prior people used the Express process faster and customized. “My Preferences” is year, achieving the milestone of 8 million downloads* Checkout feature at Pão de also related to social programs, as the consumer can *Net amount, excluding deinstallations. Açúcar stores, which enables already indicate that they would like to round off customers to schedule a time all their cash purchases to the nearest cent for the to pay for their shopping partner institutions of the Arredondar (Rounding Up) Movement, present in some Pão de Açúcar stores More than 3.5 million More than 130 (find out more in the GPA Institute report). This functionality has been added to the “My customers registered in the suppliers interact with the apps Discount” program (personalized offers), which has loyalty programs, totaling already been launched and enhances brand loyalty. 18 million at the year-end Customers who take advantage of the app’s offers 110,000 customers already represent about one fourth of our total sales. Customers who used the app spent practically With this relevance and the launch of these new features, we reshaped the entire user experience of double consumers with the re-launch of the Pão de Açúcar signed up for “My Preferences”, of which Mais app in September 2018, during GPA’s 70th 50% did not require a printed receipt, anniversary campaign. reducing paper consumption in our operations the monthly amount spent by One of the main benefits of the apps for our business non-users on average is enhanced knowledge about the consumption and habits of our customers, allowing the configuration 1.9 million 100% of offers and services that are more aligned and connected to their shopping appetites. We offer consumers a better, more individualized experience, rewards were redeemed through of Pão de Açúcar, Extra as well as the option of integrating new technologies the “My Rewards” program and Assaí stores now to the brick-and-mortar stores. offer free Wi-Fi 43 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu At Pão de Açúcar Adega... Almost 2,000 wine labels from 16 different countries, and other beverages such as premium beers and spirits Extensive range of accessories, such as bottle openers/ corkscrews, decanters and glasses Interaction Brick-and-mortar between the digital store of Pão de store and the shopping Açúcar Adega in experience at the São Paulo (SP) point of sale Pão de Açúcar Adega Digital transformation in our Company peaked in time varies according to the zip code, but can be 2018, with the inauguration of Pão de Açúcar Adega, up to four hours in certain areas of the city of integrating the omnichannel concept for one of the São Paulo. Viva Vinhos, a select label subscription items in which we are the number one specialist program, created two years ago, is integrated into in Brazil: wines. The initiative features exclusive the new platform. e-commerce, an app and a brick-and-mortar store, located on Rua Augusta, a street in the city of São Paulo. The brick-and-mortar store, in turn, is a meeting point and an intoxicating experience, with an On the digital platform, Pão de Açúcar Adega is ambience that stimulates the senses. The store prepared to deliver wines and other products attendants were trained by Carlos Cabral, one of Exhibition of Pão de anywhere in Brazil, including in towns and cities where Brazil’s greatest sommeliers. The store also has a Açúcar Adega labels, divided by country the brand has no brick-and-mortar stores. The delivery calendar of periodic events and courses. 44 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu NEW STORE CONCEPTS Pão de Açúcar AND FORMATS The new concept of Pão de Açúcar stores, more modern and with Together with the digital transformation a revitalized layout, called Generation 7, enhances the shopping of our business, we are still refining the experience and the supply of fresh, healthy and varied products. physical points of sale with a focus on Customers arriving at the entrance to the store can already see the improving the shopping experience and the entire area of Fruit and Vegetables, perishables, organic products and customer-brand relationship. services, such as the Café, Bakery, Deli, Frozen Confectionery, Meat and Fish counters. In each one of them, a team of trained attendants dedicate their time to assisting customers in their choices and to handling the production of the products on offer. Supported by the banner’s history in well-being and sustainability actions, the Fresh section unifies the modules of healthy products (gluten-free, lactose-free and organic) and bulk products (which include, in addition to pulses, dried fruit and cereals, fresh coconut water and natural orange juice), thereby reducing unnecessary packaging. Employees of the Bakery and Fruit and Vegetable sections of the Pão de Açúcar Real Parque store in São Paulo (SP) Healthy eating spaces, such as the Salad Bar and the Sushi Counter, cater to a growing segment of the public who are in the habiting of eating out and seek fresher and more natural options. The new concept is totally focused on the experience and reflects Pão de Açúcar’s commitment to strengthening the emotional bond with its customers, acknowledging and integrating interactivity actions through digital initiatives, such as the “My Discount” program, the Express Checkout, and the Express Delivery model (learn more on page 42). 45 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Assaí storefront I visit the store every day because Assaí I have a restaurant nearby and always need to buy something or At Assaí, 18 new stores were opened in 2018 (16 organic stores and other. After the store changed to two Extra Hiper stores converted into the wholesale and retail format). Mercado Extra it became much The chain also advanced in digitalization and innovation, and now better. The customer service is offers Wi-Fi in the shopping environment, automating shop floor excellent at the checkout counter, in the Bakery and Deli Section operations and investing in the relationship with customers. and at the Butcher’s Counter, and the way the products are now Extra displayed makes my daily In the Extra chain, we have started the migration of the shopping faster and easier. supermarket stores to the Mercado Extra and Compre Bem Fernanda Rodrigues and her models to meet the demand of more regionalized areas with a daughter, customers of the focus on day-to-day products and bakery, butcher and fruit and Mercado Extra store in Santana vegetable services, for example. Thirty-six of these new stores (São Paulo, SP) were opened in the year, with sales, ticket and volume growth. 46 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu INNOVATION AND NEW BUSINESS James The strengthening of a digital culture and the transformation strategy provide Delivery opportunities for business, models and formats that are different from traditional Shopper retail. The Company’s approach to innovation ecosystems and startups has enabled us to drive new customer service and sales formats. Partnership with Cheftime In 2018, GPA sealed an innovative and unprecedented One of the main upsides of this partnership is the partnership with Cheftime, an innovative startup in the inclusion of Qualitá, Taeq and Casino Private-Label e-commerce of gastronomic kits endorsed by famous chefs. products in the kits, expanding the supply of healthy, high Foodtech startups, as new digital companies in the food quality products. industry are known, began to sell their products in brick-andmortar retail outlets for the first time. The partnership started with the offer of the products in the virtual stores of Cheftime and Pão de Açúcar, in The kits were developed exclusively for Pão de Açúcar, and addition to the pilot project at the brick-and-mortar store can also be purchased via e-commerce under the brand on Rua Teodoro Sampaio street in the city of São Paulo. More than 50% of the name “Cheftime by Pão de Açúcar”. In 2019 we expect to expand the service throughout the fleet used by state of São Paulo through the brick-and-mortar stores and James Delivery the digital channels. is composed of bicycles Pão de Açúcar customer in special Cheftime kits section of the Real Parque store, in São Paulo (SP) Acquisition of James Delivery To increase the number of services offered and to improve the streamlining of our customer service, we invested in the acquisition of the James Delivery startup, a multiservice platform for the sale and express delivery of any type of product. GPA is the only retail food chain present in the app, but consumers can choose to place orders with other businesses (drugstores, restaurants, convenience stores, etc.) whose contracts will be maintained. 47 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu GPA Lab At our headquarters in the city of São Paulo there is an area measuring 100 m² entirely dedicated to the culture of innovation and strengthening of digital transformation, known as the GPA Lab. The site features three modern environments prepared for meetings, workshops, training sessions and other types of events Initiatives such as with employees and with external stakeholders. The objective of the GPA Lab and the GPA Lab is to encourage collaboration between people and the creation of new solutions that drive the transformative role of our participation in business. In 2018, more than 70 activities were organized in the Liga Retail bring us lab, involving more than 3,500 employees. closer to innovation In 2019 we will have our own space in Cubo, the largest ecosystems technological entrepreneurship hub in Latin America, with and startups an innovation team dedicated to identifying and modeling high-impact solutions, together with the accelerated startups, focused on the digital transformation of the food retail industry. Click here to access the profile of the GPA Lab on Instagram. Connection with startups As part of our endeavors to bring us closer to the innovation ecosystem, exchange experiences and explore opportunities, in 2018 we participated in Liga Retail, a startup connection program focused on the retail industry. The initiative is sponsored by the startup accelerator Liga Ventures, and enables innovations focused on topics such as price comparison apps/sites, improvement of the shopping experience, logistics and use of new technologies, the Internet of things, and Big Data applications in the relationship with customers. In the 2018 edition, we selected four startups to develop proofs of Employees concept in partnership with GPA out of the 350 registered in the program. The solutions at GPA Lab that were tested included facial recognition technology, motion sensors and heat maps in stores, solutions for e-commerce and new marketing models. In 2019, Liga Retail will take place through a partnership between Liga Ventures, GPA and Leroy Merlin, with the possibility of four new proofs of concept to be carried out with the selected startups. 48 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu INVESTMENTS IN LOGISTICS The transportation of our products to more than 1 thousand stores in 18 states and the Federal District is a complex operation that requires extensive planning. Besides representing a significant cost in operations, logistics activities are also critical to avoid stock-outs and because they are associated with a significant environmental impact caused by fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. Throughout 2018, we made progress in the management of this area through a set of initiatives that boosted our productivity, helped us stand out from competitors in the offer of value to the customers of our banners, and minimized the environmental impacts related to the transportation of products. The objective is to ensure an adequate mix in our logistic Operation model, combining the centralization of slow-moving products with a more multi-ramified system for fastmoving inventory, minimizing risks and ensuring better and efficiency streamlining in the supply. MATERIAL TOPICS We work with a complex logistics operation to offer our customers Waste management Product quality, safety the best products on a daily basis. To this end we rely on qualified and and traceability and reverse logistics engaged teams and a broad network of suppliers committed to delivering value and minimizing environmental impacts. This entire operation, which takes Supply chain management Water resource place before the products reach the stores and before consumers come into and transparency management direct contact with our brands, is essential to both guarantee the best products Electricity Climate change on our shelves and to allow social and environmental responsibility to spread management and emissions exponentially throughout our chain. 49 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Intermodal transportation The diversification of modes of transport, with the adoption of rail or sea freight, is one of the GPA’s logistics fronts. In 2018, an aspect of this approach that merits particular interest was the restocking of the stores and the delivery of Black Friday products to the Northeast of Brazil. We shipped GPA part of the items by freight train and using the Distribution Center cabotage, or coastal navigation, system, where vessels transit between national ports in shallow waters, always in sight of dry land. Distribution Centers More than 40% of our distribution centers are already adapted to the Lean methodology, which promotes quality, time and cost gains by eliminating As a result of waste. We segmented product categories and areas by color, readapted coastal navigation: physical facilities, created a better internal inventory movement flow, the itinerary was shortened by Rail transportation carried out a procedural review, and optimized visual management. In 1.3 million of our products addition, we had an incident that proved our ability to react. On December kilometers 27, 2017, a fire broke out at one of our distribution centers. We managed to restructure operations and in 24 hours after the incident were already receiving products in a new space. Within 30 days, in the first month of 2018, operation was back to normal at the new unit. 32 laps around the world 732,000 tCO2e 11% of were avoided productivity gain after the adoption of Lean methodology (measured by the movement of boxes per hour worked) Opening of 2 Assaí DCs GPA Distribution Center in the cities of Cajamar (SP) and Buritis (GO) 50 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu The purchase of 159 dual fork order pickers contributed to productivity in the separation activities, as these models can be used to separate two pallets at the same time, reducing distances covered and allowing better Fresh products pallet assembly for the stores. 10% gain in every day separation productivity One of the commercial strategies adopted by Multivarejo, bolstered by 20% reduction in the revitalization of the store formats maintenance cost versus (learn more on page 45), is the offer old machines of perishable products, such as fruit and vegetables, which enhances our competitiveness, particularly in the In 2018, we went from five to regional and specialized markets. To seven double deck trucks support this approach, we organized a in our fleet. These trucks can pilot project at our distribution centers be loaded with 50% more cargo and created a pre-ripening area where because they have two internal fruit and vegetables are kept refrigerated floor heights. They also minimize greenhouse gas emissions under optimal conditions to reach the during transport and are ideal stage of ripeness for consumption safer for the cargo as upon arrival at the stores. In this way we they cause less guarantee the constant delivery of fresh juddering. products, increasing customer loyalty and minimizing losses. Another action aimed at the same objective was the partial opening of the distribution centers to receive fruit and vegetables on Sundays, facilitating the restocking of the stores on Mondays. It should be noted that vegetables are delivered directly to the stores of all the banners by local suppliers, guaranteeing fresh products every day. 51 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu TRANSFORMATION IN THE VALUE CHAIN As an essential part of our business, our relationship This process identified 15 production chains associated with suppliers is based on ethical standards of with 57 product categories based on the four top-priority conduct that encompass social, environmental risks defined in 2017. The analysis and prioritization of this and economic aspects, present in our Charter survey considered aspects such as percentage of total sales of Ethics to Suppliers. This document contains a affected, the existence and relevance of Private-Labels in each series of rules and recommendations related to group, and the percentage of raw material present in the end human rights, working hours, health and safety, product. As a result, we found 35 critical categories for which environment, animal welfare and anticorruption we developed planning for the period from 2018 to 2021. procedures, among other relevant topics. In 2018, in line with our purpose of making our chains more responsible in relation to the environment, people and animal welfare, we Stages of production undertook a comprehensive process of mapping considered in GPA’s risk and prioritizing risks in the production chains analysis associated with products sold in our stores, in order to establish a medium-term action plan for a proactive approach to these risks. Sourcing of the Transformation GPA raw material Socio-environmental risks Work Animal Responsible use Fight against conditions welfare of biodiversity deforestation • Risk of child labor • Failure to meet the five freedoms • Risk of resource depletion/extinction • Risk of illegal • Risk of forced labor or • Risk of mutilation logging degrading work conditions • Risk of inadequate slaughter and/or • Risk of pollution generated by production • Degree of impact • Incidence of transportation procedures in protected areas or labor-intensive activities • Risk of improper use of antibiotics/ • Risk of illegal sourcing/ areas with high (with little drug products extraction biodiversity value mechanization) 52 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Working conditions Our textiles are Committed to guaranteeing decent working sourced from conditions in our production chain, we conduct suppliers certified frequent audits at our suppliers to ascertain whether by ABVTEX they are complying with the applicable laws and standards on combating forced or compulsory labor. We have been a signatory of the Pact for the Eradication of Slave Labor since 2005, and in 2011, we started a Social Audit Program, using the certification of the Associação Brasileira do Varejo Têxtil (ABVTEX) [Brazilian Textile Retail Association] for textiles, footwear and accessories. All of our suppliers and subcontractors are currently certified by ABVTEX. In Topics audited addition, we have a seat on the Association’s Executive Board and participate actively in the discussions of 1. Minimum age, child labor the Working Group of Suppliers, which monitors and introduces improvements in the Audit Program. and young workers In 2015, we expanded the Program to the Social audits at suppliers from 2. Forced labor and/or labor manufacturing facilities of suppliers of Private-Labels critical countries (Private-Labels corresponding to slavery and generic brands products from critical countries and generic brands)* 3. Discrimination according to the Initiative for Compliance and Sustainability (ICS) methodology. This methodology verifies compliance with international standards of +49 4. Disciplinary practices, working conditions and local labor requirements of the p.p 100% harassment and abuse suppliers’ manufacturing facilities. Similarly, we have 5. Freedom of association and complaint mechanisms 51% been conducting an internal process of verification and updating of the base of active suppliers since 2017, with the publication of the Slave Labor Blacklist 6. Working hours and overtime and embargoes imposed by IBAMA (Brazilian Institute 7. Remuneration and benefits of the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources). If an irregularity is discovered, the business partner is 2017 2018 8. Health and safety *One manufacturing facility had the suspended immediately. process finalized in January 2019. 53 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu The Rubia Gallega Line Deforestation has the advantage of traceability Meat is sourced mainly from producers in throughout the chain the Amazon region, a biome impacted by deforestation. Responsible for the quality and guaranteed origin of the meat we offer to our consumers, in 2016 we implemented a system to trace the origin of the cattle (direct farms) in order to verify whether the product comes from a farm that is on the list of areas embargoed by IBAMA and/or on the Slave Labor Blacklist. Since the system was implemented, seven farmers indicated on the Blacklist have been boycotted and can no longer trade with the Group. In 2018, 81.3% of our suppliers are entering their data in the traceability system. To enable us to reach, by the end of 2018, 100% of the volume of meat we sell in all of our stores with monitored sources, the slaughterhouses with which GPA has a contract must implement a geomonitoring system to Total number control their supply chain. of GPA’s beef suppliers 11 98.7% 21,099 22 of the volume farms active of meat in 2018 we sell at our stores Suppliers that purchase cattle directly comes from monitored Suppliers that purchase sources cattle indirectly 54 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Animal welfare In 2018, we created a strategy to increase the supply and GPA’s position on consumption of cage-free chicken eggs, in line with our commitment, in place since 2016, to expand the supply of these animal welfare types of eggs. We chose to disseminate information to make our customers aware of the different types of eggs that take Communication animal welfare into account in their production (organic, and conscious consumption free-range and cage-free). We also work with our supply chain • not only to ensure the supply of these types of eggs in our Guaranteed stores, but also to support suppliers in the transition to supply and traceability cage-free breeding. We are also contributing to the construction • of public policies, working at sectoral level with the legislative and regulatory spheres for this productive process to have a Social investment and engagement of the chain defined standard in Brazil in the future. • Advocacy and legislation Sale of chicken eggs with a commitment to animal welfare (Private-Labels) By 2025 we are committed to sourcing 20.1% 13.8% 100% of our Private-Label eggs from 4.3% cage-free 3.1% chickens. Click here to view the 2015 2016 2017 2018 complete document. 55 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Responsible use of biodiversity Since we want to encourage better management of our fishery resources, we have adopted some practices and processes in the management of our chain, which are being implemented at all of the Group’s units. These include: Summary of goals • Non-commercialization Status of potentially endangered species, such as grouper and whiting, even with the permission of the legislation* 2018 Goals Comments • Non-commercialization of fish Meet the goal of 25% of sales of cage-free chicken eggs The percentage of sales was 20.1% in the year, up during the closed season (spawning season and periods of greater growth) (Private-Labels) 11 percentage points over and below the minimum retention size determined by IBAMA, the Ministry January 2017 of the Environment, and other state and municipal resolutions and ordinances for maintenance and balance of species growth Conduct social audits at 100% We audited 100% of foreign • Compliance with the legislation, requiring all our of foreign suppliers from critical countries, 100% of textile suppliers of Private-Labels and generic brands from suppliers to have the certificate of origin of their fish (General Fisheries suppliers (Private-Labels and critical countries*, 100% of Register – RGP in the Portuguese acronym) and to comply with the generic brands) and at 25% textile suppliers and legislation of the supervisory bodies (IBAMA, MAPA [Ministry of Agriculture, of the active Private-Labels 13% of Private-Labels Livestock and Food Supply], MMA [Ministry of the Environment]) manufacturing facilities manufacturing facilities *Interministerial Ordinance no. 59-C, dated November 9, 2018. Ensure traceability of incoming The traceability model meat at 100% of suppliers covered 81.3% of meat In 2018, we launched a project for (SafeTrace) suppliers the diversification of fish species sold in our stores, encouraging Record 92.7% of the volume In 2018, 98.7% of the meat the consumption of lesser known of meat acquired with purchased by GPA comes from species and thereby reducing the geomonitoring geomonitored farms concentrated impact on just a few of them (learn more on page 59). *One manufacturing facility had the process finalized in January 2019. Status Fish section of an Achieved Partially Not achieved Extra store in São achieved Paulo (SP) 56 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu CONSCIOUS CONSUMPTION AND SUPPLY Proper waste disposal In 2018, we resumed GPA’s role of advocate for the increasingly We want to offer our customers initiatives that facilitate more conscious consumption and supply of products. To this end, we drew sustainable habits and attitudes. One of them is the receipt of several up specific strategies for each of the banners, Pão de Açúcar, Extra and types of waste at our stores: cells, drug products, coffee capsules, light Assaí, adapting the communication and action plans to the different bulbs and recyclable materials. In 2018, we installed 12 bulb recycling types of market positioning, besides creating an internal structure to points in Assaí stores, representing 56 kilos of waste collected. In preserve these products. addition, Assaí received seven new Voluntary Delivery Points, where 923.13 tons of waste were received. We also collected 8.38 tons of batteries and cells in the wholesale chain over the course of the year. Technology and innovation in packaging In the Deli (cold cuts) section of our Pão de Açúcar stores, we replaced polystyrene food trays with duofresh packaging, which is made In partnership of Kraft paper and polyethylene. Correct separation of materials with Braskem and Embalixo, we started (separation of the paper film from the plastic) and consignment for supporting a project recycling allow a significant reduction in the environmental impact involving the production of and a higher recyclability rate than the previous packaging made of new garbage bags using plastic polystyrene. The paper used is FSC certified, that is, it comes from materials discarded by our areas with responsible forest management. customers at the Pão de Açúcar Unilever Recycling Stations Duofresh packaging in Deli section of Pão de Açúcar 57 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Actions of our clients waste 2009 2001 Novo de Novo [New Again], new packaging of Privatedisposal* Pão de Açúcar Unilever Recycling Stations, present Volume collected Label products with part of the materials disposed of at the Pão de Açúcar Unilever *Data relating to the period from October 2017 to in 94 stores with 35 partner in 2018: Recycling Stations. September 2018, according to the Casino methodology. waste picker cooperatives. 5,578 tons 2012 Recycling 2016 of coffee Disposal of Correct drug product disposal, Volume batteries and cells, Volume of 2011 capsules, present in all the drugstores in the collected present in all the batteries and present in 19 in 2018: cells collected city of São Paulo, in partnership Pão de Açúcar with Eurofarma. Pão de Açúcar stores. 16.93 and Extra stores. in 2018: 14.29 The collection of batteries and tons Start of Recycling tons cells at Assaí began in Stations at Assaí. the same year. Volume of drug products collected in 2,831 tons 2017 Installation of light bulb collectors, currently Volume collected in 2018: 2018 Assaí started the collection of light Volume collected in 2018: available in 48 bulbs with 12 in-store Extra stores. 6.53 44,315 points. 56 tons kilos bulbs 58 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Diversidade de Pescados [Fish Species launched the “Especial Pescados (Fish Special)” Diversity] Project magazine, distributed free of charge to consumers We invest in communication with our customers and containing sundry information on the origin and in raising their awareness to diversify the and quality of different fish together with tips for demand for different species at the Pão de Açúcar consumption – in addition to our entire receipt fish counters. For this purpose, we have improved and verification process. This action has helped the guidance provided to attendants working in make fish product purchases and customer service this sector with regards to price, nutritional aspects, more dynamic, and has encouraged a change in flavor and other characteristics of less popular fish, consumption according to the seasonal calendar Summary of goals such as the amberjack, horse mackerel, black jack, of the sector, which is subject to legal restrictions Spanish mackerel and common seabream. We also that prevent fishing during the spawning period of a particular species. Status 2018 Goals Comments Increase the volume of recyclable We achieved 5.04 tons materials received at the Pão of recyclable waste de Açúcar Unilever Recycling discarded at each Station Stations, reaching 4.6 tons, on average, per Station Expand the Recycling We met this goal, Stations project to another adding another seven seven Assaí stores Stations in 2018 The relationship with customers is one of immense trust. This project, in which we encourage the consumption of different fish species that are not traditionally best sellers but are of the highest quality, was a great idea. Status We received training and can now recommend interesting options for every season and Achieved Partially Not achieved occasion to our customers. Then that customer achieved comes back the next week or the next month to tell us about their experience and to ask us to recommend another product. And the sign with information about each fish helps, because customers get curious and ask us which one they should choose. Fabiano Reis da Silva, employee of the Pão de Açúcar 59 Real Parque store (São Paulo, SP) GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu In-store collection of food for donation ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MANAGEMENT Waste management Our sustainability strategy directs the search for the The complexity of retail and wholesale continuous minimization of environmental impacts caused trade prompts us to constantly seek ways of by our operations, adopting best practices and innovations minimizing and preventing the environmental to optimize our performance in business-critical aspects. impacts of our operations. In 2018, we tested We focus on the appropriate use of natural resources, waste a new waste management model in order management, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, to allocate the materials of our stores in an protection of ecosystems and compliance with current adequate manner. standards and policies. The pilot project was initially implemented in Fight against food waste 12 stores, covering employee training and the We have the “Partnership against food waste” program, contracting of partners for the correct collection which was launched over twenty years ago and involves the and disposal of these materials. As a result donation of products that, although not esthetically suitable of this initiative, we increased the amount of for sale to social institutions, can be safely consumed. In 2018, valorized waste from 25% to 37% in 2018. In 240 stores of all our banners donated 3,341 tons of food to 2019, we are analyzing new models to further social institutions partnered with the GPA Institute. improve this indicator. Since October 2017, we have been working in partnership with the startup Connecting Food to monitor indicators of donations of fruit, legumes and vegetables in our stores. The data are collected via an app by the partner NGOs, which are trained to operate the platform. The objective is to achieve more precision and control over what is donated, Waste valorization Organic waste sent Waste sent for recycling the quantity/volume, and the recipient social institutions. In rate* for composting (tons) (tons) December 2018, 14 stores and institutions were active in this system, with plans for expansion to more than 100 in 2019. +12 Two other initiatives merit special emphasis in 2018. One is p.p 37% +400% 3,374 +238% 54,945 25% the Showcase of Products Close to Expiry, which offers items nearing the end of their shelf life, and avoided the disposal 16,240 of 46.5 million units in the year. The other is the increase in the amount of organic waste disposed of through the 674 composting process, which rose from 674 tons to 3,374 tons in the annual comparison. 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 *In the pilot project (12 stores). 60 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Energy consumption We are progressively migrating our stores to the free Solar plant at energy market, where it is possible to purchase energy Assaí store with guaranteed traceability of its renewable source. In 2018, 204 Multivarejo units were already operating in this segment, representing 62% of the total energy We have continued with the energy efficiency consumed in the business units. projects, an initiative of the maintenance team with Green Yellow (a company We inaugurated an Assaí store with sustainable specializing in energy management) in concept in Jacarepaguá, Rio de Janeiro, in 2018. other units. Activities include investments The store is equipped with 3 thousand photovoltaic in the replacement of display counters for solar panels, which occupy an area of 6 thousand m2 refrigerated products and in the reduction with electrical power of 995 kWp. The self-generated of the operation of compressors and of energy in Assaí’s store with sustainable initiatives is energy consumption, with a team continually sufficient to supply 707 households for a year, and dedicated to detecting and correcting leaks. has minimized the store’s greenhouse gas emissions, reducing the amount of energy purchased from the local distributor by 50%. There are now eight units of the Assaí chain with solar power plants. Energy consumption (kWh/m2) Accumulated 2015-2018 -10.7% 776 721 702 693 2020 Goal -15% Energy efficiency in the chilled/ frozen product section of the stores 2015 2016 2017 2018 61 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Closing of refrigerated counters generating energy efficiency gains Summary of goals Management of greenhouse gas emissions Status We have been developing our greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory 2018 Goals Comments for all the GPA banners since 2010, Reduce plastic bags We reduced the bags according to the specifications of distributed in Multivarejo distributed by 11.7% the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program. by 28% Consequently, we have managed to set goals and identify aspects in need of Achieve a 40% increase in the The appreciation of improvement. We also answer to the appreciation of waste prices in a waste prices with this Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), one shop-floor pilot project initiative was de 37.3% of the key initiatives of the financial sector to mitigate the effect of climate Greenhouse change, and are part of the B3 (Brazil, gas emissions Cut greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2% in comparison We cut our GHG emissions by 8% during the period Stock Exchange and Over-the-Counter (thousand tCO2e) to 2017 Market) Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2). Investments in logistics, especially with -5% -8% Cover 420 stores in initiatives 240 GPA stores currently the use of other modes of conveyance for the donation of fruit, have actions in place for the such as rail and maritime (see more on 785.6 710.2 legumes and vegetables donation of these items page 50), have helped reduce emissions associated with product transportation. 653.6 In 2018, our GHG emissions totaled 653.6 thousand tons of CO2e, down 8% Status in comparison to the prior year. Achieved Partially Not achieved achieved 2016 2017 2018 62 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu SOCIAL VOCATION The GPA Institute wants to bring about transformations in society, strengthening the social vocation of our brands and forming increasingly close and principled relationships among society, partners, customers, employees, associated institutions and businesses of GPA. Our performance, which guides the actions implemented in each location, also considers two pillars that support our cause: lifelong learning and food as the basis of everything. The ties we form with one another and with ourselves, strengthened in these pillars and in the relationships they establish, are essential for us to understand our role in society, our individual journey, and our power to transform in the midst of all this. Engagement PURPOSE with society We want to contribute to We want to boost social, economic and cultural development. MATERIAL the awakening of empathy We do this through the GPA Institute with institutional actions, TOPIC and individual and collective and together with our banners, guided by the social vocation of our brands. The initiatives undertaken encompass topics such as Relationship with the local awareness, provoking social healthy food, vocational training and support for entrepreneurship, community transformations. as well as mobilization projects and the promotion of music and education. We are committed to our local communities and engage our entire network of customers, employees, neighboring social institutions and suppliers in this mission. 63 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Our pillars Offer opportunities for people to Foster social discover their vocation and get a job mobilization actions Institutional projects Cultivate the Provide training Promote and Contribute to the Build up the production chain for young people foster local awakening of relationship between of healthy and in vulnerable micro-entrepreneurship musical vocation employees, customers, sustainable food. situations to join in the food sector and the academic suppliers and social the job market. in regions of high education of young organizations to work vulnerability. people from lowtogether as agents of income backgrounds. transformation. Winners of the Academia Assaí Bons Negócios Award Conexsus Challenge meeting 64 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Conexsus Challenge Launched in May 2018 in partnership with Conexsus (Instituto Conexões Sustentáveis – Sustainable Connections Institute), its purpose was to map out, diagnose bottlenecks, and select organizations that operate in value production chains and that have the potential to grow in scale. More than 1 thousand organizations were mapped in a joint effort with around 40 partners, of which 70 were PRODUCTION CHAIN OF HEALTHY selected to participate in a development cycle that included 13 regional workshops throughout Brazil AND SUSTAINABLE FOOD to hear experiences and demands, and to identify the main challenges and indicators of solutions. We support the development of inclusive, healthy food-oriented The Challenge featured the participation of 264 representatives of community organizations and 66 production models, making it easier for farmers to access markets and partners and supporters. In the next phase, in 2019, 21 businesses will continue to make up this cycle, training stakeholders in organic farming techniques. On this front, Pão which will have face-to-face meetings for training, mentoring and individual management advice for de Açúcar is the banner allied to the GPA Institute for the promotion of the joint construction of business modeling, finance and marketing laboratories and solutions. initiatives, with the implementation of two projects in 2018. More than Click here for more information about the Conexsus Challenge. Horta Social Urbana [Urban Communal Vegetable Garden] Pão de Açúcar is one of the supporters of the initiative organized by the NGO Arcah, whose purpose is to promote the social reintegration of 1 thousand organizations homeless people through technical training in urban agriculture for the were mapped production of organic food in unoccupied areas in the city of São Paulo, Coopalm was created in 2004 and today we have helping to watch over these urban spaces and expanding the supply of assembled 600 farmers with 1.5 thousand hectares of pesticide-free foods. planted trees used to harvest heart of palm, which we process in our industry with FSSC 2200 (food safety) certification. We have been struggling to overcome adversity in our cooperative for some years now, and alignment Horta Social with the Conexsus Challenge pushes us further still in this Urbana graduation direction. We have the support of the state government of Bahia, which wants to invest in the region, and of local partners to help gain access to financial resources. Moreover, this initiative, with the support of the GPA Institute, strengthens a whole network that is by our side facing the challenges of the business. We expect this joint effort to enable us to achieve a new level of dialogue and negotiation with our customers, which is more sustainable and involves respect and equality. Gildení Jesus dos Santos, President of Coopalm (Cooperativa dos Produtores de Palmito do Baixo Sul da Bahia) [Cooperative of Heart of Palm Farmers from the Far South of Bahia] 65 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu NATA About 100 students The Núcleo Avançado em Tecnologia de Alimentos VOCATIONAL TRAINING (NATA) [Advanced Food Technology Center] provides, in We want to help young people discover their vocation partnership with the Secretariats of Education and of trained annually in in order to enter the job market, especially those in a situation of social vulnerability. To this end Extra, through Agriculture and Livestock of the State of Rio de Janeiro, professional technical education for public high school NATA courses the GPA Institute, supports professional qualification and students from São Gonçalo (RJ) as an extra-curricular technical training programs in food-related areas. activity. The courses offered are Bakery & Confectionery and Milk & Derivatives, with a duration of three years. Mãos na Massa [Hands on] The project involves experiences in the banner’s stores Geared towards the local communities of Extra for the application of knowledge in practice. stores, it offers short 40-hour courses in bakery and confectionery, with social institutions also active in Sementes [Seeds] Project the region. The goal is to empower young people Consists in technical training in bread-making, confectionary from these locations, awakening their vocation for and customer service, in partnership with Ser Especial, in these careers and thereby facilitating the entry into São Paulo and in Rio de Janeiro, for people with disabilities. the job market. The course also involves a practical As part of their training, the students participate in a experience in the Extra store. two-month internship in the banner’s stores. Students of 40 young people Sementes in practical class between the ages of 18 and 25 trained by Mãos na Massa in 2018 In 2018, in partnership with Richs and Liga Solidária Sementes trained: 24 students in bread-making and confectionery Participants of Mãos na 21 participants Massa in customer service 66 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu SUPPORT FOR ENTREPRENEURSHIP Assaí’s social vocation is to foster the development of local entrepreneurs in the food chain, particularly in vulnerable areas. In this context, the main project underway is the Academia Assaí Bons Negócios [Assaí Good Business Academy], which, in partnership with Aliança Empreendedora, has offered, since 2017, several free classroom and online courses in this area. We also launched the Academia Assaí Bons Negócios Award, which picked out 15 success stories and awarded them a cash prize and training, besides facilitating the exchange of Participants of experiences and stories among the participants. Academia Assaí Bons Negócios In 2018, the Academia Assaí Bons Negócios recorded: 690 thousand visits to the digital platform of the Academia Assaí Bons Negócios 5 classroom training groups Mentoring meeting 1,680 entrepreneurs trained in the two course formats with entrepreneurs 67 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Colabora is a very good solution for us to share each MOBILIZING ACTIONS person’s dedication to practicing solidarity towards We engage our employees, customers, social others. An interesting fact is that this technology institutions and suppliers in voluntary and solidarity platform has facilitated communication and drawn Solidarity actions. With an annual calendar of actions (listed attention to specific actions in which we can help in the table), we disseminate the commitment others without the need for heavy investments or Agenda grandiose social responsibility events. Actually, it is to social transformation and the leading role of the sense of personal responsibility that counts, each person in this journey. In 2018, we launched as in when and how each person can dedicate their Colabora GPA [GPA Collaborate], a program that time to volunteering actions, in view of the Solidarity Easter enables employees to engage in volunteering multiplicity and diversity of existing initiatives. experiences, in partnership with public entities Weidja Rocha, Pão de and private non-profit organizations (NGOs), for a 29 tons of Easter eggs and chocolates Açúcar Regional collective outcome. Through an app, employees can were donated, benefiting more than Operations Manager choose the volunteering activity they identify with 100 thousand people indirectly. for the Northeast most, and also register actions and institutions. After a pilot project in November in the corporate • Warm Clothing areas and at some regional offices in the cities of São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Fortaleza, with 25 initiatives registered and 200 active employees, the tool was expanded to all of GPA’s operations, and an Campaign internal communication campaign was launched Almost 40 tons of outdoor and winter in December 2018, with more than 500 active clothing helped keep more than 29 thousand employees using the app by the year-end. people warm in 2018. • Solidarity Day Donations of Solidarity Easter More than 100 institutions benefited from the donation of foods that make up the basic basket by our customers, totaling 1,100 tons donated as a result of the engagement of all the GPA stores. Click here for more information about Colabora. 68 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu INSTITUTIONAL PROJECTS We encourage the development of musical talent and facilitate My participation in the Prosperar program student access to private higher education institutions through was a wonderful experience, a unique opportunity the projects of the GPA Institute. On this front, one of the that changed my life. The help provided by the staff highlights is the Music and Orchestra Program, which involved of the GPA Institute and other students in the 399 students from São Paulo and Santos, 82 of whom were program was vital in the most important stage of my members of the GPA Institute Orchestra. Another important life. I have many dreams and a desire to work initiative is the Prosperar [Prosper] Program, which subsidizes and help people, and as I now have an excellent academic background I feel stronger and more the participation of young people from a low-income prepared for the job market and the challenges of background in a preparatory course for entry into the Escola adulthood, with the means to build a successful de Administração da Fundação Getulio Vargas (FGV-EAESP, a career, help others, and contribute to a better society. Business Management College), and provides grants for those Flávia Carvalho, participant of the first class who are approved. About 30 young people participated in the FGV Cursinho (Preparatory Course) and another 45 received of Prosperar, who graduated in 2018 and now works Summary of goals as an investment advisor at XP Investimentos grants at the college. In 2018, seven participants graduated Status from the two Management courses, all now employed by companies, consulting firms and NGOs. 2018 Goals Comments 131 musicians trained Click here to view the 2018 Annual To reach 700 thousand page views We recorded 692,795 page Report of the GPA Institute. and 21 thousand registrations on views and 21,427 registrations, in 2018 the digital platform of Academia and certified 1,741 Assaí Bons Negócios, and to entrepreneurs last year 55 concerts certify 1,500 entrepreneurs held by the GPA Institute To engage 500 volunteers in We mobilized 519 volunteers Orchestra in the year the Colabora program in the initiative* *Up to 12/18/2018. To increase the proceeds of the We increased the proceeds Solidarity Agenda by 5% by 20% in 2018 Status GPA Institute Orchestra Achieved Partially Not achieved achieved 69 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Attachments VOLUNTARY COMMITMENTS Business Coalition for Racial and Gender Equality In 2017 we joined the initiative of the Center for Studies on Work Relations 10 Company Commitments and Inequalities (CEERT) of the Ethos to LGBTI+ Rights Global Compact Institute and of the Institute for Human Reinforcing our respect for and equal Rights and Business (IHRB). The initiative Since 2001, we have been formally treatment of all people regardless of aims at coordination, the exchange of committed to the principles relating sexual orientation, sexual identity experiences and the encouragement of the to human rights, labor practices, or gender, in 2017 we signed the implementation of business policies and environmental responsibility and commitments drawn up by the practices in the field of diversity, with a anti-corruption advocated by the Companies and LGBTI+ Rights Forum. focus on gender and racial equality. UN Global Compact. Pact for the Inclusion of People with Disabilities (Corporate Network for Social Inclusion) In 2016 we signed up to the five Women’s Empowerment Pact for the Eradication commitments to promote the rights Principles (WEPs) of Slave Labor of people with disabilities, in order to We have been a signatory of the principles In 2005 we took on the formal strengthen the commitment of our established by the UN since 2017, commitment of not keeping on senior management to this topic, and to continuously developing policies and companies that use slave labor in our promote an inclusive corporate culture initiatives geared towards gender equality production chains. and work environment. and women’s empowerment. 70 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu MEMBERSHIPS Associação Brasileira Atacadistas de Auto Serviço Associação Compromisso Associação Brasileira de (ABBAS) [Brazilian Association Empresarial para Reciclagem Supermercados (Abras) of Self-Service Wholesalers] (Cempre) [Business [Brazilian Association of The Association aims to be the Commitment to Recycling Supermarkets] spokesperson for the self-service Association] GPA has been a member of the Associação Brasileira do Varejo wholesale segment. Its main role The organization, which we association since it was founded Têxtil (ABVTEX) [Brazilian involves representing the sector joined in 2004, advocates in 1968. Abras represents, Textile Retail Association] and acting on specific demands integrated municipal solid integrates and drives the GPA has been a member made by private enterprise, waste management, promotes development of the supermarket of ABVTEX since 2007. The the industry, customers and post-consumer recycling, and sector in Brazil, maintaining an association has the purpose of government agencies. Assaí disseminates environmental open dialogue in negotiations defending the interests of the has been a member of ABBAS education focused on the theory with the municipal, state and textile and clothing industry since 2014, the year the entity of the three R’s (reduce, reuse federal governments. and trade. was created. and recycle). Associação Paulista de Supermercados (Apas) [São Paulo Instituto Pacto Nacional Association of Supermarkets] pela Erradicação do Trabalho We have been a member of Escravo (InPACTO) [National the Association since 1971, and Pact Institute for Eradication of Ethos Institute Slave Labor] are committed to its purpose of Akatu Institute The entity, whose mission is bringing together supermarket As members of this institute entrepreneurs from the State Since 2003, GPA has been to mobilize, raise awareness since it was founded, we of São Paulo to integrate the a strategic partner of this and assist companies in the contribute to its objective of entire supply chain, professionalize governmental organization that management of their business uniting the private sector and the sector, guarantee excellence works on boosting the awareness in a socially responsible way, civil society organizations to in operations and point out and mobilization of society for has relied on our commitment prevent and eradicate slave labor retail trends. conscious consumption. since 1999. in production chains. 71 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS DOW 2018 30th Awards Packaging As Melhores da Innovation Dinheiro 2018 [The Best of Estadão 100 Most Innovative DOW Awards for Packaging Dinheiro 2018] Innovation (formerly known as Marcas Mais in IT Use GPA was the winner of the Retail Du Pont Awards) is the oldest independently judged packaging (Estadão Best In 2018 Assaí was recognized category in the survey conducted award program. The judges Brands) as one of the three top-ranking by IstoÉ Dinheiro magazine. The assessed more than 200 entries companies that use technology ranking analyzed more than from companies in 30 countries. Extra was the winner in the in favor of innovation in the one thousand of the largest There were four winners in Latin Supermarkets category of category of wholesale and retail companies in Brazil, focusing America. The stain remover the ranking compiled by the trade. The award is bestowed on financial performance produced by Qualitá, a GPA newspaper O Estado de S. Paulo, upon companies that apply IT and indicators in the areas Private-Label and packaged which identifies the products in the most suitable way as a of innovation, quality, social with plastic from the Novo and services with which strategic and differential tool for responsibility, human resources de Novo Program, was one consumers display the highest the business. and corporate governance. of the highlights. levels of involvement. Marcas mais valiosas do Brasil [Brazil’s most Melhor de São Paulo – Melhores empresas em valuable brands] Serviços [Best satisfação do cliente Interbrand (Brazil’s of São Paulo – (MESC) [Best companies Most Valuable Pão de Açúcar and Extra Services] in customer Brands in 2018) respectively occupied the 20th and 43rd place in the list compiled by IstoÉ Dinheiro magazine The survey by Datafolha satisfaction] The ranking is the result of studies in partnership with Kantar pinpointed Assaí as a highlight that analyze and link financial Consulting. The study, in its 12th among the most memorable Assaí is on the 2018 list of performance, perception and edition, highlighted the fact that brands in the opinion of the the 100 Best Companies in influence of brands among the 60 most valuable brands in residents of São Paulo in the Customer Satisfaction. In consumers. Extra came 20th and the country recorded appreciation Wholesaler category. In the same all, 6,503 companies were Assaí appeared in the ranking for of 23% over 2017, totaling a study, Mini Extra came first in the mentioned by the 1,350,552 the first time in 23rd place. combined value of R$ 65.1 billion. Mini markets category. customers interviewed. 72 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS Prêmio Consumidor Prêmio Benchmark em CSC Prêmio BR Week Moderno [Consumidor [SCC (Shared Services [BR Week Moderno Award] Center) Benchmark Award] ABT Award Assaí was elected the company Award] Held by the Centro de Inteligência Padrão (Standard Intelligence that respects consumers the most in 2018 in its market segment. Recognition of Academia Assaí Bons Negócios in the Social We came first in the survey Center), the award involves an The nationwide survey was Responsibility category, as conducted by the Instituto de assessment of performance conducted with 2,000 respondents one of the best relationship Engenharia de Gestão (IEG) indicators of retailers, and and indicates levels of respect practices in the value chain. (Management Engineering declared Extra the winner in the according to the direct opinion of Institute), which considers criteria Super and Hypermarket category, the customers themselves, with of cost productivity and service while Assaí came first in the rewards for institutions with the level of various support processes. Wholesale category. most mentions. Prêmio LIDE do Varejo [LIDE Retail Award] 2018 Top of Ranking of the Mind We received our fourth award Acknowledgments on from the Business Leaders Group (LIDE), this time around (2018 favorite and most LinkedIn Extra was awarded among the most memorable brands in the edition) in the Digital Performance popular brands Supermarket category of the of people from in Retail Category. GPA appeared on the 2018 number one ranking of its kind Top Companies list, a ranking in Brazil. São Paulo compiled by the social network LinkedIn, which presents the In a survey by Veja São Paulo companies that Brazilians Prêmio Whow! De magazine, two GPA chains consider the most desirable, Troféu Transparência Inovação 2018 [2018 ranked among the favorites of the capital’s residents. In the based on the mapping of actions undertaken by the ANEFAC [ANEFAC Whow! Innovation Supermarket category, Extra platform’s users. This is the Transparency Award] was the champion and Pão de Açúcar came third. The study third year running that we have been on the network’s list of Trophy] was conducted in partnership the most appealing companies. GPA was considered the Whow! with the digital research Assaí, in turn, had its LinkedIn GPA was awarded the “Oscar of Company in the Retail – Super and company MindMiners and heard page recognized for having Accounting” for the transparency Hyper segment, and came 43rd in the opinions of 1,500 class A reached the milestone of presented in its financial the TOP 50 Whow! ranking. and B residents. 100 thousand followers. statements for the year 2017. 73 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu 2018 performance indicators GPA GPA GPA INDICATOR UNIT GPA 2016 GPA 2017 GPA 2018 Multi 2016 Multi 2017 Multi 2018 Assaí 2016 Assaí 2017 Assaí 2018 Corporation Corporation Corporation 2016 2017 2018 Sales area of own units (according to m² 1,643,005 1,643,096 1,632,754 1,305,309 1,270,741 1,170,377 337,696 372,355 462,377 the Casino methodology) VALUING OUR PEOPLE Headcount enrolled on 12/31 (active Number 100,605 100,288 102,562 74,381 67,989 64,981 24,759 31,199 36,703 1,465 1,100 878 and on leave) Headcount of women on 12/31 Number 51,894 51,084 52,163 39,885 35,901 34,301 11,380 14,588 17,359 629 595 503 Headcount of men on 12/31 Number 48,629 49,204 50,399 34,496 32,088 30,680 13,297 16,611 19,344 836 505 375 Headcount < 30 years on 12/31 Number 44,741 43,802 45,140 31,879 28,053 27,154 12,459 15,413 17,728 403 336 258 Headcount aged between 30 and 50 Number 47,009 47,625 48,975 35,309 32,862 31,427 10,809 14,072 16,982 891 691 566 years on 12/31 Headcount aged > 50 years on 12/31 Number 8,773 8,861 8,441 7,193 7,074 6,400 1,409 1,714 1,993 171 73 48 Headcount full time on 12/31 Number 95,308 95,337 93,183 70,342 64,723 56,956 23,538 29,540 35,362 1,428 1,074 865 Headcount part time on 12/31 Number 3,796 4,951 9,379 2,636 3,266 8,025 1,139 1,659 1,341 21 26 13 Headcount by ethnicity (black)* Number 37,426 28,082 8,907 437 % of headcount by ethnicity (black)* % 36 43 24 50 *The black population refers to people who declare themselves to be black or brown. Indicators assured by EY. 74 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu GPA GPA GPA INDICADOR UNIT GPA 2016 GPA 2017 GPA 2018 Multi 2016 Multi 2017 Multi 2018 Assaí 2016 Assaí 2017 Assaí 2018 Corporation Corporation Corporation 2016 2017 2018 % of headcount by ethnicity (black)* 0 % 2 2 0 among leadership Number of recruitments made in the Number 27,356 28,177 31,806 15,464 14,458 16,863 11,672 13,493 14,748 220 226 195 year on a Permanent Contract Number of hired employees aged less Number 15,332 15,709 19,095 9,884 9,514 11,648 5,376 6,132 7,387 72 63 60 than 26 years (CDI + CDD) Number of work accidents with leave Number 1,220 1,246 1,499 1,005 913 976 201 329 523 14 4 of at least 1 day of absence Number of days of leave resulting from Days 30,911 65,265 67,320 24,432 52,570 50,021 5,689 12,554 17,299 790 141 work accident** Total number of hours of absence due Hours 4,364,968 11,633,609 13,314,373 3,126,857 8,245,571 7,513,411 1,209,627 3,334,432 5,765,935 28,484 53,606 35,028 to work accident, ordinary illness and occupational diseases Frequency rate of accidents with leave % 5 6 6 5 6 6 3 6 6 3 2 of at least 1 day – over total hours worked (%) Total number of employee Hours 2,187,320 2,116,460 1,885,721 632,445 737,908 574,469 857,165 1,364,864 1,309,116 5,320 13,688 2,135 training hours Number of training hours per person Hours 14 17 19 8 10 9 43 51 40 3 12 2 Headcount of men in management Number 889 1,041 1,046 661 778 792 158 191 204 70 72 50 positions and above on 12/31 Headcount of men at the top Number 61 62 62 29 29 32 11 14 16 21 19 14 management on 12/31 Headcount of women in management Number 347 482 500 279 401 417 31 44 52 37 37 31 positions and above on 12/31 Headcount of women at the top Number 7 8 15 1 1 6 2 2 4 4 5 5 management on 12/31 % of women in management positions % 28 32 32 30 34 35 16 19 21 35 34 35 and above on 12/31*** Total number of employees with Number 2,660 3,062 3,719 1,412 1,422 1,723 1,231 1,623 1,944 17 17 52 disabilities in the company on 12/31 Number of apprentices on 12/31 Number 2,447 2,612 3,666 1,901 2,002 2,635 532 597 1,018 14 13 13 **Indices consider only accidents that occurred in 2018. ***Value reported in GPA 2017 was the absolute number (87). Indicators assured by EY. 75 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu GPA GPA GPA INDICADOR UNIT GPA 2016 GPA 2017 GPA 2018 Multi 2016 Multi 2017 Multi 2018 Assaí 2016 Assaí 2017 Assaí 2018 Corporation Corporation Corporation 2016 2017 2018 CONSCIOUS CONSUMPTION AND SUPPLY AND TRANSFORMATION IN THE VALUE CHAIN Total number of Private-Label’s products Number 5,966 6,919 3,113 5,911 6,863 3,081 55 56 32 Number of organic items Number 1,609 1,493 1,532 1,599 1,479 1,510 10 14 22 Number of certified products – Number 215 271 432 215 271 432 Private-Labels Total number of certified products – Number 526 545 546 473 502 503 53 43 43 other brands Number of products certified in the Number 2,555 2,309 2,510 2,287 2,252 2,445 268 57 65 Quality from Origin (QDO) Total Private Label’s products with Number 264 184 184 264 184 184 nutritional optimization Social audits in plants of suppliers Number 91 202 182 located in countries of risk**** ****Value reported in GPA Consolidated 2016, 2017 and 2018 already includes audits performed in Multivarejo and Assaí. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MANAGEMENT ***** Total energy consumed MWh 1,176,720 1,132,524 1,173,384 952,963 884,645 872,001 215,429 241,157 294,948 8,328 6,722 6,435 Green energy consumption MWh 426,924 400,287 564,490 410,906 373,463 539,058 10,111 21,142 19,821 5,907 5,682 5,611 Green energy ratio % 36% 35% 48% 43% 42% 62% 5% 9% 7% 71% 85% 87% Energy consumption/m2 KWh/m² 721 703 693 740 730 727 638 617 638 Natural gas consumption MWh PCI 21,539 21,496 17,355 21,423 21,323 17,101 65 115 215 51 58 39 Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) MWh PCI 71,794 52,585 42,293 32,779 42,776 29,799 39,015 9,809 12,494 consumption Oil consumption Liters (L) 5,447,689 5,860,106 5,926,702 2,423,902 1,348,449 1,402,140 3,020,787 4,511,657 4,522,011 3,000 2,551 REFRIGERANT GASES ***** R404A kg 8,935 8,782 9,470 8,902 8,219 8,526 33 333 944 R134A kg 751 2,150 1,187 616 1,354 260 18 588 927 117 143 R22 kg 149,045 190,634 150,329 126,900 166,022 119,774 18,863 24,399 30,555 304 487 Other fluids kg 7,718 7,261 3,848 4,064 4,696 1,717 3,654 2,474 2,131 65 91 ***** Environmental data consider stores with a full 12 month activity from 01/10/2017 to 09/30/2018. Indicators assured by EY. 76 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu GPA GPA GPA INDICADOR UNIT GPA 2016 GPA 2017 GPA 2018 Multi 2016 Multi 2017 Multi 2018 Assaí 2016 Assaí 2017 Assaí 2018 Corporation Corporation Corporation 2016 2017 2018 NONHAZARDOUS WASTE FROM OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES ***** Paper and cardboards sent to recycling tons 39,568 13,664 48,049 29,110 28,468 10,409 13,664 19,538 50 44 Plastic sent to recycling tons 4,909 2,460 6,434 3,100 3,123 1,801 2,460 3,305 8 6 Scrap metal and scrap recycling tons 4 99 111 1 4 99 110 Organic wastes for composting tons 3,059 674 3,374 2,774 2,862 281 674 513 Kitchen oil used for recycling tons 362 17 346 350 303 12 17 43 Others sent to recycling tons 5 5 Waste tons 129,643 37,040 162,648 117,527 117,543 11,906 37,040 44,909 210 196 Reused waste rate % 27 46 25 23 21 51 46 34 28 20 WASTE DISPOSED BY CUSTOMER ***** Recyclable waste from customers tons 16,842 769 6,547 16,138 5,615 704 769 932 collected in the stores WATER ***** Total drinking water of network m³ 2,007,946 2,529,229 2,476,628 1,522,139 1,881,317 1,718,741 434,606 607,179 735,744 51,201 40,733 22,143 Water consumption per m2 – store m³/m² 1.81 1.54 2.04 2.04 2.21 2.21 1.33 1.93 1.88 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (GHG)***** Carbon emissions – Scope 1 ton Co² 476,003 425,152 376,048 406,457 351,634 286,009 69,494 73,333 89,685 52 185 354 Carbon emissions – Scope 2 ton Co² 107,117 114,439 89,040 86,712 86,625 63,741 19,824 27,144 24,828 581 670 471 Carbon emissions – Scope 3 ton Co² 201,097 170,569 188,526 179,812 127,143 135,173 21,260 43,426 53,201 25 152 ENGAGEMENT WITH SOCIETY Food donation tons 3,605 1,953 3,341 2,074 1,267 Total donations in cash through BRL 600,000 2,488,000 3,200,000 cultural and sport partnerships Number of beneficiaries of actions Number 2,088 6,659 25,338 of the foundations or solidarity partnerships Investments through incentive laws BRL 1745117 1541463 1,971,556 ***** Environmental data consider stores with a full 12 month activity from 01/10/2017 to 09/30/2018. Indicators assured by EY. 77 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu São Paulo Corporate Towers Tel: (11) 2573-3000 Av. Juscelino Kutschek, 1909 ey.com.br Torre Norte 9º andar – Vila NovaConceição CEP 04543-011 – São Paulo – SP, Brasil A free-translation from Portuguese into English of Auditors’ Report on non-financial statements (Annual Sustainability Report) originally prepared in Portuguese. Independent Auditors’ Limited Assurance Report on the GPA’s Annual Sustainability Report based on the guidelines of the internal methodology of the Casino Group, according to article 225 of the French Law Grenelle 2. To the Administrators and Shareholders of Companhia Brasileira de Distribuição (Grupo Pão de Açúcar GPA) Introduction We were engaged by Companhia Brasileira de Distribuição (“Grupo Pão de Açúcar” or “GPA”) management to present our limited assurance report on the KPIs (limited to our scope) contained in the Annual Sustainability Report based on the guidelines of the internal methodology of the Casino Group (“Report”), comprising two base periods, from October 1, 2017 to September 30, 2018 for the KPIs related to the environment performance and January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018 for the other KPIs as listed below, both for operations of Multivarejo, Assai, GPA Malls, GPA Corporation and Headquarters. GPA’s management responsibilities GPA´s management is responsible for preparing and presenting appropriately the information contained in Report in accordance with criteria, assumptions and requirements of the internal methodology of the Casino Group, according to article 225 of the French Law Grenelle 2 and for the internal controls as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of information free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Independent auditors’ responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the GPA’s Report information, based on the limited assurance work conducted in accordance with Technical Notice of Ibracon № 07/2012, approved by the Brazil’s National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (CFC) in light of NBC TO 3000 (Assurance Work Other Than Audit or Review), issued by the CFC, which is equivalent to international standard ISAE 3000, issued by the International Federation of Accountants, applicable to non-historical information. These standards call for compliance with ethic requirements, including independence and work carried out to obtain limited assurance that the Report is free of material misstatement. A limited assurance work conducted in accordance with NBC TO 3000 (ISAE 3000) consists mainly of inquires of management and other professionals from GPA who were involved in the preparation of the Report, as well as of the application of additional procedures deemed necessary to obtain evidence which enables us to conclude on the limited assurance on the Report. A limited assurance work EY | 1 78 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Independent auditors’ responsibility -continuation also requires additional procedures, as the independent auditor becomes aware of matters that lead him to believe that the Report information may contain material misstatement. The selected procedures relied on our understanding of the aspects concerning the compilation and presentation of the Report information in accordance with criteria, assumptions and own methodologies from Casino Group. The procedures comprised: Independent auditors’ responsibility (a) The planning of the work, considering the materiality, the volume of quantitative and qualitative information and the operating and internal control systems which supported the preparation of the Report; (b) The understanding of the calculation methodology and the procedures for preparation and compilation of the Report through interviews with management in charge of preparing the information; (c) The application of analytical procedures on quantitative information and sample verification of certain evidence supporting the data used for the preparation of the Report; (d) Comparison of the financial indicators with the financial statements and/or accounting records. The procedures applied in this limited assurance work also comprised compliance with the requirements of the internal methodology of the Casino Group, according to article 225 of the French Law Grenelle 2, applicable to the preparation of the KPIs contained in the Report. We believe that the evidences obtained in our work were sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited conclusion Scope and limitations The procedures applied in a limited assurance work are substantially less in scope than those applied in an assurance work aimed at issuing an opinion on the Report information. As a consequence, we are not in a position to obtain assurance that we are aware of all matters which would be identified in an assurance work aimed at issuing an opinion. If we had carried out a work to issue an opinion, we could have identified other matters or misstatements in the Report information. Accordingly, we did not express an opinion on this information. In addition, GPA's internal controls were not part of our limited assurance scope. The non-financial data is subject to further inherent limitations than financial data, given the nature and diversity of methods used to determine, calculate or estimate such data. Qualitative interpretations of materiality, significance and accuracy of data are subject the EY | 2 79 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Scope and limitations -continuation individual assumptions and judgments. Also, we did not carry out any work on data reported for prior periods nor in relation to future projections and goals. Only the information related to the listed KPIs below, for Multivarejo, Assai, GPA Malls, GPA Corporation and Headquarters, were scope of this limited assurance work. Thus, we perform limited assurance procedures exclusively on the KPIs listed below: Subject KPIs General Sales area of own units Headcount female on 31/12/N Headcount male on 31/12/ N Headcounts full time at 31/12/ N Headcounts part-time on 31/12 / N Human Resources (HR) Headcount male in management positions and above on 31/12 / N Headcount female in management positions and above on 31/12 / N Total employees with disabilities in the company on 31/12 / N Number of apprentices on 31/12 / N Training Total number of training hours for the employee Number of work related accidents with at least 1 day leave Health & Safety Number of days of leave due to an accident at work Total number of hours absent due to accident at work, ordinary illness and occupational diseases Conscious consumption and Total number of own brand products supply Number of Organic Products Total energy consumed Environment Green Power Consumption (Energy) Green Power Ratio Diesel fuel consumption R404A Environment R134A (Refrigerant gases) R22 Recycling Cardboard Plastic Recycling Environment (Non-hazardous waste in Scrap Metal and Recycling operations) Organic waste for composting Cooking Oil Used for Recycling EY | 3 80 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Interactive menu Other for Recycling Waste Environment (Water) Total drinking water system Conclusion Based on the procedures performed and herein described, nothing came to our attention that makes us believe that the KPIs (limited to our scope) presented on the Report, comprising two base periods, from October 1, 2017 to September 30, 2018 for the KPIs related to the environment performance and January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018 for the other KPIs (as listed above), were not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with criteria, assumptions and methodologies for the preparation of the KPI´s based on requirements of the Casino Group, according to article 225 of the French Law Grenelle 2. São Paulo (SP), April 24th, 2019. EY | 4 81 GPA | ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Credits General Coordination Corporate Communication Board Investor Relations Board Casa do Cliente Assaí • 0800 773 23 22 Compre Bem • 0800 027 10 10 Sustainability and Social Investment Board Extra • 0800 11 50 60 Extra Delivery • 4003 7266 Private-Labels – Qualitá and Taeq • 0800 15 21 34 Content and design Pão de Açúcar • 0800 773 27 usina82 Pão de Açúcar Delivery • 3055 6767 (São Paulo city and metropolitan region)/4004 6070 (other locations) Photography Ricardo Rollo and GPA’s collection Websites Assaí • www.assai.com.br All photos of the Annual and Sustainability Report Compre Bem • www.comprebem.com.br portray GPA employees, customers and partners. Extra • www.extra.com.br GPA • www.gpabr.com James Delivery • www.jamesdelivery.com.br Contacts Pão de Açúcar • www.paodeacucar.com Corporate Communication • Pão de Açúcar Adega • www.paodeacucar.com/adega comunicacaocorporativa@gpabr.com Qualitá • www.casapraticaqualita.com.br Investor Relations • gpa.ri@gpabr.com Taeq • www.conquistesuavida.com.br Sustainability • sustentabilidade@gpabr.com Ombudsman For more information about GPA, consult www.gpabr.com. Assaí and Compre Bem ouvidoria@assai.com.br • 0800 777 3377 ©2019 – The 2018 Annual and Sustainability Report GPA is organized by GPA. Reproduction of texts is allowed ouvidoria@gpabr.com • 0800 55 57 11 provided the source is mentioned. GPA Malls ouvidoria@gpamalls.com • 0800 55 57 11 Multivarejo ouvidoria@multivarejogpa.com.br • 0800 55 57 11
