Campbell Soup Company 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report Where We’re Headed table of contents CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY pg. 03 SHARED Employees pg. 36 GROWN pg. 16 SHARED Consumers pg. 44 SOURCED pg. 22 SHARED Communities pg. 53 PRODUCED pg. 29 About This Report The 2019 Campbell Corporate Responsibility Report marks a decade of providing our stakeholders with a balanced view of our corporate responsibility strategy and performance across our global operations. This report covers initiatives and performance metrics associated with our material corporate responsibility issues during the fiscal year 2018, which ended July 29, 2018. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 1 Where We’re Headed This has been a transitional year for Campbell. We completed the acquisition of Snyder’s-Lance, the largest transaction in our company’s history, and added Pacific Foods to our portfolio. We undertook a strategic review of the business. And we shared the decision to divest our Campbell International and Campbell Fresh businesses to drive growth, focusing on two distinct businesses moving forward: Campbell Snacks and Campbell Meals and Beverages. Our vision now for Campbell is to be a leading, focused snacks and simple meals company, with a portfolio of best-in-class products and brands in our core North American market. While there has been a lot of change, we remain committed to our Purpose, Real food that matters for life’s moments. In this year’s report, we invite you to explore our corporate responsibility initiatives and commitments that are helping us live into this Purpose. We continue to integrate our two newest acquisitions, Snyder’s-Lance and Pacific Foods, and as a result, will not include data from these two businesses. We expect to include this data in our 2020 Report. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL CEO MESSAGE “Campbell continues to have a strong foundation, as our Purpose, Real food that matters for life’s moments, and our values set a clear course to deliver on our commitments to all our stakeholders.” Mark Clouse President and Chief Executive Officer Dear Campbell Stakeholders, Throughout my more than 20 years in and Campbell Fresh—both of which are the food business, I have long admired featured prominently in this report. While Campbell and the passion and commitit was a year of refocusing, Campbell ment of the company and its people to has been, and will continue to be, a be a positive force in the world. It is one great company. I am confident in the of the many reasons why I am honored direction we are headed because of to be leading Campbell today, and the combination of our talented people, why I am committed to building on our iconic brands and an ambition to do leadership in this area. something remarkable together. Campbell continues to have a strong foundation, The food industry is experiencing one as our Purpose, Real food that matters of the biggest periods of transformation for life’s moments, and our values set a we have ever seen. For Campbell, 2018 clear course to deliver on our commitwas also a year of change, including ments to all our stakeholders. my appointment as President and CEO. We acquired two companies, Snyder’sReal Food Prepared with Care and Lance and Pacific Foods. We conducted Accessible to All; Building Trust a strategic and portfolio review that resulted Through Transparency in a new path forward focused on our As we transform our company, we have two core North American businesses, recommitted to our brands, our products Campbell Snacks and Campbell Meals & and the way we make our food to drive Beverages. In addition, we made the sustainable, profitable growth. We believe difficult decision to divest non-core real food should be more accessible to assets, including Campbell International all communities, where it can be part of, 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 3 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL CEO Message, cont. and even help improve, the overall quality Building a Culture Around Purpose, of peoples’ lives. Families rely on us to Values and Accountability 2018 Calendar Year make real food with ingredients they At Campbell, culture is a serious part of Recognitions recognize. We believe giving back our agenda—something we continue to matters and work to ensure families in nurture and grow together. While we are times of need have access to food and proud of the progress we have made, • 100 BEST beverages—whether due to natural we must continue to ensure that purpose, CORPORATE CITIZENS disasters or challenging circumstances. values and accountability are part of the Ranked #12 fabric of our company and that diversity Corporate Responsibility Magazine 9th consecutive year Today more than ever, Campbell is and inclusion are embedded in our committed to transparency, because business operations. This past year, • COMMUNITY CHAMPION AWARD we believe our values and integrity are we have worked to enhance inclusivity United Way of Greater Philadelphia and Southern New Jersey best demonstrated through a commitin the workplace, with a commitment ment to openness and sharing both in to listen to, learn from and understand • DOW JONES our work and with the ingredients in our one another in every interaction. For SUSTAINABILITY INDEX 10th consecutive year on the food. Our engagement with consumers me, this is what a winning team feels North American Index; inspired us to evolve some of our and acts like, and one that is best able Scored 100% in health and nutrition traditional recipes, and we’ve crafted to reflect the needs of our consumers • THE REPUTATION INSTITUTE new products that deliver more whole and the communities we serve. Our Ranked #1 Most Reputable Company grains, vegetables, lean protein and employee resource groups continue to in America plant-based options. provide unique connections and insights, • FTSE4GOOD INDEX as well as support for employees across 4th consecutive year Protecting the Environment and the company. As an Army veteran, Supporting Sustainable Agriculture I am proud that Campbell’s Veterans • HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN CORPORATE EQUALITY INDEX Families rely on us to ensure our Connection group allows us to better 100% Score—for the 9th time ingredients are grown with care by understand the needs of our employees farmers who share our commitment to who have protected the greater good of • JUST CAPITAL Recognized on the JUST 100 list as one food rooted in goodness, flavor and our communities through military service. of the most JUST companies in America authenticity. We uphold this standard by for the second consecutive year; working with others across the supply I am humbled and honored by the privilege 3rd among food and beverage companies chain to ensure our food is grown to serve as the 14th CEO in Campbell’s sustainably. For instance, in collaboration storied history. In 2019, Campbell will • MSCI INDEX SERIES with the Land O’Lakes SUSTAIN program, celebrate its 150th Anniversary as we Included as a constituent of the MSCI Global ESG and SRI Indices Campbell helped growers, representing continue to build on the work of those 10,000 acres of wheat used in our who came before us. Our predecessors • PRODUCE FOR BETTER HEALTH Pepperidge Farm products, to adopt more devoted their time to creating a strong FOUNDATION Fruits & Veggies—More Matters® sustainable fertilizer practices to nurture company rooted in iconic brands loved Industry Role Model soil health. This strategic partnership by people around the world. As I join the 5th consecutive year reflects our long-standing commitment Campbell family, I also join the ranks of to providing farmers with the tools to a dedicated, passionate team of people support and sustain a resilient agricultural committed to our legacy and to the supply chain. journey ahead. Thank you to the thousands of employees, customers, partners and Our commitment to driving progress friends—past and present—who continue against our 2025 climate, water and to make Campbell’s Purpose a reality. waste goals remains steadfast. In fiscal year 2018, we saw a reduction in our Sincerely, greenhouse gas emissions, diverted 92 percent of waste from landfills, and made further progress on measuring and reducing food waste. Mark Clouse President and Chief Executive Officer Campbell Soup Company 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 4 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL CORPORATE PROFILE Campbell is driven and inspired by our Purpose: Real food that matters for life’s moments. Founded in 1869, our 23,000 employees remain true to our founders’ values as we provide authentic, flavorful and readily available foods and beverages that connect our consumers to each other and what’s important to them. In FY2018, our products were sold in more than 100 countries around the world and generated sales of $8.685 billion. Real Food Philosophy Guided by our Purpose, focused on the future and inspired by the proud legacy of Dr. John Dorrance, we carefully crafted our Real Food Philosophy to further define real food at Campbell. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 5 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL Corporate Profile, cont. Our Values The food industry is changing, characterized by a new generation of consumers who want to buy from brands that share their values. This shift has encouraged us to look inward to consider what Campbell values most today. Put simply, we are proud of our rich heritage but focused on the future. The Campbell Values and behaviors establish a challenger mindset inspired by the integrity and innovation of our founders. They inform how we recruit and develop our people and how we conduct ourselves in the marketplace. Do Right Seek Dare Own it and the Power of to like a Be Real Different Disrupt Founder Our Business in FY2018 Meals and Beverages Global Biscuits and Snacks Campbell Fresh Includes the retail and food service Includes the U.S. snacks portfolio Includes Bolthouse Farms fresh businesses in the U.S. and Canada. consisting of Pepperidge Farm cookies, carrots, carrot ingredients, refrigerated The segment includes the following crackers, bakery and frozen products in beverages and refrigerated salad products: Campbell’s condensed and U.S. retail, and Snyder’s-Lance pretzels, dressings; Garden Fresh Gourmet ready-to-serve soups; Swanson broths sandwich crackers, potato chips, tortilla salsa, hummus, dips and tortilla chips; and stocks; Pacific broth, soups, chips and other snacking products. The and the U.S. refrigerated soup business. non-dairy beverages and other simple segment also includes Arnott’s biscuits in We are pursuing plans to divest these meals; Prego pasta sauces; Pace Australia and Asia Pacific, Kelsen cookies businesses. Mexican sauces; Campbell’s gravies, globally, and the simple meals and shelfpasta, beans and dinner sauces; stable beverages business in Australia Swanson canned poultry; Plum food and and Asia Pacific. We are pursuing plans to snacks; V8 juices and beverages; and divest the Arnott’s biscuits, Kelsen cookies Campbell’s tomato juice. Beginning in and the Australia and Asia Pacific simple fiscal 2019, the segment also includes meals and shelf-stable beverages the simple meals and shelf-stable business. In FY2018, this segment also beverages business in Latin America. included the simple meals and shelfstable business in Latin America. $4.2 Billion Annual Sales $3.5 Billion Annual Sales $1 Billion Annual Sales Worldwide Locations NORTH AMERICA Connecticut New Jersey Texas AUSTRALIA AND Malaysia World Headquarters Bloomfield (GBS) East Brunswick (GBS) Paris (MB) ASIA PACIFIC Selangor Darul Ehsan Camden, New Jersey Florida North Carolina Utah Administrative Office (GBS) Administrative Offices Lakeland (GBS) Charlotte (GBS) Richmond (GBS) North Strathfield, Georgia Maxton (MB) Washington Australia EUROPE Charlotte, North Carolina Norwalk, Connecticut Columbus (GBS) Ohio Everett (CF)** Manufacturing Administrative Office Santa Monica, California Illinois Ashland (GBS) Prosser (CF) Facilities Nørre Snede, Denmark Toronto, Canada Downers Grove (GBS) Napoleon (MB) Wisconsin Australia Manufacturing Indiana Willard (GBS) Beloit (GBS) Huntingwood (GBS) Facilities Manufacturing Facilities Jeffersonville (GBS) Oregon Franklin (GBS) Marleston (GBS) Denmark Arizona Massachusetts Salem (GBS) Milwaukee (MB) Shepparton (GBS) Nørre Snede (GBS) Goodyear (GBS) Hyannis (GBS) Tualatin (MB) Canada Virginia (GBS) Ribe (GBS) Michigan Pennsylvania Toronto (MB)* Indonesia England California Denver (GBS) Bakersfield (CF) Ferndale (CF)** Bekasi (GBS) Norwich (GBS) Grand Rapids (CF)** Downingtown (GBS) Wednesbury (GBS) Dixon (MB) Hanover (GBS) Stockton (MB) *Expected to close by the end of FY2019 **Announced divestiture in FY2019 MB—Meals and Beverages, GBS—Global Biscuits and Snacks, CF—Campbell Fresh 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 6 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Our sustainability strategy reflects our Purpose to provide Real food that matters for life’s moments and our strong commitment to transparency in the decisions we make and the actions we take. During our annual formal strategic planning process in FY2017, we revised our sustainability strategy to more closely align with our value chain and to support our business objectives. This new framework reflects how we grow, source, produce and share our food. We developed this strategy with major food industry trends in mind. Global population growth, water scarcity, climate change and constraints on agricultural land are placing massive strain on the food system. A growing number of people lack ready access to good, affordable food, while food-related health issues such as obesity and diabetes continue to rise. At the same time, demographic shifts are producing a base of aging consumers interested in foods that can help them manage chronic diseases, and a younger generation that craves food that suits their active, wellness-focused lifestyles. Both changes add up to an increased focus on health and well-being, and Campbell is rising to meet this demand. We are not only developing healthier products—we’re being more transparent about how our food is grown and produced and where we stand on issues that matter, like animal welfare and mandatory labeling of GMOs. Our Vision Our Mission We strive to build a more resilient To lead the food industry in food food system, making real food that that is ethically and sustainably grown, improves the health and well-being sourced, produced and shared. of the world we all share, for generations to come. Sourced Ensure ethical and sustainable practices in our supply chain • Responsible sourcing • Traceability • Supplier diversity Grown • Human rights Produced Protect natural resources Promote stewardship of natural and livelihoods on farms resources in our operations • Resource conservation • Climate • Farmer livelihoods • Water • Pesticide and fertilizer use • Waste • Agricultural innovations Shared Improve stakeholder and shareholder value through transparency and our Real Food Philosophy • Employees • Customers • Consumers • Communities 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 7 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL Strategy, cont. Strategic Foresight Into the Future Throughout the year, we maintain dialogue with our suppliers, customers, NGOs and investors to monitor and assess emerging issues and the evolution of the topics in Campbell’s materiality assessment. We have engaged a broad cross-section of Campbell leaders in developing an actionable, enterprise-wide view of the future of food. More specifically, we sought to define disruptions and opportunities in the fiveto seven-year horizon within the areas of real food and food and technology. We gathered and synthesized marketplace, consumer, culinary and technology trends, and conducted extensive interviews with futurists, academics, chefs, designers, nutritionists and anthropologists. The themes identified represent an emerging pattern of change that combines and categorizes internal stakeholder perspectives, external influences and broader strategic drivers. These platforms cut across real food, technology and sustainability and are informing our decision making. The platforms, which include Future Commerce, My.Moments (snacking), Limitless Local, Connected Culinary Experiences and Clean AgTech, among others, bring together the disruptors, drivers, trends and signals existing across social, technological, economic, environmental, political and values-driven contexts. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 8 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITMENTS CATEGORY TARGET SCOPE PROGRESS GROWN Reduce GHGs per tonne of tomatoes by 20% by the end of 2020, as U.S. tomatoes Reduced 18% compared to 2012 Reduce water use per pound of tomatoes by 20% by the end of 2020, as U.S. tomatoes Reduced 15% compared to 2012 Reduce nitrogen applied per tonne of tomatoes by 10% by the end of 2020, as U.S. tomatoes Increased 1% compared to 2012 Agriculture Enroll 70,000 acres of wheat in a fertilizer optimization plan by the end of 2020 U.S. 10,000 acres Source 50% (by volume) of plant-based priority ingredients from suppliers engaged Global in an approved sustainable agriculture program by FY2025 Soy 0% Wheat 8% Jalapeños 0% Tomatoes 87% Carrots 22% Potatoes 0% SOURCED Transition steel cans to non-BPA linings in the U.S. and Canada by U.S. and Achieved the end of 2017 Canada Packaging Source 100% cage-free eggs by the end of 2025 Global 16% Source 100% “No Antibiotics Ever” (NAE) chicken for diced and canned chicken U.S. and 98% products by the end of 2017 Canada Source 100% crate-free pork by the end of 2022 Global 57% Source 100% U.S. chicken meat that complies with higher broiler chicken welfare U.S. Assessing standards by the end of 2024 suppliers Purchase 100% Responsibly Sourced Palm Oil (RSPO) by the end of 2016 Global Achieved for Campbell portfolio; still integrating Responsible Snyder’s-Lance Sourcing By FY2025, responsibly source 100% of priority raw materials Global Defining scope and baseline By FY2025, 100% of priority raw materials are traceable to country of origin Global Defining scope and baseline By FY2020, measurably advance Campbell’s Supplier Diversity Program Global Defining scope and baseline By FY2020, proactively assess 100% of Campbell-owned facilities for compliance Global 21% with Campbell’s Human Rights Principles 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 9 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITMENTS (CONTINUED) CATEGORY TARGET SCOPE PROGRESS PRODUCED Reduce Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions by 25% on an absolute Global 2% basis by FY2025, as compared to FY2017 Climate Source 40% of our electricity from renewable or alternative energy sources Global 0%—power sold by FY2020 to others1 Reduce water use by 20% on an absolute basis by FY2025, as compared to FY2017 Global 0.2% Water Reduce the amount of waste sent to landfills by 25% on an absolute basis Global 1% by FY2025, as compared to FY2017 Waste Cut food waste in half by FY2030, as compared to FY20172 Global plants 11% SHARED Achieve 3% decrease in reportable and lost time incidents per year with Global long-term goal of 0 incidents Reportable incidents Goal achieved, Safety 14% reduction Lost Time incidents 5% increase 1 Campbell generates renewable energy equivalent to 4 percent of its electricity use through onsite solar and fuel cell installations, but sells all of it to others. 2 We define our food waste commitment in accordance with Sustainable Development Goal 12.3. As such, we exclude animal feed and biomaterial processing from the scope of our goal. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 10 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL GOVERNANCE Campbell’s commitment to sustainability is reflected in our Purpose. Because of this, our governance structure helps to ensure that sustainability and, more broadly, corporate responsibility, is integrated into our business decisions. Additionally, from FY2012 through FY2018, we included sustainability metrics in our Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) Scorecard to link incentive compensation with our sustainability goals. How Sustainability Governance Permeates Our Business BOARD OF DIRECTORS • Provides oversight • Audit Committee receives annual sustainability updates CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER • Provides executive support VICE PRESIDENT OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & CHIEF SUSTAINABILITY OFFICER • Reports to the CEO and leads global strategy SUSTAINABILITY STEERING COMMITTEE • Senior leaders from operating divisions, global engineering, corporate responsibility, global procurement, research and development, and manufacturing • Oversees leadership network SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP NETWORK • Cross-functional team that includes sustainable agriculture, environmental engineering, packaging, procurement and manufacturing • Responsible for development of shortand long-term goals and performance metrics • Reports quarterly to steering committee 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 11 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL Governance, cont. Ethics Everything we do at Campbell reflects our strong foundation of ethical business practices. This foundation allows us to attract and retain talented people who share our values, and it also reduces the potential for risk or reputational damage. We pride ourselves on having built an ethical company where employees are proud to work. Campbell’s compliance and ethics program, Winning with Integrity, reflects our conviction that conducting business in compliance with the law and the highest standards of business ethics is essential to our success. As reflected in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, employees share responsibility for ensuring that the Winning with Integrity principles are fulfilled every day, through each and every action taken—whether in the marketplace, the workplace or the community. The Code outlines our company’s basic standards and expectations, highlights important policies and summarizes certain fundamental legal requirements that employees must follow. Each employee receives a copy of the Code, which is available in multiple languages, and participates in training regularly. We review the Code on a regular basis. The most recently updated version was approved by the CEO and the Board of Directors, announced and distributed to employees in their language of choice and posted on the company’s internal and external websites. Campbell’s Legal Department is responsible for maintaining and administering the Winning with Integrity program. The Vice President, Head of Ethics and Compliance & Deputy General Counsel has overall responsibility for the direction and administration of the program and has direct access to the Chair of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for all compliance-related matters. A full report on the program is presented to the Audit Committee on an annual basis. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 12 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL MATERIALITY Material corporate responsibility issues are those topics that influence the judgment and decisions of our external and internal stakeholders, as well as having an impact on them and our business. We identify and prioritize material corporate responsibility issues through the four-step assessment process below. Step 1: Identify Issues—We review the priorities publicly reported by our peers, conduct a media audit of trending issues and discuss issues with NGOs and investors. Step 2: Survey Stakeholders—We send the survey to employees, customers, suppliers, NGOs, community partners, government or regulatory agencies, investors, trade organizations and consumers, and post it publicly on social media. More than 1,250 participants responded to our most recent survey. Step 3: Interview Stakeholders—We conduct interviews internally with global employees and external stakeholders. In addition, as part of our most recent assessment, Sustainable Brands interviewed five internal stakeholders, and Business for Social Responsibility interviewed five external stakeholders. Step 4: Validate—Campbell’s Sustainability Steering Committee and various leaders around the organization provide feedback on the issues and validate the results of the research, survey and interview process. The results are shared below, and are reevaluated and revalidated throughout the year to allow for the inclusion of major or minor shifts in issues of priority. For a complete description of our Materiality Assessment, please see the Appendix. ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL Responsible Transparency Sourcing Sustainable Agriculture Health, Nutrition & Wellness Food Safety & Quality IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Community Involvement & Food Access Water Sustainable Stewardship Business Models Climate Change Energy Business Management Ethics Responsible Labeling Human Rights in the Supply Chain Occupational Health & Safety Packaging Culture & Talent Deforestation Footprint Management Food Waste Responsible Waste Marketing Diversity Reduction & Inclusion Animal Welfare Human Rights in the Workplace Logistics & Public Policy Transportation & Engagement Issues of importance to certain stakeholder groups Issues actively managed & addressed in the report but as Key Material Issues addressed through business monitored & addressed as necessary part of one of the 11 key material issues strategies & in the report IMPORTANCE TO THE BUSINESS 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS In 2015, world leaders at the General Assesmbly of the United Nations (UN) adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Making up the foundation of this 2030 Agenda are 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that are meant to transform our world in the areas of people, planet, prosperity, peace and partnership. While Campbell’s material corporate responsibility initiatives and commitments map to all 17 goals (see page 78), we have prioritized the following six goals for our business. You can learn more about our commitments on page 9 of this Report. UN SDGs Our Commitments Campbell is improving food security and nutrition by: • investing in food innovations that enable consumer health and well-being • crafting food that is accessible to all as part of our Real Food Philosophy • enabling access to affordable, healthy food through the Healthy Corner Store Network Campbell is promoting good health and well-being by: • increasing positive ingredients, like vegetables and whole grains • reducing negative nutrients, like sodium and sugar • removing substances of consumer concern like artificial colors and flavors, antibiotics in chicken meat and BPA linings in steel cans Campbell is promoting decent work for all by: • ensuring all Campbell-owned facilities comply with our Human Rights Principles • continuing to build a safety-focused culture with a long-term goal of zero incidents • enforcing our Responsible Sourcing Supplier Code to identify and eliminate labor violations in our supply chain, if any Campbell is reducing inequality by: • crafting food that is accessible to all as part of our Real Food Philosophy • enforcing our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Responsible Sourcing Supplier Code to identify and eliminate labor violations, if any, and ensure equal opportunities for all Campbell is promoting sustainable consumption and production by: • committing to responsibly source and trace 16 priority raw materials • reducing water use by 20%, waste sent to landfills by 25% and food waste by 50% • ethically sourcing ingredients through commitments to certified palm oil, cage-free eggs and crate-free pork Campbell is combatting climate change and its impacts by: • reducing operational greenhouse gas emissions • sourcing electricity from renewable sources and advocating for responsible climate policy • employing sustainable agriculture programs to improve fertilizer efficiency and develop more climate-resilient agriculture 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 14 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Proactive and consistent engagement with both internal and external stakeholders is critical to effectively executing our corporate responsibility strategy. Our approach to stakeholder engagement includes: • Identification of issues that are most important to stakeholders • Establishment of processes for meaningful and effective engagement • Benchmarking for leadership performance within and outside our sector The following table summarizes our engagement with major stakeholder groups: STAKEHOLDERS TYPES OF ENGAGEMENT ISSUES Advocacy Groups/Non• Organizational Memberships • Health, Nutrition & Wellness Governmental Organizations • Direct Engagement • Nutrition & Labeling Standards (NGOs) • Strategic Issue Partnerships • Animal Welfare • Professional Conferences • Deforestation • Roundtable Events • Climate Change • Social Media • Human Rights • Sustainable Agriculture Communities • Direct, On-the-Ground Relationships • Critical Local Needs (such as food access • Corporate & Employee Giving and nutrition education) • Networking Events • Disaster Relief • Surveys • Environmental Initiatives • Signature Partnerships • Health, Nutrition & Wellness • Regional Priority Plans • Strategic Partnership Priorities • Employee Volunteerism (such as health and well-being) Consumers • Dedicated 24-Hour Toll-Free Hotline • Food Safety & Quality • Consumer Insights • Transparency • Branded Websites • Packaging Information • Campbell’s Kitchen® Website • Health, Nutrition & Wellness • Campbell’s Nutrition Website • Affordability • What’s in My Food Website • Food Waste • Social Media • GMOs • Uncanned® by Campbell’s Website • Environmental Practices Customers • Dedicated Customer Teams • Product Innovation • Top-to-Top Customer Meetings • Trade Practices • Customer Surveys • Social Accountability • Industry Trade Groups (such as FMI and • Environmental Practices Consumer Goods Forum) • Transparency • Sales Support & Service • Health, Nutrition & Wellness Employees • Quarterly Employee Forums • Diversity & Inclusion • Town Hall Meetings • Occupational Health & Safety • Campbell id Networks • Recognition • Interactive Workplace by Facebook Site • Equitable Compensation & Benefits • Anonymous Hotline • Talent Management • Business Trends • Health, Nutrition & Wellness Investors • Meetings with Institutional and Socially Responsible • Business Performance Investors • Governance Practices • Direct Engagement on Specific Topics of Interest • Sustainability Strategies • Ratings/Rankings & Indices • Health & Well-Being Strategies • Annual Report • Ethical Business Practices • Annual Shareholder Meetings • Human Rights • Investor Calls and Forums • Nutrition Regulators & Policymakers • Campbell Political Action Committee • Food Safety & Quality • Direct Engagement on Issues Important to Campbell • Product Labeling • Advocacy • Trade Policy Implications • Significant Monitoring and Communication • Health, Nutrition & Wellness Policy of Regulatory Activities • Environmental Policy • Industry Trade Associations • Sustainable Agriculture Suppliers • Collaborative Partnerships • Product Safety & Quality • Responsible Sourcing Supplier Code • Human Rights • Strategic Relationship Management Program • Ethical Sourcing • Face-to-Face Meetings • Sustainable Packaging • Supplier Diversity Program • Ingredient Traceability • Surveys • Cost-Savings Opportunities • Assessments & Audits • Supply Chain Risk Mitigation • Sustainable Agriculture 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 15 Report Cards Extend All Tradition Meets the Way to the Farm Technology PAGE 20 at Bolthouse Farms PAGE 18 GROWN 2020 Tomato Goals: Where We Stand PAGE 20 Growing Tomatoes Is a Family Affair PAGE 21 Making Sustainable Agriculture the Norm PAGE 21 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 16 Metrics That Matter How We Manage NITROGEN USE1 We believe that real food has roots. It should be made with (lb N/tonne tomato) recognizable, desirable ingredients from plants or animals. Real food is also prepared with care, which includes how our 4.284.28 4.28 ingredients are grown. These beliefs are nothing new; our 4.044.04 4.04 4.12 4.12 4.12 company has worked closely with local and regional farmers ↑1% 4.12 4.12 4.12 4.334.33 4.33 since our earliest days. 3.853.85 3.85 since 2012 Today, as the world’s population grows—and along with it, the demand for land, water and food—we’re increasingly aware that the capacity of our current agricultural system is finite. Adding ■ baseline to this uncertainty are the potential risks to the food system ■ goal ‘12 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘20 posed by a changing climate. For these reasons and more, we ‘12 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘20 are working to optimize agricultural supply chains to ensure their ‘12 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘20 WATER USE resilience in an increasingly volatile and changing environment. (gal/lb tomato) 9.659.65 9.65 8.488.48 8.48 Farming itself is responsible for significant environmental impacts. 7.53 7.53 7.53 Crop irrigation is often the largest contributor to a food product’s 7.53 7.53 7.53 8.16 8.16 8.16 water footprint, and fertilizer production and use is often the 7.72 7.72 7.72 largest contributor to its GHG footprint. Today’s consumers ↓15% since 2012 understand these issues and have demonstrated that they will consider how a product was grown when they choose what foods to eat. That’s why Campbell is driving responsible and resilient agriculture ‘12 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘20 ‘12 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘20 ■ baseline to protect the long-term viability of the farms and ecosystems from ‘12 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘20 ■ goal which we source our ingredients. Through the work of our Director of Sustainable Agriculture and Sustainable Agriculture Manager, we are helping secure natural resources and livelihoods on farms GHG EMISSIONS FROM by sharing the latest knowledge on sustainable and precision NITROGEN USE (kg CO2e/tonne tomato) agriculture, promoting adoption of more efficient practices industry-wide, and investing in agricultural innovations and data 0.0073 0.0073 0.0073 analytics. This helps our farmers make better-informed decisions 0.0060 0.0060 0.0060 about how to manage their land and helps Campbell be more 0.0057 0.0057 0.0057 transparent with consumers about the full scope of our impacts. 0.0057 0.0057 0.0057 0.0060 0.0060 0.0058 0.0060 0.0058 0.0058 ↓18% since 2012 Through the Campbell Soup Company Fund for Research in Sustainable Agriculture in Vegetables at UC Davis, we continue to fund education and public outreach about natural pest management, soil health, crop rotation and cover crops, nitrogen uptake, and drought and water management. This important ■ baseline agricultural research will help to identify long-term opportunities ‘12 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘20 ‘12 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘20 ■ goal to advance sustainable farm management practices. ‘12 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘20 1 Nitrogen use increased among Campbell’s tomato Real food begins on the farm. We’re doing our part to ensure that growers in FY2018, primarily because of difficult growing conditions, which resulted in the increased growers can keep growing, so we can continue sharing real food application of fertilizer to ensure economic yields for generations to come. were met. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 17 GROWN Tradition Meets Technology at Bolthouse Farms Farming has always required a precise information more easily. This helps them understanding of many variables: water provide exactly what their crops need and nutrient levels, soil quality and when they need it. sunlight. Farmers judged when to plant and how to care for their crops, using With a farming history dating back knowledge passed down by generations more than 100 years, Bolthouse Farms before them and intuition refined by understands the traditional ways of years of experience. tending to a field, but is also embracing new technologies through investment Now, the tools at farmers’ disposal are in precision agriculture tools that are significantly more advanced. Sensors, delivering higher yields and more drones, data analytics software and efficient use of natural resources. other technologies allow for precision agriculture, giving farmers more detailed 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 18 GROWN Tradition Meets Technology at Bolthouse Farms, cont. We evaluate our seed choices every year, testing By removing more dirt new varieties to see what Planting seeds varying from carrots during works best. distances apart yields harvest, we leave differently shaped carrots. more soil in the field We sell thick carrots whole and limit the weight of and slice narrow ones into carrot loads trucked baby-cut size. from the fields—which in turn reduces fuel consumption, water needed to clean the carrots and waste at the plant. A fleet of GPSA specialized driven tractors, machine uses planters, harvesters electroconductivity and accompanying to map soil types equipment ensures How Bolthouse Farms so we can optimize planting and that carrots are Grows Better Carrots apply variable and planted in straight rows, allowing More Sustainably accurate levels nearly every carrot of crop nutrients to be harvested. across a field. This not only reduces waste but makes more efficient use of our resources. Newer, more efficient Carrot tissue samples irrigation pipes take allow us to monitor less power and water to nutrient levels and make irrigate the fields with science-based decisions less leakage. about the optimal amount of inputs, like nitrogen, to apply throughout the Pest control advisors visit fields season to avoid waste frequently to assess what pests and nutrient runoff. are present and how to address them in a responsible manner to avoid unnecessary pesticide applications. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 19 GROWN Report Cards Extend All the Way to the Farm As part of our effort to support our the latest research, including information growers like them. This transparency farmers in developing sustainable on how to use fertilizer more efficiently provides invaluable insight and growing practices and drive environand how to apply for grants to fund drip encourages strong collaborations mental improvement, Campbell collects irrigation systems that conserve water. between Campbell and our farmers— data from our tomato growers and prowhich leads to more sustainable vides report cards back to them that While our tomato growers use growing practices and financial benchmark their resource use compared sophisticated technology to collect data benefits for farmers. to their peers within Campbell’s family about their own operations, Campbell’s of growers. We also connect tomato report cards allow them to see how farmers to educational materials and their efforts stack up against other 2020 Tomato Goals: Where We Stand In 2012, we set a goal to reduce GHG emissions from nitrogen use per tonne of tomatoes by 20 percent and Over 90 percent of reduce water use per pound of tomatoes by 20 percent our tomatoes come by the end of 2020. We’re proud to share that we’ve made substantial progress on both of these goals, but saw some from family farms setbacks in FY2018 due to unfavorable weather conditions. in California Heavy rains during the planting season delayed planting and forced farmers to plant during less than ideal conditions. A common practice is to use additional fertilizer to manage these poor conditions during the rest of the season. As a result, our progress was significantly impacted on our third goal to reduce nitrogen applied per pound of tomatoes by 10 percent. Despite this outcome, our farmers continue to invest in drip irrigation technologies, which can more precisely deliver nitrogen to the plant, reducing the risk of nutrient runoff that can pollute waterways. In FY2018, 72 percent of acres farmed for Campbell tomatoes used drip irrigation systems. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 GROWN Growing Tomatoes Is a Family Affair For the Yeung family, farming roots — and connections to Campbell Soup Company — run deep. Joe Yeung emigrated from China in 1948 and began farming. Over time, Joe’s son Richard began farming with his dad, and in 2000 they began growing tomatoes Reviving the Soup for Campbell. As he transitioned into retirement, Joe assumed that Richard’s That Started It All own son would one day continue the tradition. To celebrate our Real Food heritage, a team of Campbell Richard did have a son, but he also had employees brought a 100-yeartwo daughters, Melissa and Becky. As old tomato soup recipe back luck would have it, Melissa worked in Hear more about the Yeung sisters in this podcast. to life. Following instructions the agriculture department of Campbell handwritten by John Dorrance, Soup Company, and Becky worked for farm. For example, they initiated drip who invented condensed soup a company growing tomato seedlings irrigation to reduce water use and and is responsible for making used by Campbell tomato farmers. Both purchased advanced tillage equipment soup our middle name, we women had insights into innovations to reduce the number of tractor trips sourced local New Jersey in agriculture, and five years ago, they through the field (and associated fuel beefsteak tomatoes and cooked decided to leave their jobs to farm fulluse and carbon emissions). Taking up a batch in our pilot plant. time. Now, they manage the Campbell the best of both past knowledge The result was delicious. The tomato contract with Joe Yeung Farms. and present technology, the women limited edition jars have been are ensuring that their family farm is sold at Cracker Barrel stores in The sisters rely on the knowledge of sustained for the next generation. And New Jersey and Pennsylvania. their father and grandfather, but have that next generation might just turn out also made significant changes on the to be their own daughters. Making Sustainable Agriculture the Norm With Goldfish® crackers, Milano® cookies O’Lakes’ network of agricultural and many other baked goods in our retailers. Agricultural retailers serve Our Wheat Goal: portfolio, Campbell has identified wheat as trusted advisors to farmers, and Enroll 70,000 as a priority ingredient to source more SUSTAIN trains them on ways to sustainably. We have partnered with the improve air, water and soil quality, Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) and while increasing yields, improving Land O’Lakes’ SUSTAIN program to do soil health and building resilience to acres of wheat our part to make fertilizer efficiency unpredictable climate conditions. Using and soil health the norm in U.S. grain the power of this network, SUSTAIN in a fertilizer production, not only because of the hopes to eventually reach thousands of optimization plan by 2020 environmental benefits, but also to help U.S. farmers working millions of acres improve farmers’ bottom lines. of crops, tipping the balance in favor of more sustainable growing practices SUSTAIN provides practical tools, nationwide. Campbell is committed to our Pepperidge Farm sourcing regions products and practices that are optimizing fertilizer use on 70,000 acres to help achieve this goal. In FY2018, we available to farmers through Land of wheat and is deploying SUSTAIN in enrolled 10,000 acres toward our goal. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 21 Making Our Strategic Focus Areas Progress on and Goals Animal Welfare PAGE 24 PAGE 26 SOURCED A More Transparent PALM OIL SUPPLY CHAIN PAGE 27 A Packaging Evolution at Plum Organics PAGE 27 A Triple Win for Arnott’s PAGE 28 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 22 Metrics That Matter How We Manage RESPONSIBLY SOURCED Transparency builds trust. That’s why we’re working to set PALM OIL (RSPO) AS A PERCENTAGE OF the standard for transparency, with the goal of becoming the TOTAL PALM OIL PURCHASES world’s most trusted food company. By improving transparency 100% 1 from farm to fork, we can ensure that ethical and sustainable practices are used across our entire supply chain. Knowing how 2018 our ingredients are produced and where they come from has become more important than ever as we expand our product portfolio to meet the needs of our diverse consumer base. This includes adding unique ingredients from new places, like CRATE-FREE PORK AS A PERCENTAGE cinnamon from Asia and quinoa from South America. As our OF TOTAL PORK PURCHASES supply chain grows more complex, it is important for us to build 57% 2018 mechanisms for transparency to understand and minimize risks related to human rights, animal welfare, climate change and unsustainable resource consumption. To help build this transparency, Campbell’s Procurement team has revamped its Strategic Relationship Management (SRM) PERCENTAGE OF CANS TRANSITIONED TO NON-BPA LINING program. This program focuses on Campbell’s key suppliers, and social and environmental responsibility are included as elements 100% 2018 of the program. We engage with these suppliers through top-totop meetings, in-person workshops and surveys. Suppliers will be rated on their performance against several key elements, one of which is sustainability. To live into our Real Food Philosophy and our commitment to build CAGE-FREE EGGS AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL EGG PURCHASES trust through transparency, we created a responsible sourcing function in 2016 that reports to Campbell’s Procurement team and 16% 2018 is focused on building a holistic strategy for managing social issues such as human rights and animal welfare along the supply chain. We have identified four strategic focus areas that align with our Real Food Philosophy and help pave the way for us to become “NO ANTIBIOTICS EVER” CHICKEN a leader in ethical and sustainable sourcing. 98% 2018 1 T  he progress reported here represents Campbell’s portfolio prior to the acquisition of Snyder’s-Lance. We are working to integrate Snyder’s-Lance’s sourcing into our certified sustainable supply. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 23 SOURCED PRODUCED Our Strategic Focus Areas and Goals FOCUS AREA: Responsibly source communicate the Code to the suppliers new commitment to broiler chicken ingredients, packaging and services of our priority raw materials. The Program welfare. We are making progress for our products and operations incorporates a holistic approach of on our pledges regarding cage-free education and compliance, such as eggs and gestation crates for hogs. We strive to procure ingredients, training for Campbell’s buyers globally, Campbell is also working to address packaging and services from suppliers supplier training and supplier audits. ingredients whose sourcing may have who share our commitment to In FY2018, we trained 100 percent of unintended social or environmental environmental stewardship, ethical our buyers globally on our Responsible impacts, such as deforestation resulting business practices and diversity. Our Sourcing Program. from palm oil cultivation. Responsible Sourcing Supplier Code is applicable to all suppliers globally. Responsible sourcing extends to the GOAL: By 2025: Responsibly The Code is the foundation of our animal products used in our food, source 100% of priority raw materials Responsible Sourcing Program, which including eggs, chicken, pork and beef. PROGRESS: We continue to build is currently being rolled out to our In FY2017, we rolled out new Animal management systems internally to suppliers. In FY2018, we began to Welfare Guidelines, which included a define our scope and baseline. Priority Raw Materials AGRICULTURE Tomatoes Carrots Jalapeños Potatoes ANIMAL WELFARE Chicken Seafood Pork Eggs COMMODITIES Wheat Chocolate Dairy Sweeteners DEFORESTATION Paper Packaging Beef Palm Oil Soy Priority raw materials were identified using information including: social and environmental risk, volumes, annual spend, existing commitments and importance to key products. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 24 SOURCED PRODUCED Our Strategic Focus Areas and Goals, cont. FOCUS AREA: Improve capabilities more widespread, we are exploring for farm to fork traceability ways to build full traceability in our supply chain from farm to fork. We know that today’s consumers want to know exactly what’s in the food they are feeding their families, down GOAL: By 2025: 100 percent of to where the ingredients in those priority raw materials are traceable foods come from. We are committed to to country of origin traceability of the priority raw materials PROGRESS: We continue to build that go into our products, and as management systems internally technologies like blockchain become to define our scope and baseline. FOCUS AREA: Develop a diverse suppliers equal access to potential supply base that reflects the business opportunities. Diverse Suppliers demographics of our consumers for a Diverse Supplier diversity adds value to GOAL: By 2020: Measurably Consumer Base our long-term growth, strengthens advance Campbell’s Supplier our competitive advantage and can Diversity Program Through support of minorityincrease market share and shareholder PROGRESS: We continue to build and women-owned businesses, return. Our supplier diversity program management systems internally Campbell has increased is focused on strengthening our to define our scope and baseline. our social impact on local U.S. supply base by offering diverse communities by offering employment opportunities, modeling behavior for younger generations and encouraging FOCUS AREA: Advance respect foundation of a new internal Social purchases from other diverse for human rights in our operations Accountability Program which is under businesses. We’ve also and across our supply chain development and will include employee witnessed competitive cost training, proactive internal facility audits, and quality improvements, Our commitment to real food extends and alignment between our internal responsiveness and agility to to protecting the human rights of the Code of Conduct and Responsible adapt to changing business people along our supply chain, but it Sourcing Supplier Code. needs, dedicated and enhanced starts with our own employees. In our customer service, and fresh own operations, we hold ourselves perspectives that promote accountable to a set of Human Rights GOAL: By 2020: Proactively assess innovation. In FY2017, we Principles to ensure we are treating 100 percent of Campbell-owned updated our Supplier Diversity our own employees with respect and facilities for compliance with Human Commitment and joined are compliant with industry standards. Rights Principles Walmart and other consumer We updated Campbell’s Human Rights PROGRESS: In FY2018, we assessed goods companies in collectively Principles in 2017 to include and codify 21 percent of Campbell-owned facilities reporting our annual spend with our long-standing policy for ensuring for compliance with our Human Rights women-owned businesses. no forced labor exists in our own Principles. operations. These Principles are the 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 25 SOURCED PRODUCED Making Progress on Animal Welfare The humane treatment of animals In addition, we committed to working is an important part of our vision for with our suppliers to improve the a responsible supply chain. NGOs, treatment of broiler chickens while consumers and other outside experts thoughtfully addressing the impact of have shared concerns about the these standards on the farmers from welfare of animals whose meat and whom we source. We aim to move our eggs are present in our food, as well U.S. chicken meat supply to a higher as the negative environmental, health standard of animal welfare by 2024 and social consequences of certain that includes: practices. We’re listening and moving • Transitioning to breeds of birds to address concerns. approved by Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Changes such as these are complicated (RSPCA) or the Global Animal and require time, investment and Partnership (GAP), which are partnership to succeed. They must also scientifically recognized as having align with our commitment to ensuring higher welfare outcomes access to good, affordable food for our • Providing more space for chickens Our Animal Welfare consumers. We will continue to work by reducing stocking density to a Commitments with NGOs, growers, suppliers, peers maximum of six pounds per square foot and other industry stakeholders to • Offering improved environments identify cost-effective solutions for including litter, lighting and enrichment our industry. that meet GAP’s new standards • Processing chickens in a manner Cage-Free Eggs that avoids pre-stun handling and We have committed to sourcing instead uses multistep, controlled Cage-free eggs exclusively cage-free eggs globally by atmospheric stunning 2025. As of August 2018, 16 percent of • Using third-party auditing to ensure by 2025 Campbell’s egg supply was cage-free. compliance Kelsen and Arnott’s are leading the way in this effort, as both have already Pork transitioned to cage-free eggs. In 2012, we made a commitment to eliminate gestation crates from our Broiler Chickens pork supply chain. With our suppliers’ Higher animal In 2017, Campbell implemented a Whole engagement, we intend to reach that welfare standards Bird Model for sourcing our chicken goal no later than 2022. We have made meat in the U.S. and Canada. In addition progress on this commitment, due to for broiler chickens to the economic benefits, this model both favoring suppliers that raise hogs by 2024 gives us visibility into the entire life cycle in a gestation crate-free environment of the chicken, from egg incubation and and continuing to work with suppliers hatching to growth and processing. This who have transitioned from crates to has been instrumental in ensuring that group housing. We also favor suppliers chicken meat in our North American that can provide audit and tracking product portfolio is raised with No reports for sourcing of crate-free pork. Antibiotics Ever (NAE). As of August 2018, 57 percent of Crate-free pork Campbell’s pork supply is crate-free. by 2022 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 26 PRODUCED SOURCED A More Transparent Palm Oil Supply Chain Palm oil is the most widely consumed In March 2018, Campbell acquired the vegetable oil around the world and Snyder’s-Lance portfolio of brands. is used as an ingredient in some of We are committed to integrating Campbell’s snacking products, such Snyder’s-Lance’s sourcing into our as cookies and crackers. It requires certified sustainable supply as we less land to grow than soya, rapeseed integrate the business. and sunflower, the other three major oil-producing crops, and can also In our Arnott’s and Kelsen businesses, Where Does support jobs in emerging economies. we have taken it a step further and use However, improper sourcing of palm 100 percent segregated palm oil, ensuring Arnott’s Chocolate oil can contribute to deforestation, that all palm oil originates from RSPO Come From? which can increase global GHG plantations and is fully traceable. emissions, harm wildlife and impact Cocoa liquor is what gives vulnerable communities. For these Sustainably sourced palm oil has been Arnott’s biscuits their distinctive reasons, Campbell is working to ensure a priority at Arnott’s for years, due in part taste. Our cocoa liquor comes responsible sourcing and traceability to the Australian market’s proximity to from beans grown in Southeast of palm oil used in our products. Indonesia and Malaysia, the source of Asia and Ghana, and our roughly 85 percent of global palm oil. biscuits contain blends of In 2016, Campbell achieved its goal of Engagement with consumers and NGOs chocolate from both regions. using 100 percent certified Responsibly near Arnott’s Australian headquarters Because ethical production Sourced Palm Oil (RSPO) in our global has helped the brand emerge as a issues, such as forced labor operations. We have also committed to leader on this issue and earn a perfect and child labor, exist for cocoa providing full plantation-level traceability score on the World Wildlife Fund’s 2016 grown in West Africa, all of our and communicating our progress in our Palm Oil Buyers Scorecard. chocolate from that region is Sustainable Palm Oil Sourcing Guidelines. certified Fair Trade. A Packaging Evolution at Plum Organics Responsible sourcing extends beyond the ingredients in our food. It also includes a focus on the packaging in which we deliver our products. Plum Organics, a Public Benefit Corporation and certified B Corp, is making progress on packaging sustainability in ways both big and small. Improved Retail Cartons Strong Partnerships In FY2017, Plum Organics transitioned Plum Organics partners with industry 100 percent of its pouch portfolio to leaders, such as Materials Recovery for a six-pouch, 100-percent recyclable the Future and One Step Closer to an 11x Less corrugated carton and eliminated the Organic and Sustainable Community need for an additional corrugated shipping (OSC2), to actively seek out new, more box. This reduced our total corrugated sustainable materials and end-of-life packaging per gram of packaging weight by 40 percent. We solutions for packaging waste. Plum eliminated this extra layer of packaging Organics also remains a member food in a Plum Organics® by upgrading the cartons to “ship to of How2Recycle, a labeling system pouch vs. glass sell” status, adding shelf-ready graphics that makes it easier for consumers baby food jar and perforation to each box. to recycle. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 27 SOURCED PRODUCED A Triple Win for Arnott’s Campbell made a $40 million investment Once they arrive at supermarkets, in new packaging capabilities to help products from the Multi-Pack Centre Arnott’s address environmental, consumer should also please consumers. The and economic needs. Much of this investnew corrugated packaging protects ment is centered at Arnott’s Huntingwood biscuits from breaking, is easier to bakery in Western Sydney, where a new navigate on store shelves and fits more Multi-Pack Centre equipped with stateneatly in a pantry. The Huntingwood of-the-art equipment and technology was facility employs more than 500 people, opened to support product and packagand is the latest recipient of Arnott’s ing innovations. Biscuits produced in the investments in Australian manufacturing, facility are now packed into recyclable which total more than a quarter of a corrugated boxes, rather than the billion dollars over the past five years. nonrecyclable plastic bags that once Through this project, Arnott’s managed held multiple single-serving packs. The to score a win for the environment, its boxes are also more efficient to ship, consumers and its community. which means fewer delivery trucks on the road. The Australian Packaging Covenant (APC) A sustainable packaging initiative changing the culture of business by improving recycling and recovery of product packaging. In 2018, Campbell Arnott’s achieved the highest level of performance against the APC’s Packaging Sustainability Framework, Level 5—Beyond Best Practice, and was a top-tier APC signatory. Here are some of the achievements that contributed to our strong performance. Received Award for 100% Outstanding Achievement in Packaging Corrugate from Design and overall Category Winner sustainably managed forests for Food and Beverage 73 tonnes 95% 1,400 tonnes Can material reduced Waste diverted from landfills Imported bleached liners converted to recycled liners made locally 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 28 Making Our Refrigeration Systems Shipping More Efficient Smarter With PAGE 31 SmartWay® PAGE 32 Solar Energy Is Heating Up in Camden PAGE 31 PRODUCED Managing Real Food Every Drop Shouldn’t PAGE 32 Go to Waste PAGE 33 Making the Most of Every Vegetable PAGE 34 How Arnott’s and Kelsen Are Doing Working Together for More for the Planet Improved Food Safety PAGE 35 PAGE 35 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 29 751.9 725.0 751.3 734.9 Metrics That Matter 563.5 How We Manage 761.2 GOALS 751.3 751.9 725.0 34.1 32.25 32.0 31.9 GHG EMISSIONS 751.9 751.9 563.5 24.4 (tonnes CO2e, in thousands) 725.0725.0 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘25 Real food is prepared with care. It should be crafted using sustainable 751.3 751.3 practices that safeguard the natural resources we all share. That means 734.9734.9 producing our food with minimal impact on the environment, ensuring the 563.5563.5 safety and quality of every product we sell, and developing employees Reduce GHG with the knowledge and tools they need to do their best work. 32.0 emissions ‘17 ‘25 by ‘17 ‘25 31.9 31.9 25% by 2025 A rising global population and accelerated resource use make a 31.8 25.5 sustainable business model more important than ever. We have set ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘25 ■ baseline aggressive targets to reduce our footprint, and our environmental ■ goal ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘25 management system helps us to better manage compliance, reduce costs and increase efficiencies. The risk of operating unsustainably is WATER USE (cubic meters, in millions) 51.9 detrimental to long-term success and impacts profitability and reputation. 32.0 32.0 49.0 418,185 44.2 31.9 31.9 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘25 40.0 Our commitment to addressing the risks of climate change and reducing 31.9 31.9 our environmental impact is unwavering. We continue to promote 31.8 31.8 Reduce water 30.0 stewardship of natural resources in our operations through efficiency, 25.5 25.5 use by 20% low-carbon technologies 209,093 and sustainable practices. Starting with our by 2025 own operations, we are using our role as a leading food company to ‘17 ‘25 help tackle ‘17 the ‘30 global challenge of waste, especially food waste. We ■ baseline also continue to identify opportunities to reduce energy and water use. ■ goal ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘25 The global engineering team, in conjunction with the local facility WASTE TO LANDFILL ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘25 (tonnes, in thousands) engineers and Campbell’s sustainability team, transform these resource-reduction opportunities into actionable projects that bring 48.9 44.2 about real change. Over the last 10 years, we have reduced GHG 40.1 emissions intensity by 42 percent, energy intensity by 30 percent 39.7 Reduce waste to and water intensity by 37 percent. In FY2016, reflecting significant 30.0 landfills by 25% changes in our operations due to acquisitions and divestitures, we by 2025 set new environmental targets for our operations. These targets use FY2017 as the base year and are more aggressive in that they require absolute reductions. ■ baseline 48.9 48.9 ■ goal 44.2 44.2 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘25 Food safety and quality are implicit requirements for any major food 40.1 40.1 FOOD WASTE GENERATED company. We are dedicated to ensuring that consumers are protected (tonnes) 39.7 39.7 from foodborne illnesses, allergens or other health and safety concerns, 30.0 30.0 and are transparent about what ingredients are present in our food. Campbell has a long history of regulatory compliance and is in compliance with all applicable regulations, including the provisions of the Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA). ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘25 Animal Feed: 399,893 ‘15Aerobic Digestion: ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘25 20,692 Landfill: 13,470 Land Application: 9,144 Biomaterial Processing: 7,598 Anaerobic Digestion: 1,945 Controlled Combustion: 283 Total: 453,025 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 30 PRODUCED Campbell’s world headquarters in Camden, New Jersey Solar Energy Is Heating Up in Camden We continue to expand our contribution electricity demand and making use of Bloomfield, Connecticut; and 1.2 MW to the clean energy economy through an otherwise unusable brownfield. The and 1.4 MW fuel cells in Bloomfield, renewable energy installations. Our most project also features electric vehicle Connecticut. In total, Campbell contributes recent is a 4.4 MW solar array installed (EV) charging stations for Campbell 27,000 MWh of renewable energy to at Campbell’s world headquarters in employees, encouraging the use of EVs. the grid annually. Camden, New Jersey, and is the largest solar array in the city. Through carport, This project joins four other existing rooftop and ground-mount solar solutions, renewable energy projects at Campbell we are generating the equivalent of facilities, a 9.8 MW solar array in 20 percent of our world headquarters’ Napoleon, Ohio; a 1 MW solar array in Making Our Refrigeration Systems More Efficient In alignment with the Montreal Protocol, efficiency, lowers energy costs and New Jersey. The CO2 system provides Campbell has made a commitment to reduces GHG emissions, which contribute refrigeration for our new centralized reduce the use of hydrochlorofluoroto climate change. storage cooler and freezer facility in the carbon (HCFC) refrigerants, specifically corporate R&D pilot plant. In addition, R22, at our facilities. HCFCs, such as In FY2019, we will make the same we commissioned a CO2 system for a R22, are known to deplete the ozone conversion at our largest Pepperidge new frozen bread line in Downingtown, layer. At our Pepperidge Farm facilFarm facility in Denver, Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania, in January 2018. ities in Downingtown, Pennsylvania; and in FY2020 we expect to convert Lakeland, Florida; Richmond, Utah; our Arnott’s facility in Virginia, Australia, By transitioning to best-in-class and Willard, Ohio, we phased out our from R22 to ammonia. refrigeration technology, Campbell is R22 refrigerants by converting to lowalso aligned with the Consumer Goods charge ammonia and CO2, which are Campbell also commissioned a new Forum’s commitment to phase out natural refrigerants. The use of natural CO2 refrigeration system at its hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) refrigerants. refrigerants significantly improves energy corporate headquarters in Camden, 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 31 PRODUCED Shipping Smarter With SmartWay® Campbell participates in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s SmartWay® program, a voluntary system for tracking, documenting and sharing information about fuel use and GHG emissions across supply chains. SmartWay® partners are 1,128 Fewer Trucks on the Road = actively working to improve their fuel efficiency in order to reduce 1,800 tonnes transportation-related emissions, CO2e Emissions and in FY2018, we moved nearly 94 percent of our freight with these carriers. Because we move the majority of product using SmartWay® carriers, Campbell has been recognized as a SmartWay® Shipper Partner. Campbell this approach for inbound shipments plants, we also removed an additional also uses intermodal transportation, and customer deliveries. This past 570 trucks and eliminated over which combines rail and truck transport, year, we increased density on customer 1,350 tonnes CO2e emissions. In total, to increase efficiency and lower shipments, removing 558 trucks from by increasing density per shipment, emissions. We increased our intermodal the road and eliminating 480 tonnes Campbell removed 1,128 trucks transportation for shipments between CO2e emissions. By increasing the from the road and eliminated over plants from 61 percent to 63 percent weight per load shipped between 1,800 tonnes CO2e emissions. in FY2018, and plan to increase use of Managing Every Drop Water is a vital resource for communities flooding and seasonal and annual supply sites exposed to higher water-related and businesses. But, in many parts of the variability. Risks were assessed today and risks include Maxton, North Carolina, in United States and around the world, this three, five and ten years into the future. the Pee Dee River Basin and Stockton, resource is at risk as a result of growing These findings were cross-referenced California, in the Sacramento River Basin. demand, pollution and climate change. against the financial risk exposure We will be expanding upon this initial With this top of mind, in FY2018, Campbell associated with disruption at each site. analysis with stakeholder interviews to continued its water risk management Incongruities between the tools and validate these results and identify opporpractices and performed an in-depth testing methods were examined, and tunities to better mitigate risk and support water risk assessment using the WRI sites and river basins with higher risk were watershed health. Recommendations will Aqueduct and Ecolab Water Risk identified. The initial results indicate that be shared with our manufacturing sites Monetizer tools. We assessed current the St. Lawrence River Basin is vulnerable to ensure that Campbell can positively and future water risk at our manufacturing to water quality and quantity issues now impact water supply, access to safe and facilities globally, and identified sites of and in the future, which puts Campbell’s clean water, and biodiversity that can be concern for present and future local Ohio facilities Napoleon and Willard at impacted by changes in water quantity water supply, water quality, water stress, risk. The analysis also indicates that other and quality. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 32 PRODUCED Real Food Shouldn’t Go to Waste The statistics on food waste are hard to Campbell participated in the A Closer Look at Our Operations believe—but impossible to ignore. Across development of the Food Loss and We’re making progress against our 2030 the world, roughly one-third of all food Waste Accounting and Reporting goal to reduce food waste by 50 percent. produced intended for human consumption Standard with the World Resources For example, we’ve reconfigured is lost or wasted. At the same time, one Institute. This Standard, which we production equipment to decrease in nine people remains undernourished. implemented in FY2017, provides ingredient waste during processing. This inefficiency amounts to economic guidance to more precisely measure Lost ingredients are diverted to feed losses of close to $1 trillion per year. the types of food waste generated in animals. And we’ve installed equipment Campbell is committed to doing our an organization’s operations and the to de-package products so that food can part to address this challenge and has destinations of those waste streams. be sent to animal feed and packaging set a goal to cut our food waste in half This Standard has helped Campbell can be recycled. by 2030, in line with UN Sustainable establish a baseline by which to Development Goal 12.3. measure and report on efforts to Our Downers Grove site in Illinois that achieve our food waste reduction goal. bakes fresh Pepperidge Farm bread Engaging With Our Peers every day reduced their food loss and Campbell has been a leading voice in Consistent with our commitment to waste by nearly 40 percent in FY2018. food waste measurement and reduction transparency in all facets of our business, Through improved efficiencies, employee in industry and multistakeholder groups Campbell supports a product labeling training and equipment downtime for several years, and is a member of the framework that clearly communicates reductions, the site eliminated 215 tonnes Consumer Goods Forum’s Food Waste food quality and food safety. This stance of food that would otherwise have gone Working Group, as well as The Sustainaligns with the Consumer Goods to waste. We found that there is a strong ability Consortium’s Food Waste Task Forum’s Call to Action on food date correlation between unscheduled Force. We also continue to be engaged labeling. We believe that simplifying downtime at the plant and food wasted. in Champions 12.3—a group of executives and harmonizing labels and establishing Because of this, we are performing from government, business and civil society federal standards for “best if used by” maintenance inspections while the committed to accelerating progress on UN and “use by” language will reduce equipment is running. This has reduced Sustainable Development Goal 12.3 to consumer confusion and limit waste. downtime and, subsequently, food waste. reduce food waste by 50 percent by 2030. Campbell has set a goal to cut our food waste in half by 2030. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 33 PRODUCED Making the Most of Every Vegetable Carrot processing at Bolthouse Farms is designed to make In Campbell’s tomato operations, everything has a use of the entire carrot from tip to greens. Take a look: purpose, and nothing is wasted—practices that we think would make our company’s farming founders proud. Unripe tomatoes, stems Carrot tops are left behind and other plant material in our fields to improve soil are returned to the ground health. at harvest to improve soil health. Long narrow carrots bred for their sweet taste and small At our facilities, stems and core are cut and peeled into damaged fruit are sorted and baby carrots or chopped into sent to nearby cattle farms for time-saving products like animal feed or to compost. Chips and Matchstix. Thicker whole carrots are Tomato peels and seeds bagged unpeeled for fresh become ingredients for produce sales. animal feed and pet food. Fruit that doesn’t match the Other whole carrots and size needed to make diced broken pieces are juiced into tomatoes is rerouted to fresh beverages, like our another production line to Mango Ginger + Carrot juice. make tomato paste. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 34 PRODUCED Working Together for Improved Food Safety How Arnott’s and Kelsen Are Preparing safe, high-quality food has always been one of Campbell’s Doing More for the Planet fundamental strengths. We assess food safety risk in our operations in compliance with the current requirements In FY2018, operations in our Asia-Pacific region reduced GHG emissions by of the Food Safety Modernization Act 3.9 percent across the region. Operations in Denmark were able to reduce (FSMA) of 2011, and are always working to electricity usage by 5 percent through efficiency and other improvements. continually improve ahead of emerging Here are some of the projects that are contributing to our success. requirements. FSMA aims to help food manufacturers shift their focus from Australia Marleston resolving issues to preventing them from We replaced 1,270 fluorescent lights with happening in the first place and is the Huntingwood LED lights and installed motion sensors most significant legislation passed on Two new two-stage, air-cooled air that will save 400,000 kWh per year, food safety in the last 30 years. compressors were installed, reducing reducing electricity usage for lighting the energy use required to produce the these areas by 50 percent. With the acquisition of new companies, compressed air by 40 percent. We also Campbell’s portfolio is becoming more replaced 1,200 fluorescent lights with LED Denmark diverse, making this a perfect time to lights, reducing electricity consumption enhance our quality controls. We have for these lights by 50 percent. Nørre Snede incorporated additional controls and All lighting in the plants and warehouse prevention steps to mitigate food safety Shepparton has been replaced with LEDs, saving risks within our processes. In addition, all We installed three more highly efficient 750,000 kWh per year. of our manufacturing facilities worldwide Synchronous reluctance motors (SynRM) are audited and certified to the Global on the refrigeration plant; further optimized Ribe Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) standard. operational controls; promoted behavioral We installed a new ventilation system changes; and expanded landfill diversion in the packing area, which will now use The rollout of FSMA has also been an options to reduce energy use by ambient air cooling to cool the oven opportunity for closer collaboration with 9.8 percent, water use by 8.2 percent belt, saving 230,000 kWh per year. our suppliers and across our industry. and waste sent to landfills by 32.5 percent Members of Campbell’s food safety since last year. and quality team have participated in Malaysia industry events to share expertise and set We invested USD $350,000 to upgrade Virginia benchmarks. Over 100 of our employees our wastewater treatment plant to comply A new wastewater treatment plant was have received FSMA-related training with new local regulations. In addition, installed for USD $2.4 million, ensuring and certification. In addition, we’re all air conditioners in the office using R22 discharge concentrations are within new, working with our suppliers, particularly refrigerant were replaced with R410a, more stringent limits. those with smaller operations, to help an ozone-friendly refrigerant. We have them provide the documentation that also replaced all office lighting with the law now requires. Thanks to FSMA, LEDs, and more than 60 percent of the food is becoming safer worldwide, and plant is using LED lighting. Campbell is proud to help raise the bar. Indonesia Our facilities passed audits from the provincial government and Ministry of Environment & Forestry. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 35 Benefits That Matter for Life’s Moments PAGE 39 How We’re Living Our Values PAGE 38 SHARED Employees Using Transparency to Transform Careers PAGE 40 Using Technology to Safety for Everyone, Transform Culture Every Day PAGE 39 PAGE 41 Helping Campbell Women Lift Each Other Up PAGE 42 Helping Campbell ID Professionals Networks Add Return to Work Value PAGE 42 PAGE 43 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 36 Metrics That Matter How We Manage EMPLOYEES BY GEOGRAPHY Americas: 74% Europe: Americas: 3% 74% Asia-Pacific: Americas: Europe: 23% 74% 3% Europe: Asia-Pacific: 3% 23% Asia-Pacific: 23% EMPLOYEES BY AGE DEMOGRAPHICS (Global) The strength of our products depends on the strength of our workforce. We believe that creating a high-performance culture 30 and under: 20% 31-50: 47% rooted in integrity, accountable for results and committed to 30 and under: 20% 51 and 30 and over: 31-50: under: 33% 20% 47% bringing our Purpose to life is essential to the sustainability of 31-50: 51 and over: 47% 33% our company. This requires the interplay of many elements, 51 and over: 33% including talent management, business ethics, workplace safety and wellness, employee engagement and diversity EMPLOYEES BY ETHNICITY (U.S. only) and inclusion. Attracting, developing, engaging and retaining a diverse and high-performing workforce reflective of our consumer base is crucial to achieving our business objectives. To this end, Campbell’s HR department has hired a team dedicated to advancing diversity and inclusion throughout the organization. In February 2017, Campbell launched a new communication White: 53% and information-sharing platform to global salaried employees, White: or Latino: Hispanic 24% 53% African HispanicAmerican: White: or Latino: 12% 53% 24% Workplace by Facebook, which has transformed how employees Asian: American: Hispanic African or Latino: 5% 24% 12% connect and engage. The platform has facilitated cross-functional Other: Asian: American: African 4% 12% 5% Did not Disclose: Asian: Other: 2% 5% 4% visibility, collaboration and recognition, which has increased Other: Did not Disclose: 4% 2% employee engagement across the organization. It has also opened Did not Disclose: 2% up new opportunities for employee engagement in sustainability through storytelling and competitions, which have encouraged 42% positive behaviors like recycling and using reusable mugs. Women as a percentage of global workforce 43% Women in global management position 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 37 SHARED How We’re Living Our Values Since 2014, we’ve been on a the philosophy and become a purposethe behaviors and culture we need to journey to become a purpose-driven driven organization with innovation at live into our Purpose. We believe in organization. We began by defining the helm, we needed to reinvent our these Values and the accompanying our Purpose, Real food that matters culture, and that started with answering behaviors they put forth. Our Values are for life’s moments, which helped us a simple question—What do we value? a representation of what our company capture who we are, what we believe, and our people have always stood for, and the company we want to be. We’ve In 2016, the Campbell Leadership while inspiring us to embrace change made great progress on our journey, Team set out to answer that question. to compete effectively in a dynamic including our work to define what real Each word was meticulously and marketplace. food means to us through our Real purposefully chosen with the goal of Food Philosophy. But to truly activate redefining Campbell’s Values to create Do Right Seek Dare Own it and the Power of to like a Be Real Different Disrupt Founder Always Act Use Your Voice Build it Bold Act like Your with Integrity Name is on it Be Open, Risk Together, Be Authentic Be Curious Reward Together See the Big Picture Build Trust through Listen for Experiment Fast Make it Happen Transparency the Unexpected to Learn Sooner Fast Keep Be Different, Get Wear Your Passion Your Word Go Together Uncomfortable on Your Sleeve More than a year after introducing • In our talent development efforts. how well their own behaviors align these Values, we’re seeing them Our Values are being embedded with company standards. come to life in a variety of ways into performance management across Campbell: internally and behavioral interviewing • From our leaders. Our C100, or the externally, allowing us to attract top 100 leaders within Campbell, are • On our social network. Campbell and retain individuals who share key to transforming our culture to employees interact on Workplace, Campbell’s ideals. reflect our Values. Leaders recorded an internal social media platform a series of videos discussing what powered by Facebook. Our people • In our training. We introduced new Campbell’s Values mean to them. have gotten creative and made the Campbell University training through site their own, using the hashtag which employees can learn how to function to tag corporate Values in apply the Values to their own work. their posts. Values 360 helps employees assess 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 38 SHARED Benefits That Matter for Life’s Moments Campbell’s Family Center Campbell’s Purpose—Real food that about our new Family Center, located on offering a majority of Medicare-eligible matters for life’s moments—serves as a the campus of our world headquarters retirees access to health care coverage filter for decision-making in all aspects in Camden, New Jersey. The center through a private exchange. This change of our business, from the ingredients in provides care for children from infancy gives our post-65 retirees greater choice our products to the ways we engage through kindergarten and focuses on and advocacy support to meet their with consumers. Our choices about health and well-being, with nutritious food individual needs. employee benefits are no exception. choices and optional activities like karate and dance. In line with our companywide commitment In 2016, we began offering 10 weeks of to well-being and health, we are in the fully paid leave to primary caregivers We’re continuing to engage with our process of revamping our employee and two weeks of fully paid leave to employees on other benefits that matter well-being offerings and have formed nonprimary caregivers in the U.S. to them. The company provides adoption a work group that will determine what following the birth or adoption of a child. assistance and includes fertility services benefits are most needed at each of We’re proud of this decision, which puts and gender reassignment under its our facilities. Our Purpose will continue Campbell in a leading position in the insurance coverage, alleviating financial to guide us as we explore additional U.S. food industry with respect to parental barriers that may exist for employees. benefits for Campbell employees and leave. Campbell parents are also excited Beginning in 2017, Campbell began their families. Using Technology to Transform Culture In 2016 an Internal Communications In less than a year, we saw a significant which is helping Campbell to fix one-way Survey uncovered that only 18 percent increase in engagement metrics compared and top-down communication. of employees thought our company to our previous internal communications internal communications were timely. platform, including an increase of Today, our employees are more They also believed that internal 121 percent in readership, a 201 percent connected than we’ve ever been. We communications could be improved if increase in reactions and a 234 percent have marketers sharing product launches they were more authentic, conversational, increase in commenting. Additionally, and new campaigns, employee affinity inclusive and accessible, and they were it was the first time employees globally groups streaming live events to other right. So, in 2017, Campbell launched were connected on the same platform. locations, and executives commenting Workplace by Facebook, a new People across the organization are and engaging with employees at every technology and collaboration platform sharing stories about the individual level of the company. that has transformed the way we work parts they play in the Campbell narrative, and connect across the company. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 39 SHARED Using Transparency to Transform Careers The makeup of Campbell’s workforce That’s why Campbell has been hard is changing, and with it, the resources at work transforming the way that we our employees need to find meaning in help employees think about growth their work and chart their career paths. and development. We began to respond to this changing dynamic in 2016, when we conducted Our Career Commitment our most recent Drive Survey of salaried The result is Our Career Commitment, and hourly employees globally. a new talent development strategy rooted in transparency and intentionally From this survey, we learned that our designed to reflect our new way employees wanted more meaningful of looking at talent practices. The and personal career conversations, more Commitment encourages employees transparent access to opportunities and to practice three habits: get to know the a more personal connection to their real you, explore real options and take work. The Drive Survey identified gaps real action. in resources for career development and in managers’ ability to help employees Our Career Commitment formally clarify and pursue their career goals. launched in 2017 with a career day at our global headquarters and subsequent events at facilities worldwide. An internal website, launched at the same time, gives employees resources to assist them in Feedback from those involved have reflecting on their personal values and been overwhelmingly positive, with one goals, learning about colleagues’ career participant sharing that her Gig “helped paths and tuition assistance for continuing to breakdown silos and expand my education, and applying for open roles network....this Gig experience has within Campbell. allowed me to explore my career potential, highlight my passions and An important part of this new framework brainstorm on the best ways I can We believe great is Campbell Gigs, a pilot program initially contribute to Campbell.” She also careers are: undertaken by our HR and Finance shared that her Gig provided mentorship organizations. Gigs are voluntary side and that her Gig sponsor was an SELF-DRIVEN projects that employees can use to amazing teacher. We are excited for the Discover your personal purpose learn and support their career journeys potential career growth that Gigs can and let it shape your path. We’ll with on-the-job skills. For example, provide to Campbell employees. help guide you. an HR professional interested in communications could voluntarily work MULTIFACETED on a communication plan for the rollout Seek new opportunities that of a new process, or an employee offer the greatest learning. who wants to gain financial experience Have courage to experiment could participate in an audit process. and explore. Employees can explore, apply for and LIMITLESS provide feedback on their Gig experiences Push yourself beyond your using our Workday platform. After a boundaries. The more you stretch, successful pilot, we expanded Gigs the greater your potential. across the organization in 2018 and have had nearly 100 employees complete a Gig this past fiscal year. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 40 SHARED Safety for Everyone, Every Day Campbell’s relentless focus on employee communication on common safety increased by 5 percent (0.20 to 0.21), safety has continually produced results hazards. Site Improvement Plans help this is primarily due to improvements in that exceed industry benchmarks. In individual plants identify unique ways to data reporting and tracking at Campbell’s FY2017, we updated the tactics outlined address concerns. And new training on facilities. Though these are best-in-class in our Environmental Health & Safety ergonomics and slips, trips and falls is achievements, we will continue to strive strategy in the areas of leadership, getting more employees engaged and for zero injuries by focusing on the employee engagement and safety thinking proactively about reducing risk. small, day-to-day actions that make systems. Underlying all new tactics is a everyone safer. deliberate focus on communication, These tactics are paying off: Campbell transparency and reporting of results. saw a 14 percent reduction in its Total Reportable Incident Rate (1.37 to 1.18) For example, new Daily Direction Setting between FY2017 and FY2018. And meetings provide routine, consistent although the Lost Time Incident Rate Safety Starts With Us Campbell cares about safety—of the food we serve, and of the people who make it. At plants across the world, our employees are identifying risks and implementing processes to keep themselves and their colleagues safe. Here are a few teams that excelled in the past year: WILLARD, OHIO By developing programs to address behaviors, conditions and risks, the Willard team has achieved 245 days without a reportable incident and has reduced overall reportable injuries by 75 percent over the last year. The team has implemented a Behavior Safety Observation Program to address behaviors; a Safety Tag Program to address conditions; and a Risk Assessment and Audit Program to expand inspections and reduce risks. MARLESTON, AUSTRALIA Our Marleston plant has reached three years without a Lost Time Incident (LTI) because of the team’s dedication and commitment to safety resulting in a strong safety culture. This has also resulted in an overall reduction of all injuries by 36 percent. DENVER, PENNSYLVANIA The Pepperidge Farm® Goldfish® team at our Denver bakery has achieved 730 days without a reportable incident. The team is committed to identifying and proactively addressing potential safety risks in the workplace. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 41 SHARED Helping Campbell Women Lift Each Other Up How can a company make more room they’d learned with a wider audience. Through this program, WoC hopes to for women in top leadership positions? The Be Real Circles were launched as help more women at every level of One way is to ensure that women are a pilot program by Women of Campbell the company build connections that empowered and included at every step (WoC) during Women’s History Month in broaden their networks, promote in the career pipeline. This was the thinking March. Each Circle is facilitated by one experiences that help women learn behind Be Real Circles, an opportunity of the female leaders, who mentors a and grow, and build confidence in for leading Campbell women to “pay it group of no more than eight Campbell women’s leadership capabilities. forward” to other women on their way up. women. Circle leaders use a toolkit and discussion guides to help direct The idea originated with a group of the conversations—but the most valuable company’s top female leaders. In 2017, lessons may come in the form of advice these women decided to share what on things they’ve learned firsthand. Helping Professionals Return to Work Many professionals face the difficult in the transition. In 2017, we began a part in 16-week paid “returnships” that choice of pausing their careers to care partnership with Path Forward, a program help them refresh their skills and better for others, from new children to aging open to mid-career professionals who position them to be hired for full-time parents. The longer an individual spends have at least five years of experience roles. Three people were hired for out of the workforce, the more difficult it and are looking to return to work after Campbell’s first Path Forward cohort. can be to return—which is why Campbell taking a career pause of two years or is participating in a new program to aid more for caregiving. Participants take 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 42 SHARED Campbell ID Networks Add Value Campbell ID Networks provide community Bridge Network, Campbell Veterans Connection and Women for our employees and help us connect to Administrative Professionals (CAPs), of Campbell (WoC). Following are diverse consumer groups. Our affinity Latino Network, Maxton American recent examples of how our ID groups include Asian Network of Campbell Indian Network (MAIN), Our Pride Networks engage. (ANC), Black Resource Group (BRG), Employee Network (OPEN), Roots, VETERANS CONNECTION Our newest ID Network is Veterans Connection, open to all military veterans and those who support them. The Network celebrated its launch with a militaryinspired cooking competition. Teams competed to impress a panel of judges by preparing an entrée, dessert and beverage using military field rations and a secret Campbell’s product. LATINO NETWORK The Latino Network partnered with the Digital Marketing campaign to help produce a commercial for Pace salsa. The commercial depicts actors preparing a meal of tacos and margaritas. Members of the Latino Network made suggestions to make the recipes more authentic, such as topping off both dishes with a squeeze of lime. OUR PRIDE EMPLOYEE NETWORK Goldfish® crackers made a colorful appearance in the Portland, Oregon, Pride parade. A team from Fred Meyer grocery store handed out two-ounce packets of Goldfish Colors to spectators. The Our Pride Employee Network (OPEN) in Norwalk, Connecticut, helped coordinate this partnership. Our V8+Energy® brand was also the proud Presenting Sponsor of the inaugural Pride Run 5K at the 30th Annual Philadelphia Pride Parade. Members of the OPEN Network, joined by family and friends, handed out delicious V8+Energy drinks to keep attendees energized and hydrated. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 43 What’s New in Real Food PAGE 46 A Better Soup What We’re Taking From the Can Up Out of Our Food PAGE 47 PAGE 48 SHARED Consumers Investing in the Future of Food PAGE 51 Putting Transparency on the Menu PAGE 49 Making Healthy Eating More Convenient PAGE 52 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 44 $5,372 $5,691 $6,115 $6,096 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 Metrics Metrics That That Matter Matter1 How We Manage ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 $3,200 SALES FROM PRODUCTS $3,297 WITH REDUCED $3,344 NEGATIVE NUTRIENTS2 $3,238 (revenue, in millions) Campbell’s Real Food Philosophy has revolutionized the way we think, talk and act about our food. We’re staying abreast of 59% $5,372 57% $5,691 53% changes in food and nutrition to better understand how we can $6,115 55% provide consumers with the healthy foods they desire and thus $6,096 59% 2018 identify opportunities for growth. If Campbell doesn’t evolve with Flat from FY2017 data these changes, we risk being left behind. ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 due to our ongoing efforts to improve our foods. One important trend we’re addressing is consumer demand for greater transparency. Campbell is committed to setting ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 the standard for transparency in the food industry, sharing more information about what goes into our food and listening SALES FROM PRODUCTS more closely to consumers about what matters to them. These WITH INCREASED conversations have led us to add positive ingredients, like 31% POSITIVE NUTRIENTS2 (revenue, in millions) vegetables and whole grains, and minimize negative nutrients, 34% $3,20057% 32% 53% $3,297 like sodium and sugar; expand our organic offerings; and remove 32% 55% $3,344 2018 substances of consumer concern, like artificial colors and flavors, 32%59% $3,238 Decreased by 1 percentage antibiotics in chicken meat and BPA linings in steel cans. point driven by organic declines in Meals and Beverages and increases This mindset has inspired brand-new products that deliver whole in Global Biscuits and Snacks grains, vegetables, lean protein and plant-based options for compared to FY2017. consumers. These new products have required us to identify ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 new suppliers, production methods and packaging alternatives, ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 and, as we make progress, we’re sharing what we learn at every ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 step. On the public policy front, we’re a leading advocate for guidelines that tell consumers more about what’s in their food, SALES FROM HEALTHY PRODUCTS (revenue, in millions) 24% including mandatory labeling of GMOs. We believe that people have a right to know what they’re eating and feeding their $3,200 34% $2,929 2018 families, and we will continue to push for greater transparency Decreased by 5 percentage $3,297 $2,898 throughout our supply chain and across our industry. 32% points due to accelerated compliance with the nutrition 32% $3,344 $2,998 facts panel and accompanying In response to global increases in chronic diseases and greater changes to nutrient calculations 32% $2,566$3,238 in line with new FDA regulation. understanding of the links between food and health, we are also This represents a 1 percent observing heightened consumer interest in fresh and healthy organic decrease compared foods. Consumers are seeking out more nutritious, personalized to FY2017 driven by losses in ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 America’s Simple Meals and food that suits their lifestyles and values. We’re seeing the Beverages with gains in emergence of an age in which shoppers purchase food online ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 Global Biscuits and Snacks. and use technology to track and monitor their personal health. Delivered As this new food future evolves, Campbell is committed to >16 Billion ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 providing options that help consumers reach their health and wellness goals. Servings of 1 B  eginning in FY2015, we began reporting on our global data to include Latin America, Canada and Asia-Pacific regions. For definitions of these three reporting categories, please see page 64 in the Appendix. Vegetables to the Global 2 Beginning in FY2017, we set a sodium upper limit of 600 mg/serving for Presence of Positives and 32% $2,929 34% Marketplace in FY2018 Reduction of Negatives across all of our categories, globally. That limit is less than US FDA’s Voluntary Draft Guidance on the mean sales-weighted sodium target for the soup category. 29% $2,898 32% 10.2 billion servings of vegetables from our Soup, Simple Meals and Beverage Portfolio alone. 28%$2,99832% 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 45 29% $2,566 32% SHARED What’s New in Real Food Campbell is on a mission to craft new products that bring our Real Food Philosophy to life, one delicious bite or slurp at a time. BOLTHOUSE FARMS™ CAMPBELL CANADA CAMPBELL’S® PLANT PROTEIN MILK ORGANIC VEGETABLE 30% LESS SODIUM Our new Plant Protein Milk BROTHS CHICKEN BROTHS is made with pea protein This flavorful broth is Campbell Canada and filled with goodness, made using only quality launched two new including 50 percent more ingredients like vegetables broths with 30 percent calcium than dairy milk and grown without synthetic less sodium than our 10 grams of protein per pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers, ready-to-use chicken broth. It’s easy to serving versus just 1 gram in almond and is seasoned to perfection with no create delicious, wholesome meals at milk. Better yet, it’s vegan, non-GMO artificial colors or flavors. home with the new Thai Chicken Broth and doesn’t contain dairy, lactose, nuts, and Roasted Garlic Chicken Broth. soy or gluten. It’s milk with a bigger flavor and a smaller impact on the land. CAMPBELL’S® PLUM ORGANICS® PREGO® TRADITIONAL CONDENSED SOUPS MIGHTY NUT BUTTER BAR® NO SUGAR ADDED These new soups launched We put a nutty twist on this mighty ITALIAN SAUCE in Canada are made with ingredients snack: a multigrain bar made with whole This new sauce offers the rich flavor of you can find at your local market, like grains and a creamy nut butter filling! sweet, vine-ripened tomatoes and the cremini mushroom, red bell pepper Our Mighty Nut Butter Bar even offers classic Italian seasoning our consumers and Parmesan cheese. omega-3 ALA from chia—now that’s a want without the added sugar. mighty win for you and your tot. WELL YES!® SOUPS CAMPBELL’S® BOLTHOUSE FARMS® Deliciously crafted with ORGANIC LOWER SUGAR LINE real ingredients you know SPAGHETTIOS® Bolthouse Farms launched and understand, but with SpaghettiOs launched their Lower Sugar line, unexpected flavors you’ll two organic varieties a line of smoothies and love. Now with expanded vegetarian and made with certified organic ingredients, protein shakes made with vegan options providing a full serving and no preservatives, synthetic colors or lower sugar compared to other juice and of vegetables with carefully selected, artificial flavors. shake products on the market. Whether wholesome ingredients, including you’re looking for a protein boost, or a Butternut Squash Apple Bisque, Chickpea serving of fruit, the Lower Sugar line helps & Roasted Red Pepper Soup and Cajun consumers meet their dietary needs. Red Bean & Vegetable Soup. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 46 SHARED What We’re Taking Out of Our Food We are working hard to deliver real food with recognizable ingredients. We make decisions about what ingredients to use in our recipes based on the best health and nutrition science, and we’re learning more every day. We also improve with feedback from our consumers, who know best what’s right for them and their families. WHAT WE’RE REMOVING WHAT WE’VE ACHIEVED* WHY IT MATTERS Transitioned 100% of steel Consumers shared concerns regarding the presence of cans to non-BPA linings in bisphenol A (BPA) in steel cans. We listened, and have BPA linings in soup cans U.S. and Canada transitioned to linings made from acrylic and polyester. 98% of our chicken meat We will no longer allow antibiotics to be added to the is antibiotic free feed, water or any commercial vaccines used by our chicken suppliers. That’s a big step: We source about Antibiotics in chicken 40 million pounds of chicken every year. meat 98% of products have We know that many people, and parents in particular, no artificial colors are keen to avoid artificial colors and flavors. We have and flavors been working to remove these ingredients and have Artificial colors and flavors made substantial progress. *All achievements apply only to products sold in North America. Well Yes!®, Campbell’s line of soups launched in 2017, met all three of these standards from the start. Learn more about this delicious new product inspired by the power of Real Food. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 47 SHARED Well Yes!®: A Better Soup From the Can Up What happens when you put nutritionists began talking to consumers forced us to think differently—not transparency, health and well-being first and discovered a similar need. People just about ingredients, but also flavor when crafting a new product? Look no craved delicious meals with clean labels combinations and even package further than Well Yes!, a line of soups and purposeful ingredients, like kale, design. The team also managed to launched in 2017, with new varieties quinoa and lean protein. But they didn’t iterate rapidly, entering the market added to the marketplace in 2018. want to compromise on affordability. six months ahead of schedule. The idea began with a group of With these desires in mind, we looked The result is Well Yes!, a line of soups Campbell employees who started back into our supply chain. We leveraged that meet consumer demands for thinking about their own cooking—and relationships with existing suppliers to cleaner ingredients and provide an realized there was something missing source classic ingredients like tomatoes incredibly strong nutritional profile. from the soup aisle at supermarkets. and celery, and built new relationships Each Well Yes! variety uses real food These employees wanted a soup that with small-scale suppliers for ingredients ingredients to deliver at least two contained real, nutritious ingredients that are firsts for Campbell, such as black positive nutrients like iron, potassium, they could feel good about serving their barley, fennel, farro and jicama. calcium, vitamin A, protein or fiber, families. They also wanted something and most also deliver a serving of quick and easy to prepare: food that fit The cross-functional team that vegetables. Take a closer look: into their busy lives. undertook this project co-created the product with a group of consumers, They suspected others felt the same which was an entirely new approach way. Our chefs, product developers and for the company. The process WHAT’S THERE Kale • Barley • Beans • Lentils • Sweet Potatoes • Whole Grains • Fiber • Antibiotic-Free Chicken Meat WHAT’S NOT Well Yes! is one of the most successful Campbell soup launches of the past 10 years. Artificial Colors • Since the brand launched, we’ve introduced five new varieties and made our way into Artificial Flavors • 6 million households—allowing more people Artificial Ingredients • than ever to say yes to real food. Modified Starches • MSG • BPA in Cans 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 48 SHARED Real Food Shouldn’t Go to Waste Putting Transparency on the Menu Since the days of our founder, who WhatsInMyFood.com These insights led us to Pinto, a nutrition insisted on using only local beefsteak Consumers asked, “What’s in my food?” technology startup that is helping us tomatoes in our cans of soup, openness and we’re answering. This website present product-level data in a compelling, about our ingredients has been part of dives deep into the choices behind the user-friendly way. We began with a pilot Campbell’s consumer promise. With ingredients in Campbell’s brands, with our new Well Yes!® soups. When a the launch of our Purpose and Real including where they come from and user visits a product page on the Well Food Philosophy, we’ve rededicated how they’re prepared. It also addresses Yes! website, they can view a product’s ourselves to serving real food to our less common ingredients and explains consumers and sharing more about their purposes, such as to improve color what’s in our products. or texture. Arnott’s, Campbell Canada, Pepperidge Farm and Plum Organics Our Real Food Philosophy combines the introduced similar transparency wisdom of our heritage with insights webpages in 2016 and 2017. about what matters to consumers today. Transparency is the foundation of this Pinto (formerly The Sage Project) philosophy. We believe that transparency While we’re proud to offer brand-level builds trust, and we strive to be open transparency on WhatsInMyFood.com, about our ingredients, processes and we wanted to go deeper and share decisions regarding our food. what’s inside individual Campbell products. To determine what and how This isn’t just theoretical. Transparency to share, we talked with consumers to touches every aspect of our business, better understand their expectations. from supplier engagement and talent We learned that about one in three development to our annual incentive consumers is actively seeking product program. Nowhere is this commitment information beyond what’s available clearer than in how we’re communicating on a label, including nutrition profiles, with consumers. Across our products definitions of unfamiliar ingredients and and brands, we’re exploring new ways ingredient origins. to tell consumers more about what’s in their food. Pinto presents product-level data in a user-friendly way. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 49 SHARED Putting Transparency on the Menu, cont. nutritional content, ingredient descriptions, The Australian government has a list of potential allergens and other introduced new Country of Origin food important information, like whether it’s labeling. Arnott’s has started applying sold in recyclable packaging. In FY2018, these easy-to-understand labels across Campbell expanded this information to Campbell’s® soups, simple meals, stocks Pace® salsas and Campbell’s® sauces. and V8® juices. The new labels tell consumers at a glance where their food Pushing for Nationwide Progress is grown, produced, made or packed We believe that knowing what’s in and also shows what percentage of the your food should be a right for all ingredients come from Australia. consumers—not just those who purchase our products. That’s why we’re Our Arnott’s business also continues to advocating for smart national policies roll out Health Star Ratings across the regarding food labeling and staying on entire portfolio. This front-of-pack labeling the leading edge of compliance with system provides a quick, standard way to new requirements. The Food and Drug compare similar packaged foods, helping Administration’s (FDA) new Nutrition consumers to easily make informed Facts panel is designed to be easier to decisions about the foods they buy. interpret, with calories more visible and Campbell Leads on both per-serving and per-container UnCanned ® by Campbell’s nutrition information for certain package When it comes to food, consumers have GMO Transparency sizes. The new panels also display questions. In Campbell’s ongoing journey added sugars and require reporting of toward radical transparency, we’re In 2016, Campbell became the new nutrients of public health concern serving up answers. first major food company to such as potassium and Vitamin D. support a mandatory national Campbell became one of the first food UnCanned by Campbell’s, which launched labeling standard for products companies to use these new standards, in 2018, houses fact-based answers to that contain genetically modified and although the FDA has delayed commonly searched questions about organisms (GMOs). We’ve the date at which it will require full food, with topics ranging from GMOs to put that stance into action by compliance, many of our brands have sodium to food waste. It also answers labeling all U.S. products that already updated to the new nutrition facts more light-hearted questions, like “Why contain ingredients derived panel. The remaining products, including did Andy Warhol paint soup?” UnCanned from GMO crops. The decisions those from our recent acquisitions, will by Campbell’s is an important companion we have made with regard to be updated by January 1, 2020. to our WhatsInMyFood.com website, GMOs have not been because which provides detailed information we dispute the science behind Campbell also continues to participate about specific Campbell products. GMOs or their safety. The in the Facts Up Front program, printing overwhelming weight of calories per serving and nutrients to Accompanying the website is a podcast scientific evidence indicates limit on the front of product packages. series produced in partnership with Slate that GMOs are safe and that As new issues rise to the forefront of Studios. Episodes dive deep into stories foods derived from crops using consumers’ minds, Campbell will find about the food industry today, featuring genetically modified seeds new ways to deliver our Purpose and guests such as the Yeung family who has are not nutritionally different give people the information they been growing tomatoes for Campbell from other foods. Instead, the deserve about the food they eat. for nearly 20 years and whose farm is decision was guided by our now managed by the Yeung sisters. Purpose and our commitment to be open and honest about our food. GMO labeling is a practice OLD NEW that the majority of Americans support, and we believe it is the right thing to do for consumers and for our business. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 50 SHARED Investing in the Future of Food In 2018, Campbell was the lead The startups that participated are Campbell R&D and Sustainability sponsor for the Village Capital Food working to reduce food and packaging leaders participated alongside the and Agriculture: US 2018 Cohort along waste, improve pathogen detection, cohort in workshops and served as with QBE Insurance Group and UBS reuse wastewater and capitalize on new mentors to the startups. In another first investment banking. The three-month technologies to improve agricultural for a Village Capital sponsor, Campbell investment-readiness program practices, such as Internet of Things (IoT), provided remote mentoring sessions featured 12 early-stage food and Big Data and Robotics. Two of the between Campbell experts and the agriculture startups from across the 12 startups, Vega Coffee and Wexus 12 participating companies. United States. The program was Technologies, were selected by their peers designed to train and invest in food to receive investments of $100,000 each This partnership allowed Campbell to and agriculture startups that are at the final cohort event. study the accelerator process up close, expanding access to sustainable, while gaining insights into emerging healthy and accessible agricultural This was Village Capital’s fifth investmentfood concepts and technology which goods to drive a better food and readiness program focused on food and could make supply chains more agriculture system. agriculture, but the first sponsorship by sustainable and cost effective. Campbell. In addition to financial support, 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 51 SHARED Making Healthy Eating More Convenient Can packaged foods fit into a healthy diet? This study compared two groups of trend for lower cholesterol after eight A recent study published in The American women where one group ate a typical weeks. Managing cholesterol and blood Journal of Clinical Nutrition tried to answer American diet high in refined grains, solid pressure levels can help support a this question when they tested the health fats and added sugars, and the second healthy heart. Some parameters, like effects of a Dietary Guidelines Diet in a ate a diet consistent with the DGA glucose and triglyceride levels did not randomized control trial. recommendations emphasizing fruits, change, but overall, women in the DGA vegetables, low-fat dairy and whole group had a more nutrient-dense diet. The Dietary Guidelines for Americans grains. The DGA diet included a variety of (DGA) are the foundation for nutrition Campbell products including Low Sodium Campbell was not involved in the final policies and programs in the U.S. and V8® 100% Vegetable juice, Healthy design, implementation, analysis or are based on a large body of research. Request® soups, Swanson® unsalted interpretation of the data from the study. Despite the research that goes into chicken stock and Pace® salsas. However, the results show that packaged making the guideline’s recommendations, foods can fit and even help improve the DGA diet itself has never been tested Women who followed the DGA diet had overall nutrient quality in a healthy diet. in a clinical intervention until recently. lower systolic blood pressure and a How Campbell Supports a Healthy Diet Participants on the DGA diet received an average of 1.7 servings of Campbell products per day, contributing to their daily nutrient and food group needs. 15% Fruits & 3% Total Calories Vegetables (70 calories) 6% 6% 75% Potassium Sodium (260 mg) (135 mg) Vitamin C (70 mg) 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 52 Our Community Affairs Strategy Building a PAGE 55 Network of Real Solutions PAGE 57 Lasting Solutions for Our Hometowns PAGE 56 SHARED Communities Sowing Change With Healthy Eating FoodCorps From the PAGE 57 Very Start Giving That Matters PAGE 59 Week 2018 PAGE 58 Arnott’s Employees Make a Feeding People, Difference Ending Food Waste: in Southeast That’s Just Asia Peachy ® PAGE 60 PAGE 59 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 53 Metrics That Matter How We Manage CHARITABLE GIVING, Campbell has long been committed to serving and supporting $70.4 $59.2 INCLUDING IN-KIND our hometown communities. We’ve made important strides (in millions) $65.1 through our Campbell’s Healthy Communities program, the $61.9 Campbell Soup Foundation, cash and in-kind support, and $54.4 $70.4 $70.4 $59.2 $59.2 employee volunteerism. With the launch of our new company $65.1 $65.1 Purpose and Values, we have taken a fresh look at our $61.9 $61.9 community strategy to ensure it is aligned with Campbell’s $54.4 $54.4 priorities and our communities’ needs today. Our new Community Affairs platform, “Giving that Matters,” aims ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 to strengthen and empower healthy communities in Campbell’s hometowns. Campbell’s commitment to our Purpose and Real ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 Food Philosophy includes helping to ensure that real food remains accessible to all. As a food company, we are uniquely ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 positioned to leverage our capabilities and expertise to increase 14,100 12,000 EMPLOYEE food access across the world. Because of this, food access is VOLUNTEER HOURS 12,200 central within our new Community Affairs platform, and many of 10,350 14,100 14,100 our philanthropic investments and volunteerism efforts focus on 12,000 12,000 this issue. 12,200 12,200 With our new focus comes a new way to think about our role in 10,350 10,350 our communities. No longer are we exclusively a grant maker that executes individual programs and events; we are becoming a change maker that invests in long-term, sustainable impact. ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 Our change philosophy is simple—we work to create local impact through bold solutions and systematic interventions in partnership with community members. ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 GLOBAL GIVING In-kind: $49.5M Foundation: $2.1M Corporate Contributions: $1.8M Employee Giving: $1M In-kind: $49.5M Cause Marketing: $0.083M Foundation: $2.1M Total: $54,423,426 In-kind: Corporate Contributions:$49.5M $1.8M Foundation: Employee Giving: $2.1M $1M Corporate Contributions: Cause Marketing: $1.8M $0.083M Employee Total: Giving: $54,423,426 $1M Cause Marketing: $0.083M Total: $54,423,426 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 54 SHARED Our Community Affairs Strategy NURTURE CAMPBELL INCREASE HEALTHY FOOD ACCESS ENCOURAGE HEALTHY LIVING NEIGHBORHOODS Increase availability of and Expand nutrition education and Transform the physical spaces where accessibility to real, fresh foods active lifestyle programs people live, learn and play How We’re Making Change • Establishing fresh food access • Improving nutrition education • Providing safe places to play points such as corner stores, and awareness in schools and • Restoring parks and trails farmer’s markets and grocery stores alternative settings, like doctor’s offices • Promoting active transportation • Creating voucher programs for infrastructure, such as bike lanes healthy food • Offering cooking classes • Repurposing of vacant lots for safe • Developing innovative solutions • Creating city-wide initiatives for resident use for food waste structured play • Addressing barriers to healthy, • Launching healthy school food safe communities programs • Supporting local agriculture 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 55 SHARED Lasting Solutions for Our Hometowns Our signature community affairs program, continuous communications, mutually from being a part of this collective. Campbell’s Healthy Communities, is reinforcing activities and a backbone While the initial focus of this program a 10-year, $10 million commitment to leadership organization. The goal is for was on our community in Camden, New measurably improve the health of young this work to live sustainably in the Jersey, the initiative has expanded to people in our hometown communities. Camden community through a network four additional Campbell communities. Launched in 2010, Campbell’s Healthy of partner organizations, rather than Communities uses a differentiated belonging to any one individually. See our Campbell’s Healthy collective impact approach which Communities FY2018 Camden Annual includes a common agenda among In FY2018, partners leveraged additional Report here. partners, shared measurement systems, external funding resources of $1.4 million How We’re Making Change in Camden Heart Smarts In-store nutrition education lessons 1,640 87% Participants Participants plan to frequently buy healthy foods identified during lessons Heart Bucks Coupons for heart-healthy food for participants in Heart Smarts lessons 99% $6,268 Heart Bucks Spent on heart-healthy redeemed food Go Noodle In-classroom physical activity bursts 40,000 1.5 million Go Noodle Minutes of sessions physical activity administered 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 56 SHARED Building a Network of Real Solutions Campbell’s Healthy Communities provide prescriptions for fresh fruits established the Healthy Corner Store and vegetables to patients who screen Network, which is designed to increase positive for food insecurity. access to affordable, healthy food in low-income neighborhoods by providing The impact of these programs has technical assistance, supplies and been widespread. Of the participants services to store owners. In Camden, surveyed, 79 percent felt they could buy a city of 77,000 residents with no healthier food items at their local store full-service grocery store, corner stores and 86 percent reported having good are a key to healthy food access in the access to fresh fruits and vegetables city. The network currently has 48 stores in their neighborhood. enrolled, which accounts for 40 percent of the total corner stores in Camden. Fayer’s Market, one of the early participants in the Healthy Corner The program has expanded to include Store Network, has seen a 165 percent Corner stores are wraparound services such as onsite increase in sales of fresh fruits and a key to healthy health screenings, Heart Smarts vegetables since introducing the Food nutrition education lessons, cooking Bucks Rx program, with a total of over food access in classes and the distribution of Heart $50,000 in redemptions. Camden and other Bucks, which are coupons that are communities redeemed at the stores for healthy food. In addition, Food Bucks Rx has been introduced, a program in which doctors Sowing Change With FoodCorps FoodCorps is a national nonprofit which kids and families, hosting sessions of places AmeriCorps volunteers in highExploring Foods Club, and teaching need schools to help connect kids to nutrition education and gardening healthy food in school so they can lessons during an afterschool garden lead healtheir lives and reach their club, Sprout Scouts. Overall, the service full potential. A partner in several member led more than 400 food access Campbell’s Healthy Communities sites, activities and nutrition education FoodCorps extended its reach in sessions benefiting 950 students. The FY2018 to one of our newest sites, biggest win for the year, however, was Ferndale, Michigan. the partnership with Partners for Healthy Schools to form a district-wide wellness The FoodCorps service member committee focused on improving the worked on a variety of programs during school district’s wellness policy, the first the school year, including collaborating collaborative of its kind in the Ferndale, with Gleaners Food Bank to host Michigan, area. Cooking Matters cooking classes for 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 57 SHARED Giving that Matters Week 2018 During Giving that Matters Week, our annual week of service, Campbell employees from across the company come together to help our local communities thrive. See what our people accomplished during our biggest year yet. 6,000 Campbell Employees 7,500 Volunteer Hours 40+ Organizations Served 28 Locations 10,000 Backpacks Full of Food Donated Through Feeding America’s Backpack Program $30,000 Awarded to Nonprofits Through the Campbell Soup Foundation 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 58 SHARED Feeding People, Ending Food Waste: That’s Just Peachy® Six years ago, a team of Campbell employees put their heads together with the Food Bank of South Jersey to address a major food waste dilemma: supermarkets often won’t accept undersized or misshapen produce, despite it being perfectly safe and nutritious to eat. This leads to millions of pounds of fresh, nourishing fruits and Since 2012, Just Peachy salsa has vegetables being wasted every year, rescued some of the 800,000 pounds even while many communities, like of peaches thrown away each year our New Jersey hometown, face food by just one farmer’s cooperative in insecurity. We thought there must be a southern New Jersey. We make the way to address both of these challenges salsa in our pilot plant in Camden, at once—and Just Peachy was born. New Jersey, and employees volunteer to package each new batch. Just Impact Since 2012: Peachy salsa is sold at more than 100 New Jersey retailers, including farmer’s markets, restaurants and select 240,000 700,000 ShopRite stores, and all profits support Jars of salsa produced Meals funded by program hunger relief programs at the Food Bank of South Jersey. It’s a peachy deal for the planet and everyone involved: $350,000 Over $500,000 growers, Campbell employees, the Revenue generated for the in dumping fees saved Food Bank and salsa lovers alike. Food Bank of South Jersey by area farmers Healthy Eating From the Very Start Plum Organics is rooted in its mission to provide the In FY2018 very best food from the very first bite and, as a Public Plum Organics Funded: Benefit Corporation (PBC), is committed to advancing solutions for childhood hunger and malnutrition in the U.S. Since the 2013 inception of The Full Effect®, their 3 Private nursing areas give-back program, Plum Organics has donated over 20,000,0001 meals and snacks to little ones in need. 34 Breast pumps In FY2018, Plum Organics continued their ongoing commitment to the Homeless Prenatal Program (HPP) in 5 Bed top 25 Staff trained San Francisco, California. HPP works to break the cycle co-sleepers on breastfeeding of childhood poverty by helping families become more healthy and economically stable. A $50,000 grant from 5 Lactation 40 Healthy Plum Organics helped HPP maintain its breastfeeding educators feeding classes resources to support HPP community mothers and babies so they can start life off right. Plum Organics will continue its support of HPP in FY2019. 1 Please note that 20M is based on FY2018 numbers, and more has been donated since then. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 59 SHARED Arnott’s Employees Make a Difference in Southeast Asia At Arnott’s offices and manufacturing facilities in Indonesia and Malaysia, our employees are taking time outside of work to improve their communities and help children in need. Here are just a few ways we’re bringing our Purpose to life. Supporting Healthy Communities in Campbell’s Hometowns To make visits a little sweeter for children and their parents, Arnott’s Founded in 1953, the Campbell provides biscuits such as Nyam-Nyam Soup Foundation provides finanand Good Time. cial support to local organizations Campbell Malaysia that inspire positive change in Arnott’s Indonesia communities where Campbell • After floods hit Penang, Malaysia, in employees live and work. The • Partnering with YCAB, a local youth 2017, the local Arnott’s team banded Foundation’s grantmaking development organization, Arnott’s together to provide relief. We partnered focuses on strategic giving to continues to offer computer lessons with The Lost Food Project, a Malaysian strengthen and empower healthy to underprivileged children. An Arnott’sfood bank that collects healthy surplus communities in Campbell’s homebranded van serves as a classroom food that would otherwise go to landfills towns. The Foundation is entirely on wheels, carrying enough laptops and redistributes it to those in need. employee-run, governed by a for 10 students and a teacher. The Through donations of Campbell Board of Trustees comprised of program has been in operation for products, we helped The Lost Food senior executives and advised one year, educating more than Project deliver more than 50,000 meals. by an employee-led Executive 150 students across three terms. • In 2018, Campbell helped students at Committee. In FY2018, the • Arnott’s also supports the community the Lighthouse Children’s Welfare Foundation provided $1.5 million in the neighborhood surrounding its Home in Bangsar start the school year in grants, including a youth urban plant by participating in Posyandu, off right. Employees could “sponsor” farming program and mobile an Indonesian public health program a child by funding students’ school teaching kitchen in Camden, that provides community-based fees and supplies. Through this effort, New Jersey, as well as a food preventive care in villages. Each month, Campbell helped 80 underprivileged waste and recovery program in families bring infants and toddlers children return to school. Bloomfield, Connecticut. to receive health services such as immunizations and nutritional checks. A Record Year for The Arnott’s Foundation In FY2018, The Arnott’s Foundation had another record year of giving, granting more than US $522,000 to deserving nonprofits across Australia. Of the total amount donated, $432,000 was donated to Camp Quality, $72,000 was donated to Fairy Sparkle and $18,000 was donated to Aussie Helpers. On top of this, over $1.6 million of product was donated to Foodbank and $67,000 was donated to Driver Reviver. What makes The Arnott’s Foundation unique is that the majority of funds are raised by employees and the Arnott’s community. Through direct giving and fundraising events, the Foundation was able to further its mission to create positive environments that allow families to build, maintain and enjoy a better quality of life. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 60 FY2018 PERFORMANCE SCORECARD Campbell’s FY2018 Performance Scorecard BUSINESS OVERVIEW (USD in millions) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Net Sales $8,082 $7,961 $7,890 $8,685 EBIT $1,054 $960 $1,400 $469 Taxes on Earnings $283 $286 $406 $11 Dividends Paid $394 $390 $420 $426 Capital Expenditures $380 $341 $338 $407 R&D $117 $124 $111 $110 GROWN FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 GHG Emissions (kg CO2e/tonne of tomato) 0.006 0.057 0.057 0.006 Water Use (gallons/pound of tomato) 8.48 7.53 7.53 8.16 Nitrogen Use (pounds Nitrogen/tonne of tomato) 4.04 4.12 4.12 4.33 SOURCED FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Cage-Free Eggs N/A N/A 12% 16% “No Antibiotics Ever” Chicken N/A N/A 97% 98% Crate-Free Pork1 34% 34% 21% 57% Responsibly Sourced Palm Oil (RSPO) N/A 100% 100% 100% PRODUCED FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Energy Use Total Electricity Use (mmbtu) 2,401,815 2,337,129 2,488,054 2,188,267 Total Fuel Use (mmbtu) 7,691,784 7,249,795 7,932,234 7,689,340 Total Energy Use (mmbtu) 10,093,599 9,586,924 10,420,288 9,877,607 U.S. 8,113,734 7,569,380 8,039,806 8,197,019 Outside of U.S. 1,979,865 2,017,544 2,380,482 1,680,588 Energy Intensity (mmbtu/tonne of food produced) 2.54 2.58 2.77 2.58 Renewable Energy Generated (kWh) for the Grid2 20,903,897 22,116,941 27,670,475 26,933,868 Percent of Total Electricity Use 3% 3% 4% 4% Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG Emissions (tonnes CO2e) 751,924 724,996 751,340 734,937 GHG Intensity (tonnes CO2e/tonne of food produced) 0.19 0.19 0.20 0.19 Direct (Scope 1) Emissions (tonnes CO2e) 427,731 403,057 416,838 421,970 U.S. 346,894 316,265 332,822 352,235 Outside of U.S. 80,837 86,792 84,016 69,735 Indirect (Scope 2) Emissions (tonnes CO2e) 324,203 321,939 334,502 312,967 U.S. 242,872 245,801 258,397 242,879 Outside of U.S. 81,331 76,138 76,105 70,088 Indirect (Scope 3) Emissions (tonnes CO2e)3 7,366 8,443 9,742 7,262 Carbon Offsets Purchased (tonnes CO2e)4 23 51 77 6 Water Use Water Use (m3) 32,033,574 31,858,298 31,916,514 31,847,831 Water Intensity (m3/tonne of food produced) 8.07 8.56 8.53 8.33 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 61 FY2018 PERFORMANCE SCORECARD Campbell’s FY2018 Performance Scorecard, cont. PRODUCED FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Waste Generation Total Waste Generated (tonnes) 479,408 450,814 445,237 467,334 Total Waste to Landfill (tonnes) 48,900 44,161 40,059 39,717 Total Waste to Incineration/Controlled Combustion (tonnes) 1,587 2,231 2,099 1,943 Total Recycled (tonnes) 47,255 43,343 36,535 27,172 Total Other Diverted Waste (tonnes) 381,666 361,079 366,544 398,501 Total Waste Diverted from Landfill (tonnes) 430,508 406,653 405,178 427,616 Landfill Diversion Rate 90% 90% 91% 92% Total Waste Intensity (tonnes/tonne of food produced) 0.12 0.12 0.12 0.12 Hazardous Waste Generated (tonnes) 38 50 55 37 SHARED FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Total Reportable Incident Rate (TRIR)/200,000 hours 1.99 1.96 1.37 1.18 Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)/200,000 hours 0.29 0.23 0.20 0.21 Employee Fatalities 0 0 0 1 Environmental Notice of Violations (NOVs) 1 1 5 3 Environmental Fines (USD) $500 $1,500 $7,100 $450 Women in Global Workforce 44% 43% 43% 42% Women in Management 38% 41% 43% 43% Women on the Board of Directors 31% 31% 33% 33% Charitable Giving, including In-Kind (USD in millions) $59.2 $65.1 $61.9 $54.4 Employee Volunteer Hours 14,100 12,000 12,200 10,350 Tuition Assistance Paid $0.81 $0.79 $0.80 $0.89 U.S. Health Care Expense 5 $100 $115 $123 $121 Pension Income/Expense $96 $279 $(230) $(150) Post-Retirement Medical & Life Expense $29 $38 $(28) $(35) 401(k) Retirement Plan Contributions $31 $33 $34 $45 Products with Reduced Negative Nutrients (revenue in millions) 6 $5,372 $5,691 $6,115 $6,096 Products with Reduced Negative Nutrients (revenue/total revenue) 53% 55% 59% 59% Products with Increased Positive Nutrients (revenue in millions) 6 $3,200 $3,297 $$3,344 $3,238 Products with Increased Positive Nutrients (revenue/total revenue) 32% 32% 32% 31% Healthy Products (revenue in millions) $2,929 $2,898 $2,998 $2,566 Healthy Products (revenue/total revenue) 29% 28% 29% 24% 1 We are restating our historic data because of improved data completeness and quality. 2 Campbell generates renewable energy through onsite solar and fuel cell installations, but sells all of it to others. 3 Scope 3 emissions include employee business travel by car, plane and train. Campbell is working to capture more emissions categories in FY2019. 4 Plum purchases carbon offsets in the amount of the GHG emissions from the energy used in its headquarters building in Emeryville, California. Plum began purchasing solar power in FY2018 for its Emeryville facility. As a result, emissions for the year are much lower, requiring that only 6 metric tonnes CO2e be offset in FY2018. 5 U.S. Health Care Expense was restated for FY2017 to include expenses for the Campbell Fresh division. This business is included for FY2018 as well. 6 Starting in FY2017, we set a sodium upper limit of 600 mg/serving for Presence of Positives and Reduction of Negatives across all of our categories, globally. That limit is less than US FDA’s Voluntary Draft Guidance on the mean sales-weighted sodium target for the soup category. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 62 APPENDIX Stakeholder Engagement Public-Private Partnerships Health and Nutrition Stakeholder • Working collaboratively across USDA Engagement & Research and FDA agencies on implementation Many of Campbell’s business leaders serve of the new Nutrition Facts panels and as trustees or members of advisory boards Many of today’s complex nutrition issues GMO labeling. of organizations working to further require a collaborative and multidisciplinary • Collaborating with retailer health and corporate responsibility, including the approach to solutions that span the public wellness programs through the developfollowing: and private sectors. As an industry leader, ment of nutrition education resources, • Advisory Committee on Supply Chain Campbell established a legacy in performincluding recipes that aligned with the Competitiveness ing and supporting health and nutrition Dietary Guidelines for Americans, coupon • American College of Nutrition research, education and consumer and recipe booklets, nutrition articles • American Council for Fitness and Nutrition programs to improve consumer diets and more, to educate consumers about • American Physiological Society through innovative partnerships with healthy eating. • American Society for Nutrition stakeholders that in 2018 included: • Providing continuing education credits • Boston College Center for Corporate • Participation in the Academy of Nutrition to over 200 dietitians on culinary trends Citizenship and Dietetics Nutrition Impact Summit. and nutrition communications. • Center for Food Safety at The University The invitation-only event was convened • Collaborating with global industry on of Georgia by the Academy and its Foundation to the Consumer Goods Forum to develop • Center for Research on Ingredient Safety explore collaborative opportunities to programs and share best practices in at Michigan State University accelerate progress toward good health health and wellness promotion. • Congressional Management Foundation and well-being for all people. • Conducting an annual survey of dietitians • Convergence Center for Policy Resolution • Participation in the American Heart to collect feedback on our products, • Food Allergy & Anaphylaxis Network Association Healthier Food Leadership clients’ consumption and referral habits, • Food Allergy Research and Resource Summit to discuss creating a healthier nutritional characteristics of products Program (FARRP) at University of future through collaboration, innovation and resources they seek for consumers. Nebraska and development of guiding principles • Continued engagement with the Interfaith • Food Bank of South Jersey for change. Center on Corporate Responsibility on • Foundation for Food and Agriculture • Membership, sponsorship and exhibition public health issues, including obesity, Research at the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics’ undernutrition and access to nutrition. • Foundation for Strategic Sourcing annual Food and Nutrition Conference & • Participation in the Access to Nutrition • Habitat for Humanity Expo (FNCE), where our corporate nutritionIndex assessment, which ranks the • International Life Science Institute ists get feedback on our products from world’s largest food companies on their • Net Impact health professionals. efforts in tackling nutrition challenges. • New Jersey Agricultural Society • Supporting the Produce for Better Health Campbell uses the report to help inform • New Jersey Food Council Foundation, as a donor, on the Board of nutrition strategy and best practices in • Produce for Better Health Foundation Trustees, through participation in the policy development, transparency and • Stewardship Index for Specialty Crops marketing and communications and communication on nutrition issues. • Sustainable Brands research subcommittees and through • Partnership and engagement with • The Consumer Goods Forum sponsorship of their annual meeting. numerous academic institutions including • The Sustainability Consortium These efforts support Campbell’s the Pennsylvania State University, Tufts • United Way local chapters Nutrition strategy (specific to fruits and University, Purdue University, University • University of Illinois Advisory Board, vegetables) and Real Food Philosophy of California at Davis, West Chester Division of Nutritional Sciences and and help educate key stakeholders on University and others, on academic Department of Food Science and Human Campbell’s nutrition initiatives. curriculum, internships and research. Nutrition • Involvement in planning symposia for • Participation in the Forum for the • USDA-USTR Agricultural Technical the American Society for Nutrition and Future’s Protein Challenge 2040 Advisory Committee for Trade in engaging the organization to stay up-toU.S. Advisory Group. Processed Foods date on research from top nutrition • World Economic Forum scientists in industry and academia. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 63 APPENDIX Stakeholder Engagement, cont. • Sustaining Arnott’s partnership with the Scientific Advisors metrics are strong measurements of our Dietitians Association of Australia (DAA), commitment to health, but encouraged the governing body of dietetic and Our panel of Scientific Advisors is made up more transparency about the criteria. The nutrition professionals in Australia, of respected food and nutrition scientists panel recommended we create policies through which Arnott’s supports from leading universities and private on our stance around food science and professional development. organizations. In December 2016, they controversies. In FY2018, the panel worked • Developed a partnership with Dietitian reviewed our nutrition strategy and health with us to develop position statements on Connection, an online network of and wellness reporting as benchmarked sensitive issues available for consumers dietitians in Australia. Through this against key competitors. They commended and investors. This will be our first step to partnership, Arnott’s engages with our efforts to provide fact-based information meet the panel’s recommendations to be nutrition professionals and encourages with websites like www.whatsinmyfood.com even more transparent about our stance on dialogue on the latest nutrition science and our dedication to transparency. The important nutrition and health issues. and trends. panel believes our criteria and reporting Nutrition Data Definitions Healthy: Products that meet the FDA and vegetable servings. These products products must also meet upper limits for all criteria for healthy, a Health Star Rating must also meet upper limits for negative negative nutrients in order to be classified of 3.5 or higher, comply with Health nutrients such as sodium, sugar and under this category. Canada, or Mexico Dietary Guidelines. saturated fat. Presence of Positives: Products that Absence of Negatives: Products that have increased positive nutrients or are reduced in negative nutrients like food groups such as potassium, fiber, sodium, saturated fat and sugar. These Corporate Responsibility Materiality In order to help Campbell identify and environmental, social and governance corporate responsibility organizations to prioritize our most relevant issues related topics. Our goal in this process is to help confirm our findings. to corporate responsibility, we conducted inform our overall corporate responsibility an in-depth materiality assessment in strategies, set priorities and ensure that Step 2: Stakeholder Survey FY2016. This process allowed us to our annual Corporate Responsibility Report We organized a widespread survey of better understand how the priorities communicates how we are managing global employees, customers (retailers), and concerns of external stakeholders those material issues. suppliers, NGOs, community partners, align with our business priorities and government or regulatory agencies, corporate responsibility objectives. The Our assessment adhered to the investors, trade organizations and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards following steps: consumers. The survey was not only sent mandate that organizations do a materiality directly to targeted external stakeholders, assessment as part of their reporting Step 1: Identification of Issues but was also posted publicly on Twitter process to inform what are the most We reviewed publicly available corporate and LinkedIn to gather input from as critical—or “material”—issues to report. responsibility communications of our peer varied an audience as possible. In total, set, including corporate responsibility we received responses from more than Campbell defines material corporate reports, press releases and corporate 1,250 survey participants. responsibility issues as those that websites, to analyze what issues and influence the judgment and decisions of initiatives currently are of priority across Step 3: Stakeholder Interviews our external and internal stakeholders our industry. We then conducted a To further vet the issues and rankings and have an impact on our stakeholders thorough media audit of trade, corporate as identified by the survey results, we and business today and in the future. responsibility and mainstream media conducted detailed stakeholder interviews. In order to identify the key issues of outlets to understand what issues are Sustainable Brands interviewed five importance, we seek the input of a variety trending and of the highest concern in internal stakeholders, while Business for of stakeholder groups and measure the the news. We also had conversations Social Responsibility interviewed five risks and opportunities for all relevant with various NGOs, investors and external stakeholders. In addition, we 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 64 APPENDIX Corporate Responsibility Materiality, cont. conducted post-survey interviews • Community Involvement: Improving Environment internally with more than 60 employees the communities in which we live and • Water Stewardship: Managing water globally and 12 external stakeholders. work through philanthropic efforts, resources strategically throughout the including donations, volunteerism and value chain. Our stakeholders were asked to rate other community programming. • Packaging Footprint: Reducing the the importance of each of the following • Human Rights in the Supply Chain: environmental impact of our packaging. issues identified in our initial materiality Combatting child labor and forced labor • Food Waste: Addressing food waste research, including: in the supply chain and evaluating our and loss from farm to table. suppliers in the area of human rights. • Energy Management: Managing Responsible Business Practices energy usage and costs throughout • Transparency: Communicating openly Product Responsibility the value chain, including agriculture, with stakeholders on material issues • Food Safety and Quality: Setting and production, transportation and and being clear with customers and maintaining high standards for food distribution. consumers about what is in our food safety and quality, including programs, • Waste Reduction: Ensuring as little and where it comes from. policies and procedures that ensure waste as possible goes to landfill. • Responsible Sourcing: Addressing safety of materials, manufacturing • Climate Change: Reducing GHG issues in the supply chain, including environment and processes, and emissions and contributing to the human rights, workplace safety, finished products. mitigation of and adaptation to being capable of fully tracing product • Responsible Marketing: Adhering the effects of climate change, and inputs to their supply source and full to internal and industry guidelines understanding climate change risks. traceability of product inputs in our regarding consumer communications. • Deforestation: Understanding the supply chain. • Responsible Labeling: Providing impacts of deforestation in the value • Sustainable Business Models: Doing consumers with information through chain and making commitments to business in a way that increases the size labeling or other communications. mitigate the impacts. of the business while simultaneously • Sustainable Agriculture: Addressing reducing our environmental footprint Labor Practices issues related to farming, such as soil and increasing positive social impact. • Talent Management: Creating a health, pesticide use, deforestation, • Business Ethics: Upholding ethical workplace that attracts and retains biodiversity and water use. principles in the business and employees and includes professional • Logistics and Transportation: workplace, including consumer privacy, development, succession planning, Addressing the environmental impacts fraud, bribery, corruption and corporate training and education. from the transportation of our products. governance. • Diversity and Inclusion: Enabling a • Public Policy and Engagement: business environment that values Step 4: Validation Actively engaging in public policy on different perspectives and includes Campbell’s Sustainability Steering issues affecting our industry. these differences in business Committee met to review the findings processes. and validate the issues. These issues Society • Occupational Health and Safety: were then presented to various company • Health, Nutrition and Wellness: Ensuring a safe and healthy workplace. leaders who also provided their input Improving the health profile of our • Workplace Culture: Ensuring on the importance of these issues to products and engaging in public employees have an inclusive and Campbell’s overall company strategies. discussions on healthy and nutritious supportive workplace environment that lifestyles. includes a variety of benefits such as Based on the results of these steps, we • Animal Welfare: Ensuring the ethical health care programs, paid time off and created a materiality grid, which maps treatment of animals in our value chain. work-life balance. where our long-term business success • Food Access: Ensuring wholesome, • Human Rights in the Workplace: aligns with marketplace and stakeholder nutritional food is available to as many Providing a workplace that respects priorities. We will utilize these findings people as possible in an affordable the basic human rights and freedoms of to identify and validate opportunities for manner. all workers, including eliminating child strengthening our corporate responsibility labor, discrimination and forced labor. strategies and reporting in the future. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 65 APPENDIX GRI Content Index DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE TITLE 2018 RESPONSE GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization The Campbell Soup Company 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Corporate Profile (5-6) 102-3 Location of headquarters Corporate Profile (6) 102-4 Location of operations Corporate Profile (6) 102-5 Ownership and legal form Publicly traded company 102-6 Markets served Corporate Profile (6) 102-7 Scale of the organization Corporate Profile (6); 10-K p.15 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Employees by Region and Type, Salary, and Gender Total Region Employees Full-Time Part-Time Hourly Salaried Male Female Undeclared Americas 12,431 12,030 401 8,675 3,756 7,353 5,077 1 Europe 405 349 56 322 83 178 227 0 Asia-Pac 3,906 3,328 578 2,572 1,334 2,096 1,810 0 Total 16,742 15,707 1,035 11,569 5,173 9,627 7,114 1 Employees by Contract and Gender Americas Europe Asia-Pacific Total Permanent 12,431 405 3,906 16,742 Female 5,077 227 1,810 7,114 Male 7,353 178 2,096 9,627 Undeclared 1 0 0 1 Contractors 3,634 0 162 3,796 Female Not tracked Not tracked Not tracked Not tracked Male Not tracked Not tracked Not tracked Not tracked Undeclared 3,634 0 162 3,796 Total 16,065 405 4,068 20,538 Employees by Type and Region Americas Europe Asia-Pacific Total Full Time 12,030 349 3,328 15,707 Female 4,862 202 1,341 6,405 Male 7,167 147 1,987 9,301 Undeclared 1 0 0 1 Part Time 401 56 578 1,035 Female 215 25 469 709 Male 186 31 109 326 Undeclared 0 0 0 0 Total 12,431 405 3,906 16,742 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 66 APPENDIX GRI Content Index Organizational Profile (cont.) 102-9 Supply chain Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Sustainability Strategy (7); Grown (16-21); Sourced (22-28); 10-K p.3-8 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its Where We’re Headed (2); 10-K p.3, Campbell has an internal supply chain process through which it conducts comprehensive due diligence when considering joint ventures or prospective suppliers. 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach We take a precautionary approach to the environment by seeking to apply processes or practices with less environmental impact when possible. Campbell’s Legal Department prepares a comprehensive report on current legal exposures, trends and risks that is presented annually to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. This report assesses the risks faced by the company in the geographies in which it does business. The Legal Department also provides an annual report to the Governance Committee of the Board of Directors on trends and developments in corporate governance. See also Produced—How We Manage (30). 102-12 External initiatives Appendix—Stakeholder Engagement (63) 102-13 Membership of associations Appendix—Stakeholder Engagement (63) Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Message (3-4) Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Corporate Profile (5-6); Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12); Revised corporate policies and guidelines are issued every year. Existing policy statements that are regularly reviewed and revised as needed include: • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics • Anti-Bribery Policy • Global Guidelines for Responsible Advertising to Children • Commitment Concerning Advertising to Children • Environmental Sustainability Policy • Human Rights Principles • Political Accountability Guidelines • Supply Base Requirements and Expectations Manual • Responsible Sourcing Supplier Code Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11); Campbell’s 2018 Proxy Statement Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Stakeholder Engagement (15) 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 29 percent of our workforce is unionized or covered by collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Stakeholder Engagement (15) 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Stakeholder Engagement (15) 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Stakeholder Engagement (15) 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 67 APPENDIX GRI Content Index Reporting Practices 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 10-K p.3; Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Corporate Profile (5-6) 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Materiality (13, 64-65) This report includes content on our key material corporate responsibility issues and an update to key performance metrics, including progress against our new 2025 goals. Significant policy or program advances and recognition occurring before or after FY2018 may also be included. This Report covers our owned and leased facilities on a global basis where we have operational control, but does not include our two newest acquisitions, Pacific Foods (acquired December 2017) and Snyder’s-Lance (acquired March 2018). Unless otherwise stated, principles and policies referenced in the report apply to locations operated worldwide, and to all employees of Campbell Soup Company. Bolthouse Farms was acquired in August 2012. Plum Organics was acquired in June 2013, and Campbell worked with Plum to incorporate it as a Public Benefit Corporation (PBC) under Delaware law in August 2013 and gain B Corp certification. Kelsen was acquired in August 2013 and Garden Fresh Gourmet was acquired in June 2015. 102-47 List of material topics Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Materiality (13) 102-48 Restatements of information Our environmental data has been restated back to 2008 to include the Bolthouse Farms, Plum Organics, Kelsen and Garden Fresh Gourmet acquisitions. 102-49 Changes in reporting None 102-50 Reporting period Fiscal Year 2018 (July 31, 2017—July 29, 2018) 102-51 Date of most recent report February 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Biennial, with updates annually 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report We value and welcome feedback from interested stakeholders. Contact Megan Maltenfort, Senior Manager—Corporate Social Responsibility, One Campbell Place, MS131, Camden, NJ 08103. You may also contact us via our dedicated CSR Feedback Email Address: csr_feedback@campbellsoup.com. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Standards Core option. This report also includes some content that addresses comprehensive-level disclosures. Please see our GRI Content Index for more details and www.globalreporting.org to learn more about the GRI framework. 102-55 GRI content index We provide a complete GRI Standards content index in the Appendix, beginning on page 66. 102-56 External assurance In 2016, we successfully completed a third-party limited assurance review consistent with guidance provided by ISO 14064-3 of our GHG emissions inventory. This assurance process was under the supervision of the Vice President of Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability. In 2017, we completed a similar third-party limited assurance review consistent with guidance provided by ISAE 3000 of our FY2016 nutrition and related sales data. Economic GRI 201: Economic Performance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10-K, CDP, Performance Scorecard (61-62) 103-2 The management approach and its components 10-K 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 10-K 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 10-K, Performance Scorecard (61-62) 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 10-K, CDP opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other 10-K, Performance Scorecard (62) retirement plans 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 68 APPENDIX GRI Content Index GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Shared: Communities—How We Manage (54) 103-2 The management approach and its components Shared: Communities—How We Manage (54) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Shared: Communities—How We Manage (54) 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Shared: Communities (53-60) 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Shared: Communities (53-60) GRI 204: Procurement Practices 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Sourced—How We Manage (23) 103-2 The management approach and its components Sourced—How We Manage (23) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sourced—How We Manage (23) 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers We do not currently track this data, but are determining the feasibility of tracking it in the future. FP1 Percentage of purchased volume from suppliers While Campbell maintains policies on supplier standards, we do not compliant with company’s sourcing policy currently track the total volume of ingredients that are compliant with our policies. We do, however, audit our suppliers against our Supply Base Requirements and Expectations Manual and will work towards being able to provide this information in the future. FP2 Percentage of purchased volume which is verified Cage-Free Eggs: 16% as being in accordance with credible, internationally “No Antibiotics Ever” Chicken: 98% recognized responsible production standards, broken Crate-Free Pork: 57% down by standard Responsibly Sourced Palm Oil (RSPO): Campbell purchases 100% RSPO. We are working to integrate Snyder’s-Lance, acquired in March 2018, into our certified supply. GRI 205: Anti-corruption 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 103-2 The management approach and its components Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Campbell’s Legal Department prepares a comprehensive report on current legal exposures, trends and risks that is presented annually to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. This report assesses the risks faced by the company in the geographies in which it does business. The Legal Department also provides an annual report to the Governance Committee of the Board of Directors on trends and developments in corporate governance. In addition, an annual Conflicts Certification is sent to midand upper-level management to assess conflicts of interest. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Each year, Campbell provides comprehensive online and in-person policies and procedures training for employees on core ethics and compliance issues and risk-based training tailored to the issues associated with employees’ specific job responsibilities. As part of the Winning with Integrity program, all employees are required to complete regular training on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. This training, offered in multiple languages, is available online for most employees, but also offered in DVD format for employees in our manufacturing facilities. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken There have been no confirmed incidents of corruption. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 69 APPENDIX GRI Content Index GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12); 10-K p.4-5; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Anti-Bribery Policy 103-2 The management approach and its components Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12); 10-K p.5; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Anti-Bribery Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12); 10-K p.5; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Anti-Bribery Policy 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, There were no legal actions during the reporting period regarding and monopoly practices anti-competitive behavior and violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation in which Campbell's has been identified as a participant. Environmental GRI 302: Energy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Produced—How We Manage (30) 103-2 The management approach and its components Produced—How We Manage (30) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Produced—How We Manage (30) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Performance Scorecard (61); CDP 302-3 Energy intensity Performance Scorecard (61); CDP Campbell defines intensity as Energy Use/ Tonne of Food Produced. 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Performance Scorecard (61); CDP 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products Performance Scorecard (61); CDP and services GRI 303: Water 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Grown—How We Manage (17); Produced—How We Manage (30) 103-2 The management approach and its components Grown—How We Manage (17); Produced—How We Manage (30); Produced—Managing Every Drop (32) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Grown—How We Manage (17); Produced—How We Manage (30) 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Performance Scorecard (61); CDP Water 303-3 Water recycled and reused This information is not currently tracked. GRI 305: Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Grown—How We Manage (17); Produced—How We Manage (30) 103-2 The management approach and its components Grown—How We Manage (17); Produced—How We Manage (30) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Grown—How We Manage (17); Produced—How We Manage (30) 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Performance Scorecard (61); CDP 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Performance Scorecard (61); CDP 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Performance Scorecard (61); CDP 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Performance Scorecard (61); CDP Campbell defines intensity as Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions/ Tonne of Food Produced. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Performance Scorecard (61); CDP 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 70 APPENDIX GRI Content Index GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Produced—How We Manage (30) 103-2 The management approach and its components Produced—How We Manage (30) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Produced—How We Manage (30) 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Performance Scorecard (61), CDP Water 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Performance Scorecard (62) 306-3 Significant spills There were no significant spills in FY2018. 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Performance Scorecard (62) No transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention. The primary hazardous materials include waste chemicals, used/waste oil, paint and medical waste. Please note that for some international sites, plant trash is also considered a hazardous waste. Hazardous waste is disposed by incineration, treatment/neutralization and fuel programs. GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10-K p.5; Produced—How We Manage (30) 103-2 The management approach and its components Campbell Soup Company has an Environmental Management System with one of the key aspects being an electronic system, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach the Campbell’s Environmental Management & Metrics System (CEMMS). The CEMMS system is used globally at our facilities and is the backbone of our overall Environmental Management System. The CEMMS system addresses our document management, permit tracking, monitoring and measurement, tasks and calendar management, waste and recycling tracking/reporting, inspection notifications, incidents of notice of violations management, audits management, energy tracking/reporting and refrigerant tracking/ reporting. While this system is auditable and supports ISO 14001, our Environmental Management System is not ISO 14001 certified, and we currently do not have any facilities that are ISO 14001 or OHSAS 18001 certified. 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and Campbell incurred $450 in environmental fines in FY2018. regulations GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Grown—How We Manage (17); Sourced—How We Manage (23) 103-2 The management approach and its components Grown—How We Manage (17); Sourced—How We Manage (23) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Grown—How We Manage (17); Sourced—How We Manage (23) 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Sourced—Our Strategic Focus Areas and Goals (24-25) environmental criteria Our Responsible Sourcing Supplier Code is available to all suppliers and holds our suppliers accountable to environmental standards. We are still developing management systems for comprehensive supplier screening. 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain There were no negative environmental impacts identified in the and actions taken supply chain in FY2018. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 71 APPENDIX GRI Content Index Social GRI 401: Employment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37); Shared: Employees—Using Transparency to Transform Careers (40) 103-2 The management approach and its components Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37); Shared: Employees—Using Transparency to Transform Careers (40) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37); Shared: Employees—Using Transparency to Transform Careers (40) 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover are listed below. Voluntary turnover for FY2018 was 11 percent and involuntary turnover was 6 percent, with a total turnover rate of 17 percent. New Hires vs. Turnover by Age, Gender, and Region Age Range New Hires Turnover 30 and under 865 824 31-50 758 1,083 51 and over 180 544 Total 1,803 2,451 Gender New Hires Turnover Female 637 869 Male 1,166 1,581 Undeclared 0 1 Total 1,803 2,451 Region New Hires Turnover Americas 1,479 1,916 Europe 17 18 Asia-Pacific 307 517 Total 1,496 1,934 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not While employee benefits may vary for global locations, Campbell provided to temporary or part-time employees offers a robust employee benefits package that may include paid sick days, paid vacation, bereavement leave, education benefits, relocation assistance, health insurance (individual and family), dental insurance (individual and family), vision insurance, domestic partner benefits, life insurance, disability insurance (including long-term), flexible spending accounts (health care and child care), stock options, bonus plans, 401(k) savings plans, an onsite daycare center (WHQ), onsite fitness center (WHQ), paid maternity and paternity leave, adoption assistance, and retiree health care. Campbell Soup Company also offers corporate benefits to both sameand oppositesex couples and has a workplace flexibility policy. 401-3 Parental leave Shared: Employees—Benefits That Matter for Life’s Moments (39) FP3 Percentage of working time lost due to industrial There was no lost time due to industrial disputes, strikes and/or disputes, strikes and/or lock-outs, by country. lock-outs in FY2018. GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37) 103-2 The management approach and its components Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37) 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management— 100 percent of Campbell’s workforce is represented in formal worker health and safety committees joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. All of our locations have some form of health and safety committee with representation from all employee levels. In some countries the composition of those committees is legislated. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 72 APPENDIX GRI Content Index 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Shared: Employees—Safety for Everyone, Every Day (41); diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number Performance Scorecard (62) of work-related fatalities GRI 404: Training and Education 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37); Shared: Employees—Using Transparency to Transform Careers (40) 103-2 The management approach and its components Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37); Shared: Employees—Using Transparency to Transform Careers (40) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37); Shared: Employees—Using Transparency to Transform Careers (40) 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee We track the following metrics related to training & development: —Average amount spent on training an employee annually: $607 —Average number of hours of training per employee annually: 10 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Shared: Employees—Using Transparency to Transform Careers (40) assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 100 percent of employees receive an annual performance evaluation. performance and career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37) 103-2 The management approach and its components Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37) 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Age Group (Global) <31 31-50 >50 Total Board of 0 0 12 12 Directors Global 3,267 7,946 5,529 16,742 Employees Gender (Global) Female Male Undeclared Total Board of 4 8 0 12 Directors Top 14 48 0 62 Management Management 787 1,024 0 1,811 Non6,313 8,555 1 14,869 Management Ethnicity (United States) Hispanic/ Black/African Did Not Latino American White Asian Other Disclose Total Top 8 0 46 2 0 3 59 Management Management 75 62 1,049 127 27 21 1,361 Non2,732 1,383 5,086 428 461 263 10,353 Management Total 2,815 1,445 6,181 557 488 287 11,773 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 73 APPENDIX GRI Content Index 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Average Annual Base Pay (USD) Top Management Level U.S. Outside U.S. Average female salary $327,193 N/A Average male salary $419,205 $523,264 Management Level U.S. Outside U.S. Average female salary $145,220 $108,940 Average male salary $154,060 $122,023 Non-Management Level U.S. Outside U.S. Average female salary $50,094 $43,490 Average male salary $51,283 $46,516 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (12); Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37) 103-2 The management approach and its components Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (12); Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (12); Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37) 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken The company has not been fined or disciplined by the EEOC in the last five years. GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Sourced—How We Manage (23); Sourced—Our Strategic Focus Areas and Goals (25); Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37) 103-2 The management approach and its components Sourced—How We Manage (23); Sourced—Our Strategic Focus Areas and Goals (25); Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sourced—How We Manage (23); Sourced—Our Strategic Focus Areas and Goals (25); Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37) 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights As part of our customers’ social accountability programs, five of our reviews or impact assessments facilities participated in social responsibility audits in FY2018. The company has not been involved in any human rights controversies, has not incurred any fines by governmental organizations related to human rights issues, and has not been subject to any human rights litigation in the last five years. 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies and All employees have access to Campbell’s Human Rights Principles, procedures and employee training occurs in operations located in high-risk countries when necessary. 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts 100 percent of our suppliers have expectations for human rights that include human rights clauses or that underwent outlined in our purchase contract terms and conditions. human rights screening GRI 413: Local Communities 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Shared: Communities—How We Manage (54) 103-2 The management approach and its components Shared: Communities—How We Manage (54) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Shared: Communities—How We Manage (54) 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact We have community engagement programs in all of the locations assessments and development programs in which we operate. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 74 APPENDIX GRI Content Index GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Sourced—How We Manage (23) 103-2 The management approach and its components Sourced—How We Manage (23) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sourced—How We Manage (23) 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Sourced—Our Strategic Focus Areas and Goals (24) 100 percent of our suppliers have expectations for human rights outlined in our purchase contract terms and conditions and our Responsible Sourcing Supplier Code. We are still developing management systems for comprehensive supplier screening. 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and One of our suppliers was found to be in violation of our Responsible actions taken Sourcing Supplier Code. As a result, we have requested that they complete a SMETA social compliance audit. We are simultaneously working to identify a new supplier for this ingredient. GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Produced—How We Manage (30); Shared: Consumers—How We Manage (45) 103-2 The management approach and its components Produced—How We Manage (30); Shared: Consumers—How We Manage (45) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Produced—How We Manage (30); Shared: Consumers—How We Manage (45) 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of Produced—Working Together for Improved Food Safety (35); product and service categories Performance Scorecard (62) 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health In FY2018, Campbell had no Class I recalls and two Class II recalls and safety impacts of products and services related to Wolfgang Puck® Organic Creamy Butternut Squash soup in Canada and Pepperidge Farm® Goldfish® crackers in North America, which have both been resolved through corrective actions. FP5 Percentage of production volume manufactured in Produced—Working Together for Improved Food Safety (35) sites certified by an independent third party according to internationally recognized food safety management system standards FP6 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer Performance Scorecard (62) products, by product category, that are lowered in saturated fat, trans fats, sodium and added sugars FP7 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, Performance Scorecard (62) by product category, that contain increased nutritious ingredients like fiber, vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals or functional food additives GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Sourced—How We Manage (23); Produced—How We Manage (30); Shared: Consumers—How We Manage (45) 103-2 The management approach and its components Sourced—How We Manage (23); Produced—How We Manage (30); Shared: Consumers—How We Manage (45) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sourced—How We Manage (23); Produced—How We Manage (30); Shared: Consumers—How We Manage (45) 417-1 Requirements for product and service information Sourced—A Packaging Evolution at Plum Organics (27); and labeling Produced—Working Together for Improved Food Safety (35); Shared: Consumers (44-52); whatsinmyfood.com; Global Guidelines for Responsible Advertising to Children; Commitment Concerning Advertising to Children (U.S.) 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and There have been zero incidents of non-compliance concerning service information and labeling product and service information and labeling in FY2018. 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing There have been zero incidents of non-compliance concerning communications marketing communications in FY2018. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 75 APPENDIX GRI Content Index GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 103-2 The management approach and its components Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the There were zero incidents of non-compliance with laws and social and economic area regulations in the social and economic area in FY2018. Animal Welfare FP9 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or We do not raise or process animals, so this is not applicable. processed, by species and breed type FP10 Policies and practices, by species and breed type, We do not raise or process animals, so this is not applicable. related to physical alterations and the use of anesthetic FP11 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or processed, We do not raise or process animals, so this is not applicable. by species and breed type, per housing type FP12 Policies and practices on antibiotic, anti-inflammatory, We do not raise or process animals, so this is not applicable. hormone, and/or growth promotion treatments, by species and breed type FP13 Total number of incidents of significant non-compliance We do not raise or process animals, so this is not applicable. with laws and regulations, and adherence with voluntary standards related to transportation, handling, and slaughter practices for live terrestrial and aquatic animals 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 76 APPENDIX UN Global Compact Index The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Campbell committed to the principles of the UNGC in 2009. Below is an index of our reporting against the UNGC principles within the content of this 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report. PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION REPORT SECTION/LINKS NUMBER 1 Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Human Rights Principles Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12) Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Stakeholder Engagement (15) Sourced (22) Shared: Employees (36) 2 Make sure business is not complicit in human rights abuses Human Rights Principles Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12) Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Stakeholder Engagement (15) Sourced (22) Shared: Employees (36) 3 Uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right Human Rights Principles to collective bargaining Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Stakeholder Engagement (15) Sourced (22) Shared: Employees (36) GRI Content Index—102-41 (67) 4 Support elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Human Rights Principles Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12) Sourced (22) 5 Support effective abolition of child labor Human Rights Principles Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12) Sourced (22) 6 Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation Human Rights Principles Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12) Shared: Employees (36) 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Grown (16) Sourced (22) Produced (29) GRI Content Index—102-11 (67) 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Grown (16) Sourced (22) Produced (29) 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Code of Business Conduct and Ethics friendly technologies Grown (16) Sourced (22) Produced (29) 10 Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery 10-K p.4-5 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12) Anti-Bribery Policy GRI Content Index—GRI 205: Anti-corruption (69) GRI Content Index—GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior (70) 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 77 APPENDIX UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) How our sustainability initiatives intersect the 17 goals outlined in the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. Creating opportunities for Using our resources as Responding to consumer Educating community Supporting women in our people in need, especially in a food company to end trends and offering members about the workforce and supply chain. our hometown communities. hunger through cash and products that contribute importance of nutritious Diverse Suppliers for a Diverse Lasting Solutions for product donations. to a healthy diet. food. Consumer Base Our Hometowns Lasting Solutions for Our Working Together for Improved Lasting Solutions for Helping Professionals Return Building a Network of Hometowns Food Safety Our Hometowns to Work Real Solutions Building a Network of Benefits That Matter for Life’s Sowing Change With Helping Campbell Women Lift Real Solutions Moments FoodCorps Each Other Up Giving that Matters Week 2018 Safety for Everyone, Every Day Feeding People, Ending Food Safety Starts With Us Waste: That’s Just Peachy® What We’re Taking Out of Healthy Eating From the Our Food Very Start Well Yes!®: A Better Soup from the Can Up Putting Transparency on the Menu Making Healthy Eating More Convenient Sowing Change With FoodCorps Healthy Eating From the Very Start Ensuring our operations Committing to 40 percent Building a workplace Innovating through our Leveling the playing field do not adversely affect renewable or alternative guided by Our Values products, the agricultural for underprivileged local water resources. energy to meet our and helping emerging practices we promote and employees, suppliers and Managing Every Drop electricity needs by businesses succeed. the level of transparency people in our communities. How Arnott’s and Kelsen Are FY2020. A Triple Win for Arnott’s with which we communicate. Diverse Suppliers for a Diverse Doing More for the Planet Solar Energy Is Heating Up Using Transparency to Real Food Shouldn’t Go Consumer Base in Camden Transform Careers to Waste Helping Professionals Return Investing in the Future of Food Working Together for Improved to Work Food Safety Helping Campbell Women Building a Network of Real Solutions What’s New in Real Food Lift Each Other Up Putting Transparency on Campbell ID Networks the Menu Add Value Investing in the Future of Food Building a Network of Real Solutions Campbell Leads on GMO Transparency Sowing Change with FoodCorps Feeding People, Ending Food Waste: That’s Just Peachy® Healthy Eating From the Very Start 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 78 APPENDIX UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Strengthening the Responsibly sourcing raw Reducing the GHG Protecting water resources Responsibly sourcing communities where materials and minimizing emissions associated with by minimizing nitrogen raw materials whose we operate worldwide resource consumption and growing, transporting and runoff and other activities. cultivation may contribute through volunteerism waste during production. producing our food. Tradition Meets Technology at to deforestation. and partnerships. Tradition Meets Technology at Tradition Meets Technology at Bolthouse Farms Our Strategic Focus Areas Lasting Solutions for Bolthouse Farms Bolthouse Farms Report Cards Extend All the and Goals Our Hometowns Report Cards Extend All the Report Cards Extend All the Way to the Farm A More Transparent Palm Oil Building a Network of Way to the Farm Way to the Farm 2020 Tomato Goals: Where Supply Chain Real Solutions Growing Tomatoes Is a 2020 Tomato Goals: Where We Stand Sowing Change with FoodCorps Family Affair We Stand Making Sustainable Giving that Matters Week 2018 Making Sustainable Making Sustainable Agriculture Agriculture the Norm Agriculture the Norm the Norm How Arnott’s and Kelsen Are Feeding People, Ending Food Waste: That’s Just Peachy® Solar Energy Is Heating Up Doing More for the Planet A More Transparent Palm Oil Supply Chain in Camden Arnott’s Employees Make a Difference in Southeast Asia Where Does Arnott’s Making Our Refrigeration Chocolate Come From? Systems More Efficient Supporting Healthy Communities in Campbell’s Making Progress on Shipping Smarter With Hometowns Animal Welfare SmartWay® A Record Year for the A Triple Win for Arnott’s Real Food Shouldn’t Go to Waste Arnott’s Foundation How Arnott’s and Kelsen Are The Australian Packaging Covenant Doing More for the Planet A Packaging Evolution at Plum Organics Real Food Shouldn’t Go to Waste Making the Most of Every Vegetable Working Together for Improved Food Safety Operating our company Partnering with internal guided by a foundation of and external stakeholders ethical business practices. to address major industry Governance challenges. Ethics Stakeholder Engagement Real Food Shouldn’t Go to Waste Working Together for Improved Food Safety Putting Transparency on the Menu Campbell Leads on GMO Transparency Investing in the Future of Food 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 79
