2018 Global Report A business, financial and sustainability overview 2018 Amadeus Global Report A business, financial and sustainability overview The objective of this Global Report is to provide a comprehensive and transparent view of Amadeus’ activities, operations and performance during 2018. We have taken into consideration a broad perspective covering financial and non-financial information and we are providing an overview of the company from an economic, social and environmental outlook. For a more interactive reading of this report, visit the online version at http://www.amadeus.com/global-report-2018 2 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-14 Message from the Chairman of the Board Message from the Chairman of the Board Dear friends, Every year, and with increasing intensity, the travel technology sector is delivering exciting innovations and facing new challenges. I would like to comment on three topics that potentially present both opportunities and risks to the future of the travel industry: the transforming effect of new technologies, current geopolitical events affecting the way in which the industry is developing, and the growing relevance of sustainability in the travel industry. In relation to new technologies, the increasing connectivity of travelers, mainly through the exponential use of smartphones, is just the tip of the iceberg of what technology will deliver in the travel industry in the not-too-distant future. And the exciting news is that, in all likelihood, the speed at which new technologies will hit the market will be ever faster. Indeed, in these exciting times the number of highly qualified technology workers is larger than ever, knowledge is shared with unprecedented ease thanks to the internet and the digitalization of data, and the financing of projects has become, on average, easier than ever before. Amadeus is well prepared to face this technological future, with a set of unique capabilities like the largest community of travel-related software developers in the industry, extremely high-performance transaction processing power, rapid response GRI 102-14 Amadeus Global Report 2018 3 Message from the Chairman of the Board times serving hundreds of thousands of simultaneous users, the to adhering to the vision of these new regulations and to introduction of new technologies like artificial intelligence and the continuing to work in the future toward a more efficient travel progressive use of cloud services and infrastructure. You can find industry for the benefit of all stakeholders and of future more information on these aspects in this report’s technology generations. Amadeus’ focus on R&D investment, our talented and innovation chapter. and diverse workforce, our expertise in the market and our diversification strategy all help to address the challenges ahead In recent times we have been witnessing geopolitical events such and shape a better future for travel. as increased levels of protectionism and significant disparities in economic growth between regions, which can exacerbate the differences in travel industry growth in various parts of the world. In this respect, a global geographical reach has always been an important component of Amadeus’ value proposition, and in the If there is one prediction that we current geopolitical context our extensive coverage becomes even more valuable. As described in this report’s sections dedicated to our business units, our global presence in terms of sites, business volumes and customer segments is evenly distributed. This balanced coverage provides significant resilience to our business, can feel confident about in the travel since an eventual recession in one region is compensated by the advance in others, in a sector where overall travel growth, after all, remains strong. industry, it is long-term growth.” Indeed, if there is one prediction that we can feel confident about In this report you will find comprehensive information about in the travel industry, it is long-term growth. On the one hand, the most important milestones of our business in 2018, growth provides business opportunities for all stakeholders, but including details on our sustainability practices. I hope you on the other, we need to factor in sustainability as a major priority. find it informative and of interest. We may not feel the urgency, but if we don’t address issues like climate change seriously, we will not be able to maintain exponential industry growth without affecting the capacity of future generations to enjoy the same opportunities. We need to find ways to travel more sustainably, working together with industry stakeholders. Over recent years, regulators and governments have shown increasing concern over the value that large corporations provide toward long-term sustainability beyond economic rewards to shareholders. For example, EU Directive 2014/95 mandates that large corporations should disclose specific non-financial and diversity information relating to environmental, social, human José Antonio Tazón resources and human rights issues. We are fully committed Chairman of the Board, Amadeus 4 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-14 Message from the President & CEO Message from the President & CEO Amadeus can reflect on 2018 as a year in which we have continued the future, and in 2018, Amadeus invested 17.8% of revenues to grow, serving more customers, reaching more travelers and in R&D, driving strategic projects such as Amadeus Cloud expanding our global reach. This year in particular, we continued Services and NDC-X while improving our solutions portfolio our drive to diversify our business and service the broader and strengthening the security and resilience of our systems. travel industry. And to bring our long-term ambition to life, we rely on the talent, A key moment of the year came in October, when we completed resourcefulness, and commitment of our Amadeus colleagues, the acquisition of TravelClick, the US-based hotel technology who remain our most valuable asset and our real differentiator. provider. Our largest ever acquisition represented a huge step Just like our business, our team is truly global, and our aim forward in the Hospitality market, transforming our portfolio is to be established close to our customers, offering the best and footprint. We also welcomed a new team of talented and of Amadeus in each market in which we operate. experienced hospitality professionals, bringing our total number We are proud of the diversity of this team. We are also proud of staff across our business to more than 18,000 worldwide. of the sense of responsibility with which they approach our We are now a true hospitality leader, providing a wide range of business, and in particular regarding the wider impact of the travel innovative solutions to hotels and chains of all sizes. By the end industry in the world today. This report highlights some of the of 2018, we had also completed the roll-out of the Guest Reservation key initiatives being run to support the communities which our System in InterContinental Hotels Group’s 5,600 properties. Amadeus teams work in. In 2018, Amadeus joined the United Nations Global is now well positioned for future success in this crucial market. Compact pact, demonstrating our commitment to the universal principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption Our established businesses also continued to grow throughout that the Global Compact promotes. the year. Regarding our Airline IT solutions, several new airlines migrated either to the Altéa or New Skies platform, while the Once again, I would like to thank our Amadeus colleagues. Every number of passengers boarded rose 12% to 1.85 billion. We day, their dedication helps make Amadeus the leading provider continued to see our global footprint evolve, in particular of technology in the travel industry. with growth in North America and Asia Pacific, with 60% of I also want to thank our customers for their ongoing trust as our boarded passengers now generated outside of Europe. together, we continue to power better journeys. It is a privilege Our Distribution activity is also expanding – in a tough and to serve them. Finally I would also like to thank our investors competitive market, we made strong progress in Asia, the Americas for their continued support. and the Middle East. We see the Distribution landscape changing We look forward to working with you in the year ahead. rapidly, as airlines continue to explore alternative strategies to distribute their content, fulfilling changing traveler expectations. As both an IT and Distribution partner, Amadeus is well placed to support our customers’ choices, whatever strategy they follow. Our operational successes continue to be translated into financial strength, giving us the flexibility to invest in our people and Luis Maroto technology. These investments will enable us to flourish long into President & CE0, Amadeus GRI 102-14 Amadeus Global Report 2018 5 Message from the President & CEO 6 Amadeus Global Report 2018 Table of contents Corporate performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08 1. Amadeus in the travel industry . . . . . . . . . . . 10 2. Business lines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 3. Customer experience . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 4. Technology and innovation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52 5. Amadeus people and culture . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62 6. Amadeus industry affairs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80 7. Environmental sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90 8. Social responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104 9. Corporate risk management . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116 10. Corporate governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122 Amadeus Global Report 2018 7 11. Shareholders and financial institutions . . . . . . 132 Closing remarks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 138 Annex 1. About this report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 140 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 146 Annex 3. Glossary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 166 Following global reporting trends and best practices, we have included these icons throughout this Global Report: ↪ Further information provided in another section. GRI 102 GRI Disclosure Label. Indicates that a Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) disclosure is reported on the page where the label has been placed. We have included the icons of the UN Sustainable Development Goals in the sections where we describe our specific contribution for each one. 8 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-7, 102-8 Corporate performance Total workforce (figures in FTEs)* Revenue breakdown1 (figures in € million) 18,673 4,944 Distribution 4,637 IT Solutions 16,785 4,473 15,380 1,940 1,548 1,715 2,925 2,922 3,004 * Scope: All fully owned Amadeus companies. Figures in full-time equivalents (FTEs) as of December 31. FTE is the headcount converted to a full-time basis, e.g. an employee working part-time covering 80% of a full-time 2016 2017 2018 schedule is considered 0.8 FTE. 2016 2017 2018 Total travel agency air bookings (figures in millions) EBITDA1 40.1% 41.3% 568 580 2,100 38.0% 40% EBITDA (€ million) 535 2,041 EBITDA margin % 1,800 1,860 1,700 30% 1,500 1,200 20% 900 600 10% 300 0 0% 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Passengers boarded (figures in millions)* Adjusted profit1 (figures in € million) 1,854 1,200 1,657 1,112 1,123 1,000 1,383 800 911 600 400 * Passengers boarded, i.e. actual passengers boarded onto flights 200 operated by airlines using at least the Amadeus Altéa Reservation and Inventory modules or 0 2016 2017 2018 Navitaire New Skies. 2016 2017 2018 GRI 102-5, 102-7 Amadeus Global Report 2018 9 Corporate performance Amadeus maintained its solid financial growth in 2018, a year marked by the acquisition of R&D investment (including capitalized R&D)* (figures in € million) TravelClick. Our total workforce grew by 11.2%, to close to 19,000 people. 896 Total travel agency air bookings In 2018, Amadeus’ bookings increased by 2.1%. Asia and Pacific and North America were 763 our best performing regions. In contrast, Amadeus’ bookings in Western Europe declined, 726 impacted by the downward industry trend and the loss of share at some mid-size online travel agencies. Passengers boarded * Part of our R&D costs Amadeus’ passengers boarded grew by 11.9% in 2018. This growth was driven both is linked to activities by new airline implementations and by a 7.6% organic growth. Our geographical that are subject to capitalization, thus diversification was intensified in 2018, mainly due to our expansion in Asia and Pacific impacting the level and in North America. In 2018, 60.3% of the total passengers boarded were generated of operating expenses outside Europe. that are capitalized 2016 2017 2018 on the balance sheet. Revenue1 Revenue grew in 2018 by 6.6%, to €4,943.9 million. Revenue from Distribution grew 2.8%, supported by an increase of both number of bookings and average revenue per Net debt evolution* booking. Revenue in IT Solutions grew by 13.1%, due to a solid volume expansion in Airline IT and double-digit growth delivered by the new areas of diversification. 1.5 3,500 1.5 Covenant net EBITDA1 financial debt 3,000 (€ million) In 2018, EBITDA increased 9.7% to €2,040.6 million. EBITDA growth resulted from the 1.1 1.1 3,074 1.2 positive performances of Distribution and IT Solutions and a reduction in net indirect Covenant net 2,500 debt/LTM covenant costs as a consequence of the adoption of IFRS 16 in 2018. 2,000 0.9 EBITDA* (x time) Excluding negative foreign exchange effects and the IFRS 16 impact on EBITDA, both 1,958 2,083 revenue and EBITDA grew at high single-digit rates during 2018. 1,500 0.6 Adjusted profit1,2 1,000 In 2018, adjusted profit increased by 1.0%, to €1,122m. Excluding extraordinary positive 0.3 deferred tax liability adjustments in 2017, adjusted profit in 2018 grew by 6.0%. 500 * Based on the definition included R&D investment 0 0 in the senior credit In 2018, R&D investment 3 amounted up to €896.4m, 17.5% higher than previous year. 2016 2017 2018 agreement covenants. Growth in R&D investment in 2018 resulted from expansion of our product portfolio, diversification into new areas, shift to next-generation technologies and the impact of TravelClick’s acquisition. Amadeus share structure Net debt 1.87% 0.10% Net financial debt, as per our credit facility agreements’ terms, amounted to €3,074.0 million at December 31, 2018 (representing 1.47x times last-twelve-month EBITDA). The main Treasury shares* Board members changes to our debt in 2018 were the issuance of three Eurobond on September for a total * This caption shows amount of €1,500 million. the Treasury Shares that the company bought to satisfy the 1 Including TravelClick’s 2018 consolidation effect of: revenue, EBITDA and adjusted profit contributions of delivery of shares to €86.7m, €22.3m and €14.3m, respectively, while excluding TravelClick’s related acquisition transaction former Amadeus IT costs, PPA adjustment and bank acquisition financing interest expense. Also, 2017 figures have been 98.03% Group´s minority shareholders according restated for IFRS 15 and IFRS 9, applied from January 1, 2018. In addition, we are early adopters of IFRS 16, which we applied since January 1, 2018. 2017 figures have not been restated for IFRS 16. 2016 figures have not been restated for any of these new accounting rules and have been left as reported. For Free float to the change equation established for the full details, please see Management Report FY 2018. Merge between that 2 Excluding after-tax impact of the following items: (i) accounting effects derived from PPA exercises and company and Amadeus impairment losses, (ii) non-operating exchange gains (losses) and (iii) other non-recurring items. IT Holding. 3 Including Research Tax Credit. 10 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-2 1. Amadeus in the travel industry 1. Amadeus in 1.1 Travel industry market Overall travel volumes the travel industry The contribution of travel and tourism to the world economy is estimated at USD 8.8 trillion, or more than 10% of the global GDP. This industry currently supports 319 million jobs – almost 1 in 10 globally.1 For eight consecutive years, the travel and tourism sector has outpaced global economic growth. The direct contribution of Travel and Tourism to GDP in 2018 was USD 2.8 trillion (3.2% of GDP). This is forecast to rise by 3.6% to USD 2.8 trillion in 2019.1 Looking ahead, in the next decade the value of the overall travel industry is expected to grow at a compound annual rate of 3.7%, reaching USD 13.09 trillion, representing almost 12% of the global GDP and supporting more than 421 million jobs.1 The number of air travelers is expected to double over the next 20 years to 8.2 billion, representing a compound annual growth rate of 3.5%. 2 This growth in passengers is leading to major airport investment plans backed by governments and industry partners, with 427 new airports under construction in 2018.3 Hospitality is also growing at a healthy rate, with a 27% increase in number of rooms worldwide between 2010 and 2017.4 ↪ 1 Source: World Travel & Tourism Council (February 2019). Travel & Tourism Economic Impact 2019 World. WTTC, London 2 Source: https://www.iata.org/pressroom/pr/Pages/2018-10-24-02.aspx. 3 Source: CAPA – Centre for Aviation. Global airport construction review 2Q2018: USD803 billion costs. 4 Amadeus estimation based on various sources. ↪ See “Diversification areas,” p. 42. GRI 102-8, 102-15 Amadeus Global Report 2018 11 1. Amadeus in the travel industry Regional development people based in the region, representing 21% of our total workforce, as well as a strong market position in the distribution business and many important carriers as customers in our Airline IT business. Developments in the travel sector will be very uneven across different regions of the world. Growth in the travel industry is particularly strong in Asia-Pacific, Trends with a potential the Middle East and Africa, with expected annual average growth rates in these regions in the period up to 2028 of 4.6%, 5% and to impact travel volumes 5.9%, respectively. On the other hand, Europe and North America The expected travel volumes can be affected by geopolitical are expected to grow at annual rates of around 2.5%.1 events, economic growth levels, capacity constraints and Looking at air travel only, the same picture emerges, with Asiasustainability issues. Pacific, the Middle East and Africa expected to grow at annual rates of around 4.5% until 2038, while we will see more moderate growth of 2.4% and 2% for Europe and the US, respectively.5 Geopolitics As a consequence of the regional growth differentials, the center Geopolitical and security events in certain parts of the world of gravity in the travel world will shift from west to east, with are affecting travel significantly. Asia-Pacific being the major growth catalyst. In 2018 there are Political tensions and an increased level of protectionism are only two Asian markets among the top 10 air passenger markets. affecting travel negatively. Indeed, the International Air Transport However, driven by continued robust economic growth, the Association (IATA) projects significant differences in the growth upsurge in middle-income households and the increase in firstof air travel over the next 20 years under a base case scenario time flyers, by the mid-2020s China will have displaced the United (“Constant Policy”: 3.5% growth p.a.) and two extreme scenarios States as the world’s largest aviation market,6 and by 2030 three (“Reverse Globalization”: 2.4% p.a.; “Maximum Liberalization”: 5.5% out of four of the largest aviation passenger markets will be in p.a.),10 leading to a difference of almost a factor of two between Asia. Indeed, out of 43,000 airplanes projected to be delivered the bestand worst-case scenarios by the end of the period. over the next 20 years, 16,000 will be to Asian markets.7 This growth is driving the increase in airports in the region, with China At the same time, threats of terrorism are leading to restrictions aiming to build 136 new airports by 2025 8 and India planning on travel, increased security and border control, and an 100 new airports by 2035.9 increased administrative burden for the traveler. This, coupled with a reduced appetite for travel, can have a dampening effect Amadeus is well positioned to capitalize on Asia-Pacific growth. We on demand. Experience has shown, however, that security issues have a wide local presence and a workforce of more than 3,900 tend to affect specific countries or regions only and are generally short-lived. Amadeus’ high geographical diversification helps to limit the impact of such issues on our business. Security is another area where technology has provided solutions 5 Source: https://www.iata.org/pressroom/pr/Pages/2018-10-24-02.aspx. in the past, and this is likely to continue, presenting a further 6 Source: https://www.iata.org/pressroom/pr/Pages/2018-10-24-02.aspx. opportunity for large travel IT providers with the required scale and reach such as Amadeus. 7 Source: http://www.boeing.com/resources/boeingdotcom/commercial/market/ commercial-market-outlook/assets/downloads/2018-cmo-09-11.pdf. 8 Source: http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2017-03/16/content_28576678.htm. 9 Source: https://www.aai.aero/sites/default/files/press_release_news/Press%20 Release%20International%20Aviation%20Summit_04th%20September.pdf. 10 Source: https://www.iata.org/pressroom/speeches/Pages/2018-10-24-01.aspx. 12 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 305-5 1. Amadeus in the travel industry Economic growth to half the 2005 levels by 2050.14 Moreover, technology from IT companies such as Amadeus can contribute to the more efficient Economic growth levels have a significant impact on travel use of infrastructure and energy. industry growth. For example, the average growth rate of air passengers is around 1.5 times that of the global GDP,11 although this multiplier varies substantially from one region to another. The need for technology Therefore, future economic recessions or upturns will have a strong impact on travel volumes. in supporting the evolution of the travel industry Capacity constraints The evolution and growth of the industry is highly dependent on technology. The increase in travel is leading to strains on travel infrastructure, and in particular in airports. In the summer of 2018, 204 airports The travel ecosystem consists of a myriad of providers – airlines, were designated Level 3 slot-coordinated facilities, meaning that hotels, railways, car rental companies, destination services they do not have the runway, ramp or gate capacity to handle all providers, etc. – as well as countless travel sellers. Technology is of the flights that carriers would like to operate.12 At the same powering the ecosystem by connecting all these different travel time, despite the strong investments in airports, Eurocontrol providers, allowing travelers to search for and book the optimal estimates that by 2040, 160 million passengers will be unable to journey, consisting perhaps of several travel services (e.g. air, fly due to a lack of airport capacity, resulting in €88 billion of lost hotel and car). Amadeus plays an important role in powering this economic activity across Europe.13 As technology can facilitate ecosystem via our distribution business, which connects travel more efficient use of these scarce resources, the industry will need providers with travel sellers all over the world.↪1 to invest in IT systems. For travel providers to succeed in today’s world, a strong focus is required not only on cost efficiencies but also revenue maximization, as well at the building of brand and customer Sustainability loyalty. In this context, technology also plays an important role in enhancing a wide variety of core operations for travel providers. The travel and tourism sector is challenged by issues such as Amadeus has IT offerings for, among others, airlines, hotels overcrowded destinations, income inequalities and human-induced and airports.↪ 2 climate variability. We expect a more specific and strict legal framework on these and other issues to emerge, which could have The hassle of travel can be a significant impediment to the a negative impact on travel. However, in regards to aviation, the evolution of the travel industry. However, recent and emerging industry is determined to grow sustainably, committing to carbontechnologies are making serious improvements to this situation, neutral growth from 2020 onwards, and to cutting net emissions for example: __Uninterrupted connectivity facilitated by mobile internet and smartphones means that changes can be made on the move in case of travel disruption or a change of plans. 11 Source: https://www.kfw-ipex-bank.de/pdf/Analyses-and-views/Marketanalyses/2017-01-26-Blitz-Licht-Flugh%C3%A4fen-BIP-Faktor.pdf. 12 Source: https://www.travelweekly.com/Travel-News/Airline-News/More-and14 Source: https://www.iata.org/pressroom/speeches/Pages/2018-10-24-01.aspx. more-airports-running-out-of-space. ↪1 See “Distribution,” p. 22. 13 Source: https://www.eurocontrol.int/press-releases/challenges-growth-reportnow-released. ↪ 2 See “Business lines,” p. 20. GRI 102-2 Amadeus Global Report 2018 13 1. Amadeus in the travel industry __The use of machine learning makes it possible to fine-tune However, the travel industry must also adapt and respond to search results based on the traveler’s explicit and implicit modern challenges, such as protecting the environment, keeping preferences to create highly personalized and contextual offers us safe and secure, helping economies to grow and preserving for the traveler’s next flight, hotel room or car rental. local cultures. As our world evolves, so do travelers. The boom __Emerging initiatives aimed at providing digital identity tightly in digitalization means travelers are always connected. They linked to the user’s physical identity are enabling a more require access to travel anytime, anywhere, and they expect seamless and personalized processing of the traveler. Within personalized experiences that make journeys more rewarding. Amadeus, we are exploring solutions and technologies to provide To keep up with the demands of travelers, the industry must a trusted digital identity token, while ensuring that security continue to innovate – from the way we book and sell travel, and privacy is a core principle of the design. to the services we offer. And we must do this is in a way that is __New technologies such as blockchain are enabling a new way sustainable and responsible, so that we can safeguard our planet to share, store and use data, leading to more efficient and and communities for generations to come. transparent information exchange processes during the travel journey. The application of blockchain to travel is still in its Amadeus sits at the crossroads of travel and technology. We infancy, but we have identified a number of potential use cases, power the solutions that keep the world of travel moving. And we for example simplified and more secure passenger identification listen and learn, directing our investment into new technologies and improved baggage tracking. that can drive travel forward. Amadeus is supporting the growth of the travel industry with significant investments in technology. Having spent 18.1% of our Who we are total revenues (almost €900 million) on R&D in 2018, we are the Amadeus is made up of a truly global team of close to 19,000 number one investor in R&D in the travel sector worldwide and professionals. With over 145 nationalities, we serve customers in number two among software companies in Europe.15 more than 190 countries. We are committed to helping global travel make a positive impact on communities around the world. And we are united by a common purpose: to shape the future of travel. 1.2 Amadeus profile As shown in the map, Amadeus has built a global commercial and operational network that has become one of the key components At the heart of travel of our value proposition. Our corporate headquarters are in Madrid, Spain. Our main research and product development center is located in Nice, France, while the core components of our Travel fulfills our need to explore the world; to see new places, operations are run from our site in Germany. meet new people and be near to what’s important to us. Travel builds economies, broadens cultures and creates connections We operate under a highly resilient, transaction-based business between societies. Whether you provide a travel service or are in model linked to global travel volumes. We are publicly listed the business of buying and selling travel, we belong to an industry and part of the Spanish IBEX 35 Index, as well as stock indices that is dynamic, powerful and fast-moving. As one of the world’s worldwide like the EURO STOXX 50. largest business sectors, travel powers progress. 15 The 2018 EU Industrial R&D Investment Scoreboard. 14 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-3, 102-4 1. Amadeus in the travel industry Amadeus operates across the globe These are some of our key sites around the world Headquarters Key R&D centers Key sites Americas Europe, Middle East Asia-Pacific Bogotá Boston New York Orlando and Africa Bangkok Bengaluru Aachen Johannesburg Buenos Aires Portsmouth Manila Antwerp Kiev Dallas Salt Lake City Seoul Barcelona London Miami São Paulo Singapore Berlin Madrid Minneapolis Tucson Sydney Breda Nice Tokyo Copenhagen Paris Dubai Sofia Erding Stockholm Frankfurt Strasbourg Istanbul Zaragoza We work in 190+ markets GRI 102-2 Amadeus Global Report 2018 15 1. Amadeus in the travel industry What we do The customers we serve Our purpose is to shape the future of travel, using the latest We build technology solutions that help airlines and airports, technologies to develop solutions for our customers. We connect hotels and railways, search engines, travel agencies, tour travel players and make journeys happen – journeys that are operators and other travel players to run their businesses and personalized, rewarding and purposeful. improve the travel experience, all over the world. And we continue to innovate, bringing more products and services to market as Technology is critical to moving the travel industry forward, quickly as possible, so we can deliver on customer expectations and we invest millions of euros each year in research and and respond to industry challenges. development. We power travel by providing technology solutions that connect any travel business to any potential traveler. Online, Amadeus sits at the heart of every journey. Connecting travel offline and mobile, we have built the largest travel ecosystem in providers, buyers and sellers, we process 20 bookings every single the world, offering travelers more choice and transparency than second – that’s more than 1.7 million bookings a day. ever before. Our technology achievements have been recognized across the industry, winning us multiple awards in areas such as innovation and sustainability. Sales & marketing Customer, guest The customers we serve _Direct & indirect distribution & traveler management _Traffic acquisition & conversion _Point-of-sale & payment _Customer experience Travel providers Travel sellers _Passenger processing _Revenue management _Corporate booking & duty of care _Airlines _Business travel agencies _Digital retail & merchandising _Loyalty & awards _Airport operators _Online travel agencies _Car rental companies _Retail travel agencies _Cruise and ferry lines _Others _Ground handlers _Hospitality and hotels Analytics Operations _Insurance provider groups & intelligence _Flight operations _Rail operators _Personalization _Airport operations _Market insight _Hospitality operations _Data integration _Property & resource management _Consulting services Business management Travel buyers _Process automation _Corporations _Expenses _Travelers _Finance & accounting _Mid& back-office At the heart of every journey 16 Amadeus Global Report 2018 1. Amadeus in the travel industry Our history and key milestones Diversification Expansion Start 1987 1999 2005 2010 Amadeus First IPO Amadeus Second IPO Ownership founded goes private Business operations 1992 1996 2000 2002 2006 2010 2012 2014 2016 2017 2018 First booking e-Commerce Airline 1 million EU R&D 1 million Diversification Acquisition Navitaire TPF Entry into division launch IT launch bookings leadership passengers into new IT of Newmarket acquisition decommissioning EURO STOXX 50 per day boarded solutions International per day TravelClick Inclusion in acquisition Dow Jones Sustainability Index Where we have come from – We accelerated the move into the hotel IT sector with the acquisition of Newmarket in 2014. Moreover, our acquisition of our history and key milestones TravelClick in 2018 confirmed our strong commitment to the hospitality industry, not only broadening our product portfolio but Amadeus was formed in 1987 by our four founder airlines: Air also our know-how and global presence. In a highly fragmented France, Iberia, Lufthansa and SAS. From our origins supporting market, Amadeus now has the people and the technology to help airline distribution and then IT, we gradually expanded our all hoteliers rise to the challenge of delivering a great experience capabilities to serve customers across the entire travel industry. for their guests. Fast-forward three decades and Amadeus has become one of We have also expanded our portfolio to merchandising, revenue the world’s largest technology companies for travel and tourism. management, travel intelligence and travel expense management, At the crossroads of travel and technology, two industries that harnessing the potential of cloud computing, mobile and big data have grown exponentially over the last three decades, the for our customers. Throughout our history, investment in research opportunities for innovation and growth have been amazing. and development has been integral to our growth. Over the years we have broadened our scope, launching our Airline IT business in 2000 and building on that with the acquisition of Navitaire in 2016 to broaden our offerings for low-cost carriers. Amadeus Global Report 2018 17 1. Amadeus in the travel industry Where we are going Recognition and awards Over the last three decades, we have taken giant leaps in We are committed to investing in innovation and collaboration, propelling the travel industry forward. We have gained the trust of developing talent, promoting sustainable business practices, thousands of customers thanks to our great people, cutting-edge advancing the travel industry and giving back to society. In technology and ability to adapt and evolve. We retain our unique 2018 respected organizations all over the globe recognized vision, determination and commitment to working more closely our efforts and achievements in these areas.* than ever with our customers, existing and new, to shape the future of travel together. None of this will change. What will change is the world around us. New technologies are bringing new opportunities and challenges at an accelerating pace. New generations want to experience travel in new ways. DJSI – Europe Silver Class We are investing in these opportunities and exploring new models and World indices Sustainability Award – that will drive our own and our customers’ growth, experimenting RobecoSAM with technologies that will make travel more rewarding for all of us. We continue to recruit the best people in the industry – a workforce that is multi-cultural, multi-generational and multiSustainability Award skilled. We continue to invest in innovation as a strategic priority Silver Class 2019 to ensure we can future-proof our technology for all Amadeus customers. As the travel ecosystem expands, we also continue to broaden our focus, collaborating with industry partners, investing in acquisitions and nurturing start-ups to ensure we have the most comprehensive travel offer. 16th Most Sustainable FTSE4Good We are accelerating our ways of working; making processes Corporation in the world (100 leaner; building new and better ways to collaborate; and using Most sustainable companies, new structures and systems to catalyze cooperation across Corporate Knights) teams, functions and geographies – within Amadeus and with our customers. 2018 The future for travel looks extremely bright: innovation, collaboration and sustainable business practices. This is how we will move forward. And together with our customers and partners, we will power better, more rewarding journeys long into the future. CDP Entry into EURO STOXX 50 * For a full list of our awards, please visit: www.amadeus.com/awards 18 Amadeus Global Report 2018 1. Amadeus in the travel industry Amadeus’ Executive Committee* Amadeus Global Report 2018 19 1. Amadeus in the travel industry * From left to right and from top to bottom: Tomas Christophe Decius Dietmar Wolfgang López Fernebrand Bousquet Valmorbida Fauser Krips Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, Denis General Counsel & Airlines R&D Travel Channels Technology Platforms Corporate Strategy Francisco Lacroix Corporate Secretary and Engineering Pérez-Lozao Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, Core Shared Sabine Stefan Luis Ana Julia Hospitality Services R&D Hansen Peck Ropers Maroto de Pro Sattel Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, President & CEO Chief Financial Officer Senior Vice President, People, Culture, Strategic Growth Airlines Communication Businesses & Branding 20 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-2, 102-4, 102-6 2. Business lines 2. Business lines 2.1 Introduction Amadeus operates a number of complementary business lines, which have significant commercial and technological synergies. Through these different businesses we offers solutions and services for travel companies of all types all over the world. Distribution We operate a two-sided distribution business. On one side we have travel providers (airlines, hospitality providers, car rental operators, railways, cruise lines, etc.) and on the other we have travel channels (travel sellers such as online travel agencies, retail travel agencies, business travel agencies, consolidators and tour operators, or buyers like corporations). Through our platform we give travel channels customers access to content of connected travel providers so they can search, plan and book complete travel experiences for their customers (travelers). Meanwhile, we give our travel provider customers efficient global reach and help them to position their offer more effectively, for example for the sale and management of ancillaries or travel extras. We offer travel channel customers solutions to better serve their customers (e.g. with personalized travel search and planning) and to operate their business more effectively (e.g. with front-, midand back-office solutions). We help our customers to deliver an integrated traveler experience with important business benefits, such as integrated travel and expense management solutions for corporations. Within our distribution business we have a virtuous cycle: by offering more and more relevant travel content together with customized solutions, we attract more and more travel channel customers. At the same time, by offering access to the strongest global network of travel channels, we are a partner that can help travel providers grow high-margin sales. And with a platform that is flexible enough to accommodate an increasing variety of distribution models and that makes the most of the latest technologies, we help all our customers deliver better travel experiences day after day. GRI 102-2, 102-4, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Business Diversification and Leadership) Amadeus Global Report 2018 21 2. Business lines IT solutions and process optimization services. Importantly, our platform is adaptable to accommodate airlines’ evolving business models and expansion into new markets and partnerships. Airline IT We help airlines deliver on their business objectives. Whether they Diversification into new areas are full-service, hybrid or low-cost airlines, we deliver solutions to Amadeus provides technology at all stages of the traveler journey, help them grow revenue, optimize costs and efficiency, and build and we have the capability to serve almost every player in the brand and customer loyalty. travel industry. This puts us in a unique position to diversify How? By helping them to provide travelers with a consistent, and grow our business in new markets. personalized customer experience throughout every stage of the Over recent years we have been diversifying our business to journey, from inspiration, search and booking, to pricing, ticketing, provide technology solutions to other key sectors in the industry, check-in and boarding. such as hospitality, airports and ground transportation, as well Offering a great traveler experience helps airlines to increase as to transversal operational areas that are relevant to all travel customer loyalty and differentiate their brand from others. We industry players, such as payment systems or travel advertising. also offer airlines unique possibilities to collaborate with their In hotels and hospitality, notably in 2018 we acquired alliance, codeshare and other strategic partners to maximize TravelClick, which significantly boosts our already significant sales, through the largest global network of travel agencies customer base and capabilities in this sector. We also have and through direct channels. a relevant and increasing presence with airports and ground We work in partnership with our airline customers to deliver a handlers, and railways and ground transportation. broad set of technology solutions to optimize core operations, We continue to expand our scope of solutions in areas like including solutions for reservations, ticketing, inventory payments and travel advertising. As well as being strong management, departure control, disruption management, businesses in their own right, these complement our solutions retailing and merchandising, personalization, revenue optimization offering to customers of all profiles. and finance. We also provide them with business consulting Amadeus at the heart of travel IT solutions Distribution Travel providers Including Provision Travel sellers direct sales of indirect _470+ airlines _90 rail operators distribution _Travel agencies _Metasearch technology _115 airport operators _770,000 hotel properties Connecting the services _Travel management _Media players _126 ground handlers _20 cruise and ferry lines travel ecosystem companies _Others _34 insurance _43 car rental companies _Tour operators provider groups _Online travel agencies HOTEL Travel buyers 5 H million passengers Travelers Corporations 20 bookings boarded per day every second 22 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-6 2. Business lines 2.2 Distribution Our technology and our people fuel the Live Travel Space Travelers are now more empowered and demanding than Technology is critical to global travel. Building on our more than ever before. They want choice, transparency in pricing and 30 years of experience in the travel technology industry, we are personalization. Technology is the main driver behind this change, now investing even more in new ways to serve our customers and as new ways of working and connecting open up a myriad be more open, dynamic and connected. Our Live Travel Space sits of possibilities for travelers and the brands that serve them, on top of the Amadeus Platform. While the Amadeus Platform changing the way travel is bought and sold. brings together content from all sources, the Live Travel Space The goal of the distribution part of our business is to be where is where all players can connect and collaborate to address the travelers are buying trips. We do so by allowing providers of desires of travelers and provide them with a wide range of options flights, ground transportation, accommodation and other services at any given moment. to distribute their content to a global network of diverse travel The Live Travel Space is fueled by a global Amadeus network of sellers and corporations, so that travelers can have access to all over 18,000 professionals – 6,000+ of whom are in the Travel the travel services they want. Channels unit. Our team includes developers, data scientists, To respond to these changes, we are evolving from a Global industry experts, consultants and local market specialists. Our Distribution System (GDS) to becoming a Live Travel Space. The Live people are what our customers value the most, as they care about Travel Space is where all players can connect and collaborate to their business and strive to offer the best customer experience. offer travelers the journeys they want via a wide range of options, Our technology and services encompass the full travel experience, right when they want them. This space enables our customers’ from the moment of inspiration and search, to full travel planning, growth so that they can serve travelers better. post-trip evaluation, social sharing, and expense management for business travelers. Our portfolio encompasses integrated front-, midand back-office solutions, together with our self-booking Amadeus total bookings* (figures in millions) and expense management tools. Our technology, expertise, investment capabilities and track record 643 make us the partner of choice to help our customers respond 632 595 to change and adapt their value proposition to today’s travelers. 566 526 64 63 In 2018 we continued to work closely with our travel seller customers, 60 580 61 568 organizing our commercial activities around four key segments: 59 535 505 467 1_ Retail travel agencies 2_ Online travel companies 3_ Business travel agencies 4_ Corporations Leading brands of travel agencies and corporations have joined 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 our network, and we have further evolved the Amadeus Travel Platform so that our customers can have access to more content Air bookings Non-air bookings via more channels and devices, helping them remain competitive Live Travel Space short video * Bookings processed by travel agencies using Amadeus distribution platforms. Amadeus Global Report 2018 23 2. Business lines while making it easier for them to sell travel in a more efficient and personalized way. We also continued our efforts toward industrializing the New With our technology, expertise, substantial investments Distribution Capability (NDC)1 standard, ensuring it works for the and strong customer relationships, we are building a Live Travel Space to create better journeys. industry as a whole through our NDC-X program. Our investment in creating a more personalized, connected and Open sustainable future for travel has led us to win four World’s Leading We are open to new technologies, ways of working, Travel Awards this year: World's Leading Global Distribution partners, business models and traveler demands. System 2018, World's Leading Travel Technology Provider 2018, World's Leading Travel Management Solutions Provider 2018 and World’s Leading Travel App 2018. In the following sections, we describe in more detail the Amadeus Travel Platform, our four key customer focus areas, our mobile Connected technology and our NDC-X program. We help connect over 1.5 billion people a year to Our innovative technology: travel sellers in over 190 the Amadeus Travel Platform countries. We open up a myriad is at the core of our strategy of possibilities for the travelers and the brands that serve them. As changes in travel behavior continue to challenge current business models, we see technology as a key enabler to this change. We are evolving the Amadeus Travel Platform to shape the future of travel. Dynamic We collaboratively work with our The Amadeus Travel Platform is a robust platform built on fully customers to open systems, harnessing intelligent use of data and integrating innovate, quickly respond to their needs new interfaces and architectures↪. It is a one-stop shop that and deliver brings together all relevant content – including air, accommodation, technology that enables better rail, mobility, insurance and destination – from any source traveler journeys. (EDIFACT 2, NDC and other APIs3). The platform today, and the changes that we are making to it, will allow us to continue to offer Self-booking Mobile Web Travel agency Bots tools services front office the broadest range of global content to all types of travel sellers all in one place, accommodating different business models. The Amadeus Travel Platform is the technological backbone of the Live Travel Amadeus Travel Platform 1 NDC: An XML-based data transmission standard created by the International Air Transport Association (IATA). Space. Built on open systems, it is a one-stop shop that brings together all relevant content ↪ See “Airline IT,” p. 21. from different sources, so travel sellers can Air Accommodation Rail Mobility Insurance Destination provide greater personalization to travelers. 2 Electronic Data Interchange for Administration, Commerce and Transport. 3 Application Programming Interface. GDS NDC APIs 24 Amadeus Global Report 2018 2. Business lines Our customers are part + With content becoming available from multiple sources, possibly under different business models, it is paramount for travel businesses to be able to manage and customize that content for their own business. With the Amadeus Travel Platform, we are able to give flexibility and autonomy over how content is sourced, of the Live Travel Space managed and displayed. We are working to further develop our system of powerful management controls to allow travel businesses to define content sources, displays, preferred options, payment systems and more “We are really excited about the Amadeus Live Travel Space – enabling agencies to develop and personalize the right offer for because of what it brings in terms of technology advancements. each traveler, and to optimize each and every trip for their business. Bringing extra-rich content to all the platforms and the whole And of course, the platform has massive search capabilities, the same search technology that the world’s largest metasearch experience with NDC. Personalization, all the ancillaries, all will engines and online travel agencies rely on, with instant, easy come easily in one sort of single platform, but also the fact that and accurate fare comparison. it’s completely future-proof.” With the Amadeus Travel Platform, travel sellers are able to deliver a fully integrated customer experience by bringing Andrew Woodman – Lotus Group together all relevant content and exposing it via multiple channels and touchpoints. It is revolutionary, giving travel sellers a transparent retailing experience that is consistent no matter “Travelers are looking for very personalized services, both online where the booking is made or how they want to service their customers – via a self-booking tool, a mobile or tablet, a website, and offline. When they visit a website, they want the company to an office location or a chatbot. understand their requirements and present a very personalized The evolution of the Amadeus Travel Platform is an extensive, set of options. One of the key concepts of the Live Travel Space phased project, but we are taking an agile approach so we can deliver practical solutions faster. The first results of our is that concept of choice.” development and integration efforts have already been launched, Sam Argyle – Alternative Airlines and we are committed to making the whole vision a reality in the near future – thus future-proofing our platform, our business and the businesses of our customers. Retail travel agencies In a fast-moving travel industry, traveler preferences continue to define the leisure travel market, as choice, price transparency and personalization are now expected by all. In addition, the dynamic travel sector is constantly reshaped by new entrants, new models Andrew Woodman Sam Argyle and new approaches to retailing. Amadeus serves thousands of retail agencies in every corner of the world. The human touch is a fundamental component Amadeus Global Report 2018 25 2. Business lines of the value proposition of these agencies. The success of retail As part of our NDC-X program, we are working with our customer Travix travel agencies relies on evolving the types of experiences they in co-designing an NDC-enabled solution to help online travel agencies deliver while optimizing how they operate and position themselves. deliver more personalized and differentiated travel experiences. Offering greater choice that goes beyond air content, such as We partner with online retailers and airline suppliers around destination services, allows retail travel sellers to compete more the globe with a common strategy to create a sustainable global effectively beyond price alone, and to deliver travel experiences online travel supply chain and value for online shoppers. Our that generate loyalty. customers span from global mega online travel agencies (Expedia, In 2018 Amadeus focused on setting the foundation of the Live Ctrip), to multinational companies that operate in multiple markets Travel Space to support collaboration among all players and, (Fareportal, ODIGEO), to smaller online travel agencies specific above all, create growth for our retail travel agency customers. to a region or market (BestDay) and new online start-ups With the Amadeus Travel Platform, all our retail customers (tour (Relovate.com). Amadeus is a partner to search providers operators and cruise lines, small-to-medium customers, key specialized in travel such as Kayak and Skyscanner, but also works accounts, consolidators and networks) now have at their disposal with large players such as Google, Facebook and WeChat. a one-stop shop with access to (among others) more than Whether our online customers’ focus is to convert marketing 470 airlines, 90 rail operators, 300 hotel chains and 230 tour spend into revenue, monetize website traffic, get access to operators, allowing them to define and personalize their offer technologies or make use of online travel industry experts, we for the end traveler. help online travel agencies around the world compete in this fastThe dedicated team that serves the needs of retail agencies evolving and crowded marketplace to optimize their businesses understands this segment’s market, goals and requirements. Our and drive up true differentiation. expertise in technologies such as artificial intelligence, virtual reality and machine learning enables agencies to experiment and explore new ways of engaging the traveler. We look forward to continuing to innovate with our retail customers by using technology, and where appropriate new business models, to enable them to compete in a world full of challenges and opportunities. In a diverse content world, it’s crucial to have one single end-to-end process for booking and servicing NDC and Online travel companies non-NDC content. With NDC, we hope to have richer As the online travel industry continues to grow on a global scale, it is increasingly becoming the dominant channel for purchasing airline content for our customers, ultimately helping travel across the world, thus creating multiple opportunities to help leisure travelers with their travel inspiration, search and us deliver more personalized and differentiated travel booking. Online players need to embrace digitalization and adapt quickly to fast-evolving traveler needs. experiences. We’re excited to work alongside Amadeus 2018 has undoubtedly been a year of transition in our industry, and be part of the NDC-X program to drive progress which has moved toward increased personalization, while merchandizing techniques have driven revenue and business for the online travel agency community.” opportunities. The empowered travelers expect brands to know their needs and provide tailored services accordingly, while the industry is embracing the NDC vision. John Mangelaars CEO of Travix 26 Amadeus Global Report 2018 2. Business lines To enable this, and as indicated above, we have evolved to become Amadeus offers the broadest selection of travel products to a Live Travel Space enabled by the Amadeus Travel Platform. help business travel agencies sell more, while also helping them Thanks to our technology and unique expertise, we support: optimize their revenue per transaction. Our multi-source, multirep hotel offering is a great example of this. Agents can quickly __Online travel retailers in boosting traffic acquisition and compare rates and commissions from multiple sources, offering conversion, increasing shopping cart value, driving down costs business travelers the best value while securing the best margin and expanding into new markets. available on each booking. __Travel media companies in increasing their customers’ reach and performance. Each year our global team of business consultants combine their expertise with Amadeus solutions to help agencies around the __Travel start-ups in scaling up with cutting-edge technology world automate core processes, improve IT flows, provide greater and expertise. self-service options and improve agent productivity. In a nutshell, Amadeus makes the complex simple. Thanks to our technology and people, we feel well equipped to support and achieve our vision and fuel our online customers’ growth. In 2018 Flight Centre, American Express Global Business Travel, BCD Travel and Carlson Wagonlit Travel all joined the Amadeus NDC-X program. This program will allow these agencies to realize Business travel agencies the potential of NDC, delivering enhanced choice for corporate travelers and transforming the traveler experience. Across industries and the world, business travel makes business As business travel is changing day by day, we are continually happen. Whether it is for building customer relationships, bringing listening to travelers, business travel agencies and all other work groups together to strengthen an organizational culture customers we work with, while keeping a close eye on trends and or networking at an industry conference, face-to-face interaction behaviors so we can develop technologies that benefit all. makes the difference. Global business travel spend is expected to exceed €1.3 trillion in 2018 and is projected to grow at 7% annually in the next four years.4 Corporations Digital technologies are changing the way business travel functions. Today’s ways of working – for example mobile As business travel spending continues to grow, CEOs across the or self-service – open a myriad of possibilities for travelers world in different industries recognize travel and expense (T&E) and the business travel agencies that serve them. At the same investment as a key driver of a corporation's business growth, time, corporations expect business travel agencies to help them as it gets commercial teams out into the field to sell effectively optimize travel spend with access to the best content at and provide great customer service. At the core of Amadeus’ the best value, deliver great service and a smooth experience value proposition, our solutions enable corporations to optimize for travelers, and ensure proper duty of care. This is where T&E spend at the beginning of the booking process, rather than Amadeus distinguishes itself. controlling it once it is too late during the expense process. Beyond business growth, from an HR perspective, T&E technology Amadeus’ business travel agency organization focuses on powering is used to attract and retain talent. Over 30% of respondents in success for the business travel agencies that serve corporations and business travelers. With a local market presence and a global a research piece conducted by the London School of Economics5 wanted to utilize travel to promote employee retention. T&E was mindset, we understand business travel agencies and design also highlighted by many C-level respondents as supporting flexible tailored solutions for their success. practices such as remote working. In addition, new technology 4 Global Business Travel Association (2018). GBTA BTI™ Outlook Annual Global 5 London School of Economics Consulting (2017). Managing Every Mile: How to Report & Forecast: Prospects for Global Business Travel 2018–2022. Deliver Greater Return on Investment from Travel and Expense. London, LSE. Amadeus Global Report 2018 27 2. Business lines features, such as uploading expenses via mobiles while traveling, Amadeus value proposition for corporations resulted in efficiency gains and improved employee morale. Important to note is that well-being and duty of care are part er-sales services of the corporation’s value proposition to its employees. T&E 6. A technology enables corporations to locate employees in the case of 5. Innovation a disruption or emergency, ensuring their safety and safeguarding the company’s reputation. 1 One global platform With corporations increasingly seeking to expand internationally _Content while optimizing their T&E spend, Amadeus is investing _Travel, expense & duty of care in corporate solutions as a strategic pillar of our distribution strategy. We serve over 16,000 corporations worldwide and, 4 2 thanks to our portfolio of T&E solutions (which includes booking Travel spend Traveler centricity and expense management, mobile, analytics and duty of care), optimization _User interface they can optimize their T&E spend with relevant policies while _Managed bookings _Mobile providing the best traveler experience. We further support _Corporate travel policy _Search _Analytics corporations’ business goals through: 3 1_ Adoption: The more frequently a T&E solution is used, Enterprise ecosystem the more value is gained by the corporation. This is why _Embedded in business applications we focus our investment on responsible user interface and _ERP integration user experience and mobile, as well as intuitive interfaces and smart algorithms. 2_ Unbiased content: With Amadeus solutions there is no need for business travelers to book outside their corporate tools, enabling corporations to efficiently implement their travel Amadeus powers smarter business travel for corporations programs. Because of our position in the travel industry, worldwide, and with our continued investment in R&D, our people’s Amadeus is ideally placed to make sure corporations access all expertise and our presence in over 190 markets, we are creating the content they need via our solutions and the Amadeus Travel in the Live Travel Space better journeys for business travelers. Platform, whether for airline, rail or ground transportation. And we are innovating and developing new ways to provide all this relevant content, both NDC and non-NDC type, so that Mobile our corporate customers can compare and decide what they want to provide to their travelers. This way, they can manage Growing our mobile footprint T&E in a holistic way, controlling not just their costs, but also optimizing the overall travel budget and ensuring that the In a fiercely competitive travel app marketplace,6 Amadeus has corporate travel policy is observed across the entire booking developed a flexible and reliable mobile platform, putting the and expense process. traveler’s needs first while leveraging our core technologies. Today, over 50 of the world’s top travel brands entrust their mobile 3_ Integration: Finally, we work to ensure that this is all done in a strategy to Amadeus and power their travel apps through seamless way, with solutions that can be integrated with office our Amadeus Mobile platform. applications already embedded into the corporation’s existing IT landscape including enterprise resource planning (ERP) and customer relationship management (CRM) systems with 6 According to App Annie, one of the world’s leading app store benchmarking minimum disruption. sources, travelers download more than 1 billion travel apps annually. 28 Amadeus Global Report 2018 2. Business lines Our approach has always been to evolve with industry developments and the needs of our customers in order to aggregate and offer the widest, most relevant content possible. We are committed to ensuring Flight Centre stays ahead of the curve in terms of GDS technology and systems, particularly as new initiatives like NDC emerge. That’s why we are excited to have partnered with Amadeus in our Asia and EMEA businesses. We wanted a leading technology partner, not just a GDS supplier, who could work with us to drive our business forward with tech innovation for the benefit of our customers.” Graham Turner Managing Director, Flight Centre Travel Group We have not accomplished our mobile success on our own. Along messengers, voice assistants and soon artificial intelligence and the way, our mobile team cultivated the industry’s best and machine learning will change the landscape again. We continue to brightest partners to join us in the Amadeus Mobile COLLECTIVE. gather insights from CheckMyTrip and to work diligently alongside Over a dozen top travel brands partner with us in this new our partners and customers to meet the opportunities and strategic mobile partnership initiative to provide high-quality challenges these new technologies bring. ancillary services at travelers’ fingertips, including activities and tours, parking, and taxi and transfer. Our partnership community also includes some of the best and brightest technical capabilities NDC-X in the mobile arena. For instance, Localytics, a leading mobile-first At Amadeus, we think NDC has the potential to deliver new benefits marketing and analytics platform, helps us stay connected for the travel industry. Therefore, Amadeus has created NDC-X, a to travelers with data-driven messaging capabilities. dedicated program to drive the industrialization of NDC and ensure it works for all travel players. The program brings together all the NDC The world’s leading travel app activities across Amadeus – as an IT provider and aggregator – and focuses on practical use cases of IATA’s NDC standard, in a test-andAmadeus’ CheckMyTrip travel app brings all of a traveler’s trip learn approach, to deliver improved capabilities for the industry. details together in one master view. CheckMyTrip improves its The entire travel industry will need to work collaboratively for NDC design, features and capabilities year to year. As a result, it now to truly take off. By working closely together, the industry can serves nearly 2 million active users through mobile apps and unlock new value for travelers, and in so doing generate more responsive Web sites. Our iOS app version maintains a 4.7 star business for all. rating, while our newer Android native app enjoys a healthy 4.5 star rating. Our efforts also won us the World’s Leading Travel App Award in the 2018 World Travel Awards. It is an honor to receive What does NDC mean for travel sellers? this industry recognition of excellence, which we achieved through persistent dedication and collaboration. NDC could bring richer content at the time of booking – more images and information of course, but also videos, traveler reviews Our mobile success is built on the Amadeus Live Travel Space and and even virtual reality. Not only will fares be displayed, but also its open, dynamic and connected approach. CheckMyTrip and our bundles of services – all personalized according to the traveler and larger Amadeus Mobile B2B platform are the gateways for buyers, the trip. Having access to this NDC content in a platform built on suppliers and technology partners to continue thriving in the global World’s Leading open systems will allow everyone to merchandize effectively in Travel App travel economy. Mobile is a rapidly evolving channel – chatbots, all channels and serve travelers simply, quickly and accurately. Amadeus Global Report 2018 29 2. Business lines The NDC upside for corporations delivering high growth rates. The Middle East and Africa, Latin America and Central, Eastern and Southern Europe increased NDC content will enable corporations to define more granular softly, supported by limited growth in the industry. Finally, corporate policies, taking into account ancillaries and personal Amadeus’ bookings in Western Europe declined over the period, packages. Business travelers will be able to access richer content impacted by the industry decline and the loss of share at some that goes beyond the fare and includes a bundle of services like European mid-size online travel agencies, as explained above. VIP parking, lounge access and priority boarding. All of this could Amadeus’ non-air bookings declined by 1.5% in 2018 versus directly be accessed on the online booking tool to simplify the the previous year as a consequence of a decline in rail bookings, business traveler’s journey. mostly driven by strikes impacting a key customer, which more than offset the double-digit increase in Amadeus’ hotel bookings. How Amadeus is approaching NDC We are working closely with our travel seller customers, including Flight Centre, Travix, Carlson Wagonlit Travel, American Amadeus travel agency bookings Express Global Business Travel and BCD Travel. They are providing (Figures in millions) input into the design of a variety of Amadeus solutions – including Amadeus Web Services, Amadeus Selling Platform Connect 2017 2018 Change and Amadeus cytric Travel & Expense – which are all backed by our Amadeus Travel Platform. Air bookings 568.4 580.2 2.1% NDC is a step in the overall journey of the industry toward greater Non-air bookings 64.0 63.0 (1.5%) digitalization, with both travel providers and travel sellers working with Amadeus. ↪ Total 632.3 643.2 1.7% Industry growth In 2018 industry air bookings grew by 2.9% globally. With the exception of Western Europe, where the industry declined, all regions Amadeus air travel agency bookings by region (Figures in millions) showed a positive evolution, although with a clear decelerating trend relative to 2017 (except for North America, which has accelerated 2017 2018 Change its growth compared to last year’s). Asia-Pacific reported the fastest growth rate in 2018, followed by North America. Central, Eastern Western Europe 206.0 191.7 (7.0%) and Southern Europe, the Middle East and Africa and Latin America showed limited growth over the period. Asia-Pacific 108.6 121.2 11.7% North America 99.0 108.1 9.3% Amadeus bookings Middle East and Africa 69.3 71.9 3.8% In 2018 Amadeus' air bookings increased by 2.1%. Asia and Pacific and North America were our best-performing regions, Central, Eastern and Southern Europe 48.1 48.9 1.8% Latin America 37.5 38.3 2.2% ↪ See “Airline IT,” p. 21 Total 568.4 580.2 2.1% 30 Amadeus Global Report 2018 2. Business lines Key Distribution highlights +50 in 2018 We signed 50 new contracts or renewals of content or distribution agreements with airlines, including Vistara, United Airlines, Scandinavian Airlines (SAS) and Norwegian. Air France-KLM We signed an agreement with Air France-KLM enabling distribution through a private channel. Amadeus travel seller customers who enact a private channel agreement with Air FranceKLM will be able to book Air France-KLM content through Amadeus without a surcharge, which started to be levied from April 2018. Amadeus Global Report 2018 31 2. Business lines 232 Our merchandising solutions continued to gather interest from our customers. A total of 18 airlines signed up for Amadeus Airline Ancillary Services for the indirect channel and 16 airlines signed for Amadeus Fare Families in 2018. As of December 31, 2018, 151 airlines had contracted Amadeus Airline +13% Ancillary Services (from which 128 had Subscribers to Amadeus' inventory can already implemented it) and 81 had access close to 115 low-cost and hybrid Amadeus Fare Families (of which 69 carriers' content worldwide. Low-cost had already implemented the solution). and hybrid carriers' bookings grew by 13%. NDC-X program Several airlines and travel sellers joined our NDC -X program during 2018, including American Airlines, Travix, Carlson Wagonlit Travel or American Express Global Business Travel. The NDC -X program, which we unveiled in February 2018, brings together all of Amadeus’ NDC activities – as an IT provider and an aggregator – under one roof, so that all relevant travel content from any source (EDIFACT, NDC, proprietary APIs and other aggregated content) can be distributed via any user interface or device. 32 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-6 2. Business lines 2.3 Airline IT We support hundreds of airlines that use our IT and Distribution systems to create millions of memorable journeys on a daily basis. We are committed to thinking differently so we can support our airline customers to simplify the customer experience and Passengers boarded* deliver business growth and return on investment. We are vigilant (Figures in millions) 1,854 in seeking ways to keep airlines at the forefront of the latest trends. To this end, we have created a Digital Tribe with over 300 1,657 people worldwide working closely with airlines to drive digital transformation at speed. Airlines have unique opportunities 1,383 to collaborate with their alliance, codeshare or other strategic partners to maximize all sales channels, directly and through our networks. In fact, we serve the largest portfolio of the world’s top airline alliances: Amadeus airline solutions are used by more than half of the members of any of the three main alliances: 747 Star Alliance, Oneworld or SkyTeam. 695 We understand the complexity of the industry, and one of our objectives is to drive emerging opportunities for growth in several areas. We fully embrace standards such as the International Air Transport Association (IATA)’s New Distribution Capability (NDC)↪, which will help airlines grow and simplify processes. We 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 have created a dedicated program called NDC-X, where we have * Passengers boarded, i.e. actual passengers boarded onto flights operated partnered with leading airlines to drive the industrialization of by airlines using at least the Amadeus Altéa Reservation and Inventory modules NDC and ensure its success for all travel players. or Navitaire New Skies. To reduce complexity, collaboration across the industry is key, especially between airlines and airports. This will be particularly Innovation happens in partnership important given that the number of passengers is expected to grow from 4 billion today to 6 billion by 2023 . As an example, We operate in a traveler-led industry, where airlines must battle in order to reduce boarding time, we have collaborated with US for attention, viewers and conversions. Changes in travel behavior Customs and the biometric gate supplier to help Lufthansa board continue to challenge current business models. Airlines are evolving an A380 plane, the largest in operation, in about 20 minutes alongside these models, influenced by new industry expectations, at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) using biometric facial technological advancements and the emergence of new players. recognition technology. It is within this context of constant change in the industry that We firmly believe that real innovation only happens in partnership over the past year Amadeus has undergone significant internal with our customers and the industry, and we have a solid track transformation. We have embraced a more open and flexible record of integrating innovation into our airline customers’ approach. We have become a united force with a clear focus on business. We have held numerous Hackathons this year to our customers, which involves continuing to listen to them at all allow our customers to test our products and build on existing times. We have moved toward a more open technology approach solutions. We pride ourselves on our partnerships, working with a focus on what our airlines’ customers – the travelers – closely together to drive innovation and the implementation want. Our business has evolved so we can work more closely with our customers by increasing our regional resources. ↪ See “Distribution”, p. 22 Amadeus Global Report 2018 33 2. Business lines of cutting-edge technology to solve practical issues. The Our Sales and Distribution Suite offers airlines opportunities to Accenture Amadeus Alliance has been working to create tangible support future growth and profitability with unrivaled technology business outcomes to help airlines transform the way they and expertise and to access the world's largest agency network do business. Amadeus technology and expertise coupled with via the Amadeus Travel Platform using the connectivity of their Accenture’s data analytics and machine learning models (jointly choice: EDIFACT,7 NDC or Ticketless. developed with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology) led Amadeus’ Altéa Suite consists of three modules: to data-driven insights that helped Scandinavian Airlines (SAS) quickly boost its ancillary revenues. 1_ Reservation: Enables airlines to manage bookings, fares Working with high-growth, innovative airlines inspires us to and ticketing through a single interface, and is compatible deliver solutions that underpin their continued development and with distribution via direct and indirect channels, both online evolution. Using our unrivaled market knowledge and technology and offline. expertise, we seek to support even the most progressive and 2_ Inventory: Helps to create and manage schedules, seat capacity entrepreneurial of airlines. We know that our customers are and associated fares on a flight-by-flight basis. This allows the pioneers who continue to transform the way we travel. the airline to monitor and control availability and reassign passengers in real time. Airline portfolio 3_ Departure Control: Covers many aspects of flight departure, including check-in, issuance of boarding passes, gate control, Airlines are on a journey of digital transformation, adapting disruption management and other functions related to to the changing needs of travelers and the industry as a whole. passenger flight boarding. In addition, Altéa Departure Control We at Amadeus are also evolving, to offer solutions and services offers aircraft load control functionality, which enables airlines that help airlines provide their passengers with a consistent, to evaluate and optimize cargo and fuel utilization. personalized experience at every touchpoint – from initial inspiration to arrival at their final destination. Navitaire New Skies Reservation and Passenger Service As the business needs and strategies of our airline partners System is a digital, e-commerce and mobile first platform with continue to evolve, and with Amadeus and Navitaire working hand comprehensive retailing, analytics and passenger personalization in hand, we are uniquely positioned to respond to the needs tools. The solution is designed for efficiency using a single record of airlines of all business models. approach, which manages both the offer and the order throughout the passenger life cycle. Real-time data for on-demand decisionWe support airlines of all types – whether full-service carriers, making and omni-channel processing are hallmarks of New low-cost airlines or hybrids – to grow sales, optimize costs Skies, which has been leveraged extensively by airlines with clear and efficiency, deliver great services and build brand and customer leadership in innovation. In use at more than 50 of the world’s loyalty. We also offer airlines unique opportunities to collaborate most successful airlines, it is designed for fast-growing airlines, with their airline alliance and codeshare partners and maximize including newly launched and hybrid carriers. sales through all channels. As the airline industry moves toward more integrated and Our passenger service system offering includes Amadeus’ Altéa open systems, Amadeus is opening its platform to airlines and Suite and Navitaire’s New Skies reservation system, the industry developers to innovate jointly and with other IT providers and their leading solutions serving the full spectrum of high growth carriers. selected travel partners. In addition, we have a complete portfolio of solutions designed to help airlines maximize their commercial performance, achieve operational excellence and leverage the power of data to design the best end-to-end experience for their travelers. 7 Electronic Data Interchange for Administration, Commerce and Transport. 34 Amadeus Global Report 2018 2. Business lines This open approach results in more being achieved together, and Our pricing model for airline solutions is primarily based on brings a high level of agility and flexibility to the implementation a fee per each transaction processed, for example per passenger of new functionalities. We aim to jointly create value for airlines boarded. By operating a transaction-based model, our returns and their partners within a framework that empowers developers are linked to the operational volumes of airlines. to innovate. Amadeus airline platform Partnerships airline platfo adeus rm Am Digital experience Offer ing and s Sales and er management ult distribution Con es s vic Data and Order analytics End-to-end management traveler experience Airline operations Data and analytics _Market insight _Performance insight _Dynamic intelligence hub Digital experience Offer management _Digital commerce and self-service check-in _Merchandising Order management _CMS integration _Shopping _Reservations _Digital enablers _Revenue management _Ticketing Airline operations (including APIs) _Network and schedule planning _One order _Customer management End-to-end traveler experience _Dynamic pricing _Revenue accounting _Flight management _Customer experience management Sales and distribution _Inventory _Revenue integrity _Disruption management _Loyalty _NDC and global distribution Amadeus Global Report 2018 35 2. Business lines Amadeus sees the technology adheres to industry standards while giving airlines the freedom to deliver all content across any relevant channel. following as opportunities We help airlines to differentiate themselves, move beyond price, predict traveler needs and tailor offers no matter the complexity in the airline industry involved. And we do it with the widest reach across all traveler segments and geographical regions. 1. Tailoring offers to maximize value The report we published jointly with Skift early this year, A New Formula for Airline Success: Why Customized Offers Are the Future A New Formula for Airline Success: Why Customized Airlines face a range of challenges as base fares continue to be of Airline Marketing and Revenue Management, investigates how Offers Are the Future of subject to downward price pressure, hastening the need to develop providing customized offers could soon take a clear lead as the Airline Marketing and effective retailing strategies to secure growth and profitability. By primary way airlines interact with travel shoppers. The resulting Revenue Management placing the traveler at the heart of the offer, we ensure airlines conclusion is that one size does not fit all, that customized offers reach the right traveler at the right moment and with the right are the way forward for airlines and that the airline industry + offer – placing the airline in control. Our powerful omni-channel is catching up to this “one size does not fit all” approach. American Airlines upgraded its digital experience with Amadeus e-Retail DX Intro How did Amadeus support the airline? American Airlines' strong focus on user experience created a shift in American Airlines and Amadeus already have an established and successful international business priorities. It needed modern e-commerce booking relationship. Amadeus' e-Retail DX online booking system met all of American websites that could convert, upsell and retain more digital customers. Airlines' needs, and also facilitated fast-to-market delivery. Challenge Results American Airlines needed to improve the customer experience on its The implementation of Amadeus' e-Retail DX online booking system has international sites and optimize them for local markets. With a focus on enhanced the customer experience, growth and conversion rates. product expansion, online conversion and revenue generation, the airline began Within a three-month period, this project: its search to find a technology partner capable of helping it achieve its business objectives. After a six-month evaluation process, the airline chose to partner __Increased American Airlines overall bookings by 17% with Amadeus on its digital journey with Amadeus e-Retail DX: the world’s most __Increased American Airlines digital revenues by 11% widely used online airline booking system. __Improved the online experience for international customers __Migrated 23 international sites to Amadeus e-Retail DX and started delivering impressive results for American Airlines and its customers 36 Amadeus Global Report 2018 2. Business lines 2. Delivering on-brand experiences Creating memorable journeys is more than selling a seat. Our technology enables airlines to deliver rich and engaging Airlines are engaged in a race toward digitalization to deliver a experiences at every point of traveler interaction, irrespective simple, compelling and intuitive experience across all channels. of how travelers choose to engage, even across partner airlines. This means that the complex task of delivering hyper-personalized Our advanced data-driven approach to personalization takes experiences is key to success. the knowledge airlines have about their customers and makes it + actionable at every touchpoint, helping to deliver ongoing value and driving loyalty. New routes, new markets: Norwegian goes global with low-cost long haul Intro __To support expansion beyond its home base and capture bookings in new Since entering the long-haul market, Norwegian has truly gone global, markets, the carrier decided to implement full ticketing capabilities. Doing so with Amadeus eTicketing means that Norwegian works with accepted travel with an increase in total global passengers of over 75%. What is the secret agency booking flows in its target markets, ensuring optimal adoption. to its success? __Norwegian also uses Amadeus Altéa Suite as its passenger service system. This has helped its operations run smoothly and consistently in every market, Challenge while bringing agility and efficiency to travel agencies selling the airline’s offer. In 2013 Norwegian started to pursue opportunities for growth and __These unique efficiencies, combined with access to the world’s largest agency long-term profitability in the long-haul market, facing a number of new network, have played an integral role in supporting Norwegian’s growth and challenges, including: profitability when entering new markets. __Responding to the needs and habits of travelers in new markets Results __Ensuring high load factors and sustainable demand for new long-haul routes Norwegian has stimulated significant new long-haul demand with its affordable __Competing with experienced airlines serving passengers on established routes fares, convenient point-to-point long-haul routes and new connections, enabling while staying true to Norwegian’s low-cost business model people to take trips they previously would never have thought possible. Since __Efficiently managing the operational complexities of long haul at foreign, Norwegian’s first transatlantic service began, the airline has flown more than 6 larger airports while handling more passengers million passengers between Europe and the United States. Travel agency sales __Delivering differentiated long-haul services that are more affordable with a through Amadeus have been a major factor in the airline’s long-haul and overall “low fares, high standards” approach growth strategy, with outstanding results: How did Amadeus support the airline? __A threefold increase in agency bookings from outside Scandinavia since 2015 Norwegian and Amadeus’ partnership began when the airline first started its __100% growth in Amadeus bookings over the last five years operations with a focus on Scandinavia. The turning point was in 2010, when __Over 110% growth in Amadeus bookings for long-haul routes since 2015 Norwegian’s focus shifted to expansion throughout Europe. __An omni-channel approach that played an important role in the airline’s expansion and success, with agencies accounting for one in every five bookings Amadeus Global Report 2018 37 2. Business lines 3. Enabling operational efficiency By harnessing airline data to its fullest potential, we are able to proactively detect operational opportunities or risks as they It is essential for all travelers to be able to access an airline’s full happen with automated, real-time resolution. With advanced range of products through whichever channel they choose. In an and predictive analytics, we can help airlines make fully informed era of intense competition, airlines have to grapple with the best decisions. We help them simplify the complexity of selling way to collaborate practically with partners of all types, in a way to travelers, operating flights and running their business. + that does not undermine operational efficiency. Lufthansa biometric technology boards the world’s largest passenger plane in about 20 minutes Intro Collaboration has been the key to this innovative project. Amadeus helped build Large aircraft like the A380 can take a long time to board. Lufthansa wants to the interfaces between Lufthansa’s departure control system (Altéa), the gate use the latest technologies to optimize the boarding process. hardware was provided by Vision-Box, and US Customs and Border Protection provided the database to identify passengers. All these parties worked together Challenge to make the travel experience smoother. It is no simple matter to quickly board several hundred passengers on the Results world’s largest passenger plane. This can generate long waiting time for passengers and therefore dissatisfaction. There is an increasing need for The biometric technology implemented helps travelers move through the airlines, airports and industry authorities to offer faster processes to travelers. airport smoothly. During initial trials, the feedback has been very positive, and the initiative How did Amadeus support the airline? has helped board approximately 350 passengers onto an A380 in about In collaboration with various entities, Amadeus has developed a solution that 20 minutes. boards passengers with smooth, one-step facial recognition. It is a simple process that we have piloted at Los Angeles International Airport. Self-boarding gates with cameras capture passengers’ images. These images are then securely sent to the US Customs and Border Protection database for real-time verification. After a successful instantaneous match, the system recognizes the passengers as “boarded.” The passengers no longer need to show their boarding pass or passport at the boarding gate. 38 Amadeus Global Report 2018 2. Business lines Evolution of Amadeus passengers boarded Amadeus passengers boarded grew by 11.9% to 1,853.9 million in 2018. This double-digit growth in the year was driven by (i) the impact from the 2017 implementations (such as Southwest Airlines, Japan Airlines, Malaysia Airlines, Kuwait Airways, Boliviana de Aviación, SmartWings, Norwegian Air Argentina, Air Algerie and MIAT Mongolian Airlines on Altéa, and GoAir, Viva Air Perú, Andes Líneas Aéreas, JetSMART and flyadeal on New Skies) as well as the 2018 implementations (including S7 Airlines, Peruvian Airlines, Maldivian Airlines, Cyprus Airways and Aeromar on Altéa, and Volaris Costa Rica on New Skies); and (ii) a 7.6% organic growth. Of our passengers boarded during 2018, 60.3% were generated outside of Europe. Our international footprint has continued to expand, particularly in Asia-Pacific and in North America, supported by the implementations of Southwest Airlines, Japan Airlines and Malaysia Airlines, among others, in 2017. Passengers boarded growth in Western Europe and Latin America during 2018 was negatively impacted by the ceasing of operations of Air Berlin and Monarch Airlines as well as the de-migration of LATAM Airlines Brazil from our platform during the second quarter of 2018, respectively. Passengers boarded by region (figures in millions) 2017 2018 Change Western Europe 611.2 624.3 2.1% Asia-Pacific 502.8 594.3 18.2% North America 176.5 247.0 39.9% Latin America 149.2 138.8 (6.9%) Middle East and Africa 127.2 138.1 8.6% Central, Eastern and Southern Europe 89.6 111.5 24.4% Total 1,656.5 1,853.9 11.9% Amadeus Global Report 2018 39 2. Business lines 40 Amadeus Global Report 2018 2. Business lines Key Airline IT highlights 214 in 2018 At the close of December, 214 customers had contracted either of the Amadeus Passenger Service Systems (Altéa or New Skies) and 204 had implemented them. Amadeus SkySYM by Optym Easyjet contracted Amadeus SkySYM by Optym to improve the reliability of its flight schedules. SkySYM simulates airline schedules in the planning stage to improve schedule reliability and ensure smooth operations on the actual day of the flight. Singapore Airlines and Avianca have both implemented Amadeus Altéa NDC. Amadeus Global Report 2018 41 2. Business lines Amadeus Altéa Suite Southwest Airlines signed up for the full Amadeus Several airlines including S7 Airlines, consistent and personalized customer Sky Suite by Optym with a Bangkok Airways, Philippine Airlines, service, develop new revenue streams 10-year agreement. The suite Peruvian Airlines and Cyprus Airways and improve operational efficiency. of five industry-first solutions signed up for the full Amadeus KC International Airlines (a new gives Southwest Airlines Altéa Suite, including the reservation, Cambodian carrier) and Volaris Costa the most comprehensive inventory, ticketing and departure Rica contracted and implemented New and advanced technology control modules. The Amadeus Altéa Skies. Hawaiian Airlines, the Honolulufor all its network planning, Suite will help these airlines to enhance based airline, selected Amadeus Altéa simulation, forecasting customer experience by delivering more Departure Control Flight Management. and optimization needs. Qantas completed its ambitious digital redesign. As part of this, the airline implemented some e-commerce solutions, including Amadeus e-Personalize, Amadeus Affinity Shopper and Amadeus Flex Pricer Premium. Lufthansa We also collaborated with Lufthansa on its new biometric boarding solution using facial recognition. This innovative pilot, enabled through Eight airlines contracted Amadeus Revenue a collaboration between Amadeus, US Customs Management, including Finnair; seven airlines and Border Protection, Los Angeles World Airports contracted Amadeus Anytime Merchandising including Authority, and Vision Box, is available since Singapore Airlines; five for Passenger Recovery and March 2018 for Lufthansa flights at Los Angeles seven for Customer Experience Management, including International Airport. The airline intends to expand Garuda Indonesia. Also, Malaysia Airlines contracted the pilot program to additional US gateways Amadeus Revenue Accounting. and other passenger touchpoints. 42 Amadeus Global Report 2018 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Business Diversification and Leadership) 2. Business lines 2.4 Diversification areas in the number of rooms added, while independent properties continued to win the hearts and wallets of travelers, growing and remaining the largest segment with the most stable market share. The travel industry changes rapidly. Amadeus therefore needs to be fast in making decisions, agile when working with customers At the same time, digital transformation has evolved hotel and open to the evolution of the market. These are the three operations. Next-generation technology is changing the way driving principles of our diversification strategy, where our mission people travel – from journey planning and comparing options, is to maximize the opportunities across the travel industry. We to booking preferred content and, finally, to sharing reviews have over recent years consolidated our activities in areas such online. Whether for a business or leisure trip, travelers expect a as hospitality and rail and strengthened our offer to customers. personalized booking experience, with relevant content integrated Our investment in diversification is already delivering benefits for into booking platforms. the industry, including the ability to transform traditional models. Amadeus is well positioned to meet both the technology and Amadeus offers state-of-the-art technology to replace legacy distribution needs of the hospitality industry, while incorporating systems that are challenged by the growing demands of rapidly new innovations to address all segments in all regions to take full changing businesses. advantage of these global trends. We reached important milestones in all our new business segments in 2018, in particular in Hospitality and Airport IT, with new contracts signed and migrations. We also expanded our Rail Hospitality IT content and launched new solutions in Payments, which captured the interest of customers. Hospitality is all about the human connection and the ability to deliver personalized experiences for guests. Our technology Hospitality solutions provide cloud-native capabilities for central reservations, property management, sales management, event management and housekeeping, as well as operations involving business The hotel industry is growing at a healthy rate, adding more than intelligence, media and guest management. These not only cover 3.7 million8 rooms to the global inventory in the last eight years. the life cycle of a guest’s journey, but also offer properties the Asia-Pacific witnessed exponential growth with a 55% increase added benefit of understanding customers’ behavior through enriched data to build more personalized experiences and Amadeus Hospitality IT solutions offerings. This represents a game-changer for the industry, as venues commonly work with multiple technology providers and have fragmented views of their guests. Our investment into core hotel platform technology continues to strengthen our offerings, with notable deal wins such as Premier Inn. In addition, in 2018 we continued to progress in the roll-out of the Guest Reservation System with InterContinental Hotels Group, which was completed successfully in the fourth quarter. InterContinental Hotels Group‘s more than 5,600 properties across 15 brands and Next-generation Component-based Community Open API Financial Personalization more than 100 countries are now live. Going forward, there will be cloud-native and seamlessly model architecture effectiveness: of the end-to-end future updates to the platform bringing enhanced features and solutions integrated for integration from CAPEX to guest experience functionality, including attribute-based selling. portfolio with 3rd parties OPEX Amadeus solutions provide unique value through centralized data across all hotel systems to capture a 360-degree view of business 8 Own Amadeus analysis based on various internal and external sources. performance and guest preferences. Amadeus Global Report 2018 43 2. Business lines In August we announced an agreement to acquire TravelClick After one year together, we can be proud of the progress made, for USD 1.52 billion. TravelClick provides innovative cloudwhich translates into a series of customer wins and expanding + based solutions, including an independent and mid-sized hotel partnerships with several travel management companies central reservation system and guest management solution, as and online travel agencies. well as business intelligence and media solutions. The addition of TravelClick's solutions to the Amadeus portfolio will create a hospitality leader providing a broad range of innovative Acquisition of TravelClick technology to hotels and chains of all sizes across the globe. In October, following the regulatory approvals, Amadeus announced it had completed the acquisition. Hospitality remains the largest diversification area for Amadeus, through significant organic Hotels, Mobility and Insurance and inorganic growth. From strategic R&D investments and enterprise deals, to our latest acquisition of TravelClick, we are positioning ourselves as leading technology providers With the evolving needs of the traveler in mind, Amadeus’ Hotel for the hospitality industry, serving more than 53,000 9 unique properties around the world. Distribution unit has spent the past few years committed to Thanks to this acquisition, we are also moving beyond our initial market focus of large sourcing new and standardized hotel content, with the vision of chains to providing solutions for independent and mid-sized hotel chains to expand our maximizing the choices available to our customers and offering portfolio and market reach. more control to our providers in terms of how their rooms and facilities are sold. This commitment has resulted in great success TravelClick has 30 years of industry experience, operating in 176 countries with 1,100 and higher customer satisfaction. Our recent acquisition of the employees. The company’s 14 offices span the globe, with headquarters in New York. hospitality technology provider TravelClick should help accelerate TravelClick has focused on developing an interconnected suite of Software-as-a-Service, growth in 2019 and beyond. cloud-based solutions using unique and actionable data – spanning business intelligence, On the other hand, the mobility sector is experiencing disruption reservations and booking engines, media, web, video and guest management. from new players, such as online hailing and on-demand car The acquisition of TravelClick will significantly expand Amadeus’ footprint in the hospitality rental services. Customers are faced with an increasing variety industry, as well as accelerate Amadeus’ time to market, thanks to a well-built commercial of ways to travel. Responding to customer demand, Amadeus will organization that has been scaled globally. A large presence in Europe and Asia-Pacific will be distributing car rental, transfer and online hailing providers also enhance Amadeus’ regional penetration in these two regions. through a single integrated Mobility Services Platform. In November 2018 NH Group joined TravelClick’s Demand360 program, which gives hoteliers On the insurance side, new technologies enable travel insurers to unique access to forward-looking demand data and allows hoteliers to develop optimal provide ever-more segmented and personalized offers, carefully strategies for maximizing revenue. Working with TravelClick’s Demand360 provides hotels tailored to the individual traveler and their risk profile. For all kinds with an understanding of the booking trends in their local market, while giving them the of travel providers, this opens up exciting cross-selling opportunities. ability to know what actions to take to drive performance and ensure that they are getting Bringing these three units – Hotels, Mobility and Insurance – their fair share of bookings through the right segment and channel. together strengthens Amadeus’ beyond air offering, and provides a more complete package for Amadeus customers. Our vision for Hotels, Mobility and Insurance is to combine efforts and to offer a more complete hospitality and mobility ecosystem where providers, sellers and guests have more opportunities to create and receive value. Insurance is the perfect product to be added as a cross-sell service, enriching our whole offering. 9 2018 estimated number of unique properties served including TravelClick. 44 Amadeus Global Report 2018 2. Business lines At the close of + Airport IT In 2018 airports worldwide again tackled the dual challenge of by delivering passenger rail technology solutions that connect railway systems and bring railways closer to their customers. In this fast-changing digital environment, railway companies are 2018, 126 ground growth in traveler numbers and capacity constraints, with the seeking to optimize their own operations by evolving and changing handlers, 115 growing middle class in countries such as China and India putting their IT systems. With our suite of technology solutions, Amadeus airport operators pressure on airports to process more travelers, more efficiently. RAILyourWAY, we bring them technology systems that are flexible and 34 airlines and modular and that put the customer at the center of all Amadeus’ Airport IT unit continued its growth in the airport were using our operational decisions. We also partner with railways to develop industry in 2018, providing a suite of solutions for airports, innovative solutions and new digital means to improve customer Airport IT portfolio ground handlers and airlines that helped customers address these service at train stations. For example, we are testing some of solutions. pressing issues. use cases running on the humanoid robot Pepper, from SoftBank Airport IT grew its total number of clients, and helped its existing Robotics, to answer simple and recurring travelers’ requests. customer base improve operations and results by delivering Amadeus also helps railways to sell their tickets more efficiently more solutions and higher performance to their enterprises. A across direct and indirect sales channels, and with a wider good example is Pristina International Airport in Kosovo, which geographical reach. For example, Swiss Federal Railways (SBB) implemented the Amadeus Altéa Departure Control for Ground contracted Amadeus to design and power its new intelligent and Handlers and Amadeus Baggage Reconciliation System solutions. flexible booking solution, which will be used across all of SBB sales In 2018 Airport IT continued its mission to innovate within the channels – online, at stations and third parties. Another example airport industry and to replace traditional systems with new is making it easy for any rail operator to sell other railways’ tickets solutions that create new opportunities and offer new value to on its own direct sales channels, such as websites, apps or train airports, travelers and the industry as a whole. stations. By embracing the standardization of the rail industry, we help railways connect to each other, making international train Aeroportos e Segurança Aérea Cape Verde Airports, a customer of journeys as easy to book as they are to travel. Amadeus’ Airport Common Use Service (ACUS), contracted ACUS Mobile in 2018. We also saw increasing interest from customers We are the first third-party distributor to implement the Full Service in Amadeus Extended Airline System Environment and we signed Model standard promoted by the European Commission to foster contracts with airports such as Killeen-Fort Hood Regional Airport, rail as a transport alternative. Finally, we also take our customers As demand for international JFK Airport, Los Angeles International Airport, Bozeman Yellowstone well beyond the borders of their domestic market, thanks to train services continues to rise, International Airport and Charleston County Aviation Authority. our global distribution network. We see a growing interest from so does the opportunity to European rail operators to be sold overseas, particularly in Asiaoffer a comfortable and better In 2018 Billund Airport, Denmark’s second-largest airport, Pacific. There is also a growing appetite from Asian travel agencies connected service. By working deployed Amadeus Altéa Departure Control System and Amadeus to sell regional and international train tickets. together with Amadeus, Swiss Baggage Reconciliation System. Together, these solutions will Federal Railways is harnessing support the airport’s digitalization journey and improve the In 2018 we expanded our distribution agreement with SNCF, the the potential of new passenger experience through process automation and selfFrench national railway. Thanks to this agreement, travel agencies technologies to modernize the service capabilities. beyond Europe will have access to SNCF rail content for the first time. distribution of international rail tickets while offering a better experience for passengers.” Rail Payments Digitalization has been a reality for many years across all travel In the past 10 years, the payments industry has been segments, including railways, who are making it top of their agenda. revolutionized by a considerable amount of innovation. The wellAlexander Gellner Rail operators are looking into creative ways to adapt to a more established ecosystem of banks, credit card schemes and other Head of International Distribution and digital world. Amadeus is at the heart of this transformation providers that routinely managed payments for nearly 50 years Marketing Swiss Federal Railways Amadeus Global Report 2018 45 2. Business lines has suddenly been joined by a host of new players looking to innovate and disrupt that ecosystem: PayPal, Klarna, WeChat Pay and Bitcoin, to name a few. the payment from their smartphone, tablet or PC. Meanwhile, the ticket is kept on hold, and issued automatically once the payment is complete. Finnair is using it not only for its call center but also By the end of + for its chat-based customer service agents. 2018 we had over This represents both a cost and opportunity for travel companies. The opportunity is to deliver a seamless payment experience 1,000 customers to their customers, or streamline internal processes to pay Travel advertising and processed suppliers. However, managing payments globally is complex. Travel over €105 billion companies must navigate local consumer behavior, regulations, Travel Audience, an Amadeus company, is on its way to becoming the most trusted digital travel advertising platform. It is in payments currencies and markets just to get paid at all of their points of accelerating growth across the entire travel industry by precisely during the year. sale, while of course complying with all the global restrictions on cash flowing around the world. And, as new payment methods and directly connecting travelers with our customers. The platform The number of come to market and governments adjust their regulatory serves more than 300 advertising partners such as airlines, transactions frameworks to encourage open banking and digital payments, destination marketing organizations, online travel agencies and processed showed the environment is in a state of constant change. hospitality groups. It offers advertisers who want to address a double-digit target group interested in travel the opportunity to access a highgrowth compared All this adds up to a significant cost: the combined spend of reach, high-quality premium inventory of well-known publishers airlines, travel agencies and hotels on payment processes is USD with 2017. via programmatic advertising on all channels. 74.5 billion (approximately €65.5 billion), or 5.4% of revenue, according to a survey we conducted in 2018 in collaboration with This data-driven travel advertising platform consists of two main PYMNTS, a news and analysis company. This figure includes card elements: the Premium Publisher Network, which publishes thirdacquisition costs, fees to other payment-related providers, capital party content via native advertising, and the proprietary demandexpenditure and the operational costs associated with managing side platform, which provides end-to-end, data-driven advertising payments. It is not surprising, therefore, that 44% of airlines cited solutions to our partners. Amadeus’ travel audience leverages Tourism is central to “overall cost” as their biggest payment-related pain point. machine learning to identify when people search for trips, when Dubai’s economic growth they book and, above all, when it makes sense to show them and diversification. With Amadeus set up a dedicated payments unit in 2012 to help travel offers from our advertising partners. travel audience’s intelligent companies manage this cost and complexity. By combining a technology and team of payments functionality with Amadeus’ existing travel technology Dubai’s Department of Tourism and Commerce Marketing (Dubai Tourism) entered into an agreement with travel audience in experts, and Amadeus’ farbackbone, we can add significant value to travel companies. Our March 2018. Travel audience will help the city develop insights reaching travel network, we core offer is to provide a single entry point for travel companies to into visitor arrivals by widening its global reach and through have found a platform that can access hundreds of financial services companies worldwide. This advanced data analytics. The destination marketing organization provide insights that assist our enables them to take payments from their customers and make will work with travel audience to build custom campaigns across decision-making. By building payments to their suppliers in 200 countries around the world a wide range of channels, including online travel publishers, social brand and performance from a single interface. media and metasearch engines. With added visibility into online campaigns tailored to In 2018 we launched a major upgrade to this platform, called travel patterns, it will be able to measure campaign performance specific segments in exclusive Xchange Payment Platform, the travel industry’s first and only more effectively and gather insights into traveler intentions and channels, we can attract end-to-end payment solution, empowering travel businesses with behavior. Dubai Tourism is also using Amadeus Destination Insight new visitors from regions far a single view of their entire payments ecosystem. to gather insights into global travel, including up-to-date search, and wide while we grow our In April 2018 we launched a new solution to facilitate payments booking and scheduling data. established visitor base.” of bookings made through airlines’ call centers. Rather than having to discuss payment details over the phone, with Amadeus Issam Kazim Agent Pay airline agents send their customers a link, via SMS or CEO Dubai Corporation for Tourism email, to a secure webpage, so that the traveler can then complete and Commerce Marketing 46 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Efficiency and operational excellence), 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Customer satisfaction) 3. Customer experience 3. Customer One of Amadeus’ core principles is to place our customers at the heart of everything we do. Amadeus seeks to anticipate and fulfill the needs of all our customers, delivering value to them with accountability throughout all stages of their experience with us, experience from the beginning to the end. As the travel industry evolves, our customers’ expectations do as well. We listen to their voice and evolve our organization and approach to deliver an experience that meets and even exceeds their expectations. 3.1 Customer service and support Amadeus delivers a wide range of learning, support, automation, content and security management services. These help our customers to succeed by: __Helping them train, understand and use Amadeus solutions __Providing the highest level of functional and technical support __Securing and integrating travel industry content __Offering related consulting and value-added services at key touchpoints of the customer relationship The vision of our Customer Service teams is to provide the best customer service experience in our customers’ eyes. This is achieved by continually challenging the status quo to meet evolving customer needs, as well as developing and improving our performance. In 2018 Amadeus brought customer service closer to our customers by reorganizing our service capabilities with dedicated teams that serve different segments: travel agencies, corporations, airlines, airports and hotels, among other travel industry providers worldwide. This allows us to serve our customers in the way that best fits their specific needs and expectations. GRI 102-4 Amadeus Global Report 2018 47 3. Customer experience Services we offer Amadeus support services Support services Learning services Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Regional, local Service Service and in-house Management Management Centers helpdesks Centers R&D The structure of this network is designed to guarantee technical and functional support at any time for all our customers worldwide. Our Service Management Centers located in Miami and Nice serve our travel agency, corporate and airline customers, while those in Bangkok and San José (Costa Rica) serve travel agencies and corporations. Security Implementation management services We also have dedicated service centers for airline customers in Dallas, London, Istanbul, Dubai, Bangalore, Manila, Tokyo and Sydney. _Level 3 support: our expert teams collaborate closely with Content Amadeus’ R&D, product management and operations teams to management minimize R&D incident resolution time, reduce incident backlogs and improve the accuracy of responses. The synergies of their Support services: always there expertise allow for continuous improvement of the investigation and recovery of non-code-related incidents in complex areas. for our customers In order to ensure proximity to our customers, we have built a strong Main Customer Service locations1 local, regional and global presence. _Bangkok _Dubai _Kuala Lumpur _Nice _Level 1 customer support is provided to our distribution _Bengaluru _Hong Kong _London _San José customers by our local and regional helpdesk organizations. _Bogotá _Istanbul _Manila _Sydney Customers have the support close to them, in the local language and with knowledge of market-specific products. Airlines can _Buenos Aires _Johannesburg _Miami _Tokyo opt for an in-house helpdesk or outsource their Level 1 support _Dallas _Kiev to our Amadeus customer services experts. _Level 2 support is provided by the Amadeus Service Management Centers, which form a virtual support network distributed across the globe. Amadeus employs a follow-the-sun approach that provides 1 This diagram refers to the main locations for Customer Service, including the global seamless 24/7 service from our Service Management Centers. sites and regional service centers. It does not include local sites. 48 Amadeus Global Report 2018 3. Customer experience Content management These experts analyze customer issues and provide recommendations through tailored services such as on-site and security customer training, data reports and fare filing on behalf of customers. One of the key services in this scope is consulting Amadeus’ content management and security teams integrate to ensure that customers make the best of Amadeus solutions. and secure industry and customer data. Our data experts are also responsible for worldwide and Our data management experts ensure that relevant, reliable centralized security administration for Amadeus employees and and quality content is available to our customers 24/7. They also customers. Their activities cover the integration, implementation ensure the quality of the data fed into the Amadeus system from and security of all travel industry content, ranging from schedules, external data providers such as the International Air Transport fares, currencies and airport codes to security settings for offices, Association (IATA) or the Airline Tariff Publishing Company (ATPCO). terminals and printers, as well as credentials for employees and new customers. Their core business knowledge allows them to share expertise and provide Level 3 support to customers on a wide range of products and domains including reservations, inventory, ticketing and pricing, Learning services as well as security and access management. To ensure that our customers make the best possible use of our technology, Amadeus delivers a blend of online, offline and instructor-led learning on Amadeus solutions. We use a variety of Data hosted in the Amadeus system flexible formats such as self-paced e-learning, videos, instructorled virtual training, webinars, classroom training, user guides and online help. Negotiated fares Taxes EOS Security We support the increasing demand for customized learning Fees Bank selling rates agreements tables services from our customers globally, regionally and locally with Fares Fare type codes LSS Terminal IDs relevant and flexible learning solutions. Our training services Rules Corporate are delivered as standard in English for our airline customers, codes Footnotes Pricing Discounts Security and whenever possible we provide training in local languages depending on the customer segment. CID Passenger type codes Excess baggage CRAS access We evolve as the needs of our customers evolve. In 2018 we Office IDs Fuel surcharges Currencies EUM agreements deployed a new global online learning platform called Amadeus User groups Routings Learning Universe. It is available via Amadeus Service Hub, our Ancillaries Airport codes Country codes Fare quote security online customer service portal, and customers can access learning Credit card validation and solutions information any time they need it, 24/7. Mileage City codes Provider codes AAM Form of payment Reservation Carrier MCT preferred Daylight saving time display Schedules Booking classes Frequent flyer numbers Equipment codes Amadeus Global Report 2018 49 3. Customer experience Implementation services Digital servicing Customers place a great amount of trust in Amadeus when Digital transformation is at the core of our service capabilities. changing the core of their business to new technologies. The Amadeus Service Hub is the heart of our digital customer Whether it is an effortless installation of front-end systems, or service ecosystem. implementations of highly sophisticated solutions, we are present Through the Amadeus Service Hub, customers can access online and support our customers along this journey. Watch video about our support, knowledge and learning resources, including online user Amadeus Service Hub Some airlines have limited resources and expertise to handle guides, how-to videos, error codes, e-learning courses and training the implementation of new technologies. Since 2017, when catalogs. Specifically, customers can: we implemented a new approach in support of these airlines, we have been using our experience and expertise to guide them __Enroll in e-learning and instructor-led training sessions in one through the implementation process and challenges. This helps click 24/7 alleviate the pressure on their resources and ensure a smooth __Log incidents or service requests online 24/7 transition to the new systems. __Receive notifications on the resolution of the critical incidents via the Amadeus Critical Incident Center Reducing incident __Raise and track incident escalations with Incident Support Plus2 resolution time In 2018 we launched the Amadeus Travel Community, where Watch video about the Amadeus Travel Community our travel agency customers can exchange knowledge A team of technical analysts are fully engaged in ensuring and experiences with Amadeus products and solutions within that when technical incidents impact our system and services, a community of travel experts. our teams minimize the impact on customers and reduce the resolution time. These experts, based in our global operations We are also exploring how to enhance our support with new center in Erding (Germany), monitor business performance to technologies such as artificial intelligence, and in 2018 we detect major issues before customers report them. The teams evolved our chatbot solution. For travel agencies, the chatbot is correlate incidents to changes made in the system, drive recovery integrated into Amadeus Selling Platform Connect and provides a efforts and anticipate the potential impact. When incidents seamless online experience by answering easy how-to questions. happen, they proactively notify our customers to ensure their It was deployed in Latin America, Portugal and New Zealand. business continuity. Since the creation of this team, the results In 2018 we tested the chatbot internally with our airline service show that mean time to recover (MTTR) for major business agents to enable them to be more proactive in responding to incidents has been significantly reduced. Additionally, the teams customer queries about our departure control system, inventory, have improved the speed of their communication with customers reservation and ticketing solutions. by reducing the time it takes for them to receive critical incident notifications by 50%. This is done via the Amadeus Critical Our goal is to maximize our customers’ performance and Incidents Center online portal, and it allows our customers operational efficiency by offering the right service at the right time. to make faster business decisions to manage the impact. We use valuable insights and feedback from our customers to better respond to their needs. Our objective is to avoid any recurring issues, to proactively propose consulting services and to work with customers to enable their success. 2 Some airline customers only. 50 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Customer satisfaction) 3. Customer experience 3.2 Customer satisfaction Customers actively participate in the design of our action plans, and we keep them informed regularly of the progress made. This communication is always carried out face to face via our teams in and loyalty the regions or the different customer forums organized throughout the year. We welcome customer feedback, as it helps us evolve as a We vary our methodology for gathering feedback and measuring company and be prepared for the future challenges of the industry. loyalty in order to adapt to the characteristics of each customer Our Voice of the Customer program monitors customer loyalty segment and market. The approach includes in-depth sessions with and evolves to open new feedback sources and channels between customers, interviews, and relationship and transactional surveys customers and Amadeus. to identify main focus areas in the customer journey and where Amadeus is progressing well. The main purpose of the program is to transform customer feedback into insights that teams across Amadeus will use to Our main measure is the Net Promoter Score, and we set targets improve our performance. This helps us to continually revisit our at the beginning of the year. There are certain key satisfaction way of doing things and focus on the areas that are priorities for drivers measured across all customer segments: our customers. This feedback is also key to defining Amadeus’ strategic investments. __Perception of Amadeus as a solid, leading and innovative brand __Quality and reliability of Amadeus solutions, as a reflection of Amadeus’ focus on research and development 360° feedback – closing the loop with customers __Overall relationship with Amadeus, highlighting the engagement and service mindset of Amadeus people 1 Preparation Voice of the Customer in 2018 7 This year we have set up dedicated Customer Insights & Experience Closing the 2 Fieldwork teams for our airline and travel agency customer segments. These loop with have the mission of evolving and promoting our Voice of the customers Customer program, and of generating and transforming feedback into relevant insights used to develop customer journeys and deliver the right experiences. Their role is to mobilize all Amadeus’ Customers teams to focus on customer expectations and to show customers how their feedback has been actioned to result in demonstrable 6 Progress 3 performance improvements. and impact Insights In 2018 Amadeus also conducted both quantitative and monitoring analysis qualitative surveys with airline, travel agency, hotel, airport, digital advertising and payment customers. To obtain a 360-degree customer view, we use our Voice of the Customer platform, 5 4 which allows us to systematically collect and consolidate the Closing the Results sharing feedback from different types of surveys, as well as speed up loop with and action communication with teams worldwide. customers planning Amadeus Global Report 2018 51 3. Customer experience The Customer Insights & Experience teams work very closely with a community of Voice of the Customer champions spread across the globe, who are accountable for sharing results and driving action in the different regions. Customer journey mapping methodology is also used with some of our customers. Just in 2018, nearly 100 customer journey mapping sessions were held with travel agencies to understand their internal processes and how they interact with Amadeus. We have also worked with some airline customers to map expectations to the incident management journey, and we are investing more resources into this type of initiative. 52 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Innovation) 4. Technology and innovation 4. Technology and innovation Technology organization Amadeus’ new technology organization, launched in early 2017, is now fully deployed. Designated the Amadeus Engineering Community, this organization brings together all Amadeus’ product development and operations efforts across our technology sites worldwide. It is composed of two transversal technical units, complemented by dedicated R&D teams in each of the business units that develop travel IT applications for our customer segments. The first of these technical units, the Technology & Platforms Engineering (TPE) unit, is responsible for the delivery of reliable platforms across all Amadeus’ businesses, with a strong focus on automation of the operations cycle in the context of the ongoing transition to cloud-based architectures. The second, the Core Shared Services R&D (CSS) unit, brings together Amadeus’ transversal engineering activities and shared applications across all businesses and customer segments, such as the core reservation, pricing and shopping platforms. CSS is also responsible for the executive governance of quality management, development tools and project methodologies across all components. Finally, application development for specific customer segments is delivered by dedicated R&D groups within the corresponding business units. The set-up of the Amadeus Engineering Community reinforces our capacity to ensure a global, controllable approach to designing and running applications with the reactivity, quality, flexibility and innovation required by our large and diverse base of customers, served by a growing portfolio of functionalities and services. This is also crucial to implementing a continuous product development and operations cycle, to progress on our path toward a fully cloudbased architecture and to foster innovation across all components of Amadeus’ systems, specifically around the application of artificial intelligence and advanced data analytics. GRI 102-4 Amadeus Global Report 2018 53 4. Technology and innovation Amadeus R&D investment (including capitalized R&D)* Amadeus is + 18.1% ranked as the 1000 16.9% 16.9% 18% second-largest 16.6% 16.5% 16.2% R&D investor in 15.0% 896 16% the software 800 and services sector 13.5% 13.4% 763 14% in Europe.1 726 10.9% 12% 661 600 568 10% 525 8% 400 437 349 364 6% 257 4% 200 2% 0 0% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 R&D investment (figures in € million) Percentage of revenue * Part of our R&D costs is linked to activities that are subject to capitalization, thus impacting the level of operating expenses that are capitalized on the balance sheet. Global presence All technology sites work closely together, and our projects and product development processes are increasingly distributed over Amadeus’ investment in technology is supported by a network several regions. Nice (France) is the largest technology center, of technology centers across the world, deployed regionally using with on-site and global teams developing solutions for travel a model of hubs with global coverage, transversal activities and distribution, e-commerce, travel agency points of sale, airlines, satellites dedicated to specific applications and domains or, in hotels, railway companies, airport IT and travel intelligence. 1 The EU Industrial R&D Investment some cases, to the support of customer projects. Amadeus pays Amadeus Labs in Bangalore is also a general technology center, Scoreboard contains economic particular attention to the support of its customers, even beyond covering a large spectrum of products and functions. In 2018 our and financial data for the world’s development sites have grown in all regions, showing that this top 2,500 companies, ranked the implementation period; we keep active centers with dedicated by investments in research and technology teams in the same location or region as key customers, distributed development approach can scale well. development. For more information, see http://iri.jrc.ec.europa.eu/ such as our Dallas, Tokyo, Seoul, Sydney and Dubai sites. scoreboard18.html. 54 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-4 4. Technology and innovation The Amadeus global operations support organization, now part Amadeus provides its staff with a stimulating environment that of TPE, is present in many sites and is based on a follow-the-sun enhances creativity and helps spark innovative thinking, promoting model, with dedicated specialist support groups in Germany, teamwork and staff interaction. The office buildings in which we the United States, Australia, India and the United Kingdom. The operate have a collaborative space design, fostering a dynamic follow-the-sun model benefits from strategic locations in different deployment of teams, both on site and across sites. This is an time zones so that 24-hour service is guaranteed. This ensures essential component of our Agile development methodology within optimal customer support from the closest available office a geographically distributed organization. and facilitates maintenance during off-hours. Recruitment for Amadeus’ R&D teams is oriented toward World-class technology incorporating a wide range of expertise and international cultures. Staff mobility, shortor long-term, is encouraged between both The travel market is becoming increasingly complex. There are business expertise domains and geographical locations. Amadeus new entrants: on the one hand, major technology companies also offers numerous internships to top international schools, with with the capacity to expand their existing portfolio of solutions formal recognition of their contribution in the form of an annual in other sectors to include travel; and on the other, start-up intern contest. Over the period 2015 to 2018, Amadeus has hired companies that can leverage for instance cloud capabilities to close to 160 experts and specialists as a continuation of those quickly build niche functionalities. Amadeus enjoys a privileged internships in functional and technical domains. position, offering a large portfolio of travel-dedicated applications combined with the capacity to quickly leverage cloud-oriented techniques on a very large scale across the widest customer base in the travel industry. Technology sites _Aachen _Chicago _Istanbul _Montreal _Santiago de Chile _Amsterdam _Copenhagen _Kiev _Munich _São Paulo _Antwerp _Dallas _Lindlar _New York _Singapore _Atlanta _Dubai _London _Nice _Sofia _Bangkok _Eindhoven _Madrid _Orlando _Strasbourg _Barcelona _Erding _Manila _Ottawa _Sydney _Belgrade _Frankfurt _Melbourne _Paris _Tel Aviv _Bengaluru _Hamburg _Miami _Portsmouth _Tokyo _Berlin _Hannover _Minneapolis _Salt Lake City _Toronto _Bochum _Tucson _Bogotá _Vilvoorde _Bonn _Warsaw _Boston _Zaragoza _Breda Amadeus Global Report 2018 55 4. Technology and innovation In this dynamic context, Amadeus maintains and develops its more generally, all phases of the product development cycle. It is technical leadership through a set of unique capabilities: instrumental to leveraging the high modularity of our systems, allowing applications delivered to our customers to share and reuse __Extremely high-performance transaction processing under functionalities and technical components. stringent system availability, security and dependability requirements. All applications evolve while ensuring a continuous In 2018 Amadeus initiated the deployment of this Agile approach service to our customers. on a global scale, for product development as well as customer__The management of very large databases with full transactional related activities, based on the SAFe® methodology (Scale Agile integrity. Since 2017 we have introduced applications deployed in Framework). The SAFe® standard is a set of practices used production over to multiple data centers and public clouds, based in the mainstream IT industry. It promotes collaboration and on new database techniques. alignment for a very large number of Agile teams along the __Rapid response time for all functionalities from any point whole production cycle, from the product requirements stage of access in the world, serving hundreds of thousands of to the delivery stage. It is common for major customer-oriented simultaneous users, and a greater number of end consumers projects to involve many teams in different locations: for instance, connecting to the websites of our customers. This network of the migration of Japan Airlines to Altéa involved 21 teams in 10 travel professionals and consumers forms one of the largest locations. The SAFe® methodology also provides a formal, global web systems worldwide in terms of traffic. framework for our initiative to achieve a continuous software __A true omnichannel approach, servicing all functionalities from development and operations cycle, which started in 2016 and will a wide range of devices and interaction methods, such as agent be further standardized and optimized. desktops, websites, kiosks, cell phones, tablets and chatbots, as well as system-to-system integration. Whatever the channel, In 2018 Amadeus applied the Continuous Integration/Continuous our customers are all accessing common data records and Delivery (CI/CD) approach to most of its projects. CI/CD is a processing them from a single set of community applications, set of best practices and tools whose goal is to automate and delivering a seamless traveler experience. monitor the production cycle from programming to delivery. This allows us to constantly monitor the progress of an application’s Amadeus uses a combination of intellectual property (IP) rights development and to collect regular feedback from customers. It (notably copyright, know-how, patents, trademarks and domain also ensures much better reactivity as well as controlled quality names) and appropriate IP provisions in transactional agreements along the whole project. to protect its innovations. Amadeus also contributes to the development of open source communities, in particular in the In addition to our Agile approach, which is based on frequent context of its partnerships with major IT vendors. iterations, Amadeus has deployed a set of tools and methods that ensure the automation and control of procedures along Continuous software the delivery cycle. Since Amadeus provides its application “as a service” (SaaS), this extends to the production environment: when development and applicable, Amadeus has introduced DevOps2 teams covering both development and operational functions to ensure smooth operations cycle application management and fast responses to customer requests. Amadeus has implemented an Agile methodology across all software development activities since 2014, covering the operational readiness of the software for production deployment since 2016. Our Agility program relies on a common methodology and toolset for product design, software programming, quality assurance and, 2 DevOps is the term designating mixed teams of software and operational engineers collectively covering the management of applications in a production environment. This was previously referred to as “application management.” 56 Amadeus Global Report 2018 4. Technology and innovation Cloud-based strategy critical element of our technical strategy, because it keeps us relatively independent from current and future implementations and distributed architecture of cloud hosting by external vendors, preserving our significant investment in the development of an application’s functionalities. Cloud-based architectures encompass a set of design practices One interesting aspect of cloud-based architecture is the ability and concrete technical implementations all aiming to provide to seamlessly distribute an application over several infrastructures the highest levels of flexibility, reliability, resilience, scalability and thus leverage the resilience and dynamic capacity of such and performance for very large systems. Amadeus began to a distributed architecture. For certain categories of applications adopt this approach as early as 2014 and has made significant essentially performing calculations from a read-only database, progress since then, with a set of progressive product deliveries such as air shopping,5 the transition is relatively straightforward, to market since 2016. 2018 has seen a substantial acceleration with a repackaging of applications. We have recently transferred in our evolution toward a fully cloud-based configuration of our part of our air shopping capacity to the Google Cloud in applications and services. production, following the deployment of distributed air availability for Lufthansa also on Google Cloud in 2017. Cloud-based architectures promote an explicit separation and abstraction of the application, platform and infrastructure layers.3 For mission-critical applications relying on large-scale Unlike mainframes, where these layers are completely interlaced transactional databases, such as Amadeus’ global distribution and proprietary, the cloud-based technical approach enables a system and its Altéa Inventory and Altéa Departure Control flexible management of computing resources and an automation systems, this requires implementing a sophisticated mechanism of the software deployment, from development to production, of distributed databases in order to guarantee the full integrity leveraging standardized, low-cost, low-consumption hardware, of data, regardless of the access point. In 2018 Amadeus potentially distributed across multiple data centers. The core completed the deployment of such distributed architectures for concepts are based on redundancy, isolation and operational applications like the Amadeus Guest Reservation System with monitoring of components in a distributed architecture, providing InterContinental Hotels Group,6 paving the way to an extension built-in scalability and intrinsic tolerance to system failure. For to other applications for the coming years, including our core business applications, this translates into the ability to handle reservation applications. extremely large volumes of data and processing with quasiBeyond the technical and operational benefits of distributed continuous system availability. architectures, we believe that the evolution of our systems is Amadeus has made technology choices based on open source fully in line with the business trends of the travel industry. The technologies provisioned from mainstream IT vendors such as Red New Distribution Capability standard of the International Air Hat4 to benefit from enterprise versions of software and premium Transport Association (IATA NDC) specifically promotes the concept support. We have also adapted a number of tools and practices of distributed reservation, in which performance will become a used by our software engineers to automate the development and critical factor of viability and adoption. With our investment in delivery of applications in a full cloud-compliant environment. cloud-based architectures, Amadeus will be in the best position The whole set of technology has been grouped under the generic to propose advanced solutions to both airlines and travel sellers term of Amadeus Cloud Services, which is our way of designing, from a common investment and organization. deploying and running applications on any kind of infrastructure, whether private or public clouds. Amadeus Cloud Services is a 3 These layers are often referred to as SaaS (Software-as-a-Service), PaaS 5 “Air shopping” covers search and pricing of itineraries, in particular the capacity to (Platform-as-a-Service) and IaaS (Infrastructure-as-a-Service). find the “best prices.” The introduction by airlines of ancillary products and other merchandizing techniques based on personalization has made these transactions 4 Red Hat was acquired by IBM in 2018 for USD 33.4 billion. It delivers the increase exponentially in complexity and size. enterprise version of OpenShift, a cloud-oriented technical stack, which itself remains in the open source domain. 6 The largest hotel chain in the world. Amadeus Global Report 2018 57 4. Technology and innovation Distributed operations to thousands of “hits” per booking. This inflation in demand has resulted in exponential growth in data processing and data and data centers storage requirements. In 2018 Amadeus engaged in a plan to balance air shopping transactions between different sites, our Data Center, private hosting and public cloud, with an on-demand Data center operations are a critical element of Amadeus’ strategy approach to cope with the marked variations in hourly, daily and to deliver competitive products and services to customers. Beyond weekly transaction volumes. cutting-edge functionality and features, our customers also expect robust, versatile and fast systems, as their businesses More generally, Amadeus’ operations strategy is clearly increasingly rely on our platforms. Capabilities such as continuous progressing toward a concept of distributed data centers. This availability, sub-second response times and flexibility of is now possible as we migrate our applications to the Amadeus deployment are becoming mission-critical business features. Both Cloud Services framework, making them agnostic to the physical on mobile and on the internet, response time is seen as a critical infrastructure where they are hosted. This distributed operations factor to adoption and conversion. Our customers need advanced approach delivers native redundancy of systems and dynamic security to develop trust with their users and partners, so they can capacity with on-demand models, while also supporting assure them that their personal and financial data is safe. our commitments to high performance and, when applicable, regulatory constraints by moving our systems close to the Amadeus delivers its services to customers from many locations customer location. – a combination of our privately owned Amadeus Data Center, private clouds in remote locations and public clouds such as Amazon Web Services, Google Compute Engine, Microsoft Azure and Salesforce.com. As a key element of Amadeus’ strategy, we always maintain full control of all operations, irrespective of the nature and location of the physical server infrastructure. This is crucial for Amadeus to hold end-to-end responsibility vis-à-vis our customers for the production systems, as well as to perform any required fundamental changes in our technical or operational frameworks without external dependencies or constraints. A good illustration of our operational freedom has been the successful decommissioning of Transaction Processing Facility (TPF) mainframes in 2017. When moving to external cloud hosting, Amadeus will maintain a strategy of independence from third-party providers, an approach that we already follow for core systems and software. This means that we will maintain provision of services from multiple vendors and ensure the required genericity in our platforms to switch between infrastructures in a predictable manner in terms of timeframe and cost. This is one of the reasons we developed the Amadeus Cloud Services model as the foundation of all our applications, to guarantee that they can run in any location with the same level of performance, security and data protection. The increasing customer demand for travel information and reservations has led to a rapid and ongoing increase in IT systems capacity. We have moved from a few tens of shopping requests 58 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-13, 302-5, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Data security) 4. Technology and innovation The Amadeus Data Center remains a key asset of this strategy. (PUE)7 ratio from 1.49 in 2009 (when this value first began to be It is one of the largest data processing centers dedicated to closely monitored) to 1.34 in 2018. The latest Uptime Institute8 the travel industry and to providing customers with continued survey places the average PUE values for data centers at 1.7. service excellence. It is designed with embedded redundancy, using a concept of independent fire cells, and has the capacity to host a significant number of servers, supporting one of the Security highest rates of transactions in the whole IT industry. In 2018 Amadeus continuously reviews and improves its processes to Amadeus continued to invest in making the Amadeus Data Center keep ahead of upcoming threats, ensuring that both people and a full private cloud facility by standardizing and virtualizing the technical factors are considered and addressed. infrastructure for transaction processing, storage and networking. From a global operations and technology perspective, Amadeus has Business growth, green IT established an independent Security Operations Center (SOC) to monitor the security status of the services it provides to customers and energy efficiency 24/7. This service also helps us understand emerging technical threats and invest in the most appropriate technology to mitigate In response to the growing demand for data storage and new risks. The SOC covers the application development process, processing capacity, Amadeus has been focusing on the energy the Data Center infrastructure and employees’ office activities. All efficiency of all its operations.↪1 For the Amadeus Data Center, Amadeus staff, regardless of function and location, receive yearly we received Energy-Efficient Enterprise certification from TÜV training on security and data confidentiality best practices. SÜD in March 2010 (the certification was renewed in 2012, 2015 Since January 2017 Amadeus has become a member of the and 2018 and lasts until December 2021) for its power supply, Aviation Information Sharing and Analysis Center (A-ISAC), cooling and climate control processes and IT equipment, as well showing that we are constantly striving toward increasing our as its procurement, installation and de-installation procedures. We customers’ trust and sharing best practices. have also extended our data center certification to EN 50600, the new EU standard for data centers that is even broader in scope Security is at the heart of Amadeus’ systems in terms of application and more difficult to achieve. Our efforts have also resulted in design and operations. Under the supervision of the Chief the continued reduction of the annual Power Usage Effectiveness Information Security Officer organization, Amadeus follows the best practices of the IT industry, securing our data, our products and our people, responding to security incidents and achieving full security Data Center Power Usage Effectiveness compliance (for example, ISO 27001 certification or SSAE 16 compliance). In 2018 we continued our efforts toward compliance 1.36 1.35 1.34 with advanced security standards, including the new evolutions 1.32 1.32 of these standards.↪ 2 Amadeus also reinforced its internal training programs on security. 7 A common metric used to measure the energy efficiency of data centers. The closer to 1 the PUE, the more efficient the data center is. 8 The Uptime Institute Journal was founded in 2013 to promote the thought leadership, innovation and proven methodologies of various disciplines and professions within the global data center industry. The average PUE of 1.7 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 corresponds to a survey carried out in 2014 among 1,000 data center operators and IT practitioners across the world. ↪1 See “Environmental sustainability,” p. 90. ↪ 2 See “Amadeus Corporate Information Security Office Program,” p. 121. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Data security) Amadeus Global Report 2018 59 4. Technology and innovation Amadeus has been working actively toward the new General Data The open API concept is primarily about being more systematic in Protection Regulation (GDPR) enforcement introduced in May the exposure of the functionality in Amadeus systems and aligning 2018 by the European Community regarding data privacy.↪ A with the best practices of the industry (i.e. being API-minded). global review of the compliance of all our systems and processes Beyond the modernization of underlying technical frameworks, pertaining to personal private information (PII) has taken place the objective is to promote our API in its business dimension. This with the support of specialized consulting firms. All immediate will facilitate the creation of new generations of solutions, by actions have been implemented, and a detailed plan has been laid associating Amadeus to third-party services, whether to enhance down for further evolutions. our own services without the upfront investment, or as a way for customers to complement the value of our services with their own With the adoption of new and disruptive technologies such custom development. In 2018 we completed the implementation as social networks, mobile, big data, cloud deployment and of the generic frameworks for the API related to travel agencies, connected objects, Amadeus must protect its systems and which are essentially multi-airlines, and for airlines and other customers from new types of vulnerabilities, cyberattacks and providers as part of our IT businesses. frauds. In 2018 we made substantial progress toward a dynamic approach to contextual security. This will enhance our proactive To support our airline customers, we have begun the development detection of potential incidents and our ability to respond to of a “digital platform,” which constitutes a further step in the API new fraud practices as they emerge. We are developing threat model. The objective is to give airlines full autonomy to develop their own applicative services on the Amadeus platform, via a intelligence methodologies and are extending our external set of rules and customized scripting, while keeping close to the community by joining the A-ISAC consortium. User and entity native functionalities and data in Amadeus Altéa. The field of behavior analytics is taking a major role in our detection application is quite large, ranging from enriching e-commerce techniques. We are using artificial intelligence9 to understand websites to enhanced servicing of travelers during their the dynamics of fraud and misuse, but also to optimize alert, journey with a personalized service and notifications. Amadeus’ response and recovery mechanisms to minimize the impact merchandizing application was developed in 2018 following a of situations that might compromise business operations. similar approach, enabling airline customers to tailor the product to their own needs without Amadeus’ intervention. From open API The concept of platforms is general to the industry and practiced to digital platforms by major players, such as Facebook and Salesforce. Amadeus is investing in this direction to become the travel industry’s platform of Amadeus was the first global distribution system to introduce a choice and to develop a service ecosystem around our applications. structured API,10 back in 2000. Since then, we have published new versions based on XML and Web services in 2006. Today we expose more than 1,000 services out of our central applications, not Advanced data analytics counting the API exposed for the Web front-ends and mobile. Our API powers a large ecosystem of travel actors and is becoming a and business intelligence business in itself with creation of value, as it keeps Amadeus in the Our customers are very demanding in the context of offers and position of being the reference source for travel services. sales. They do not need raw data, but rather educated information on behaviors and patterns that can help them target the right offer to the right customers and boost sales conversion. Our ↪ See “Corporate risk management,” p. 116. customers need data-enriched transactions, going from data to 9 Supervised and unsupervised machine learning. knowledge and to action. Since 2013, Amadeus has taken on the 10 An API is a mechanism for two systems to communicate and exchange data and challenge of evolving our data management framework in order services. Usually, one system calls the other with a request to get an action done to offer our customers a comprehensive view of their travelers or return information as a set of data. This is what is referred to as a “service.” 60 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Innovation) 4. Technology and innovation and the travel business environment. This entails capturing and Amadeus’ Innovation team is composed of: analyzing beforehand a large amount of information about the traveler and the context in which they interact with the system __A dedicated research lab in artificial intelligence and optimization, – before, during and following a trip. This massive amount of now spread over several locations, staffed with scientists information, often referred to as “big data,” must be stored, mined and domain specialists. This team participates in travel industry and transformed into meaningful parameters that can later be events11 and also runs internal training programs (e.g. the Amadeus AI Academy). injected into real-time transactions. __An innovation management and service team, with a strong In 2018 we rolled out our technical data management framework, innovation management expertise, whose mission is to foster leveraging techniques such as NoSQL databases and grid-based the emergence of ideas across Amadeus and promote the most distributed data clusters (Hadoop) and relying on cloud-based creative inputs from the staff. In 2018 we extended the scope architecture for deployment. This framework is capable of to offer Innovation-as-a-Service to selected customers. handling extremely large volumes of data and enabling predictive __A “Horizon 3” team working with the long-term view of exploring analytics, even on unstructured data, as well as using the results and incubating disruptive business opportunities with high of these analyses to make our applications data-driven. Our potential/uncertainty. framework includes powerful data analytics techniques, some __The Amadeus Ventures team, constantly monitoring industry in real time and others based on supervised and unsupervised trends and proposing investments in start-ups or partnerships to machine learning, including deep learning algorithms coming from drive new strategic value for the travel industry.12 Today Amadeus the artificial intelligence domain. We believe that this is the base has a portfolio of 10 start-up investments across Europe, North of a positive feedback loop: the more data, the more relevant the America and the Middle East, with one added in 2018, the pattern analysis, in turn feeding back enriched transactions and automated pedestrian analytics company CrowdVision, alongside generating more data, and so on. follow-ons with Betterez (cloud-based ticket management and reservation software) and BookingPal (centralized property booking platform). In 2018 Amadeus also partnered with French global network operator Sigfox to explore the potential of the Internet of Things (IoT) in travel, and is actively working Innovation on prototypes with customers. Amadeus maintains close relationships with the academic world In 2018 the Amadeus innovation organization received increased through formal partnerships with universities and research investment to fulfill its corporate mission of discovering and institutes internationally (e.g. Université Côte d’Azur, MIT and developing breakthrough business opportunities with the potential ETH Zürich). This cooperation is leveraged for some exploratory to transform travel, by promoting new ideas from internal and projects, but also for organizing training for Amadeus staff in external sources and investing in transformational projects. some of the most advanced IT domains. The focus of the innovation team throughout 2018 was on Since 2017, Amadeus has developed an innovation partnership empowering travelers with personalization, end-to-end travel program, Amadeus Explore, aimed at engaging with promising enrichment, destination content at their fingertips, stress-free trip experiences, simplification of all processes and active management of disruptions. The team also explored emerging business trends such as digital consumers, the platform economy 11 Amadeus won the three Best Presentation awards at the AGIFORS Revenue Management Conference for our work on dynamic pricing, reinforcement learning and new mobility paradigms. and call-back tickets. 12 For the first time, in 2018 Amadeus was included in the ranking of the 36 companies working most collaboratively with start-ups across Europe, receiving the Open Innovation Innovative Approach Award as part of the European Commission’s Startup Europe Partnership initiative. Amadeus Global Report 2018 61 4. Technology and innovation start-ups to explore relevant technology through testing and use Amadeus also regularly participates in and sometimes organizes case execution within strategic innovation areas such as artificial hackathons, where customers and start-ups are invited. In 2018 intelligence, blockchain, messaging platforms and predictive Amadeus Research, Innovation & Ventures generated several analytics. In this context, Amadeus expanded the Amadeus for patents13 and published numerous thought leadership papers.14 Developers portal, a set of APIs offered as a sandbox (i.e. on production-alike systems) for any third party willing to access Amadeus services in the context of exploratory projects. In 2018 we enrolled seven new start-up companies. Amadeus research and thought leadership papers 1 4 7 10 11 5 8 2 12 3 6 9 13 1. Global Airline Industry Almanac 4. Safeguarding Information Systems 7. Airport Digital Transformation 10. Consumer Travel Report 2018 A spotlight on 2017 and key trends for the A leverage to revenue growth From operational performance Middle East year ahead to strategic opportunity 5. Open the Door to Opportunity 11. Traveler Trends Observatory 2. Beyond the Wallet Wars Collaborating to win in the hotel 8. Better Business, Smarter Travel Understanding the end consumer and traveller. Toward a holistic mobile payments strategy distribution playing field Perspectives on the future of Managed (active seniors) Travel 3.0 3. 6 Critical Success Factors 6. The Importance of Understanding 12. Traveler Trends Observatory for Airport Payments Travelers’ Motivation 9. Shaping the Future of Travel Understanding the end consumer and traveller. Understanding why people travel Macrotrends driving industry growth (corporate citizens) to unlock industry opportunities over the next decade 13. A New Formula for Airline Success Why customized offers are the future of airline marketing and revenue management 13 In 2018 Amadeus has filed 30 patent applications. 14 Such as “The Importance of Understanding Travelers’ Motivation.” 62 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Employee engagement and talent attraction) 5. Amadeus people and culture 5. Amadeus The people at Amadeus are the company’s one true competitive advantage. It is their creativity, commitment, expertise and experience that have allowed us to build a leading position in our industry. They are critical to the successful delivery of our strategy people and culture and to maintaining our long-term business performance. The role of the People, Culture, Communications and Brand (PCCB) team within Amadeus is to ensure that the company can attract, retain and develop the best talent so that we can deliver for our customers every day. Our aim, therefore, is to create the conditions in which all of our people can thrive, to build an inclusive culture in which diversity is valued and celebrated. We provide a culture and environment that values each individual and gives them the best possible opportunity to have a productive, stimulating and enjoyable career. The encouraging results of our 2018 Employee Engagement Survey, as well as external recognition, suggests that we are on the right path to achieving these goals, but we are ambitious to do much more. Our PCCB team provide a wide variety of services and processes that enable this, from imaginative rewards and benefits to tailored learning and development programs and international mobility opportunities. They also manage our brand and communications. Our brand comes alive in all we do, not just through our external website but also our progressive office design. A key element is also how we communicate externally and internally. Our social media channels enjoy one of the largest followings in the industry, and we keep employees abreast of what is happening in the company through relevant storytelling and live webcasts with senior management. All of this makes a significant contribution to a vibrant and successful company. Amadeus employees in our Madrid headquarters. GRI 102-8, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Employee engagement and talent attraction) Amadeus Global Report 2018 63 5. Amadeus people and culture Workforce by type of contract (FTEs)* 2016 2017 2018 5.1 Talent Permanent staff 13,623 14,543 16,227 Hires per geography in 2018 External manpower 1,590 1,752 1,963 77 5 573 Erding London Nice Temporary staff 167 490 483 178 455 Madrid Rest of Europe Total 15,380 16,785 18,673 323 528 America Bengaluru 42 215 Africa & Rest of Middle East Asia-Pacific Workforce by region (FTEs)* 2016 2017 2018 Talent attraction and recruitment Europe 9,356 10,053 10,737 Talent acquisition is a key Amadeus strategic enabler, which ensures business sustainability and growth. As a technical Asia-Pacific 3,167 3,688 3,959 company, we face additional pressure in ensuring we bring the right talent into Amadeus. Technologies and innovations reshape the North America 1,980 2,188 2,988 workforce and we compete in a faster-paced, more competitive South America 555 548 549 arena, year on year. We therefore ensure our approach to talent acquisition remains a step ahead by being agile, modern and Middle East and Africa 322 308 440 digital, yet highly personalized in our approach to attracting talent to Amadeus. Total 15,380 16,785 18,673 We upskill our talent acquisition professionals and digitalize our recruitment process, which ensures a great candidate experience and excitement to join Amadeus. For this purpose, we created a Recruitment Academy, where we build capabilities not only in our recruitment professionals, but also in hiring managers, globally. This program further focuses on our employees being Amadeus talent brand ambassadors, thus strengthening our ability to attract the right talent. We focus strongly on social media and employer branding, *Scope: All fully owned Amadeus companies. Figures in full-time equivalents (FTEs) as expanding our presence in top professional online boards, social of December 31. FTE is the headcount converted to a full-time basis, e.g. an employee working part-time covering 80% of a full-time schedule is considered 0.8 FTE. media channels and job platforms. We consistently publish real 64 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 404-2 5. Amadeus people and culture Amadeus' scores on Glassdoor (2017 vs. 2018)* 83% 3.8 90% 73% 727,189 Would recommend Overall rating CEO approval Positive outlook Page views to a friend 2017 79% 3.7 87% 69% 649,774 5% 3% 3% 6% 12% *Figures as of September 2018. life content to highlight our participation in various events to promote what it is like to work at Amadeus and to increase the Learning and development visibility of job opportunities to attract the best talent. Furthermore, we use modern recruitment methodologies such as Talent management video interviews and remote real-time assessments in order to Our people and culture are our strongest assets. Only by actively improve our recruitment process efficiency and to promote gendermanaging our talent are we able to guarantee our business neutral benefits for a wider and equitable candidate attraction. continuity. Therefore, in 2018 we launched a new global talent Early in career talent attraction is particularly important in our review cycle covering all our mid-senior to senior leaders. Through recruitment approach. Our focus on graduates, interns, trainees, this process we identify, assess, develop and retain leaders and apprentices and employees in the first five years of their careers highly qualified professionals who will continue to drive the future ensures that we maximize and accelerate their learning within success of Amadeus. our company. This revamped talent review approach places special focus on For example, in North America we have a highly selective global talent assessment and talent development. This encourages two-year talent management program focused on MBA students in line managers to deliver quality developmental feedback to order to fast-track development of high-potential, technology-savvy employees, which in turn supports regular career conversations, individuals into future leaders. We also have a regional graduate aligning individuals’ career interests with available opportunities program in Asia-Pacific and formal local graduate programs in the for growth and development. United Kingdom, Turkey and France. More than 1,200 employees were formally reviewed following a We continue to enhance our employer brand, recruit technical robust, business-oriented and consistent approach. Our CEO and talent and expand opportunities for innovative work through the Executive Committee are involved in these employee reviews, our relationships with selected top universities, recruitment fairs dedicating extensive quality time to calibrate and ensure the and sponsoring and participation in hackathons. health of the organization’s leadership talent pipeline. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Training and education), 404-2, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Amadeus Global Report 2018 65 (Diversity and equal opportunity) 5. Amadeus people and culture Internal development opportunities Amadeus’ needs, to empower our leaders to thrive and innovate in an environment of constant disruption and fast-paced change. Feedback from attendees and organizers was outstanding Mentoring regarding its timeliness, mix of technical and leadership The third edition of Amadeus’ global mentoring program was components, and value-add to our business. launched in January 2018. Sixty-four employees (mentors and mentees) from all businesses and regions participated in this General learning and development opportunities well-established program to develop our leaders. In order to strengthen the value of the program, we provided training on Our employees benefit from over 1,300 blended learning behavioral fitness and positive leadership in collaboration with opportunities including face-to-face, virtual and online training Madrid’s IE Business School. Areas such as leadership climate sessions on soft and hard skills, covering individual and business control, experience design and habit hacking were successfully needs in a timely fashion. Development programs for employees addressed during the sessions, receiving exceptional feedback at all levels are offered across the entire organization, spanning from attendees. units and geographical locations. Some highlights include: After the success of a pilot edition in 2017, we have also developed __The online Sales Learning Paths, which provide expert knowledge a functional mentoring template and toolkit, which we rolled out of our products to different groups of commercial executives globally across the business. This template provides the basis for across Latin America. arranging and formalizing mentoring activities within functions. It __Various learning journeys with a duration of around six months benefits a broader audience, both junior and senior professionals, that have been designed for leaders in Bangalore. Depending as well as providing autonomy to the functions to expand their on the participant profile, they include combinations of mentoring offering as needed. mentoring, coaching, workshops and individually crafted real-life assignments or challenges to complete. Leadership promotion processes and development __A worldwide learning program aimed at teams responsible for managing strategic accounts within our Retail segment. In 2018 we revised and revamped our leadership promotion processes to align more strongly with developmental __Within our Enterprise Agility initiative, employees benefit from methodologies and tools, e.g. including 360-degree feedback. structured training paths designed specifically for members Our promotion processes serve to acknowledge an individual’s and/or leaders of Agile development teams as well as employees capability to manage the responsibilities of a new position, and leaders across the rest of the organization. from the perspective of thought leadership, people and results management. Having clear promotion processes that we apply consistently allows a steady and well-calibrated group of strong 5.2 Diversity and inclusion leaders with the technical and people skills necessary to deliver business results, while also being attractive and motivational in retaining more junior talent. Amadeus aims to ensure every employee shapes his or her own Directors Leadership Program inclusive journey; we focus on creating value for customers, travelers and society through being diverse and inclusive. Our We strengthened our development opportunities for senior culture promotes respect, fairness, equal opportunity and dignity management through the creation of a Directors Leadership for everybody and allows our people to be the best version Program, attended by 28 directors. This was facilitated by the of themselves. IMD business school (Lausanne, Switzerland) and tailored to 66 Amadeus Global Report 2018 5. Amadeus people and culture At Amadeus, we accept and respect differences between and To make this commitment effective, we regularly review our within cultures and acknowledge and endorse differences based progress in order to identify opportunities for improvement and to on gender, age, race, ethnicity, beliefs, sexual orientation and provide direction for our long-term diversity and inclusion strategy. disabilities, as well as diversity of thoughts and experiences. Our activities this year aimed to promote diversity and inclusion within the company and also in a more granular way in the local communities where we operate. The key diversity dimensions we focused on were gender, LGBTI and people with disabilities. As we continue working to build a workplace with equal opportunities for all employees, we regularly review our selection processes for bias and ensure our job offers are gender-neutral. We closely monitor remuneration processes for gender bias. 150+ nationalities Women at Amadeus are further empowered through crossmentoring programs and the work of the employee-led Amadeus Women’s Networks. We have also been focusing on encouraging girls and young women to pursue careers in STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) fields through our support of Inspiring Girls in Spain and our sponsorship of the Code First: Girls conference in London. Inspiring Girls is an organization that provides female professional role models to girls aged 11 to 15. The girls have an opportunity to meet women in a variety of non-traditional professions so that they can expand their view of available professions, ask questions and see that the women who work in these fields are not outliers. ▶ Amadeus was proud to show its commitment to the LGBTI Amadeus hosted an Inspiring community this year as the 150th company to support the UN Girls workshop at our Madrid headquarters. Standards of Conduct for Business for tackling discrimination against lesbian, gay, bi, trans, and and intersex people. Amadeus ▼▶ Amadeus Global Report 2018 67 5. Amadeus people and culture also joined other leading Spanish companies to create REDI (Red Empresarial por la Diversidad y la Inclusión LGBTI) to Diversity and inclusion campaign: promote best practices in the workplace for LGBTI diversity and inclusion. In addition to our group in Bangkok, our LGBTI employee “Amadeus Made by You ” resource group, Amadeus Proud, opened a chapter at our Madrid We believe our role in the travel industry helps break down barriers headquarters, increasing visibility and expanding the LGBTI and allows people around the world to embrace new cultures. Every and ally network. day, as a business, we are making the world a more inclusive place. Watch our video on Amadeus Our largest site, in Nice (France), took the lead on inclusion We recognize that we can only be champions of inclusive thinking if Made by You of people with disabilities, hosting training sessions and other we act in an inclusive way ourselves. For us, an inclusive culture is activities in honor of the European Disability Employment shaped by people and their passion for bringing the world together. Week. We constantly review accessibility to all our sites, It is shaped by their openness, thoughtfulness and respect for ensure appropriate equipment is available, and offer diversity others. To put it simply, our employees make us who we are. awareness training for managers. In addition, we engage This was the central premise of the global “Amadeus Made by You” with schools, universities and job fairs to promote the hiring campaign to all staff, which aimed to visualize the diversity of our of people with disabilities. teams and to encourage all employees to embrace and nurture This year three Amadeus teams took part in Free Handi’se Trophy, that diversity. which brings together teams of people with mixed abilities to promote understanding and inclusion. Three Amadeus teams took part in the 2018 edition of the Free Handi's Trophy in France. The race went from Bordeaux to Nantes. ▼▶ 68 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Employee engagement and talent attraction) 5. Amadeus people and culture 5.3 Engaging __This year we also measured some cultural questions to gain a better understanding of our culture. __We continued training new managers on engagement, with 300 our people managers trained for the survey. Engage 2018 Amadeus employee engagement scores Our employee engagement survey: from 2010 to 2018 __During 2018 we ran our fifth employee survey in 2018. 4 __Over 12,500 employees answered – an impressive 86% of the +0.09 3,80 +0.04 3,84 Amadeus population! +0.08 3,71 __We had our fifth consecutive year of improvement in overall 3,63 +0.22 company score (graph of five waves) with a 0.04 score increase 3.5 3,41 since our last survey, which is in line with Gallup norms. __The following areas showed the greatest improvements: +0.43 progress, recognition and development. __For the first time, we also introduced an employee Net Promoter 3 Score, which produced the encouraging outcome of a score of +25. Wave 1 2010 Wave 2 2012 Wave 3 2014 Wave 4 2015 Wave 5 2018 2018 Change since 2015 Change since 2010 Grand mean 3.84 0.04 0.43 N= 12,585 Overall satisfaction 3.97 0.05 0.24 Growth Learn & grow 3.94 0.03 0.44 Progress 3.79 0.10 0.77 Best friend 3.75 0.02 0.54 Quality 3.94 0.05 0.26 Teamwork Mission 3.81 0.07 0.38 Opinions count 3.85 0.06 0.39 Development 3.70 0.07 0.59 Cares 4.07 0.05 0.46 Individual Recognition 3.49 -0.01 0.68 Do best 3.72 0.07 0.30 Materials 3.95 0.03 0.22 Basic needs Expectations 4.08 -0.02 0.09 Top two highest-scoring items by grand mean Significant change in Wave 5 Significant change across Wave 1 to Wave 5 Top two lowest-scoring items by grand mean Please note: change does not take in to account the 50% past data match rule. Amadeus Global Report 2018 69 5. Amadeus people and culture ◀ Amadeus volunteers at the Habitat Build to Give event. More than 30 participants renovated two houses in the Nakorn Pathom province in Thailand. Bangkok staff joining World Cleanup Day with eight sites in Asia-Pacific. Over 300 kilograms of waste were collected! ▼ ◀ Ladies enjoying the cloths swap at the “Swap till you drop” event at our Bangkok office. ▶ Amadeus Proud and Amadeus Women’s Network welcome an external speaker to talk about diversity, her inspiration and success stories. ◀ Bangkok staff having fun at the first-ever Amadeus Colors Fun Run event. Was great fun and outcome of 240 runners! 70 Amadeus Global Report 2018 5. Amadeus people and culture The Amadeus Team Playbook Amadeus Live Engagement has become everybody’s responsibility in the company. __In 2018 we ran our very first company-wide broadcast, called Amadeus Live. To help employees and managers, we created the Amadeus Team Playbook. It is designed to help individuals take ownership of their __The purpose is to strengthen the sense of belonging and connect productivity and learn what makes a great team. every single employee with the strategy of the company. __The format allows us to align the entire company on strategic The playbook is a collection of measurement tools, activities and topics in one single day, across the globe. conversation guides that anyone can use in their team meetings. __The topics vary from business to people to culture, and anything The goal is collective ownership of everyday engagement in between. and meaningful conversations. __The results were impressive: more than 7,700 people registered, and there were more than 6,300 live connections throughout Since its launch, 2,800 employees have used it. the day from 80 countries. Strengthening our culture The Amadeus Way Amadeus' culture is a very competitive asset and our foundation for sustainable success. We are guarding this fiercely and ensure that we continue be successful in a very volatile and ambiguous environment. To evolve our culture, we have developed six ▶ questions that guide our decisions every day – the big ones Get-together at our Amadeus and the small ones. offices in London to watch Amadeus Live. In this photo Anna The six questions work together as a whole and inspire Kofoed and Gianni Pisanello us all together: talk about New Distribution Capability (NDC). 1_ What would you say if you were our customer? 2_ How do I show ownership of my decisions? 3_ What’s the risk? Too big? Too small? 4_ Can we do this faster, better, simpler? 5_ How can I learn and share with my colleagues or others? 6_ Is this good for Amadeus? ▶ Amadeus' Vice President of Remuneration Branding and Digital Marketing explains The Amadeus Way : six T​ o be a successful company, we know we need to attract and questions that help us guide our retain the best people in the business. One of the ways we do actions every day. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Occupational health and safety) Amadeus Global Report 2018 71 5. Amadeus people and culture that is by offering competitive rewards to our employees around the world. We benchmark salaries regularly to make sure we are competitive against the market. Most of our employees participate in an Navitaire Philippines’ People + annual performance bonus, which is linked to both company performance, so that employees have a share in the business & Culture integration – spotlight results, and individual performance, to show that extra effort does not go unnoticed. on benefits harmonization In addition to typical benefits such as retirement plans and health insurance, we offer different stock-based incentives that help to Following our acquisition of Navitaire in February 2016, the company has managed a align the interests of employees with the interests of shareholders detailed People & Culture integration plan. This initially targeted initially the most critical and create a sense of ownership. In the Annual General processes, such as talent acquisition and retention and the pensions assets migration Shareholders Meeting held in June 2018, the three stock-based from the seller, to ensure business continuity and a smooth transition. During this initial incentive plans run by Amadeus received a majority of votes phase, a new P&C team was established in Manila in order to service a large and growing in favor (93% on average). organization of more than 400 employees. In the second phase, the company embarked on and delivered an ambitious project to BeSafe completely revise the benefits offering of Amadeus and Navitaire in the Philippines. The objective was to determine the value perceived by employees and managers of the existing At Amadeus, we want to ensure the health, safety and well-being benefits offering, to benchmark this with the market practices in the high-tech sector and of all our employees worldwide. We have all witnessed in the past to introduce a new harmonized plan for the combined entities of Amadeus and Navitaire. years that incidents can happen at any time. Managing a global workforce in today's world requires timely and innovative solutions To achieve this, we engaged a specialist benefits consultant and conducted focus groups to overcome the challenges that may come our way and to keep and interviews with employees and managers to obtain their feedback. This was followed by our employees safe. For that reason, we have teamed up extensive benchmarking with the practices in the high-tech sector, and after this a new To Be with Everbridge, the global leader of integrated critical event plan that outlined our intentions was designed, taking into account all these previous inputs. management solutions and automated crisis communications, Several iterations and options for a To Be plan were discussed, and in the end the company and launched the BeSafe project at Amadeus. proposed to introduce an innovative flexible benefits offering. The initiative brings together People & Culture, Crisis Management The flexible benefits offering consists of the opportunity to convert personal leave and other and Business Continuity teams to ensure that Amadeus is able leave entitlements into flex points. These flex points can be used to purchase benefits in a to quickly respond to an emergency as and when it might occur, flexible manner from a range of benefits options. These include benefits like i) adding further enabling us to contact and support employees during critical dependents onto the health insurance plan, ii) gasoline reimbursement, iii) gym membership, events (natural disasters, missing persons, evacuations and iv) optical and medicine reimbursement, to name just a few of the options. of buildings, etc.) quickly and efficiently. Amadeus and Navitaire employees are moving into a new building in 2019 and will be After the successful launch of BeSafe in Nice, our biggest site, in working closely together. The harmonization of benefits, with its flexible philosophy, June 2018, 15 additional sites worldwide have been trained and provides more choice for employees in electing the benefits that are most suitable to them incorporated into the IT solution during the second half of 2018, individually, and it makes it something to look forward to in 2019 when everyone will be covering approximately 75% of the entire Amadeus community. working under one single roof. During 2019 we are planning to launch the remaining sites, businesses and regions. 72 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-16, 404-2 5. Amadeus people and culture Amadeus Live and Learn Typically, business needs are temporary to support a customer project or to temporarily fill vacant positions in other geographies. In 2018 Amadeus had 145 employees on temporary international At Amadeus, we love to travel. Across the globe, we bring our assignments, mainly in the US and Asia. We have also continued customers innovative solutions to make their journey an enjoyable to see increased activities in the exchange of talent between experience. Now, as Amadeus employees, we get to experience a the main European hubs. great way to travel with Amadeus Live and Learn. Every so often, assignments may also be permanent to fill vacant Launched in February 2018, this global benefit gives employees positions where it may not be possible to source the required skills and their families the opportunity to live and experience unique locally. Employees may also decide to settle permanently travel experiences. in their new host country. In 2018 more than 170 employees took Amadeus Live and Learn is a sharing-based online platform permanent new positions in a country different from their country with two modules: of hire. __Home Exchange enables home swaps between Amadeus colleagues around the world to live like a local instead of visiting Shadowing Navitaire like a tourist, while saving money on accommodation costs. Amadeus’ success is based on the creativity, experience __Linguistic Exchange provides a fantastic opportunity for Amadeus employees’ children to learn or improve a foreign and passion of our people. They have delivered excellence across language by staying with a fellow colleague and their family the board and continue to do so every year. for a few weeks. To achieve this, we constantly offer learning experiences and training programs that focus on sharing knowledge and best Hotel expenses can add up quickly, eating a big portion of any practices. A good example is a job-shadowing initiative that took holiday budget. Colleagues swapping homes will not only save place between Robert Booth, Head of Marketing, Airline Offer money, they will get to explore a new country with invaluable tips Suite, based in Nice, and Jason Coverston, Director Optimization from a local, fellow Amadeus colleague. Products, based in Salt Lake City. When it comes to sending a child abroad, trusting their host family In November 2018 Robert traveled to Salt Lake City and spent is essential. The bond colleagues will establish ensures both kids a month shadowing Jason. This initiative provided Robert with will have the experience of a lifetime developing their language the opportunity to know his co-workers, meet new customers skills and confidence in a safe and secure environment. and gain valuable insights regarding the different ways of working. Driving collaboration, mutual trust and respect among co-workers, This program is one of the many different learning initiatives registering on Amadeus Live and Learn is voluntary and completely to provide our employees with valuable and enriching learning confidential. The website is a secure and private platform, available experiences, further develop their knowledge, advance their in three languages (English, Spanish and French), and is fully professional careers and provide geographical mobility opportunities. managed by our partner, Collaborative Perks. Mobility Committed to human rights At Amadeus we are firmly committed to globally developing an Our products and services create business requirements organizational culture and structure based on the principles for employees to work internationally. We have developed set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, international assignment policies to enable the delivery of these the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the business requirements effectively and at the same time allow International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights our employees to pursue exciting career opportunities. Amadeus Global Report 2018 73 5. Amadeus people and culture and the International Labour Organization’s Declaration Center. This platform gives employees and agencies access to on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. all the guidelines, assets, photographs, templates and campaign toolkits they need to quickly and easily create innovative We seek to establish relationships with entities and organizations marketing and communications campaigns in a cost-efficient and that share the same principles and values as ours. We expect consistent way. our partners to respect and not infringe upon human rights. Our senior management is responsible for ensuring adherence to these Finally, in order to evaluate the success of our work, we measured commitments as well as overseeing their implementation customer perceptions of Amadeus’ brand strategy and messaging. and guaranteeing that any breaches are duly investigated. We found that customers perceive Amadeus as an innovative company with close customer relationships and strong technology Amadeus adheres to national laws and regulations in each market leadership; however, agility was identified as an area to focus in which we operate. In situations where Amadeus faces conflicts on in the future. between internationally recognized human rights and national regulations, the company will follow processes that seek ways to honor the principles of international human rights. Brand strategy _Brand personality 5.4 Brand and _Purpose _Values Messaging pillars communications ↪ _Product portfolio & architecture _Customer focus _M&A _Technology leadership Amadeus’ brand _Traveler understanding 2018 was a strong year for our brand. We established a global testimonial program to bring our customer success stories to the fore. We highlighted our technology leadership to share the latest Multimedia _Video The accomplishments of our tech teams around the world. And we continued to evolve our understanding of travelers to anticipate _Music Amadeus Spaces their needs. In addition, we finalized our visual identity, developed an brand wheel _Offices _Materials & merchandising Amadeus brand wheel and continued on our quest to refine and simplify our verbal identity, all in an effort to establish a consistent approach to our brand. Our goal is to empower teams across the business to convey Amadeus’ clear, human, dynamic Visual identity and confident voice through their use of language, color, images _Logo _Photos and icons in all their communications. _Font _Icons _Color _Illustrations These developments complement the investments we have made _Shapes Verbal identity in a wide range of tools and resources for our Brand & Marketing _Naming _US English _Guiding principles ↪ See “Approach to stakeholder engagement,” p. 144. 74 Amadeus Global Report 2018 5. Amadeus people and culture With teams from more than 190 countries around the world working on solutions that tackle the entire door-to-door travel Thought leadership ↪ experience, Amadeus is a company with a nearly unmatchable Delivering challenging and ground-breaking research that aims scope. Although our solutions come from many different parts to better understand the future of our industry is something now of the organization, it is critical that we work as one company, synonymous with Amadeus. In 2018 Amadeus published a range with one culture, one mindset and one voice, to realize our full of new research papers, including “Open the Door to Opportunity: potential. This is why our brand vision, One Amadeus, led many of Collaborating to Win in the Hotel Distribution Playing Field,” “6 our efforts in 2018, and will continue to guide us well in the future. Critical Success Factors for Airport Payments” and “Beyond the Wallet Wars: Towards a Holistic Mobile Payments Strategy.” All External communications these papers and more can be found on www.amadeus.com. Summary and overview Internal communications The Amadeus Global Corporate Communications team exists to We have a culture of open, transparent and inclusive employee promote and protect the company’s reputation externally. Using communications. Our goal is to help our people connect what powerful storytelling techniques and ideas, it brings to life and they do individually with the company vision and strategy, to be simplifies the often complex world of B2B technology. more engaged in their day-to-day work and to build a sense of This year, the Global Corporate Communications team – belonging to one global team. historically designed to engage and interact with traditional media Good communications drive performance: we inform our – was merged with the Amadeus Digital, Content & Social Media employees about our business strategy, our customers, the market team. This will ensure that in a fast-paced and ever-changing and technology landscape, and key events both external and communications landscape, the company’s communications are internal. We work to make relevant resources and information wholly aligned and fit for purpose regardless of the channel. accessible through a variety of channels. We build a sense of At Amadeus we believe that while content needs to be consistent, belonging by sharing stories that unite us as a global workforce it must also be appropriate and relevant for different audiences with common values. And we work to empower our employees who want news, information and opinions in different ways and by at all times by encouraging greater exchange, input and dialog. different means. The merging of the two teams means we now have Each and every employee makes a unique contribution to an integrated resource that operates as one to tell Amadeus stories, Amadeus’ goals. We take pride in delivering better journeys, whether on the blog, with journalists or across our social channels. helping our customers be successful, innovating, and giving back to our communities and society. This is brought to life by the Our social media presence and channels personal experiences, perspectives and stories shared on a daily basis with colleagues around the world. In 2018 our most popular in numbers communications were “five-minute jabbers” with senior leaders, and stories on the following topics: diversity and gender equality, In 2018 the Amadeus blog attracted more than 1.3 million visits, our employee home and language exchange program, General while our social media followers grew to over 270,000, primarily Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) readiness, employee relocation on LinkedIn, Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. Find us online experiences, and customer-first stories from around the world. at www.amadeus.com/blog and on the main social networks as “Amadeus IT Group.” ↪ See “Amadeus research and thought leadership papers,” p. 61. Amadeus Global Report 2018 75 5. Amadeus people and culture The internal communications team also played an important __We increased our customer targeting capabilities through role in informing employees during key M&A developments automated segmentation, which allows us to personalize and business transformation programs that took place across our content to specific audience needs. the company in 2018. __Our goal is to trigger a shift in organizational thinking away from traditional marketing channels toward digital media. Digital ecosystem Amadeus’ digital marketing ecosystem has transformed our B2B marketing capabilities by creating a new account-based marketing model. This model uses the right technology stack to offer increased business intelligence and produce quality leads that can then be tracked through the full sales pipeline. We have managed this by looking at these three pillars: __People – identifying the key issues: who owns the process, who is involved, what are their roles and whether they have the right level of competence to solve issues. __Process – establishing a high-level view of the end-to-end digital marketing processes to identify the key digital touchpoints. We deep-dive into the various sub-processes involved and identify exceptions. We focus on the common requirements (Pareto principle or 80/20) to benefit from standardization of our processes. __Technology – once people are aligned and the processes developed and clarified, we deploy new technologies to support consistency in the way we approach our customers and move them through the full sales pipeline. The goal is to make it easier to follow the process than not to do so. And here you have some proof points on how we did it: __Collaborating with marketing and sales teams, the digital marketing team established new processes to synchronize and ensure a “Single Client View” strategy that gives full ▲ transparency and allows proper analysis of marketing impact In 2018 Adobe and Amadeus throughout the sales pipeline – from lead capture to validation announced their partnership: and nurturing. together they’ll deliver marketing __We incorporated the latest cloud technologies and introduced technology solutions for the new digital marketing tools that take the routine work out of travel industry. In the picture, Jussi Wacklin, Vice President, marketing. Specifically, and thanks to data and analytics, our Brand, Digital Marketing and marketers have a much more intimate picture of who their Culture at Amadeus and Matt audiences are. Thompson, Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations at Adobe. 76 Amadeus Global Report 2018 5. Amadeus people and culture Journey of Me Insights Amadeus' Journey of Me Insights: What Asia Pacific Travelers Want is the most comprehensive Asia-Pacific traveler research ever produced. Spanning 14 markets, it takes a multi-faceted look at what travelers want, from when and how they plan and book their trips, to how and why they want to stay connected while traveling, and what new technologies they would be most interested in. Journey of Me Insights: Many surveys that claim to cover Asia-Pacific in reality only involve six to eight markets. But in a region as diverse as AsiaWhat Asia-Pacific travelers want Pacific, a truly representative research would need to be much It’s all about ME! broader. So, we partnered with the market research company YouGov to survey 6,870 respondents from 14 markets in Asia14 markets, 6,870 travelers, infinite possibilities. Pacific (Australia, China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, No two travelers are the same, and even more so, no two Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand journeys will be the same. Amadeus’ new Asia-Pacific study, and Vietnam), more than anyone has ever done. “Journey of Me Insights: What Asia Pacific travelers want” moves the industry towards a closer understanding of Evolving the industry’s understanding travelers in the region. of Asia-Pacific travelers Forget ‘one-size-fits-all’. It’s time to embrace ‘different Asia-Pacific has moved to the forefront of travel. Journey of Me strokes for different folks’. Insights gives the industry unique insights about the world’s largest travel market and at the same time cements Amadeus’ position as a thought leader in Asia-Pacific travel. Support the business How can we sell solutions that purport to address traveler needs if we cannot show that we know what travelers want? Our spokespeople, salespeople, product teams and account managers use a lot of data in their presentations – most of it from external sources. Journey of Me Insights gives them Amadeus-branded and -owned data to build their stories with customers and partners. To build Journey of Me Insights, the travel industry must look at the six motivations, needs and wants of the traveler: Know Me, Inspire Me, Connect Me, Talk to Me, Delight Me, and Care for Me. Amadeus Global Report 2018 77 5. Amadeus people and culture Know Me... Inspire Me... Connect Me... …and what I want, before I want it …about the endless possibilities around travel …so I can stay in touch with what’s important to me Travelers will trade data for greater personalization and technology Top 3 reasons why people stay connected Travelers take their cue from other travelers. when travelling: When planning trips, top sources of influence are: 80 % 69 % of Indonesians of Japanese are open are not open To access Share pictures Let people maps & with family & know they’re Online Friends, Traveller location info friends safe booking or family and reviews travel sites colleagues Top 3 mobile apps used on trips: New technology they want the most? + Augmented reality app that delivers digital overlays containing interactive information about the site Talk to Me... Delight Me... Care for Me... …throughout the entire journey, but on my terms …and bring the magic back into travel …and keep me safe and secure 65 62 Travelers want the right recommendations, through the right channels, at the right time: % % > travelers use sharing of travelers would avoid a economy apps like Uber destination that has had and Airbnb a recent terror attack 41 % 78 % Filipinos 74 % South Koreans Chinese travelers prefer messaging services like WeChat 72 % of Indians 71 % of Japanese Who should send me safety & security updates? use oen travelers never use 70 % 47% New Zealanders Thai travelers prefer e-mail prefer social media 14% of travelers say that a travel service provider has never exceeded their expectations – it’s time to change that! Hotels (24%) and booking sites (23%) are most likely to Singaporeans Indonesians South Koreans have exceeded expectations, while tour operators (11%) (74%): Embassy/ (63%): Friends (57%): Travel ranked lowest government and family agents 78 Amadeus Global Report 2018 5. Amadeus people and culture Amadeus employees in our Madrid headquarters. 2018 Amadeus Global Report 2018 5. Amadeus people and culture 79 People and Culture awards Best 2018 employers ranking Caring Company by Glassdoor (France category) Hong Kong Council of Social Service Glassdoor Office: Hong Kong Office: Nice Great Place to Work HRD Asia’s 2018 Top Top Employer Top Employer Top Employer HR Teams Top Employer Institute Great Place to Work Top Employer Institute Top Employer Institute Office: Thailand Office: Bengaluru HRD Office: Australia Office: Singapore Office: Singapore Best Employer HR Best Employer – Tech Top Employer Top Employer Top Employer Practices, ranked 6th Companies, ranked 11th Top Employer Institute Top Employer Institute Top Employer Institute Office: Madrid Office: Erding Office: UK Capital Capital Office: Nice Office: Nice Top 50 India's Best Times Ascent Dream Happy Candidates, Finalist: among 3 Spanish Most Effective Workplaces in Companies to Work For, ranked 9th in Over 1,000 companies short-listed Learning Organization IT & IT-BPM ranked 5th* Employees category for the Top Social Zinnov Great Place to Work World HRD Congress Meilleures Enterprises Recruiter award Office: Bengaluru Office: Bengaluru Office: Bengaluru Office: Nice Linkedin Office: Spain * Amadeus ranked 5 in Dream Companies to Work, presented by Times Ascent, a leading media house in India. Amadeus was competing against 2,000 organizations to be awarded the rank in 2018. 80 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-42 6. Amadeus industry affairs 6. Amadeus industry affairs Amadeus’ industry leadership comes with the responsibility of working with other stakeholders in the interest of the travel industry at large. Amadeus therefore engages regularly with governments, public entities, trade associations and other institutions globally. The travel and tourism industry is becoming an increasingly strategic sector for the economies of many countries. For the industry to grow sustainably, governments and private stakeholders worldwide will have to pay more attention to how our industry improves its efficiency, reduces its carbon footprint and takes advantage of its potential as a catalyst for inclusive economic growth. Tackling these challenges requires completely new models of collaboration between industry players and the public sector. At Amadeus, we participate in, and often initiate, the industry debate on how collaboration should evolve. We see travel technology playing a key role in an increasingly digitalized travel and tourism marketplace, and Amadeus thus also has an important role to play as a facilitator for the global teamwork that is needed to shape and safeguard a sustainable travel industry. Amadeus’ Industry Affairs unit works with stakeholders across the global travel industry – public and private – to build a common agenda based on the principles of neutrality and transparency, fair competition, consumer choice and respect for society. We take a fact-based approach to working with our partners to bridge differences and find solutions and standards that take into account the needs of all stakeholders in a fair manner, and that therefore work for everyone in the travel value chain. In line with these principles, we have launched industry initiatives jointly with our partners in many areas, including environmental and social sustainability, regulatory and industry matters and consumer protection. GRI 102-12, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Transparency and Integrity), 103-1, 103-2, Amadeus Global Report 2018 81 103-3 (Industry regulations) 6. Amadeus industry affairs Our approach to industry engagement Accessibility Regulations Fair Consumer and social impact and public policy competition choice Key Priority principles Industry standards areas Fair competition and market access Transparency Fact-based and neutrality analysis Consumer and Industry sustainability Collaboration and passenger rights and environmental performance broad engagement Sharing our insights As part of our collaborative approach, Amadeus maintains a regular dialog with the European Commission on aviation, rail and and balanced perspectives travel distribution matters and the digitalization of travel, tourism and transport. Below are initiatives in which Amadeus has actively with public stakeholders participated during the last year. Amadeus contributes to regulatory reviews and provides input for policy initiatives, especially those relating to the transport, Promoting transparency, neutrality tourism and technology sectors. The travel and tourism industry and fair competition in the air travel is complex, and we are therefore proud to be asked to contribute to several consultations, research studies and workshops and distribution market sponsored by national and regional public stakeholders.1 We In 2018 Amadeus worked closely with the European Commission share our experience, insight and balanced perspective, always and the European Parliament in an advisory capacity to offer supported by evidence and fact-based analysis. balanced, fact-based views on how best to develop the complex In 2018 Amadeus was asked to provide information, knowledge and challenging aviation marketplace. Amadeus was pleased and advice to many EU regulatory and policy initiatives in order to see that the importance of transparency and neutrality to establish new or improve existing legislation. In the United States for air travel information and the need to safeguard the key and other markets, our work focused more on industry collaboration. characteristics of the EU’s aviation markets are recognized by the European Commission as well as the European Parliament. The air travel distribution market is currently facing severe threats 1 Amadeus adheres to the European Union’s Transparency Register: http:// to transparency, fair competition and consumer choice. New ec.europa.eu/transparencyregister/public/consultation/displaylobbyist. non-neutral players and the commercial strategies of certain do?id=193056815367-44. 82 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Industry regulations) 6. Amadeus industry affairs We believe + incumbents challenge the open and competitive air distribution market that the Global Distribution Systems offer. This development affects primarily the ability of SME players to compete in the Amadeus and other industry partners engaged in technology research and development projects co-funded by the European Commission. These included Shift2Rail’s long-term Innovation in transparency market, as well as consumers’ ability to make the best purchasing Program 4, which aims to provide a new seamless door-to-door and choice choices in the absence of transparent comparison. travel experience for customers by integrating rail with other modes of transport like air, coach and urban transit using a new within a neutral In 2018 Amadeus was especially active in responding to requests and innovative technology framework to enable an ecosystem marketplace for information and support for policy initiatives relating to airline of transport providers, distributors, retailers and customers. to serve and digital distribution issues in the aviation sector. In this context, the consumer’s the regulatory reviews of the Common Rules for the Operation Amadeus also contributed to multimodal technology in shopping, best interests. of Air Services (Regulation (EC) No. 1008/2008) and the Code of booking and ticketing for the lighthouse project of Innovation Conduct for Computerized Reservation Systems (Regulation (EC) Program 4’s IT2Rail initiative, establishing the critical groundwork No. 80/2009) were of utmost importance, and Amadeus provided for integrating first and last mile with longer-distance multimodal balanced views on the need to protect transparency, neutrality travel. Amadeus and other IT2Railpartners presented their and fair competition in the air travel and distribution market technology at the project’s closing event during the April 2018 through regulation. Transport Research Area event in Vienna, Austria, and Amadeus participated in the IT2Rail panel to promote and highlight the costIn November 2018 the European Commission opened cutting business benefits of IT2Rail’s semantic interoperability an investigation into the air distribution market in the EU, approach, which helps mitigate the problems posed by and at Amadeus we reiterated our full and open cooperation fragmentation between different EU transport markets. Later in this process, confirming that we would address all the concerns in September 2018, at the InnoTrans event in Berlin, Amadeus the commission may have. This will ensure that the investigation and other IT2Rail partners presented further developments, takes into account all relevant factors, and will demonstrate including Amadeus contributions on multimodal settlement that Amadeus stands for fairness and neutrality in airline payment technology. distribution, providing non-discriminatory and neutral market access for airlines and choice for consumers and travel buyers. In parallel, Amadeus participated in the Mobilus Consortium (which the European Institute of Innovation and Technology recently selected from among six competing consortia) to Bringing expertise and technology establish a Knowledge and Innovation Community (KIC) on urban to improve the European transport mobility across Europe over the next seven years. The aim of the new Mobilus KIC is to strengthen European competitiveness system and empower multimodality in the area of urban mobility in smart cities, for both EU citizens and visitors, by improving access to more sustainable and Amadeus continued to support the goal of the EU to establish environmentally friendly mobility to increase the attractiveness a smart and efficient transport system through innovation. We of EU cities. The project will formally kick off in 2019. contributed to this important objective by assisting the EU in promoting and opening a constructive dialog in addition to sharing our technological expertise. In 2018 the European Commission celebrated the Year of Multimodality to raise the importance of multimodality for greener passenger transport within and across the EU. In line with the objectives of the year, we worked with several EU technology projects and participated in events. GRI 102-12, 102-13 Amadeus Global Report 2018 83 6. Amadeus industry affairs Commitment to protecting passenger In the EU, we advise on tourism development issues and collaborate in developing the industry. In line with this, we were happy to see rights and consumer choice the European Parliament dedicate a budget line of more than €300 million for the next multi-annual financial framework. The result Passengers and consumers are important stakeholders in most was a true achievement resulting from work that started back in of the policy and regulatory initiatives launched by the EU in the 2015 and a remarkable recognition of the increasing importance of transport and travel distribution environments. At Amadeus, we the tourism industry at times of major cuts in different EU policies. believe in transparency and choice within a neutral marketplace Watch clips of the Amadeus to serve the consumer’s best interests. That is why protecting In our advisory role in the technology and digital marketplace, we Technology & Innovation Forum consumer choice and ensuring consumers have access to participated in a panel at the European Tourism Day in Brussels on transparent travel data to compare and shop air and other modes the disruption caused by the digital traveler on traditional tourism of travel is a critical pillar to building a competitive marketplace. services. In our intervention, we highlighted the need to enable SMEs to remain competitive through innovation within a fair and In this respect, we contributed to the rail passenger rights regulatory competitive marketplace. initiative launched by the European Commission’s transport unit, as We also participate in multiple initiatives at market level well as its consultation study conducted on passenger rights across in Europe sponsored by public and industry stakeholders, all transport modes. Our input and contribution focused on neutrality providing advice and support to digital transformation initiatives and transparency provisions, so as to empower passengers undertaken by travel companies. For example, Amadeus is to make informed choices and support the development of rail collaborating in Spain with industry stakeholders and the and multimodal travel. government in the launch of DIGITUR, a project to support We also provided input for the fitness check of EU consumer and the digitalization of tourism destinations. marketing legislation with the aim of ensuring consistency across different policies and regulatory initiatives, to safeguard the right to transparent and neutral travel information and to balance Engaging private sector regulatory mandates with the market realities of the industry. and trade industry stakeholders In the vast landscape of different private sector and trade industry Advising and collaborating toward an stakeholders in travel and tourism, Amadeus engages with innovative and sustainable tourism sector selected players in an open and constructive dialog on industry issues. We collaborate in our own trade associations and partner Amadeus strongly supports governmental policies and initiatives with our airline and travel agency customer organizations to work to support a robust and sustainable tourism sector. We engage toward common public policy goals. As an active partner, our door with other travel industry and public stakeholders at national is always open, and we maintain strong and close relationships and regional levels and conduct activities to promote innovation, with institutional stakeholders, consumer advocates and many entrepreneurship and collaboration in travel and tourism. During other travel and tourism associations2 across the globe. 2018 Amadeus was invited to speak at several events around the globe, with special focus on digital-related issues and tourism. 2 Amadeus collaborates with private and trade associations around the globe. Our total expenditure in memberships and consultation under this category is reported in the EU Transparency Register: http://ec.europa.eu/transparencyregister/. 84 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-40 6. Amadeus industry affairs Mapping of Amadeus stakeholders in the private sector and trade industry Travel Travel Institutional technology industry Contribute to social, Industry and Economic growth technological and regulatory development and sustainable business development development of travel through strong institutional relationships ETTSA Airlines Other travel Travel Consumers Corporations Travel Other European Technology and IATA providers agencies EPF GBTA and tourism UNFCCC Travel Services International Air Transport HEDNA ECTAA European Passengers’ Global Business Travel Association associations United Nations Framework Association Hotel Electronic European Travel Association Federation UNWTO Convention on Distribution Agents’ and Tour National Travel Tech Network Operators’ United Nations Climate Change US Travel A4A BEUC business travel World Tourism Airlines For Association Associations Bureau Européen associations Organization Chambers Technology America des Unions de of commerce Association HTNG ASTA Consommateurs ETC ALTA Hospitality American Society European Travel Latin American Technology Next of Travel Agents National Commission and Caribbean Generation consumer WTAAA Air Transport organizations WTTC Association OTA World Travel World Travel and OpenTravel Alliance Agents Associations Tourism Council A4E Alliance ACI Airlines for Europe ICAO Airports Council PATA International International Pacific Asia Travel Civil Aviation Association Organization National travel agency associations GRI 102-12, 102-13 Amadeus Global Report 2018 85 6. Amadeus industry affairs Travel technology associations by proper research. The studies3 conducted on relevant market developments in the airline distribution market are being championing fair competition, neutrality refreshed, reflecting the recent commercial initiatives by large and transparency in the market airlines and their impact, especially on the way consumers compare and buy airline tickets. At industry level, Amadeus is represented indirectly through our Finally, ETTSA, as a signatory to the European Tourism Manifesto, memberships with the European Technology and Travel Services the largest industry coalition supporting the European tourism Association (ETTSA) and the US Travel Technology Association sector, will continue to contribute to any industry and public efforts (Travel Tech). ETTSA and Travel Tech represent the indirect neutral to reinforce the competitiveness of the travel and tourism sector distribution industry on regulatory and industry matters in the EU in Europe, in particular those related to innovation and technology. and the US, respectively. In North America, Travel Tech advocates for public policy that In 2018 ETTSA was particularly active, engaging on key issues promotes fair competition, industry standardization and improved related to aviation and air ticket distribution, such as the regulatory price transparency for consumers. reviews of the Common Rules for the Operation of Air Services (Regulation (EC) No. 1008/2008) and the Code of Conduct for Computerized Reservation Systems (Regulation (EC) No. 80/2009). Working with trade associations During those reviews, ETTSA and its members have maintained a close dialog with the European Commission and the European on common agendas Parliament to ensure that transparency, consumer choice, access to neutral information, non-discrimination and fair competition We build strong relationships with industry trade associations continue to be guaranteed in the revised regulation and potential that represent the interests of our customers and other policy guidelines. These are principles that have duly protected stakeholders in the travel sector. European consumers and fostered competition in the airline distribution marketplace in the past decades. Defending universal and business model– ETTSA has contributed to the debate opened by the European Parliament on the impact of some large airlines’ initiatives in neutral standards at airline associations Europe on consumers and SMEs. In this respect, ETTSA was invited Amadeus is a long-time strategic partner of the International Air to participate in a panel discussion along with other industry Transport Association (IATA), and engages actively with the airline stakeholders on airline distribution channel discrimination, community in the development of industry standards. We share organized by the Transport Committee of the European Parliament advice and knowledge in Amadeus’ areas of expertise in working in July 2018. groups, advisory forums (New Distribution Capacity, Passenger ETTSA also actively engaged other allies representing travel Distribution Management and Transparency in Payments) and agencies, passengers and travel buyers to form a coalition to think tanks (Airline Industry Retailing, One Order, One ID protect neutrality, transparency and fair competition in the airline and Simplify the Business). distribution market, and to highlight that access to neutral and Our active engagement in the development of new industry transparent travel information provided by the Global Distribution standards is needed to ensure that IATA’s standards actually Systems enables comparison and choice for European citizens improve the efficiency of the airline distribution value chain and stimulates competition among airlines based on their merits, resulting in lower ticket prices. ETTSA’s contribution to opening and fostering an active industry dialog with other public and 3 All studies available at: www.ettsa.eu/policy-issues/publications. trade stakeholders will continue to be factual and supported Brunswick Insight (2016). Consumer Views on Booking Airline Tickets. Infrata (2017). Airline Distribution Costs. GRA (2017). Impact of Airline Consolidation on Consumer Choice. 86 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-13 6. Amadeus industry affairs and take into account the needs and requirements of all establishment of a sustainable tourism sector. In order to do so, stakeholders in it. Moreover, Amadeus and other industry we conduct joint research studies and promotion, and we establish stakeholders are concerned about industry standards being open and transparent dialog with other industry parties in working non-discriminatory in nature, developed without favoring groups and advisory forums. any one player in particular and business model–neutral. We also partner directly with travel agency associations at To ensure broad industry engagement, Amadeus is also a both regional and national levels in the rest of the world. These member of the Airline Distribution Stakeholder Forum (ADSF), organizations are important advocates for the travel industry as an open forum comprising trade associations in indirect airline a whole, supporting transparency and neutrality, fair competition distribution, including travel agencies. During 2018 ADSF and and the development of a sustainable travel and tourism sector. the newly formalized and operational Distribution Industry Standards Working Group (DISWG) directly engaged with IATA on developments of the agency accreditation models, Our representation in the travel IATA’s settlement systems and proposed industry standards buyer community on payment, specifically referred to as “NewGen ISS” and “Transparency in Payment.” Amadeus’ and industry stakeholders’ Amadeus is an allied member of the Global Business Travel efforts in this area have resulted in the formalization of IATA’s Association (GBTA) and collaborates closely with GBTA affiliates Distribution Advisory Council (DAC), with independent distribution and other business travel associations in many countries. As their stakeholders now well represented. This forum is especially industry partner, we support their industry events and awarenessnoteworthy in that, after persistent insistence by Amadeus, it raising and training initiatives, and we work together on industry now brings together all airline distribution stakeholders (airlines, issues of common interest. Comprehensive access to neutral, agencies and Global Distribution Systems and other IT providers) transparent and comparable travel content is a key requirement in a formal and IATA-sanctioned group to address strategic for travel sellers and buyers, and both the travel seller and travel issues and overall industry evolution. Continued efforts by ADSF, buyer communities are strong proponents of fair competition and DISWG and the newly formed DAC will demonstrate the benefits consumer choice driven by a neutral and transparent marketplace of broader industry collaboration on standardization processes for travel services. by consolidating the views of the indirect distribution industry’s experts on how standards should be developed for optimal impact and wider adoption in the marketplace. Protecting consumers in the travel industry Amadeus has built an active dialog with consumer and passenger Close collaboration to bring value associations to jointly promote a neutral and transparent to the travel agency community marketplace for travel, so that consumers can compare offers and select among competing providers, thus benefiting from The travel agency community represents a very relevant partner a deregulated marketplace. During 2018 we engaged especially for Amadeus to develop common industry initiatives related to with the European Passengers’ Federation and the national key policy areas. Amadeus works closely with the travel agency consumer representatives, the voices of European consumers on community across the world, represented by the World Travel issues related to the airline distribution marketplace. Amadeus Agents Associations Alliance (WTAAA), of which the European Travel has been asked to share insights about the regulatory framework Agents’ and Tour Operators’ Associations (ECTAA) and the American protecting consumers, how technology facilitates the passenger Society of Travel Agents (ASTA) are the most important members. experience and how neutral and transparent indirect distribution is safeguarding fair competition among airlines and giving As an allied member of ECTAA, we work together in areas of consumers neutral and transparent choice. common interest relating to air travel distribution, strategic guidance on the development of industry standards, and the GRI 102-12, 102-13, 102-42 Amadeus Global Report 2018 87 6. Amadeus industry affairs Public–private sector partnerships Institutional relationships in key markets to transform the industry Amadeus engages with chambers of commerce to contribute to the economic, social and technological development of In the tourism sector, we work closely with the United Nations several markets around the world. This allows us to build strong World Tourism Organization (UNWTO), of which Amadeus is an institutional relationships and strengthen stakeholder networks in affiliate member. During 2018 Amadeus and UNWTO renewed key markets. In addition, chambers of commerce provide valuable our partnership and set a common agenda to promote sustainable information that is essential to understanding the key business development in the sector through joint initiatives: sustainable and regulatory issues in the local market. Amadeus is a current transport and tourism systems; digital transformation of member of the Spanish-Turkish Chamber of Commerce and the industry; poverty reduction and social inclusion through Industry; the Spanish Chamber of Commerce in both South Africa Amadeus employees in o employment in travel and tourism; and climate-neutral tourism and Japan; the EU Chamber of Commerce in China, Taiwan ur Madrid headquarters. growth. Under this collaboration, Amadeus shared our expertise in innovation, start-ups, smart destinations, social issues and South Africa; and the Spanish Business Council in Dubai.4 ▼ and sustainability in dozens of forums with public and private stakeholders in the travel and tourism industry. Amadeus is a full member of the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC) in support of the broader travel and tourism industry, which generates over 10% of global GDP. Specifically, Amadeus has been directly engaged in thought leadership sessions on key concepts such as interoperable and consumer-centric industry standards; open and transparent collaboration frameworks in support of security and travel facilitation; leveraging digital technologies and biometrics; and sustainable growth for our industry. Furthermore, in 2018 Amadeus was again a partner of the WTTC Global Summit, organized in Argentina, and we initiated an even deeper collaboration for the 2019 edition of the event, which will take place in Seville, Spain. As an associate member of the European Travel Commission (ETC), Amadeus supports a broad range of activities related to strengthening the tourism industry in Europe as an engine of economic growth and employment, through multi-stakeholder collaboration, technology to support travel destination development, and joint research on key industry topics. In line with these common objectives, we supported the ETC’s 70th anniversary meeting in 2018 in Belgium, with a presentation on the role of new technologies in destination management. 4 Amadeus’ memberships in interest organizations or trade associations do not constitute support for policy positions or initiatives these may take. 88 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-13 6. Amadeus industry affairs Participation in industry initiatives and events As a trusted adviser willing to share insights and views, Amadeus is invited to participate in many sector initiatives and events across the world. We actively participate where we can make a meaningful contribution to a fact-based dialog and learn from exchanging views on factors affecting travel and tourism. This engagement allows Amadeus to increase its visibility and build new relationships with government and industry representatives globally, while at the same time enhancing Amadeus’ profile as a leading innovative technology partner for the travel and tourism industry. These are some examples of initiatives and events that took place in 2018. Discussing innovation and digitalization in aviation at the European Aviation Summit Under the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, Amadeus was invited to a future-oriented discussion on the best possible development of the Aviation Strategy for Europe. We participated in a roundtable on how innovation and digitalization will transform the aviation market. The 200 participants in the summit included EU Commissioner Violeta Bulc, transport ministers from Austria and other countries, members of the European Parliament, high-level representatives of the Civil Aviation Authority and the European Commission, and leading European stakeholders. Promoting innovation in tourism destination management with UNWTO As a part of our ongoing collaboration with UNWTO to work toward a sustainable tourism industry leveraging innovation, digital capabilities and big data, Amadeus contributed to the second World Conference on Smart Destinations organized by UNWTO, SEGITTUR and the Principality of Asturias in Oviedo in June 2018. We participated in panels about growth, digitalization and sustainability of the industry, contributed to a hackathon on sustainable tourism and produced a study for the Principality of Asturias to help it on its road to enhanced destination management. GRI 102-13 Amadeus Global Report 2018 89 6. Amadeus industry affairs Industry discussion on the opportunities of new technologies growth with a new online platform through which South Africa can develop + in tourism and commercialize an expanded tourism offering, curate and analyze tourism data for valuable insights into the services and business needs of industry Together with our partner Pacific Asia Travel Association, Amadeus participate players, and better service the needs of visitors. With a special emphasis on in the Global Tourism Economy Forum in Macau, China, where leaders the skills that the travel industry requires, and the use of digital and virtual in tourism and related industries gathered to discuss the future, digitalization training facilities, the active involvement of the industry in the Travel and and opportunities in the industry. With other experts from travel companies, Tourism Training Academy will ensure that training leads to employability or UNWTO, academia and governments, we shared our views on the opportunities employment for young South Africans, with a special focus on women. It will arising from applications leveraging artificial intelligence and digital also bring much-needed professional skills and technology solutions to boost technologies in tourism. SMEs in the tourism sector, especially in rural areas. Fostering innovation in cooperation with the French government Industry collaboration to leverage biometrics in travel Amadeus is very proud to collaborate with the French government and other and tourism public stakeholders such as Business France, OUI Innov and La French Tech, as Amadeus has participated in an industry working group on biometric well as other industry partners, academia and public stakeholders, to foster identification in travel and tourism led by WTTC. The new technology offers innovation and internationalization, which are considered paramount in today’s a significant opportunity to improve the traveler experience, maximize the corporate world. An example of this is Amadeus’ support of the candidacy of growth opportunity in travel and tourism and increase security and make Sophia Antipolis to become one of the four Institutes of Artificial Intelligence traveling easier. Through the Seamless Traveller Journey program, WTTC’s promoted by the French government in 2018. goal, in line with existing initiatives in this area, is to encourage the use of In the Middle East, Amadeus joined forces with La French Tech during the biometric technology and digital identity throughout the wider travel and GITEX Technology Week in October 2018 at the Dubai World Trade Centre tourism ecosystem so travelers can enjoy a seamless, secure and efficient to help the travel and tourism industry move into the digital age. During the end-to-end journey. Within the working group, Amadeus highlighted the need conference, visitors could explore how Amadeus is supporting airlines and for industry interoperability, technological independence, a global standards airports, hotels, search engines, travel agencies and tour operators to capture framework and a managed, consumer-centric approach. the value of digital transformation. Recognition for our efforts in fostering start-ups Building a robust and sustainable travel and tourism industry In 2018 Amadeus was delighted to earn recognition from the European in South Africa Commission’s Startup Europe Partnership initiative for our efforts in partnering Amadeus partnered with South Africa’s National Department of Tourism with and nurturing start-ups. For the first time, Amadeus was included in and Department of Industry and Trade to support the growing needs of the the ranking of the 36 companies working collaboratively with start-ups across country’s travel and tourism industry, with a commitment to sustainability Europe, and we received the Open Innovation Innovative Approach Award. In and inclusive growth. The partnership aims to develop several programs, recognition of our various start-up initiatives, Amadeus was nominated by including a National Tourism Visitor Information System and a Travel and European start-ups tasked with identifying players that have gone the extra Tourism Training Academy. The aim is to drive inclusive and transformational mile to establish beneficial partnerships. 90 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Efficiency and environmental benefits of our solutions) 7. Environmental sustainability 7. Environmental The total contribution of travel and tourism to the global GDP is forecast to rise by 3.7% yearly over the next decade. By 2028 travel and tourism is expected to represent 11.5% of the global GDP (10.4% in 2019).1 sustainability This positive economic outlook comes linked to increasing concerns around environmental sustainability. Long-term industry sustainability requires determined and joint industry action on issues like climate change, use of natural resources and comprehensive management of fast-growing tourism destinations. Amadeus responds to this challenge with a holistic approach, conscious that action is required internally, externally and in cooperation with industry peers. Accordingly, Amadeus’ environmental sustainability strategy is based on three pillars: 1. Environmental efficiency of Amadeus operations We measure the environmental impact of our operations, identify areas for improvement, implement solutions and continue to monitor our performance for achieving continuous improvement in environmental efficiency. 2. Development of IT solutions that improve operational and environmental efficiency We help our customers achieve their environmental objectives, delivering IT solutions that improve customers’ operational and environmental efficiency. 3. Participation in and fostering of joint industry environmental initiatives We work in partnership with other industry stakeholders on projects to improve travel industry sustainability. 1 World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC) (2019). Travel and Tourism Economic Amadeus employees collaborating in our sustainability campaign. Impact 2019: World, London, WTTC. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Efficiency and environmental benefits of our solutions), Amadeus Global Report 2018 91 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Internal energy consumption) 7. Environmental sustainability 7.1 Environmental Amadeus’ Environmental Management System efficiency of As a result of the materiality analysis, Amadeus’ Environmental Amadeus operations Management System (EMS) was designed and created as the tool we use to measure, monitor and identify best practices, and to continuously improve the environmental performance of our operations at office buildings and at the Data Center. 1 Measure The first step in addressing environmental sustainability is to understand the environmental impact of our operations and to nurture a company culture that reduces environmental impact as much as possible. 4 Amadeus Environmental 2 Improve Management System Report Amadeus introduced its materiality analysis tool in 2009 to identify and address the major causes of environmental impact in our operations. The materiality analysis is regularly updated with input from internal teams, advice from external consultants and 3 benchmarks from other companies in similar sectors. The analysis Plan is coordinated and led by Amadeus’ Sustainability unit. The materiality analysis identified five material environmental aspects, which are described below in detail. Our use of office buildings across the world as well as the Material aspects of the EMS Amadeus Data Center have been identified in our materiality As indicated above, we have identified five material analysis as the main contributors to the environmental impact environmental aspects: of our operations. __Electricity consumption: The most important component The infrastructure management team at the Data Center works of our energy consumption is electricity. We measure electricity toward the continuous improvement of the energy efficiency consumption at the Data Center and at our office buildings of this critical installation. Our initiatives in this area are based separately. on recommendations from external consultants and on our own __CO2 emissions: We follow the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP)2 experts’ analyses. standards to report CO2 emissions: Elsewhere, the Building & Facilities teams at local level are responsible for the optimization of the use of resources at our 2 The most widely used international accounting tool for government and business office buildings. They are supported in specific cases by technical leaders to understand, quantify and manage greenhouse gas emissions. The GHGP classifies emissions into three scopes. Scope 1: direct greenhouse gas teams that, for example, provide key performance indicators emissions from sources owned by the company; Scope 2: indirect greenhouse gas relating to the use of resources. emissions produced as a consequence of the company’s operations; and Scope 3: other indirect greenhouse gas emissions, such as emissions from travel providers for business travel. 92 Amadeus Global Report 2018 7. Environmental sustainability • In Scope 1 we include emissions from natural gas and diesel. Fossil fuels at Amadeus are used mainly for heating Geographical scope of the EMS purposes and to guarantee an uninterrupted power supply The EMS includes the reporting of the environmental impact of at the Data Center. Amadeus operations. Amadeus has more than 100 offices across • In Scope 2 we include emissions linked to the use the world. Some of these workplaces are small and it becomes of electricity3 at our office buildings worldwide and inefficient to measure and report the impact of all of them in a at the Data Center. direct manner. Therefore, we have adopted a more efficient and • In Scope 3 we include emissions from paper consumption pragmatic approach by which we report direct measurements and from business travel. We gather information about of impacts in 14 of our largest sites (which represent more than business trips from our travel agency provider and we use 70% of total Amadeus workforce worldwide) and then we make the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) carbon an estimation of the remaining sites, based on the average calculator to estimate emissions per passenger. consumption factors of the sites where we measure our impact directly. This new methodology was implemented in 2018 and __Paper consumption: We use paper at our office buildings broadens the scope of our reporting to 100% of our impact. worldwide for internal reports, marketing materials and internal and external documents. We report paper consumption mainly The EMS includes the environmental reporting of some through personal badge-based printing devices. These automated of the largest Amadeus sites by number of employees: systems permit a more precise monitoring and facilitate the identification of areas for improvement. 1_ Nice, France __Water use: The use of water at Amadeus is divided into three categories: 2_ Bengaluru, India • Office buildings (kitchens, toilets, etc.) 3_ Miami, United States • Irrigation, in cases where we have gardens and the means 4_ Erding, Germany of separately measuring irrigation-related consumption 5_ Madrid, Spain (headquarters) • Cooling of IT equipment 6_ London, United Kingdom __Waste generation: We generate waste at our premises from 7_ Bad Homburg, Germany kitchens and from general office use. Waste is difficult to 8_ Bangkok, Thailand measure. The principal sources of information for reporting our waste are the recycling companies used by Amadeus. 9_ Sydney, Australia Waste generated by extraordinary activities, like works done 10_ Paris, France in buildings, is generally measured, but for comparability reasons it is reported separately from regular waste. 11_ Madrid, Spain (Amadeus Commercial Office) 12_ Singapore 13_ Waltham, United States 14_ Manila, Philippines 3 The conversion factors applied, i.e. the amount of CO2 emitted per kWh used, are obtained from the latest updated averages for each country, published by the International Energy Agency in its publication CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion 2018. Paris, IEA Publications, pp. 182–469. Amadeus Global Report 2018 93 7. Environmental sustainability DocuSign + Getting contracts signed on paper is a complex process and a time-consuming The results have been significant, saving substantial amounts of time, task. From the environmental perspective, it also consumes resources, since resources and costs for Amadeus. The financial savings, agility and convenience contracts often span up to 500 pages and multiple physical copies need to be of DocuSign have had a positive impact on our business. signed. In addition, the physical copies need to be couriered (mainly by air) back Thanks to DocuSign, we have saved more than 230,000 pages of paper since and forth between the offices of the different counterparts. Amadeus found its implementation as of December 2018. Overall, DocuSign is saving the a suitable solution to this problem, and since April 2017 we have automated company more than €1 million per year by digitalizing processes. In addition, this management process thanks to the e-signature tool DocuSign. our customers worldwide have saved thousands of sheets of paper with this DocuSign reduces paper consumption and CO2 emissions and makes it possible eco-friendly solution, which, in turn, saves the trees required to make paper. to electronically sign and manage contracts from anywhere in the world. We are using DocuSign for commercial agreements with our airlines and travel agencies, with our suppliers and internally with our employees’ contracts. Environmental savings thanks to DocuSign 2.78 tons of CO2 emissions which is equivalent to driving a car more than 23,000 km pages 28 trees 231,722 94 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Efficiency and environmental benefits of our solutions) 7. Environmental sustainability Environmental performance in one single figure and commitment to continuous improvement 2 Measured performance vs. previous year Data collection and verification 1 Five elements measured Five elements measured: Negative Bad Homburg, Germany performance _Electricity Bangkok, Thailand _CO2 emissions Bengaluru, India Erding, Germany _Paper London, United Kingdom Positive _Water Madrid, Spain (2) performance _Waste Manila, Philippines Miami, US Nice, France Paris, France Singapore Year 1 Year 2 Sydney, Australia Waltham, US Amadeus has developed a tailored methodology to condense EMS. Data is gathered in a homogeneous way across all sites the environmental performance of our operations into one single to facilitate comparison. For each environmental element, we figure that represents our results compared with the previous year. measure total consumption and efficiency ratios: This methodology takes into consideration the elements reported • At the Data Center: efficiency is measured in terms in the EMS, efficiency ratios and company growth – factoring of electricity consumed per transaction processed 4 in number of employees and transactions processed. • At office buildings: efficiency is measured in terms Summarizing environmental performance in one figure facilitates of consumption per employee per year the reporting to and understanding of top management, providing the opportunity to analyze aggregated results at different levels 2_ Measured performance versus previous year. For each factor without losing any visibility of the details of both the individual analyzed in the EMS, we compare results with the previous performance of each geographical site and the environmental year. Performance is calculated as a percentage change over element in question. the previous year, where an increase in consumption The process of summarizing all environmental data collected is considered negative and a reduction positive. in one performance figure – as shown in the diagram above – is outlined below: 1_ Data collection for the 5 environmental elements identified 4 In this context, transactions processed at the Data Center are defined as basic operations linked directly to our business. Transactions include bookings, in the materiality analysis from the 14 sites included in the passengers boarded and e-commerce Passenger Name Records processed. Amadeus Global Report 2018 95 7. Environmental sustainability Weighting of elements 3 (considering total consumption and capacity to manage) 4 Factoring in company growth Target adjustment, assigning more weight to: High Efficiency ratios (consumption per employee and per transaction) Growth in 40% 20% workforce and Medium Equal weight Electricity CO2 emissions transactions Low Total consumption 20% Paper 5 Leveraging components of operations Environmental performance _Data Center: 40% of total impact vs. 10% 10% _Office buildings: 60% of total impact previous year in one single figure Water Waste 3_ Weighting of elements. We allocate specific weightings to each performance at the Data Center and at office buildings element included in the EMS based on total consumption and separately. Based on total resource consumption as well our capacity to manage each element. The weightings assigned as our capacity to influence performance, we allocate 40% are illustrated in the graphic on this page. of the overall environmental impact to the Data Center 4_ Factoring in company growth. Keeping resource consumption and 60% to office buildings. For the Data Center, we evaluate down is easier when company growth is slow, and vice versa. impact or performance based on energy consumption. For the Therefore, the evaluation of environmental performance takes office buildings, we take into consideration the five elements into consideration company growth. When the company mentioned earlier: electricity consumption, CO2 emissions, is growing rapidly, we assign more weight to efficiency ratios paper, water and waste. (resource consumption per employee or per transaction processed), but trends in total consumption of resources are The process explained above is the basis from which we gain always considered, as the minimum weight allocated to the visibility on overall and detailed environmental performance, evolution of total consumption is 25%. On the other hand, and we use it to set objectives and follow up on our performance. in a context of slow growth, we assign more weight to total Our strategy is based on a combination of targets linked to the consumption of resources. performance of the previous year, together with a long-term plan 5_ Leveraging components of operations. Due to the different that guarantees continuous improvement. nature of their activities, we analyze environmental 96 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 305-5, 302-1, 302-3 7. Environmental sustainability 2018 vs. 2009 business growth and environmental performance* Environmental performance of Amadeus operations in 2018 Number of employees 93.8% Business Overall, the main conclusions from the monitoring of the Transactions processed 173.2% environmental performance of Amadeus operations in 2018 are: growth Revenue 110.2% __A moderate increase of energy used, particularly at the Data Center, influenced by increased business growth. __Improved efficiency ratios in terms of resources used per Environmental Total electricity consumption at office buildings 28.5% employee and energy per transaction processed have improved Total electricity consumption at Data Center 84.8% __A stable overall environmental result has remained stable (-0.06%) impact since the increase in overall resources consumption has been -11.7% Total CO2 emissions (Scopes 1+2)** compensated for by the improvement in operational efficiency. Impact per employee -33.7% Electricity per employee Energy consumption increased at the Amadeus Data Center in 2018 by 5.1%. This was mainly due to the increased number of -32.4% Electricity per transaction processed at the Data Center transactions processed (6.35% growth) and to the increasing and transaction -54.4% complexity of each transaction. CO2 emissions per employee (Scopes 1+2)** Environmental performance at office buildings improved by 2.28%. The improvement was driven by better performance in terms * Scope: Total Amadeus sites worldwide estimated from the sites included in the Amadeus Environmental System, except transactions and revenue, which include direct data for the entire company. of energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and water ** Includes carbon offsetting. consumption per employee decreased in virtually all sites, thanks + in part to the use of new and more efficient equipment. Paper consumption and waste generation remained stable. Following Amadeus’ carbon-neutral growth policy, Amadeus offset 16,410 tons of CO2 through the purchase of Certified Emissions Reductions from United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Amadeus Change–accredited projects in India. This carbon offset applies to total Amadeus emissions. The Amadeus office in Argentina formed an interdisciplinary sustainability committee joining the Amadeus' sustainability proposals under the Amadeus Think Green logo and the slogan Environmental performance “We all need to be part of the change.” at office buildings The initiative seeks to create environmental awareness and efficiency among workers by The teams in charge of the Amadeus EMS usually take care not focusing their initial objectives on sustainable waste management. To achieve these goals, only of the environmental impact of our operations but also glass bottles were delivered in order to reduce the use of single-use plastics and to better the comfort of employees. Looking for measures that improve classify garbage, desk wastebaskets were replaced by waste separation bins strategically environmental efficiency, while facilitating optimum workplace distributed in all work areas. conditions, often becomes a challenge. A combination of environmental best practices implementation at company level and the development of pro-environmental behavioral changes is critical to enhancing sustainability performance. GRI 305-5 Amadeus Global Report 2018 97 7. Environmental sustainability Examples of best practices at office buildings Electricity consumption __Raising user awareness of the environmental and economic cost of printing __Replacing incandescent bulbs with LEDs; for example, we have __Using recycled paper estimated a saving of 176,537 kWh for implementing LEDs __Sending used paper for recycling at our premises in Bengaluru (India) __Switches connected to movement-detection control systems A new global printing system with an eco-mode option is being __Thorough planning of areas covered by specific light switches implemented at Amadeus worldwide with a phased approach. __Automatically switching off lights at certain hours The new system permits energy savings of up to 86%, with the corresponding positive effects also in energy costs and CO2 __Switching off PCs after working hours emissions. In addition, we are fostering the use of recycled paper __Maximizing the use of natural light at most of our sites. __Adapting room temperature to the weather __Use of energy-saving stickers Water use A number of initiatives also combine some of the initiatives above. __Using drip irrigation systems and plants with low water For example, at our London site, the LED lighting system regulates consumption the artificial light levels according to the natural light available. __Implementing motion sensor taps in washrooms The lighting system is broken down into controllable zones with __Using water-efficient household appliances in kitchens movement detection sensors so that lights go off if no employee __Implementing leak detection units to reduce water loss is present in the zone. In addition, the introduction of photovoltaic cells on the roof is expected to reduce electricity consumption In Singapore, our office building includes a condenser system by 160,000 kWh. to avoid water waste in the cooling system due to condensation. The building also harvests rainwater from the rooftop for CO2 emissions reduction landscape irrigation. __Adapting room temperature to the weather Waste generation __Promoting the use of carpooling / public transportation __Purchasing carbon-neutral products and services __Implementing a proper infrastructure to promote classification __Electric vehicle charging points of waste __Raising employee awareness to minimize waste __Working with external providers to improve the measurement Paper consumption and management of waste __Implementing badge-based printing systems __Replacing plastic cups with ceramic mugs __Using carbon-neutral paper Some of our sites, like Madrid and London, have made changes __Setting all printer defaults to black-and-white, double-sided printing in vending machines to avoid the use of plastic cups. 98 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Efficiency and operational excellence), 305-5 7. Environmental sustainability CO2 emissions Environmental performance at the t of CO 2 50,000 Amadeus Data Center 48,217 40,000 39,337 The Amadeus Data Center follows a strict energy efficiency 34,171 36,857 40,074 30,000 policy. The measures taken come from a combination of internal 20,000 analysis from our experts and reviews and recommendations from external consultants. In this respect, the Amadeus Data 10,000 8,872 7,944 7,712 9,464 9,468 Center has maintained since 2010 its TÜV SÜD certification 0 as an energy-efficient data center. The latest renewal of this -10,000 -2,364 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018* certification was obtained in December 2018, following a -5,050 -8,267 -20,000 thorough analysis of the Data Center infrastructure, and is valid -16,410 until 2021. We have also extended our Data Center certification Scopes 1 and 2 Carbon offsetting Scope 3 Carbon Neutral Growth commitment: 31,807 t to EN 50600, the new EU standard for data centers that is even broader in scope and more demanding. Electricity Examples of recent measures taken to improve our energy GWh kWh efficiency and reduce CO2 emissions include the implementation 60 3,668 3,440 4,000 of more efficient cooling machines that reduce the energy 3,409 3,274 3,175 55.9 required to cool servers and also optimize the use of water. 3,000 In addition, with the heat produced by this cooling machine 40 37.4 37.5 38.9 and a heat exchanger, we are now able to heat the Systems 36.0 2,000 and Network Control Center. The old electrical heating was 20 dismantled. Moreover, we replaced 42 sensible coolers in the 1,000 Data Center, which led to a power reduction of 50% in that area. In addition, we will replace nine transformers with more efficient 0 0 ones, which should save 55,000 kWh per year. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018* Total electricity consumption Electricity per employee The Data Center’s Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE)5 in 2018 was 1.34. Paper sheets per tons 80 5.06 working day 5 Setting longer-term 3.91 3.88 4.04 4.08 79.0 4 environmental objectives 60 56.7 In addition to the continuous improvement methodology described 52.8 3 40 45.0 47.0 above, Amadeus has established objectives to reduce our 2 greenhouse gas emissions and become a carbon-neutral company. 20 1 We aim to maintain our objective of not increasing net emissions until 2020. In addition, we have signed the United Nations Climate 0 0 Neutral Now Pledge. In line with the objectives of the Paris 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018* Total paper consumption Paper consumption per employee * Scope: for comparability purposes we have included two sets of data for 2018. One including top 13 Amadeus sites by number of 5 Common metric used to measure the energy efficiency of data centers. The closer employees (same scope as of 2017) and the other with the estimated total of Amadeus calculated from the top 14 Amadeus sites. to 1 the PUE, the more efficient the data center is. Amadeus Global Report 2018 99 7. Environmental sustainability Amadeus helps Braathens Regional Airlines introducing the new environmental class of service Travelers booking in the new Braathens environmental class make an economic contribution so that their flight is powered by bio-fuel. This significantly reduces emissions of greenhouse gases, as compared with flights using traditional fuel. + Amadeus developed the technical solutions that permit the inclusion of the bio-fuel option both in the web page of the airline (www.flygbra.se) and in the travel agency channel. We look forward to continuing our work with Braathens to maximize uptake of this initiative. Agreement on climate change, and by signing the pledge, we have from the list of available options and users will be encouraged committed to becoming climate-neutral in the mid and long term. to choose electrical cars through the implementation of a more flexible economic policy that incentivizes also fuel reduction. The Amadeus’ carbon-neutral growth commitment target is to reduce average emissions of the company’s car fleet by at least 20% in the next five years. We need to reduce Amadeus maintains a carbon-neutral growth policy, with 2015 as the baseline year. In case we are not able to reduce emissions to reach our target, we invest in Certified Emissions Reductions (CERs) 7.2 Environmental from Clean Development Mechanism6 projects in India to reach our carbon-neutral growth policy. We have offset an accumulated total benefits of emissions, not travel.” of 32,091 tons of CO2 (16,410 in 2018) with CERs. The number of transactions processed at the Data Center have increased dramatically over recent years, due to the growing Amadeus solutions amount of online devices that can connect and trigger queries Amadeus invests more than €2 million daily in R&D projects.↪ We to our systems. In addition, transactions are becoming more develop technology solutions that help to improve the operational Ulrika Matsgård complex and are carrying an increasing amount of information. efficiency of customers, and this increased operational efficiency At the same time, as a consequence of our growth, the number Commercial Manager, is linked in many cases to improved environmental efficiency. Braathens Regional Airlines of Amadeus employees and offices around the world continues Environmental benefits expand to a wide range of stakeholders to increase. Therefore, it becomes very difficult to reduce overall in the industry, including airlines, airports, travelers and cities. energy consumption and CO2 emissions, which is why the use of CERs becomes important in reaching our objective of carbonWe describe below the environmental benefits of Amadeus neutral growth. solutions in the five stages of the travel cycle. In addition, we encourage CO2 reductions beyond the scope of __Inspiration the EMS. Amadeus headquarters in Madrid, for example, will be Information on estimated CO2 emissions per passenger flight is implementing in 2019 a new company car policy with specific included in some of Amadeus’ distribution platforms. The source environmental targets. Concretely, high-emitting cars, i.e. those of information for the estimations of emissions is the ICAO7 that emit more than 155 gr of CO2 per km. will be removed 6 The Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) is one of the “market-based ↪ See “Technology and innovation”, p. 52. mechanisms” defined in the Kyoto Protocol, which provides for emissions7 The United Nations agency in charge of civil aviation. Amadeus has an agreement reduction projects. These generate Certified Emission Reduction units that can be in place with ICAO to use its carbon calculator on Amadeus platforms for the traded in emissions trading schemes. purpose of providing emissions estimations to travelers and corporations. 100 Amadeus Global Report 2018 7. Environmental sustainability Environmental benefits of Amadeus solutions at the five stages of the European Civil Aviation Conference, the European Union estimates savings of over €120 million in fuel costs and of the travel cycle a reduction of more than 250,000 tons of CO2 emissions. 8 Inspiration Amadeus Airport Common Use Service helps to reduce energy Distribution platforms consumption at airport buildings by reducing the amount CO2 display of IT infrastructure required at airports. Booking Using advanced algorithms that estimate demand and analyze Distribution platforms CO2 benchmark risks, Amadeus Sky Suite by Optym helps airlines to make fundamental decisions related to airline networks, flight Post-trip frequencies and equipment, reducing the use of resources Corporate booking tools (fuel, aircraft, airport infrastructure, etc.) per passenger flown. CO2 post-trip reporting __On-trip Pre-trip Amadeus Altéa Departure Control-Flight Management helps Amadeus Airport Sequence Manager airlines accurately estimate the fuel needed for a specific flight, using sophisticated algorithms and historic data. The accurate On-trip Helps to decrease the amount of time aircra spend estimation of the weight of the aircraft before the fuel is loaded Amadeus Schedule Recovery on the runway, reducing fuel, emissions, noise (zero-fuel weight) permits significant savings in fuel burn, Helps airlines to make efficient decisions in times and local pollution emissions and economic costs. In this respect, a study carried out of disruption by Amadeus in conjunction with its customer Finnair analyzed Amadeus Airport Common more than 40,000 flights and concluded that a mid-sized carrier Amadeus Altéa Departure Use Service Control-Flight Management Helps to reduce the need can save a minimum of 100 tons of fuel and more than 315 Accurate estimations for local IT equipment and tons of CO2 emissions per year. Assuming that a similar level of of aircra weight permit fuel energy costs by leveraging savings is achieved by all our customers using the same flight and emissions reductions cloud technology management solution, the amount of CO2 emissions thus reduced would exceed the total emissions associated with Amadeus’ carbon calculator. Customers also have the ability to compare operations (Scopes 1 and 2). the environmental effects of different itineraries. Amadeus Schedule Recovery helps airlines make rapid decisions __Booking in moments of operational disruption. It enables them to improve During the booking phase, some of Amadeus’ solutions offer the operational efficiency and customer service while minimizing possibility of obtaining CO2 emissions estimations for different negative environmental impact by finding optimum solutions itineraries. Travelers can then incorporate CO2 emissions as an for each disruption. additional element into their booking decision-making process, together with traditional parameters like schedules, availability __Post-trip Through our presence around the world, we have observed a and fares. general trend of increased demand from corporations for solutions __Pre-trip that help measure travel-related emissions. Some of Amadeus’ Amadeus Airport Sequence Manager permits improved planning solutions offer the possibility of obtaining post-trip CO2 emissions of aircraft movements at airports’ runways and a sophisticated reports aggregated at different levels and times. We are working aircraft slot assignment, helping airports and airlines to reduce on the expansion in scope and features of such solutions. their operational environmental impact by minimizing the amount of time that aircraft spend taxiing on the runway. If such solutions were to be implemented at the major airports 8 Eurocontrol (European Organization for the Safety of Air Navigation) (2008). Airport CDM Cost Benefit Analysis. GRI 102-12, 102-15, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Sustainable profitable growth), 201-2 Amadeus Global Report 2018 101 7. Environmental sustainability 7.3 Participation ICAO and Amadeus partnership Carbon calculator in industry _Legitimacy _Neutrality environmental initiatives _Global reach Long-term industry sustainability can be more easily achieved if all industry stakeholders work together toward this common objective. For this reason, the third pillar of our environmental sustainability strategy is to identify and engage in collaborative environmental sustainability projects. In order to raise awareness of aviation carbon emissions, and to support the use of a common methodology to estimate carbon emissions per passenger and encourage mitigation actions, Improved industry environmental Amadeus and ICAO have a long-term agreement in place whereby Amadeus uses ICAO’s carbon calculator on our distribution platforms, providing travelers with information about greenhouse gas emissions released during their trips. ICAO’s carbon calculator awareness brings the benefits of commercial neutrality and legitimacy to represent the aviation industry and of global reach. Our agreement with ICAO has also encouraged the development of local initiatives to support the use of ICAO’s carbon calculator Travel industry reach and the offsetting of travel-related emissions. This includes _Contact with 2+ million the development of midand back-office solutions that include travelers per day post-trip carbon reporting, as well as facilitating access to carbon _Operating in 190+ countries offsetting schemes. During 2018 we continued our cooperation with institutions like the World Travel and Tourism Council and academic institutions 7.4 Climate like Griffith University (Australia). In this respect, Amadeus was involved in the production of the Global Sustainable Tourism change–related risks and opportunities Dashboard, developed in cooperation with the University of Surrey (United Kingdom) and the Griffith Institute for Tourism, to which Amadeus contributed by sharing aggregated travel data. The Global Sustainable Tourism Dashboard provides a broad insight into how The travel and tourism industry needs to make its contribution the travel sector is contributing to key sustainability goals. to achieving the overall targets set by the Paris Agreement to keep global temperature increase well below 2 degrees Celsius. Additionally, Amadeus joined the United Nations Climate Neutral The actions required for the achievement of the climate change Now Pledge, committing to becoming carbon-neutral and to targets mean that fundamental structures in the travel industry making our contribution toward reaching the targets set by the will need to change. Amadeus believes that all stakeholders Paris Agreement. in the industry need to contribute to the overall objective. 102 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 201-2 7. Environmental sustainability Amadeus is involved in the travel experience of more than 2 million passengers daily. We are an important player in the travel Regulatory risks and tourism industry and we acknowledge our responsibility Climate-related discussions and initiatives at local, national and to contribute to the fight against climate change. international level continue to increase, and we expect they will The climate change–related risks faced by Amadeus can be continue to gain momentum over the mid-term. Accordingly, many classified into the following categories. countries have introduced climate change–related regulations. A principal focus of these regulations is the reporting and reduction Physical risks of greenhouse gas emissions, particularly of CO2, as well as the promotion of renewable sources of energy. We have identified two kinds of environmental regulations that may present Physical risks affecting the communities an opportunity and a risk to Amadeus. in which we operate Amadeus operates in over 190 countries. The risk of climate Carbon-reporting regulations change impact and/or extreme weather events affecting any of Some countries like France have already passed legislation these communities is therefore very high. As part of our social mandating that corporations should build and report carbon responsibility efforts, we have built a global team of more than footprint inventories. In the specific sector of transport,9 travel 80 social responsibility representatives who, among other things, providers are required to inform travelers about emissions coordinate emergency responses in the event of natural calamities released as a consequence of their trips. Amadeus can help occurring in the markets we serve. corporations gather the data required for this reporting. However, there is also the risk that these regulations will become Physical risks affecting our travel too complex or heterogeneous, making it costly for Amadeus to providers and/or customers help corporations report emissions. The Amadeus Industry Affairs team is working with several stakeholders, including the European Risk of exposure to physical risks like extreme weather events is Union and ICAO, to promote an industry standard methodology limited, and the impacts tend to be local. As a mitigation measure, to estimate emissions related to travel. our 24-hour follow-the-sun customer service network is set up to provide extra support in case of need. Regulations that impose charges Physical risks affecting on emissions and/or impose Amadeus’ operations emissions reductions Amadeus’ operations rely on two basic kinds of infrastructure: An example of such a regulation is the European Union’s (1) commercial and support organizations, with offices across all Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS). The ETS was first implemented continents; and (2) the Amadeus Data Center. The probability in 2005, and extended to the aviation sector in 2012. of a severe weather event affecting any of our numerous offices At the moment, we do not expect these regulations to have a worldwide is relatively high, but fortunately the adverse impact significant impact on Amadeus given the relatively low cost of of such events is mitigated by communications technology that compliance with the ETS scheme (which is unlikely to reduce travel allows for uninterrupted customer service in most cases. Moreover, demand) and the geographical spread of Amadeus’ operations. our Risk & Compliance Office directly manages all infrastructurerelated risks for the Data Center, where strict prevention and mitigation measures are implemented. 9 Decree No. 2011–1336 (France), October 24, 2011. Amadeus Global Report 2018 103 7. Environmental sustainability In addition, Amadeus’ IT solutions that help airlines to reduce fuel consumption and emissions will improve our value proposition. Opportunities for enhanced value proposition Reputational risks Amadeus designs IT solutions to improve operational efficiencies for our customers. These operational efficiencies are linked in Travelers and the general public are increasingly aware of climate many cases to better environmental performance, particularly change risks and expect environmentally responsible operations in relation to reduced fuel consumption and emissions for travel from companies. Even though Amadeus’ exposure to the general provider customers. + public is limited, we need to prioritize compliance with industry environmental standards, making sure our performance in this field excels. The Amadeus EMS provides a solid record of our performance evolution and permits the easy identification of areas for improvement. Additionally, Amadeus has been included in external sustainability indices like the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Amadeus in sustainability indices (DJSI)10 and the CDP,11 which provide recognition of commitment to sustainability. The opportunities for Amadeus relating to Sustainability indices provide a valuable benchmark to assess how Amadeus compares climate change are divided into the following two categories. to other companies and industries on sustainability performance.↪ Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). For the seventh consecutive year, Amadeus has Opportunities for new products been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) in both the World and Europe and services categories. Importantly, the DJSI evaluate sustainability performance very comprehensively, including economic, environmental and social dimensions. Amadeus also participated in CDP As mentioned above, corporations are becoming increasingly in 2018 with a climate score of B. involved in the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions associated with their operations, including emissions linked to the business travel of employees. Taking advantage of the data and information processed by Amadeus, we can offer solutions that: __Display emissions during the booking process, comparing emissions released on different alternative itineraries. __Provide post-trip reports to corporations so they can measure, report and follow up on their environmental impact relating to business travel. FTSE4Good. Amadeus has also been included for the fifth consecutive year in the FTSE4Good Sustainability Index. The FTSE4Good Index Series includes companies that __Facilitate mitigation measures, such as carbon offsetting programs. reflect strong Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) risk management practices. Corporate Knights’ Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World. Amadeus ranked 10 The Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI), launched in 1999, are a family of as the 16th most sustainable corporation in the world in 2018. indices evaluating the sustainability performance of the largest 2,500 companies listed on the Dow Jones Global Total Stock Market Index. 11 Formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project – an international, not-for-profit organization providing the only global system for companies and cities to ↪ See “Amadeus profile,” p. 13. measure, disclose, manage and share environmental information. CDP is recognized as the main international standard for climate change reporting and management for corporations. 104 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-16, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Social Responsibility) 8. Social Responsibility 8. Social Responsibility 8.1 Building a better future Our strategy in social responsibility is to use our core strengths – our people, technology and global travel expertise – in programs and partnerships that can make a real difference. Our objective is to contribute to the inclusive development of communities in the countries where we operate, improving how travel and tourism can make a positive impact. Amadeus Social Responsibility is the global program through which we deliver this positive change, supporting economic development, education, entrepreneurship and employment in communities in 47 countries. We develop a wide array of projects designed to respond to local communities’ needs. In 2018, Social Responsibility activities were rolled out in locations where an estimated 70% of staff is based. At Amadeus, we continuously evolve our practice to incorporate detailed indicators, and we have taken significant steps in the right direction this year. In 2018 we joined the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, to strengthen our commitment to sustainability and the 10 universal principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anticorruption. We have also continued detailed consultations and run programs together with our key social stakeholders such as UNICEF and the Global Travel and Tourism Partnership (GTTP). We also made good progress in the three strategic pillars of our global Social Responsibility program: __Technology for Good In partnership with our customers and global NGOs, we provide technology and data solutions that respond effectively to their commitments toward inclusive social development. We developed the Amadeus Donation Engine to enable travelers to make a donation when they buy travel online and to meet the need for a simple and effective method of gathering funds to help local communities around the world. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Social Responsibility) Amadeus Global Report 2018 105 8. Social Responsibility Commitment to society By connecting players, Amadeus occupies a unique position in the travel industry __Knowledge & Skills Transfer In collaboration with local governments, our customers and development organizations, we equip young people with skills that the digitalized travel and tourism industry requires. Our Customers Training for Employment pilot in Egypt addresses the gap between formal education and the practical knowledge that Travel is required to work in the industry. sellers Our strengths __Community Support Expertise in the global travel industry Amadeus engages in a wide array of community support Technical capabilities programs around the world, supporting projects to reduce People and talent poverty and inequality. In 2018 we fostered 161 partnerships with intergovernmental and non-profit organizations, educational institutions and public and private sector leaders in the travel industry. Travel providers Leveraging our strengths, we forge meaningful ... partnerships ... that drive social development Technology for Good Knowledge & Skills Transfer Community Support 106 Amadeus Global Report 2018 8. Social Responsibility 8.2 Our achievements Compact, the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative. In parallel, we further aligned our programs and activities with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),↪ achieving in 2018 very positive outcomes in all these cases. We joined Fundación SERES, a Spanish non-profit organization Our ambition for 2018 was to bolster our social responsibility that helps companies strengthen their role as a key agent engagement, by increasing the impact and reach of our strategic of social change. projects and leveraging our core strengths more systematically. In addition, we continued to see encouraging results in employee We continued to focus on our commitment to key global engagement, and the number of Amadeus employees dedicating sustainability networks, such as the United Nations Global their time, talents and enthusiasm rose to 3,412. Examples of social KPIs achieved in 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total value of community investment €2.64m €3.09m €4.04m €6.09m Staff involved in projects 1,922 2,909 3,188 3,412 Computers donated 262 520 518 866 Grow strategic impact Global advocacy for travel and tourism Social responsibility projects _Inclusive development in emerging _Expertise and business resources and younger economies _Amadeus people Private and public sector partnership Amadeus technology solutions _Upskilling young people _Driving social inclusion and development _Economic inclusion through travel and tourism _Customers and non-profit partners ↪ See “Amadeus’ contribution to Sustainable Development Goals,” p. 144. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Indirect economic impacts), 103-1, 103-2, Amadeus Global Report 2018 107 103-3 (Social Responsibility), 203-2, 413-1 8. Social Responsibility Amadeus’ social commitment in 2018: contributing to local development through technology, people and global travel Technology for Good Knowledge & Skills Transfer Community Support 4 projects 45 projects 125 projects North America Western Europe Asia-Pacific 15 53 Rest of Europe 38 projects 15 Latin America projects 6 21 projects 3 25 43 projects 35 projects 4 14 7 7 18 Africa Middle East 9 13 projects projects 3 12 6 1 €6.09m 3,412 161 823 866 €410k Total value of Staff involved Partnerships with 107 Young people trained Computers donated €410k raised through Click for Change community in projects non-profits, 44 education and mentored in travel to support digital Funds dedicated to UNICEF’s immunization and investment institutions and 10 industry reservation skills literacy in 16 countries education programs in Latin America, Schools stakeholders in 47 countries and basic IT use for Asia program and regular resources 108 Amadeus Global Report 2018 8. Social Responsibility 8.3 Technology for Good Sample of a risk map developed to predict the spread of Zika Predictions Actual cases Six months earlier UNICEF Data Science Prediction. August 2016. From: DirectRelief. Source: CDC. As of February 2017. For us the Magic Box is a way to bring Real-time predictive together partners like Amadeus and others analytics to improve response who want to use their data as a global public to global emergencies good and to collaborate with them to build In collaboration with Amadeus, UNICEF’s innovation team has developed a prototype for real-time predictive analytics a product that allows us to have real-time to improve responses in humanitarian crises. This pioneering initiative, called “Magic Box,” aims to better understand the impact insights and use that information for action.” of serious emergencies at the time they happen. It provides a technology platform that can rapidly analyze many complex data sources to predict, for example, the spread of epidemics. Over the past two years, UNICEF has used Magic Box for Ebola Chris Fabian response in Sierra Leone and the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ventures Lead Office of Innovation, UNICEF and for Zika, Chikungunya and Dengue in Latin America. Amadeus Global Report 2018 109 8. Social Responsibility ◀ Amadeus and UNICEF stakeholders during the annual partnership meeting in Madrid. Tapping into the global travel The Click for Change funding improves UNICEF’s ability to deliver results for every child, especially those at greatest risk and in market for sustained funding greatest need. for projects to empower Increasing the reach young people of humanitarian campaigns In 2018 Click for Change, the global online donations campaign through global travel led by Amadeus and UNICEF, was launched on the websites of Almundo, an omni-channel travel agency in Latin America, and communication channels Avianca, a leading group of airlines in Latin America. Travelers making bookings on almundo.com have the option to donate to Using Amadeus’ corporate and customer communication the general budget of UNICEF Argentina programs, and travelers platforms, we launched four UNICEF global campaigns: booking through avianca.com are able to contribute to the UNICEF 1_ #GoBlue for every child, in support of children’s rights on World Regional Education program for Latin America and the Caribbean. Children’s Day. Click for Change is powered by the Amadeus Donation Engine, 2_ UNICEF’s humanitarian response in Indonesia, to help children which gathers micro-donations from people buying travel online. and families affected by the earthquake and tsunami. Since 2013 more than USD 3.3 million has been donated by 3_ UNICEF’s World Tourism campaign, with the aim of raising travelers purchasing travel products and services on our partners’ awareness of the possible harm of volunteer tourism in websites including Iberia, Finnair, Almundo and Avianca. UNICEF countries like Nepal, where children are separated from channels these funds into multi-country programs that give families to populate orphanages for financial gain. thousands of children a fair start in life through education, health care and emergency response programs. Through our donation 4_ Children Uprooted, to raise awareness and funds for millions of engine facilitated by our partners’ websites, in 2018 Amadeus’ children on the move displaced by conflict, poverty or disaster. contribution to UNICEF helped protect 125,000 pregnant women with iron and folic acid and also helped educate 200,000 children. Travelers responded positively to all campaigns, driving significant traffic to the UNICEF campaign pages. 110 Amadeus Global Report 2018 8. Social Responsibility #GoBlue: campaign for children’s + 8.4 Knowledge & Skills Transfer rights on World Children’s Day Building on last year’s successful campaign, Amadeus collaborated once again with UNICEF for World Children’s Day in 2018. The theme this year was #GoBlue, and Amadeus went blue in various ways to raise awareness for the rights of every child. Amadeus employees were Shaping the future of talent to encouraged to wear blue to work on November 20 to raise awareness for the cause. meet job market requirements On our corporate social media channels, images and videos of children of Amadeus Amadeus’ Knowledge & Skills Transfer program brings skillemployees were in focus throughout the day. building to young people in our local communities. We do this by providing industry-relevant training, and by facilitating access to Amadeus employees in Taiwan affordable computer technology. We also engage with our industry showing support for World partners and customers to identify skill and resource gaps, and Children’s Day by wearing to get their commitment to providing employment or on-the-job blue to work. training opportunities to qualified candidates. ▼ In 2018, 823 young people benefited from our long-standing education-related projects in 9 countries. They received training and mentoring in travel reservation, tourism and business skills. Overall, Amadeus offices have ongoing partnerships with 44 education organizations – universities, vocational training centers, schools and educational non-profit organizations – in 17 countries. GRI 102-13 Amadeus Global Report 2018 111 8. Social Responsibility Public–private partnerships to ensure that training improves employability At Education For Employment, we In 2018 we completed the Training for Employment project in Egypt. The project piloted a multi-stakeholder approach to ensure believe that when youth have the right that the training offered actually provides the skills required by the travel industry, and to improve the employability of the skills and opportunities, they thrive in students. In that way, the local community is positively impacted by the educational and socio-economic growth of candidates life and transform their communities. In Amadeus, we found a partner that participating in the program. For this particular initiative, Amadeus collaborated with Education For Employment (EFE), a highly recognized NGO, and Flyin.com, an online travel agency in the Middle East, to provide 16 young women and men training and work experience. The shares our conviction in the positive goal of this type of program is to qualify young people from underserved communities to work in travel and tourism and to potential of youth and enables us to motivate them to continue with further education in the sector. With the commitment of local industry players, training can make a lasting impact. Together, we help overcome the existing skill gaps and resource needs of the global travel industry. equipped unemployed young women Amadeus believes that new and innovative models for public– private collaboration are needed to address the challenges and men with the skills to succeed in work and life. We are proud to work of the future. with Amadeus in Egypt to enable youth to soar.” Andrew Baird President and CEO, Education For Employment 112 Amadeus Global Report 2018 8. Social Responsibility Growing our commitment + Recycling used PCs to support digital inclusion Used PCs and other computer equipment that are replaced in to the Global Travel and the Amadeus organization are put to good use around the world to help schools and training programs. Every year, hundreds of Amadeus PCs are refurbished and shipped to charitable causes, Tourism Partnership (GTTP) helping to improve digital inclusion. In 2018 Amadeus signed an agreement with Close the Gap, an international non-profit education program organization with the aim of closing the digital divide through connecting corporations and organizations with charitable projects in emerging countries. In 2018 more than 700,000 students from 13 countries1 participated in the GTTP curriculum. This unique education program introduces secondary school students to the travel and tourism industry and the career possibilities in it. Since its launch in 1996, close to 3 million students have participated in the GTTP program. The GTTP annual students and teachers conference was held at the Amadeus Executive Briefing Center in Sophia Antipolis in France. This year’s theme was “Innovation in Tourism.” Amadeus has a long-standing partnership with GTTP and is a founding Board member of the organization. ◀ The annual GTTP students and teachers conference at the Amadeus Executive Briefing Center in Sophia Antipolis, France. 1 Brazil, Canada, China, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Ireland, Jamaica, Kenya, the Philippines, Russia, South Africa and Tanzania. Amadeus Global Report 2018 113 8. Social Responsibility 8.5 Community Support Collaborating in our local communities to reduce poverty and inequality Through Amadeus’ Community Support program, we support people in need in our local communities with a particular focus on children, youth and women. In 2018 we collaborated on 125 projects with 107 non-profit organizations and local authorities in 30 countries. Sports for charity, food and clothes collection, and local fundraising and cash donations are some of the creative ways our people find to help in their local communities. Amadeus staff also dedicated 16,738 volunteer hours. In addition, Amadeus business teams found ways to include a responsible component in their activities: volunteering in the local community as part of leadership-development and team-building activities; using donations to incentivize survey and campaign responses; and leading social responsibility projects of their own. ◀ Amadeus employees helping with the makeover of the Little Angels ward at the Rahima Moosa Mother and Child Hospital in Johannesburg, South Africa. ◀ Amadeus employees in Madrid before a charity run in support of Action Against Hunger. 114 Amadeus Global Report 2018 8. Social Responsibility Amadeus’ community support highlights World Cleanup Day Amadeus’ offices in Asia participated in World Cleanup Day, the biggest civic movement to rid our planet of trash. In collaboration with our partner, Let’s Do It! World, more than 100 Amadeus employees and families collected 300 kilograms of trash in just 1 day. Social Responsibility program in the Bangkok office The program supports educational inclusion among marginalized children and youth, from early childhood education to university level. Four initiatives encompass this: (1) childcare for underserved families with Baan Dek; (2) getting street children back to school with Friends International; (3) helping displaced youth reenter education by obtaining high school equivalency certificates with Colabora Birmania; and (4) university scholarships with the non-profit charity International Support Group Foundation (ISGF). Amadeus Global Report 2018 115 8. Social Responsibility “The journey of your life” In collaboration with local NGOs, employees from Amadeus’ offices in Spain, Portugal and the Amadeus company Travel IMS shared a virtual journey with children who are undergoing long-term hospitalization due to life-threatening illnesses. During a three-hour journey, employees dressed in cabin crew uniforms took the children on a virtual trip around various countries and held games to teach them about the cultures and traditions of the countries included in their journey. ◀ Employees from the Amadeus offices in Spain dressed up as cabin crew to take hospitalized LATAM Volunteer Day children on a virtual journey. During the 8th edition of our LATAM Volunteer Day, over 300 employees from 12 Amadeus offices in the region, together with customers, supported their local communities. IT support, general maintenance and materials were provided to shelters and support organizations for children, the elderly, vulnerable individuals and vulnerable animals. Better Days campaign Our Digital & Transformation Services unit kicked off a series of social responsibility activities by collecting presents to fill gift boxes for underprivileged children ◀ and by raising funds for Soles4Souls, a non-profit that Employees in Argentina painting provides relief to those in need through the distribution the walls of a local NGO supporting children and teenagers of shoes around the world. in vulnerable social situations. 116 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-15, 102-16, 102-17, 102-30, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Anti-corruption), 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Risk management), 103-1, 103-2 9. Corporate risk management 9. Corporate In 2015, with the endorsement of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee, Amadeus formally adopted the Three Lines of Defense Model – a model for integrating, coordinating and aligning all support and assurance functions within the entity, risk management ensuring the effective management of risks across the company. Since its adoption, the Three Lines of Defense Model has fostered effective risk management across Amadeus. In 2016 we refined the Three Lines of Defense Model through the adoption of a Combined Assurance concept. Through this Combined Assurance program, we have expanded the coordinated management of oversight control activities and the sharing of results. First Line of Defense: executive management, management and staff Amadeus’ commitment to integrity and transparency begins with its own staff. Amadeus employees adhere to the ethical standards set forth in the Amadeus Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and related policies. We do not see this code and our core policies purely as a “rule book,” but as a mutual agreement across the company to promote positive behaviors that will add value to our business and ensure the highest standards of integrity at all times. The areas covered in the code are as follows: __Commitment to the environment __Avoiding conflicts of interest __Protecting personal data and confidentiality __Handling relations with third parties and the media in a sensitive manner __Handling company property, equipment and installations with care In 2017 we adopted a human rights policy affirming our respect and promotion of international human rights. We expect all our suppliers and business partners to uphold internationally recognized standards regarding working conditions and the dignified treatment of employees. GRI 102-16, 102-17, 102-30, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Anti-corruption), 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Transparency and integrity), Amadeus Global Report 2018 117 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Risk management), 415-1, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Environmental and social compliance) 9. Corporate risk management Three Lines of Defense and Combined Assurance Governing body / Board / Audit Committee Senior management 1st 2nd 3rd Line of Line of Line of Regulators Defense Defense Defense External audit _Line and support management _Human resources _Legal _Risk management _Internal audit _Financial control _Security _Data privacy _Compliance Has ownership, responsibility Provides assurance to the Group’s governing body and accountability for assessing, Monitors and facilitates the implementation of effective risk and senior management on the organization’s controlling and mitigating risks management practices by the 1st line and assists risk owners in effectiveness in assessing and managing risks reporting risk-related information throughout the organization and related internal control systems, including the manner in which the 1st and 2nd lines operate Human rights form part of Amadeus’ risk analysis. We evaluate Amadeus policies the risks of infringing on the following rights: non-discrimination, collective bargaining, freedom of association, fair wages, no child Information labor or forced labor, and adequately healthy and safe working conditions. Although such risks fall very low on our risk map, we security policies have a series of mitigating and monitoring actions to manage Compliance policies _Acceptable Use Policies Legal policies them, both internally and with our suppliers and business partners. _Amadeus Code of Ethics _Corporate Privacy Policy and Business Conduct _ACO Privacy Manual Our mergers and acquisitions procedures also include due diligence _Anti-Bribery Policy _Antitrust and Competition Law – on human rights–related risks. Our integration team ensures _Anti-Fraud Policy Compliance Manual that Amadeus’ policies are effectively implemented into newly _Business Continuity Policy _Internal Rules of Conduct _Entertainment/Gi Policy to the Securities Market integrated companies. Furthermore, our Speak Up Policy encourages _Information Classification Policy _Security and Privacy Handbook employees to report any breach of the Code of Ethics and Business _Speak Up Policy Conduct, including possible resulting human rights violations. During 2018 no significant breaches to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct were reported. Industry affairs policies Human resources policies The Amadeus core policies listed on this page are supported by _Amadeus Environmental Policy _Amadeus Human Rights Policy processes that, as with any other processes at Amadeus, undergo _Charitable Contributions Policy _Health and Safety regular internal and external quality reviews to ensure regulatory _Political Contributions compliance and application of best practice. We have mechanisms and Lobbying Policy in place to allow the organization to seek advice on whether _Social Responsibility Policy certain activities are considered ethical or lawful in accordance and Practice with our corporate policies. For example, the Ethics Committee acts as a vehicle to respond and give such advice as well Finance policies as to report any unethical or unlawful behavior by any person. _Corporate Purchasing Policy 118 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-11, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Anti-corruption), 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Risk management) 9. Corporate risk management Second Line of Defense: Amadeus’ general policy regarding risk management and monitoring focuses on: internal governance functions __Achieving the company's long-term objectives in line with its established strategic plan Control activities are embedded in all areas of the company. __Contributing the maximum level of guarantees to shareholders Major control activities are carried out from departments and defending their interests such as Risk & Compliance, Security, Privacy, Legal, Finance, __Protecting the company’s earnings People & Culture and others. __Protecting the company’s image and reputation __Providing the maximum level of guarantees to customers Risk management and controls and defending their interests __Guaranteeing corporate stability and financial strength over time Risk & Compliance is responsible for centralizing the continuous monitoring of major risk and compliance issues within Amadeus, The ultimate aim of the Corporate Risk Map is to provide visibility and also leads a transversal Combined Assurance program on significant risks and facilitate effective risk management. Risk involving Risk & Compliance, the Group Privacy Unit and the analysis is a fundamental element of the company’s decisionCorporate Information Security Office. The Combined Assurance making processes, both within the governing bodies and in the program also coordinates its activities with other functions management of the business as a whole. focused on business control, including our Regional Business The Corporate Risk Map also takes into account the global Oversight commissions (which are made up of senior personnel risks identified each year by the World Economic Forum,1 from Legal, HR, Finance and our business units) and our Internal such as economic, environmental, geopolitical, societal and Financial Controls unit (which oversees compliance with the technological risks. Internal Control over Financial Reporting (ICFR) standard). Amadeus is concerned about near-term risks. A new edition of Risk & Compliance develops Amadeus’ Corporate Risk Map and the Corporate Risk Map including these immediate or existing establishes control and monitoring procedures for each of the top risks was issued in 2018. But we are also focused on those identified risks, in conjunction with the owner responsible for each other issues that have not manifested sufficiently to be managed, risk. The risks ascertained from this analysis, as well as monitoring what is commonly known as the “known unknowns” or emerging measures, are reported on a regular basis to the Risk Steering risks. These are to us newly developing or changing risks that are Committee and the Audit Committee, as well as the Executive difficult to identify and quantify and could have a major impact Committee and the Board of Directors. on society and the industry. The Corporate Risk Map also deals with this type of risk, examples of which are the effect of an We continually monitor the most significant risks that could affect increasingly aging population over the years on the travel sector, Amadeus and the companies that make up Amadeus Group, or the threats to our business model, especially in the context as well as Amadeus’ own activities and objectives. of today’s fast digital development. The latest version of the Corporate Risk Map defines the most critical risks relating to Amadeus’ operations and objectives, among which the following are highlighted: technological risks; operational risks that could affect the efficiency of business processes and services; commercial risks that could affect 1 World Economic Forum (2018). Global Risks Report 2018, 13th Edition. GRI 102-11, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Anti-corruption) Amadeus Global Report 2018 119 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Risk management) 9. Corporate risk management customer satisfaction; reputational risks; security and compliance Moreover, Amadeus, like any other organization, is exposed to risks; the macro-economic and geopolitical environment; and potential risks that could provoke significant disruption over key trends in the travel and tourism industry. Some of these risks have internal and external IT services that we provide to customers. evolved from the previous Corporate Risk Map, while others have To ensure minimal disruption in such catastrophic events, been newly identified. Amadeus is implementing a Business Resilience Program (led by Risk & Compliance), designed to protect our people, assets These highlighted risks are assigned to risk owners at the highest and infrastructure, and manage any disruption to minimize level of the company, who are given the duty of proposing the the potential impact to acceptable limits. risk response. Progress with mitigation and evolution of key risks is submitted to the Risk Steering Committee for review and Finally, through the training and awareness plan under consideration, together with proposed action plans, when required, coordination of the Risk & Compliance unit, we try to ensure that to take any necessary measures or further actions. all employees understand and apply best practices on ethical behavior as well as security and privacy. Due to its transversal and dynamic character, the process described above identifies new risks that affect Amadeus arising The Risk & Compliance Office oversees the following committees: from changes in the environment or the revision of objectives and strategies. __The Ethics Committee, which provides guidance on ethical behavior and compliance issues. This committee also addresses In the current business environment, which is characterized by any concerns that employees may have and simultaneously increasing stakeholder demand for transparency, ethics and assists in the implementation of the Code of Ethics and Business social responsibility, reputational risk management is becoming Conduct throughout Amadeus. We attach great importance to increasingly relevant. The Amadeus Reputational Risk Map is fully promoting integrity, transparency and ethical conduct in all our integrated into the overall Corporate Risk Map of the company. operations, and we are committed to applying a zero-tolerance approach regarding prohibited practices, both in our internal Therefore, assessing the reputational impact of a particular risk affairs and external operations. is embedded into our methodology. In a similar vein, cybersecurity risks are managed through a security risk framework driven __The Risk Steering Committee, which is a decision-making body empowered by the Executive Committee to provide oversight by our Corporate Information Security Office, which is also and guidance on risk management activities and issues across integrated into the Corporate Risk Map. Amadeus, including risk assessment and prioritization, risk In addition to managing risks, Amadeus is very focused on mitigation strategies and crisis response. ensuring compliance with emerging initiatives such as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) of the European Both the Ethics Committee and the Risk Steering Committee meet Union. In 2017 we initiated a major corporate program to ensure several times a year. GDPR compliance. Our activities also extend to existing control standards such as PCI-DSS (credit cards), SOC 1 (computer controls) and ISO 27001 (security). 120 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-13, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Anti-corruption), 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Risk management), 205-1 9. Corporate risk management Third Line of Defense: Group of Group Internal Audit’s conformance with the International Professional Practices Framework (IPPF). The program also Internal Audit assesses the efficiency and effectiveness of Group Internal Audit, and identifies opportunities for continuous improvement. Group Internal Audit provides independent and objective assurance and consulting services designed to add value and improve Amadeus’ operations. It helps accomplish our goals by Amadeus Corporate Information using a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve Security Office the effectiveness of governance, risk management and control processes, including the potential for the occurrence of fraud Amadeus continuously reviews and improves its processes and how the organization manages fraud risk. to keep ahead of upcoming threats, ensuring that both people and technical controls are considered and addressed. We follow Group Internal Audit covers all companies, businesses and the ISO 27001 standard, including: processes majority-owned or controlled by Amadeus. Every year, Group Internal Audit performs a thorough background and risk 1_ Corporate security objectives and controls set by a Corporate assessment exercise to verify and update the established audit Information Security Office. priorities. This exercise considers, namely but not exclusively, 2_ The Security Risk Map, which gives priorities elements such as the Group’s strategic objectives and projects; the Corporate Risk Map; internal and external challenges and for the implementation of mitigations. enablers identified through interviews with senior management 3_ A maturity assessment carried out by a third party to also and major control functions; business magnitudes; and audit identify security gaps, which are also monitored and followed cycles. The output leads to the formalization and approval in our Corporate Security Program. by the Audit Committee of a yearly internal audit plan. The legal entities included in Group Internal Audit reviews All activities related to those sections are monitored and during 2018 represented more than 60% of the total Amadeus controlled by the Corporate Security Program (SHIELD). workforce. Main risks identified in the course of internal audit From a global operations and technology perspective, Amadeus engagements are reported to senior management and the Audit has established an independent Security Operations Center Committee, and their status is periodically updated until resolution to monitor the security status of the services we provide to or acceptance by the governing bodies. customers 24/7. This service also helps us understand emerging The coordination streams in place between Group Internal Audit technical threats and invest in the most appropriate technology and the main control, business and technology units ensure a to mitigate new risks. continuous and optimum complement to Group Internal Audit’s Since January 2017 Amadeus has become a member of the independent and objective assurance activities. Aviation Information Sharing and Analysis Center, showing that we Group Internal Audit is governed according to the mandatory are constantly striving toward increasing our customers’ trust and elements of The Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA)’s International sharing best practices. Professional Practices Framework (IPPF), including its Core Principles, its Definition of Internal Auditing, its International Standards and its Code of Ethics. Furthermore, Group Internal Audit runs a Quality Assurance and Improvement Program that combines ongoing monitoring with periodic internal and external assessments. The program includes the evaluation GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Data security) Amadeus Global Report 2018 121 9. Corporate risk management Amadeus Corporate Information Security Office Regional security offices Extended security awareness and control to all Amadeus regions and subsidiaries Security Operations Center Ensures that: ISO 27001 certification Access control ISO 27001 level 3 certification at _All security policies _Artificial intelligence Ensure that only authorized persons Amadeus corporate level and security architecture is used to identify have access to confidential standards are properly vulnerabilities. information on a need-to-know monitored and controlled. and need-to-handle basis _User behavior _Amadeus is protected analytics are used against known threats to provide us with SSDLC* and attacks. actionable insights by Ensure the implementation of identifying patterns PCI-DSS** compliance _Security incidents of traffic caused by secure soware development Ensure that Amadeus is PCI-DSS are handled with proper user behaviors, both methodologies according compliant and that we are communication. normal and malicious. to SSDLC standards prepared for changes in PCI-DSS _Security incidents compliance requirements are investigated and contained. Security nominative Security by design framework Ensure that security is observed from Policies and framework are the beginning of every new product implemented and used to and project assess security risks. Mitigation plan put in place Data leak prevention Security awareness Ensure that critical information in Create and follow up on any format does not leak out to employee security awareness unauthorized persons/destinations * SSDLC: Secure Soware ** PCI-DSS: Payment Card Development Life Cycle. Industry Data Security Standard. 122 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-18, 102-26 10. Corporate governance 10. Corporate governance Upholding the highest levels of corporate governance helps Amadeus sustain our market leadership and consolidate the principles that have made us a trusted partner for customers, suppliers and other associates. Amadeus’ corporate governance policies and procedures are designed to help the company achieve its general objectives and protect the interests of its shareholders. The legal norms of Amadeus Group relating to corporate governance were drawn up on the occasion of the company’s flotation on the Spanish stock market in April 2010. Some of these norms were adapted in 2012, 2015, 2016 and 2018 to the new mercantile framework resulting from the amendments to the Spanish Capital Companies Act as well as the European Union’s Market Abuse Regulation. They are as follows: __Company bylaws (updated in 2015 and 2018) __Regulations of the Board of Directors (updated in 2015 and 2018) __Regulations of the General Shareholders’ Meeting (updated in 2015) __Internal rules of conduct relating to the securities market (updated in 2016) Amadeus' corporate governance structure General Shareholders' Meeting Board Nominations Audit Committee of and Remuneration Directors Committee Board Secretariat President & CEO Executive Committee GRI 102-18, 102-26, 102-35 Amadeus Global Report 2018 123 10. Corporate governance General Shareholders’ Meeting The Spanish Capital Companies Act also confers further powers on the Board of Directors, some of which are non-delegable (for listed companies). In this regard, the Board of Directors The General Shareholders’ Meeting is the highest body is the responsible body for policies on, among others: representing Amadeus Group’s share capital. It exercises its powers exclusively in the spheres of corporate law and the __Corporate social responsibility company’s bylaws. According to these, shareholders must meet at __Risk management and control (including fiscal risks) least once a year, within the first six months, to debate and adopt __Corporate governance of the parent company and its group agreements concerning their most important economic and legal duties. These include, among others: __Tax strategy __Appointment of Board members The members of the Board of Directors are appointed by __Review and approval of the annual accounts resolution of the General Shareholders’ Meeting for an initial __Appropriation of results period of three years. After this initial period, they can be re-elected for additional periods of one year, with no limit. __Appointment of external auditors __Authorization for the acquisition of treasury stock Amadeus has in place a Director Selection Policy since 2016. __Supervision of the Board’s activities The selection process of directors considers a range of factors, including but not restricted to: Both Spanish law and the company’s bylaws confer upon the __The current strategy of the business General Shareholders’ Meeting the exclusive power of adopting __The current Board composition, in particular the industry-sector, other important agreements, such as bylaw modifications, bond functional and geographic experience of directors issues and mergers. __The diversity of the board, in particular but not restricted The Spanish Capital Companies Act confers further significant to diversity of gender powers on the General Shareholders’ Meeting, which is now the competent body responsible for discussing and agreeing to Amadeus recognizes and embraces the benefits of having the purchase, sale or contribution of essential assets from/to a diverse Board, and sees increasing diversity of knowledge, another company. experience and gender at Board level as an essential element in continually improving the Board’s effectiveness. A truly diverse The General Shareholders’ Meeting may also decide on business Board will include and make good use of differences in the skills, transactions the result of which may be equivalent to the regional and industry experience, background, race, gender and liquidation of the company, as well as on the Remuneration Policy other distinctions between directors. These differences will be of the Board of Directors. considered in determining the optimum composition of the Board and when possible should be balanced appropriately. All Board Board of Directors appointments are made on merit, in the context of the skills, experience, independence and knowledge that the Board The Board of Directors is Amadeus’ highest representative, as a whole requires to be effective. administrative, managerial and controlling body, setting out the company’s general guidelines and economic objectives. The Board The Director Selection Policy has a stated objective of having carries out the company’s strategy (steering and implementation of at least 30% of total Amadeus Board places occupied by women company policies), supervision activities (controlling management) directors by the year 2020. and communication functions (serving as a link to shareholders). 124 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-18, 102-22, 102-23 10. Corporate governance Composition of the Board of Directors Position on the committees Name or corporate Position on Date of first Nominations and Nature Audit name of director the Board appointment Remuneration Committee Committee Mr. José Antonio Tazón Chairman 12/02/2008 Independent Mr. Guillermo de la Dehesa Vice Chairman 04/29/2010 Independent Member Chairman Mr. Luis Maroto President & CEO 06/26/2014 Executive Mr. Stephan Gemkow Director 06/21/2018 Independent Dame Clara Furse Director 04/29/2010 Independent Chairman Member Mr. Pierre-Henri Gourgeon Director 12/29/2005 Other external Member Mr. Francesco Loredan Director 02/21/2005 Other external Member Mrs. Pilar García Director 12/15/2017 Independent Member Mr. Peter Kuerpick Director 06/21/2018 Independent Member Mr. David Webster Director 05/06/2010 Independent Member Member Mr. Nicolas Huss Director 06/15/2017 Independent Mr. Tomas López Fernebrand Secretary (non-director) 01/18/2006 Mr. Jacinto Esclapés Vice Secretary (non-director) 01/18/2006 Mr. Tazón is an Engineering graduate and holds a degree Mr. Tazón served on the Board of Directors of Expedia in Computer Science from the Universidad Politécnica Inc., the online travel agency, from 2009 to 2016; of Madrid. He was President and Chief Executive Officer was appointed Chairman of Ufinet Telecom SAU of Amadeus between 1990 and 2008. Mr. Tazón was (telecommunications operator) from 2014 to mid-2018; part of the initial team of experts who in 1987 laid and serves as independent Director of HBG Ltd. (tourism out Amadeus’ foundations and created its blueprint, sector) since 2016. In March 2011 he became a member functions and strategy. His 18-year tenure as Chief of the Spanish Permanent Commission of the Tourism Executive Officer of Amadeus saw consistent growth, Board of the Confederation of Employers & Industries Mr. José Antonio global expansion and the start of the company’s of Spain (CEOE). Tazón García successful diversification strategy. Mr. Tazón joined Amadeus’ Board of Directors in 2008, Chairman and has served as its Chairman since 2009. GRI 102-22 Amadeus Global Report 2018 125 10. Corporate governance Mr. de la Dehesa is a Law graduate from Complutense both an independent Director and Vice Chairman of the University of Madrid. He also studied Economics and Board of Directors of Santander Group, as well as a became an economist for the Spanish government (TCE) member of its Executive Committee. He has also been an in 1968. In 1975 Mr. de la Dehesa assumed the role of independent director of Santa Lucía Vida y Pensiones (an Director General of the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Trade, international insurance company), after the integration of before moving to the Spanish Ministry of Industry and Aviva Vida y Pensiones into Santa Lucía Group from 2002 Energy to assume the roles of Director General of the to September 2018. Mr. de la Dehesa has also served on Ministry of Trade and Secretary General of the Ministry the Board of Campofrío Food Group from 1997 to June Mr. Guillermo de of Industry and Energy. In 1980 Mr. de la Dehesa was 2014 and on the Board of San José Group until August la Dehesa Romero appointed Deputy Managing Director of the Bank of 2014. He was an International Adviser for Goldman Sachs Vice Chairman Spain. He then left the Central Bank to take a role with for 28 years, until December 31, 2016. He is also Chairman the Spanish government and was appointed Secretary of of the Board of IE Business School in Madrid, Honorary State for Trade in 1983 and Secretary of State for Finance Chairman of the Center for Economic Policy Research in 1986 at the Spanish Ministry of Economy and Finance, (CEPR) in London and a member of the Group of Thirty where he was also a member of the EEC’s ECOFIN. (G30) in Washington. Mr. de la Dehesa is a member of several renowned He joined Amadeus’ Board of Directors on April 29, 2010. international corporate groups, and since 2002 has been Mr. Maroto became President and Chief Executive Officer control of over 50 Amadeus subsidiaries around the world. of Amadeus on January 1, 2011. He was promoted in 2003 to Chief Financial Officer, taking From January 2009 to December 2010 he was Deputy responsibility for the global Amadeus Finance organization. Chief Executive Officer of Amadeus, with responsibility Prior to joining Amadeus, he held several managerial for overall company strategy as well as line management positions at Bertelsmann Group. of the finance, internal audit, legal and human resources A Spanish citizen, he holds a degree in Law from functions. He has also been instrumental to Amadeus’ Complutense University of Madrid, an MBA from IESE return to the stock market with the company’s successful Mr. Luis Business School and further postgraduate qualifications IPO in April 2010. from Harvard Business School and Stanford. Maroto Camino He joined Amadeus in 1999 as Director, Marketing President and He joined Amadeus’ Board of Directors as Executive Finance. In that role, he supported Amadeus’ commercial Chief Executive Officer Director on June 26, 2014, and was appointed Consejero organization throughout its international expansion and Delegado on October 16, 2014. consolidation, supervising the strategic and financial Dame Clara Furse is a graduate by the London School of 2017. Until April 2017 she was also the lead independent Economics and received her BSc (Econ) in 1979. She is Director of the UK’s Department for Work and Pensions. the Chairman of HSBC UK, the ring-fenced bank of HSBC From January 2001 to May 2009 she was Chief Executive Group. She is also a non-executive Director of Vodafone of the London Stock Exchange, a FTSE 100 company. Group PLC. During this period she was also a non-executive Director She was an External Member of the Bank of England’s of Euroclear PLC, LCH Clearnet Group Ltd. and Fortis SA, Financial Policy Committee (FPC), joining the new statutory and a member of the Shanghai International Financial body and macroprudential regulator in April 2013 and Advisory Council. From 2009 to 2013 she was a nonDame Clara Furse standing down in October 2016. She was a non-executive executive Director of Legal & General Group. Director Director of Nomura Holdings from June 2010 to March She joined Amadeus’ Board of Directors on April 29, 2010. 126 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-22 10. Corporate governance Mrs. García is a Law graduate from the University of She was General Manager in Spain of INSA (currently Madrid, CEU San Pablo, and holds an MBA from the Viewnext) and General Manager of Softinsa in Portugal Open University, United Kingdom. She is an experienced for five years, a services company specialized in executive with a long history in the field of technology, application development and infrastructure services. working in multinational environments and focusing on She served as member of the Steering Committee of IBM technological innovation and organizational effectiveness. Spain and Portugal, IBM Southwest Europe and INSA, She was a leader at IBM Corporation for more than leading IBM’s Global Committees for the management Mrs. Pilar García 25 years, during 12 of which she held high-level and transformation in strategic and commercial areas, Ceballos-Zúñiga responsibilities in its European headquarters and across as well as internal process optimization. the world. She was Executive Vice President of IBM Global Director She is currently President of the Board of Trustees for Digital Services, Cloud and Security, based in New York, the Caja de Extremadura Banking Foundation, Liberbank. in her last leadership position until 2016. She joined Amadeus’ Board of Directors on December 15, 2017. Mr. Gemkow holds a degree in Business Administration Germany. Mr. Gemkow sat on Amadeus’ Board of Directors from Paderborn University. He began his professional from May 2006 to July 2013 as a proprietary Director career as a consultant for BDO Deutsche Warentreuhand representing Lufthansa. AG in 1988 before joining Deutsche Lufthansa AG in Mr. Gemkow is the Chairman of the Supervisory Board 1990, where he held various management positions in of Takkt AG, the holding of an international group of the Lufthansa Group, in the sales, finance and human B2B direct marketing companies for business equipment resources areas. He served as Member of the Group solutions belonging to the Haniel Group; a Director of Executive Board (CFO) at Deutsche Lufthansa AG until Mr. Stephan Gemkow Flughafen Zürich AG, airport sector; and a Director of mid-2012, when he took up his current position as CEO Director JetBlue Airways Corp., airline sector. of Franz Haniel & Cie., a globally active family-owned portfolio management company based in Duisburg, He joined Amadeus’ Board of Directors on June 21, 2018. Mr. Gourgeon holds a degree in Engineering from the École the Chief Executive Officer of Air France-KLM in January Polytechnique in Paris and the École Nationale Supérieure 2009 until October 2011, at which date he left all his de l’Aéronautique, as well as a Master of Science from the seats in Air France-KLM Group. He was member of the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena. He has held Board of Directors of Groupe Steria, a French IT business various positions as an engineer for the French Ministry services entity for the private and public sectors, until of Defense in its technical and aeronautical production the merger of Steria with Sopra in September 2014, departments. He was Director General of the French Civil which ended his Board membership. In addition, Aviation Authority between 1990 and 1993, prior to joining he is President of his own professional consultancy, Mr. Pierre-Henri the Air France Group in 1993 as the CEO of Servair. PH GOURGEON CONSEIL. Gourgeon Mr. Gourgeon has held various positions with Air France He joined Amadeus’ Board of Directors on December Director until he became its Chief Operating Officer in 1998, and 29, 2005. GRI 102-22 Amadeus Global Report 2018 127 10. Corporate governance Mr. Huss holds a degree in Law and a master’s degree Inc. Post-acquisition, he was also a member of the Visa in Political Science and Government, both from the Inc. Executive Committee. University of Toulouse. Previously, Mr. Huss held a variety of Chief Executive Mr. Huss joined Ingenico Group, a global leader in Officer roles for Apollo Global Management, Bank seamless payment, on July 1, 2017, as Executive Vice of America and General Electric in different European President, Strategy and Performance. He was Executive and Latin American countries. He has over 20 years Vice President of the Retail Business Unit at Ingenico of experience in the financial services industry. Group until July 2018, after which he was appointed Mr. Nicolas Huss He has also been a member of different Boards for Group Chief Operating Officer. In November 2018 he Director Apollo, General Electric and Visa Europe. From October was appointed Chief Executive Officer and Board member 2015 to March 2017 he was a Board member at of Ingenico Group. Junior Achievement Europe (JAE), Europe’s largest Mr. Huss was the Chief Executive Officer of Visa Europe provider of education programs for youth and student until March 2017. His three-and-a-half-year tenure at Visa entrepreneurship, work readiness and financial literacy. Europe was marked by the sale of the company to Visa He joined Amadeus’ Board of Directors on June 15, 2017. Mr. Kuerpick holds a Ph.D. in Theoretical Physics from the areas such as autonomous driving, asset management University of Kassel and has conducted post-doctorate and augmented reality. Mr. Kuerpick joined HERE from research at Kansas State University and the University Unify, a global communications software and services of Tennessee, Knoxville. He also holds a Masters in company, where he served as Executive Vice President of Environmental Sciences from the University of Kassel, its Product House organization. Previously, he has held and a Corporate MBA from INSEAD. numerous technology leadership roles at Software AG and SAP, where he was instrumental in the conception and Mr. Kuerpick is Chief Platform Officer at HERE development of SAP NetWeaver. Mr. Peter Kuerpick Technologies. In this role he oversees the company’s Director push into the next generation of location-based services He is non-executive Director of EPAM Systems, a global IT based on platform-enabled applications and solutions in services company. Mr. Loredan is a graduate of Economics from the London Chairman of White Bridge Investments SPA (private equity), School of Economics and holds an MBA from INSEAD. a Director of Oneiros Investments SA (private equity), a He worked as a credit officer for Bank of America-BAI in Director of Spring SA (private equity), Director of Ancorotti, Milan for three years and spent four years with Boston SRL (cosmetics), Director of MAP SRL (spas and wellness Consulting Group in Paris and Milan. In 1989 he joined facilities operator in Italy) and Director of Nutkao SRL BC Partners, where he was Managing Partner and (chocolate spread manufacturer). Co-Chairman until December 2014. Currently he is Vice Mr. Francesco Loredan He joined Amadeus’ Board of Directors on February 21, 2005. Director 128 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-22 10. Corporate governance Mr. Webster is a Law graduate from the University of He has been a director in numerous business sectors and Glasgow and qualified as a solicitor in 1968. He began his has a wide range of experience in the hotel industry in career in finance as a manager of the corporate finance particular. For nine years he was non-executive Chairman division of Samuel Montagu & Co Ltd. During the period of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC until December 1973 to 1976, as Finance Director he developed Oriel 31, 2012. He was non-executive Chairman of Makinson Foods, which was sold to RCA Corporation. In 1977 he Cowell Ltd. until November 2013 and a non-executive co-founded Safeway (formerly Argyll Group), a FTSE 100 Director of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC until company, of which he was Finance Director and latterly, December 31, 2017. He is also non-executive Chairman Mr. David Webster from 1997 to 2004, Executive Chairman. He was a nonof Telum Media Group Pte. Ltd. and Vuma Ltd., as well Director executive Director of Reed International PLC from 1992, as a member of the Appeals Committee of the Panel on Reed Elsevier PLC and Elsevier NV from 1999, as well as Takeovers and Mergers in London. Chairman of Reed Elsevier from 1998 to 1999, retiring He joined Amadeus’ Board of Directors on May 6, 2010. from all three Boards in 2002. Mr. Stephan Gemkow was elected for a period of three years by __Mr. José Antonio Tazón decision of the General Shareholders’ Meeting on June 21, 2018 __Mr. Luis Maroto to cover the vacancy created by Mr. Marc Verspyck’s term of office __Mr. Guillermo de la Dehesa expiration. The decision was submitted by the Board of Directors, __Dame Clara Furse upon proposal by the Nominations and Remuneration Committee. __Mr. Pierre-Henri Gourgeon Mrs. Pilar García’s appointment, elected by co-optation method __Mr. Francesco Loredan in December 2017, was validated by the General Shareholders’ __Mr. David Webster Meeting held on June 21, 2018 for a period of three years. Mr. Peter Kuerpick was elected for a period of three years by decision Their re-election or replacement, following the Director Selection of the General Shareholders’ Meeting on June 21, 2018 to cover Policy approved by the Board of Directors on April 21, 2016 upon the vacancy created by Dr. Roland Busch’s term of office expiration. proposal by the Nominations and Remuneration Committee, The decision was submitted by the Board of Directors, upon proposal will also have to be submitted for decision to the General by the Nominations and Remuneration Committee. Shareholders’ Meeting to take place in June 2019. Mr. Nicolas Huss was elected for a period of three years by The financial expertise, broad management skills and dedication of decision of the General Shareholders’ Meeting on June 15, 2017. the independent directors, as well as the industry knowledge of the other external directors, have contributed significantly toward the Pursuant to Article 35 of the bylaws of the company (term of quality and efficiency of the Board’s operations and committees. office), the following directors were re-elected for an additional one-year term in the last Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting The incorporation of the first executive of the company to the of June 21, 2018: Board as Executive Director reinforces the information channel between the Board of Directors and the company’s management GRI 102-30, 102-35 Amadeus Global Report 2018 129 10. Corporate governance team, which plays an important role in achieving greater efficiency The Directors Remuneration Policy (2019–2021) was approved by in the Board’s decision-making process. the Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting of June 21, 2018 with a favorable vote of 86.49%. During the fiscal year 2018, six Board meetings were held with attendance by all the Board members, in person, by proxy with The corresponding Annual Report 2017 on the Remuneration specific voting instructions or by telematics means. of Directors of Listed Companies was endorsed by the Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting of June 21, 2018 with a favorable The Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr. José Antonio Tazón, vote of 88.88% (advisory vote). and Amadeus Group’s CEO, Mr. Luis Maroto (Executive Director), attended all Board meetings. Audit Committee Remuneration Policy The powers vested in the Audit Committee by the Spanish Capital Companies Act, as well as the recommendations of the Spanish With respect to remuneration for the Chairman and non-executive Good Governance Code of Listed Companies, give the Audit directors, Amadeus offers competitive fees commensurate with Committee a remit that makes it more than just an advisory body the required time commitment and responsibilities. As part of to the Board of Directors for certain key matters. the Remuneration Policy, every two years the Nominations and The Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting held on June 21, Remuneration Committee reviews the non-executive director fee 2018 approved the modification of Article 42 of the corporate data of comparable companies in the main European indices, bylaws concerning the Audit Committee. Accordingly, the Board including the IBEX 35. of Directors agreed to the modification of Article 35 of the In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Policy (2019– Regulations of the Board concerning the same subject to adapt 2021), it was agreed to continue with the remuneration policy, its content to the new wording of the corporate bylaws. based on a fixed amount, for membership of the Board and of the The main function of this Committee is to provide support to the various Board committees. It was also agreed not to implement Board of Directors in its oversight duties by, among other actions, any other complementary remuneration formula. the periodic review of financial statements, internal control and The policy on Board remuneration does not include variable risk management (including tax risk), so that major risks are duly remuneration based on profits or attendance fees, nor identified, managed and disclosed properly. contributions to pension plans or severance agreements in case The Audit Committee also provides support to the Board of of termination of functions. No provision is made for remunerating Directors regarding compliance with all laws, regulations external directors through stock awards, stock options or and internal rules affecting Amadeus Group. The Committee instruments linked to share value. monitors compliance with the applicable rules at a national and The Executive Director receives an annual base salary, payable international level, and supervises the preparation and integrity monthly, for the performance of executive duties for the company. of the company’s financial information, making sure it follows The purpose of this element is to reflect the market value of the regulatory requirements and the proper application of accounting role, attract talent, and reward skills and experience. The total principles. The Audit Committee also hierarchically oversees the remuneration package of the Executive Director (Chief Executive Internal Audit function. Officer) comprises various components, primarily consisting of: (i) The Audit Committee meets periodically, as convened by its base salary; (ii) short-term variable remuneration; (iii) long-term Chairman. For this purpose, the Board Secretariat prepares an variable remuneration; and (iv) other remuneration (Board fees, agenda for approval by the Committee Chairman, which is sent benefits and pension). to all participants in advance of the meeting, together with the relevant documentation for each of the agenda items. Apart from the Audit Committee members, certain members of the 130 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-24, 102-35 10. Corporate governance Amadeus management team may also attend the meetings, The regulations of the Audit Committee address the following areas: with prior invitation from the Committee Chairman. The external 1_ Introduction auditors, Deloitte,1 represented by the partners in charge of 2_ Composition Amadeus’ audit, attend the meetings twice a year, unless their ad hoc attendance is required by the Committee Chairman. 3_ Requirements for appointment Minutes are drawn up by the Secretary of the Board (acting as 4_ Operating rules Secretary of the Committee) on the conclusions reached at each 5_ Responsibilities and duties: meeting, which are included as an agenda item in the next Board • Oversight of financial and non-financial reporting of Directors’ meeting, at which the Committee Chairman reports • Supervision of risk management and control to the full Board on the most relevant points addressed and any • Supervision of internal audit recommendations. Three recurrent items form part of the agenda • Contact with the statutory auditor throughout the year, irrespective of others, which depending on the matter at hand are also included for discussion, analysis and 6_ Engagement of experts and other resources recommendation. The three agenda items are: (1) external audit 7_ Annual report (for the annual and half-year financial statements), (2) internal audit and (3) risk management. In 2018 the Audit Committee prepared the mandatory annual Nominations and report on its activities for the fiscal year 2017, covering, among others, the following areas: Remuneration Committee __Rules and regulations of the Audit Committee This committee is made up of five external Board members __Composition of the Audit Committee and evaluates the competence, knowledge and experience required __Operational activity of members of the Board of Directors. It also: __Items discussed by the Audit Committee during fiscal year 2017 __Proposes independent directors for appointment to the Board (external audit, internal audit, risk management and other items) of Directors. __Related transactions __Produces the report on non-independent members’ appointment __Independence of the external auditor to the Board. __Assessment of the functioning and performance __Reports to the Board of Directors on matters of gender diversity. of the Audit Committee __Proposes to the Board of Directors the system and amount of the __Incidents and proposals for improving the company’s rules annual remuneration of its directors, as well as the remuneration of governance policy of the members of the Executive Committee. __Formulates and reviews the remuneration programs The Audit Committee currently consists of five external for senior management. Board members. __Monitors observance of the remuneration policies. Following the Technical Guide 3/2017 of the Comisión Nacional del __Assists the Board in the compilation of the report on the Directors Mercado de Valores (CNMV) on audit committee at public-interest Remuneration Policy and submits to the Board any other reports entities, a new set of rules and regulations were adopted by the on compensation specified in the regulations of the Board. Board of Directors in December 2018, effective January 2019. The Nominations and Remuneration Committee meets periodically, as convened by its Chairman. For this purpose, the Board Secretariat prepares an agenda for approval by the Committee 1 Ernst & Young have been selected to replace Deloitte as Amadeus’ external Chairman, which is sent to all participants in advance of the auditors for 2019 onwards. The General Shareholders´ Meeting held on June 21, 2018 approved the new appointment. meeting together with the relevant documentation for each GRI 102-10, 102-24, 102-35 Amadeus Global Report 2018 131 10. Corporate governance of the agenda items. Apart from the Nominations and Remuneration of Directors’ meeting. At this time the Committee Chairman Committee members, certain members of the Amadeus reports to the full Board on the most relevant points addressed management team may attend the meetings, with prior invitation and puts forth recommendations for approval, if applicable. from the Committee Chairman. In 2018 the Nominations and Remuneration Committee prepared Amadeus’ Executive Committee the mandatory annual report on its operations for fiscal year 2017, covering the following areas: Amadeus’ Executive Committee is led by the company’s Chief Executive Officer (Consejero Delegado) and comprises the senior __Competencies and duties of the Nominations management leaders, who each possess broad company experience. and Remuneration Committee __Composition of the Nominations and Remuneration Committee This governance structure is designed to foster direct __Operational activity communication between Amadeus’ business and its governing __Matters addressed by the Nominations and Remuneration bodies, in order to facilitate an effective decision-making process. Committee during fiscal year 2017 These are the latest changes to our Executive Committee: __Nature of the directors (independent, other External, Executive Director) __Wolfgang Krips, former Senior Vice President of Technology __List of companies in which the Board members also serve Platform Engineering at Amadeus, has been appointed Senior as directors and/or executive managers Vice President Corporate Strategy, an appointment driven __Verification of compliance with the Directors Selection Policy by the increasing technological profile of Amadeus. __Dietmar Fauser has been appointed Senior Vice President of In addition, the Nominations and Remuneration Committee Technology Platforms and Engineering, taking over from Mr. produced the Remuneration Policy of the Board of Directors, Krips. Mr. Fauser, who has been with Amadeus since 1998, was together with the Annual Report 2017 on the Remuneration until recently Vice President of Core Platforms and Middleware of Directors of Listed Companies. and played a significant role in recent years in building the TPE organization. The Directors Selection Policy was established on April 21, 2016. __Francisco Perez-Lozao, now Senior Vice President Hospitality, will In accordance with this policy, the Amadeus Board of Directors focus exclusively on and lead the Hospitality business, recently is committed to applying selection criteria in such a manner as strengthened by the TravelClick acquisition. to ensure that the Board as a whole is diverse and balanced, __The other new business units will be led by Stefan Ropers, and that a wide range of views are contributed to Board debates appointed Senior Vice President of Strategic Growth Businesses. in a manner that ultimately fosters well-informed decision-making Mr. Ropers brings over 20 years’ international experience in the interests of the company and all stakeholders. across the technology industry, both in innovative fast-growth Both Mr. Stephan Gemkow and Mr. Peter Kuerpick have been environments and with major tech players. appointed Board members in 2018 following the Directors Selection Policy. The Nominations and Remuneration Committee will publish the report on the analysis of the Board’s needs in accordance with the Directors Selection Policy concurrently with the calling of the General Shareholders’ Meeting in 2019, at which time the appointment or re-election of each director will be submitted. Minutes are drawn up by the Secretary of the Board (acting as Secretary of the Committee) on the conclusions obtained at each meeting and are included as an agenda item for the next Board 132 Amadeus Global Report 2018 11. Shareholders and financial institutions 11. Shareholders and 11.1 Amadeus Investor Relations’ mission financial institutions and activity The Amadeus strategy framework has been designed to foster the company’s viability and sustainable growth, providing stakeholders with long-term value. Additionally, it is of vital importance for Amadeus to maintain effective and straightforward communication with its stakeholders in capital markets, ensuring transparency with regards to our performance. Amadeus Investor Relations’ mission is to maintain an open dialog and build long-term relationships based on credibility and trust with its financial community, including current and potential shareholders, research analysts, debt holders, credit rating agencies and other participants such as the regulator of the Spanish market, the Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores (CNMV). The Investor Relations function, which is part of the Finance function at Amadeus, strives to increase the awareness of Amadeus in its capital markets, ensuring that the various stakeholders are informed on relevant company or industry news, the competitive landscape and Amadeus’ operational and financial performance. The team aim to communicate effectively and proactively, delivering relevant information in a consistent and timely manner. The Amadeus Investor Relations communication policy was defined in compliance with the best practices and recommendations of good governance that are applicable to listed companies. It is based on the following principles: __Responsibility, diligence and transparency of information disclosure __Equal treatment and protection of rights and interests of stakeholders __Cooperation with shareholders In particular, Amadeus has further adapted its communication policy via its Directors’ report to the recent updates made in Spanish Legislation, to be aligned with Directive 2014/95/UE, concerning detailed disclosure and external review of non-financial information. The aim is to contribute to a better understanding of Amadeus Global Report 2018 133 11. Shareholders and financial institutions corporate risks, therefore increasing sustainability and shareholder Amadeus has earned the prestigious recognition of being included confidence while providing stakeholders with an overall idea of the in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI), in the IT & Internet company’s impact on society. Software and Services sector. The Dow Jones Sustainability Indices are made up of global sustainability leaders based on economic, One of the main channels for the provision of information environmental and social criteria. This success has been the by Amadeus to its shareholders and its capital markets in general result of our commitment to developing a sustainable business, is the CNMV, as well as the channels established by other foreign which brings long-term rewards to all our stakeholders and places authorities and supervisory entities, when applicable. These emphasis on the careful management of resources. entities ensure the immediate dissemination of information through publication on their websites. These significant events are In September 2018 Amadeus was included for the first time in the simultaneously posted on Amadeus’ corporate website. The Annual EURO STOXX 50, a leading index comprising of 50 of the largest General Shareholders’ Meetings and our periodic Investor Day blue-chip stocks in Europe, ranked on the basis of a number events are also means to channel information to shareholders. of factors, such as market capitalization and liquidity. At Amadeus, there is a two-way relationship between the company and the financial community. On the one hand Amadeus provides pertinent and relevant information to the financial community, and on the other it collects and receives valuable feedback from our stakeholders. This feedback is taken into account in the decision-making processes of the company’s top management. In 2018 Amadeus continued with an extensive investor relations activity program, which included: __Participation in a number of investor conferences and roadshows all over the world. Cities visited included Barcelona, Boston, Brussels, Frankfurt, Lisbon, Milan, Montreal, New York, Paris and Toronto. __Conference calls, face-to-face meetings and several large reverse roadshows conducted by the Investor Relations team in Madrid, reaching a large number of investors. __Meetings and ongoing communication with the company’s base of analysts. The number of analysts following the Amadeus stock stood at 38 at the end of the year. __Website views: in June 2018 Amadeus launched the updated Amadeus Corporate website, which includes investor information as well as our newsroom. Since its launch through to the end of 2018, the new website has had over 160,000 page views by more than 70,000 unique visitors. In January 2018 Amadeus was ranked among Corporate Knights’ 2018 Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World for the second consecutive year. Only the top 2% of companies in the world are recognized for their sustainability performance on the Global 100. Furthermore, for the seventh year in a row 134 Amadeus Global Report 2018 11. Shareholders and financial institutions 11.2 The stock market in 2018 Despite a good start to the year, driven by an initial boost from the With the US Federal Reserve interest rates gradually but US tax cuts and good, early economic performance in the US, 2018 continually rising, weaker economic growth in China and rising proved a more challenging year for capital markets. Growth in geopolitical concerns (Brexit, the Italian budget and the ongoing other parts of the world, most notably Europe, decelerated, leading trade conflict between the US and China), 2018 was a difficult year to a desynchronization of the homogenous growth seen in 2017. for investors. The global decline mainly centered on Europe, with The last quarter of 2018 saw the worst quarterly performance in all major indices falling in the double-digit range (CAC40: -11%, global markets in seven years, resulting in negative growth in most FTSE 100: -12.5%, EURO STOXX 50: -14%, IBEX: -15%, DAX: -18%). of the world’s major indices over the full year. However, the US stocks also suffered (NASDAQ: -1%, DOW JONES: -6%, S&P 500: -6%). Equity capital markets’ performance in 2018 130 120 110 100 -1.0% NASDAQ -5.6% DOW JONES -6.2% S&P 500 -11.0% CAC40 90 -12.5% FTSE 100 -14.3% EURO STOXX -15.0% IBEX -18.3% DAX 80 70 Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Amadeus Global Report 2018 135 11. Shareholders and financial institutions 11.3 Amadeus’ share performance Analysts’ recommendations Despite a challenging economic backdrop, Amadeus’ share price Our market capitalization at December 31, 2018 was €26,698 at year-end 2018 increased by 1.2% in 2018, outperforming global markets. The million. The average daily trading volume was 1.3 million shares, share price reached its historical maximum of €82.06 on October 1, 2018 following a 37% growth over the first nine months of for a total traded volume of €23.5 billion for the year. The proportion of our stock in free float reached 98.03% at year-end. 30.6% 38.8% the year. This growth was augmented, thanks to the inclusion Amadeus has increased its weight within the IBEX 35 to 5.1% Sell Buy of Amadeus in the EURO STOXX 50 from September 21, 2018. as of December 31, 2018, remaining the sixth largest company Following a difficult fourth quarter for global markets, Amadeus in the index. closed the year at €60.84. In 2018 adjusted earnings1 per share stood at €2.61 and on December 31, 2018 the price to adjusted earnings ratio was 23.3x. Amadeus’ share performance in 2018 140 130 30.6% Neutral 120 110 100 +1.2% Amadeus 90 -14.3% EURO STOXX -15.0% IBEX 80 70 Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 1 Including TravelClick’s 2018 consolidation effect of €14.3m, on the adjusted profit, while excluding TravelClick’s related acquisition transaction costs, PPA adjustment and bank acquisition financing interest expense. 136 Amadeus Global Report 2018 11. Shareholders and financial institutions Amadeus key trading for the year 2017 2018 11.4 Shareholder Change in share price (%) 39.2% 1.2% remuneration Amadeus has a proven track record of operating a solid and Maximum share price (figures in €) 61.95 82.06 resilient business model that generates strong free cash flow, allowing for continued and sustained investment in R&D and Minimum share price (figures in €) 42.58 56.90 innovation as well as shareholder remuneration, while maintaining Weighted average share price (figures in €)* 51.75 67.38 a flexible financial capital structure. Ordinary dividends paid have grown consistently every year since Average daily volume (number of shares) 1,369,088 1,330,007 Amadeus’ initial Public Offering (IPO), at an average annual rate of 20%. Amadeus complemented this with share repurchase Average daily volume (figures in € thousand) 68,391 90,242 programs in 2015 and 2018. We aim to continue to support this Annual volume (figures in € thousand) 17,781,616 23,462,832 growth in the coming years based on a healthy cash-generation profile and a sound balance sheet. * Excluding cross trades. Amadeus key trading data at year-end Amadeus shareholder remuneration 500 2017 2018 Number of shares issued at Dec 31 438,822,506 438,822,506 Share price at Dec 31 (figures in €) 60.11 60.84 Market capitalization at Dec 31 (figures in € million) 26,378 26,698 320 Earnings per share (adjusted profit share), full year 2.54 2.61 498 (figures in €) 413 Dividend per share, full year (figures in €) 1.135 1.175 340 313 Dividend yield, full year (%)* 1.9% 1.9% 280 Payout ratio, full year (%) 50% 50% Price to earnings ratio at Dec 31 (x) 23.7x 23.3x 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 * Based on year-end share price. Ordinary (€ million) Extraordinary (€ million) Total €3.2 billion returned since IPO. 20% ordinary remuneration CAGR 20112018. Amadeus Global Report 2018 137 11. Shareholders and financial institutions Ordinary dividend payments __Tranche 2: up to €500 million (cancelable at Amadeus’ discretion), from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020. The annual gross dividend from 2017’s profits was approved by our Following the acquisition of TravelClick on October 25, 2018, shareholders at the General Shareholders’ Meeting held on June Amadeus announced that the Board of Directors agreed to cancel 21, 2018. The total value of the dividend increased 20.7% vs. prior the second (cancelable) tranche of the share repurchase program, year to €498.1 million, representing a pay-out of 50% of the 2017 which was due to start on April 1, 2019. reported profit for the year, or €1.135 per share (gross). An interim amount of €0.48 per share (gross) was paid on January 31, 2018 On December 10, 2018 Amadeus announced that it had reached and the complementary dividend of €0.655 per share (gross) was the maximum investment under the first tranche (€500 million), paid on June 29, 2018. thus completing the share repurchase program. Under the program, Amadeus has acquired 7,554,070 shares (representing On December 13, 2018 the Board of Directors of Amadeus 1.721% of Amadeus' share capital). proposed a 50% pay-out ratio for the 2018 dividend. In June 2019 the Board of Directors will submit to the General Shareholders’ Meeting for approval a final gross dividend of €1.175 per share, representing a 3.5% increase vs. the 2017 dividend and a 50% of the reported profit, adjusted to exclude TravelClick’s 11.5 Financial institutions Net financial debt, as per our credit facility agreements’ terms, acquisition related effects. An interim dividend of €0.51 per share amounted to €3,074.0 million as of December 31, 2018 (gross) was paid in full on January 17, 2019. Based on this, the (representing 1.47 times last-twelve-month EBITDA). proposed appropriation of the 2018 results included in our 2018 audited consolidated financial statements includes a total amount The main objectives of Amadeus’ financial strategy are to reduce of €515.6 million corresponding to dividends pertaining to the the cost of financing, diversify funding sources as much as possible, financial year 2018. increase flexibility and extend the maturity profile of our debt. The main changes to our debt in 2018 were: Extraordinary __Three Eurobond issues on September 18, 2018 (under our Euro shareholder remuneration Medium Term Note Programme) for a total amount of €1,500 million, with the following conditions: (i) a €500 million issue, Additionally, Amadeus has stated that in low-leverage scenarios, with a three-year-and-a-half maturity and an interest rate it would complement ordinary shareholder remuneration with of three-month Euribor plus 0.45% margin (with a minimum annual coupon of 0%), (ii) a €500 million issue, with a five-year extraordinary remuneration. maturity, an annual coupon of 0.875% and an issue price of On December 14, 2017 Amadeus' Board of Directors agreed to 99.898% of nominal value, and (iii) a €500 million issue, with an undertake a share repurchase program, in accordance with the eight-year maturity, an annual coupon of 1.5% and an issue price authorization granted to it by the General Shareholders’ Meeting of 99.761% of nominal value. held on June 20, 2013. The purpose of the share repurchase __ The use of the Multi-Currency European Commercial Paper (ECP) program was the redemption of shares (subject to the approval program by a net amount of €30.0 million. of the General Shareholders’ Meeting). The maximum investment __A repayment of €65.0 million related to the European approved under the program was €1,000 million, not exceeding Investment Bank loan. 25,000,000 shares (or 5.69% of share capital), to be carried out in two tranches: In October 2018 Standard & Poor’s confirmed its “BBB” long-term and “A-2” short-term ratings for Amadeus, with a positive outlook. __Tranche 1: up to €500 million (non-cancellable), from January 1, In November 2018 Moody’s confirmed its “Baa2” long-term rating 2018 to March 31, 2019. for Amadeus, with a stable outlook. 138 Amadeus Global Report 2018 Closing remarks Closing remarks Year after year, Amadeus makes a significant contribution to improving the efficiency and sustainability of the travel industry. In 2018 almost €900 million was invested in research and innovation, making Amadeus the undisputed leader in R&D technology investment in our sector. These funds are earmarked for the development and implementation of the most advanced technologies available, to enhance the operational efficiency of airlines, airports, hotels, ferry and cruise companies and other travel industry players, and to connect and serve their customers more effectively, on a global scale. Our solutions also reduce airlines’ fuel consumption and CO2 emissions and improve the environmental performance of airports around the world. Our continued success relies on the ability to deliver technology solutions and services v that drive operational improvements and efficiencies for our customers and for the travel ecosystem as a whole. Our community platform, through which customers share technology, optimizes costs for the industry and provides easy access to leading-edge technology solutions to a wide range of travel providers. Our solutions portfolio of Passenger Service Systems, for example, not only serves large network carriers but also allows small airlines, regional operators and low-cost carriers to implement top technology solutions in a cost-effective way. In the distribution business, our solutions meet the needs of all kinds of travel sellers, from large online travel agents and travel management companies, to small, niche travel agents in more than 190 countries. Amadeus Global Report 2018 139 Closing remarks This worldwide network, connecting travel sellers and travel providers, delivers significant efficiencies to both: effective comparison of travel options for travelers and travel sellers, and better market access and visibility for travel providers. Amadeus’ technology enables efficient trip management, changes and Amadeus makes a significant contribution to improving the efficiency adjustments, even if the trip involves different airlines or other travel providers. and sustainability of the travel industry.” As travel providers connect to the Amadeus Travel Platform, their products become instantly visible to travel sellers globally. This facilitates market access to new entrants and competition on equal terms for large and small providers, with the consumer as the ultimate beneficiary. The current market conditions present us with many challenges, just like we have had to contend with challenges in the past. They also provide many opportunities to grow and improve. As long as we continue to provide value to the travel industry, listening to and acting upon customer needs, we are well equipped to tackle future challenges and to exploit opportunities. Our technology leadership, our industry expertise and global presence all make us well positioned to remain an industry leader. Our people and organizational culture ensure we do. This report provides an overview of Amadeus as a company as well as the main highlights of 2018, integrating non-financial information as an important component. I hope you enjoy the read, and we look forward to receiving your comments through Tomas López Fernebrand the contact information included at the end of the report. Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, Amadeus 140 Amadeus Global Report 2018 Annex 1. About this report Annex 1. Objectives of the Amadeus Global Report About this report The Amadeus Global Report 2018 presents a broad overview of Amadeus’ operations, including financial and non-financial information. As a communication tool, it serves as the main source of information about Amadeus for our internal or external stakeholders. Importantly, the Global Report complies with formal requirements and best practice expectations regarding the reporting of non-financial information. In this respect, it represents the main platform for detailed reporting on our approach and performance in terms of labor, social, environmental and governance matters. We have experienced an increasing demand for non-financial information reporting in recent years, which is getting closer in terms of requirements to the compulsory financial reporting. The European non-financial reporting guidelines highlight the importance of interrelations between financial and non-financial information, as well as between the different non-financial matters. Roadmap to the Amadeus Global Report Given the increasing relevance of non-financial information to our stakeholders, the impact of the Amadeus Global Report grows year-on-year. As a consequence, the process around the Global Report has become increasingly complex; building the content involves an increasing number of steps and more attention must be devoted to phases beyond the production stage. In addition, we constantly review the process to improve the report’s balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability.1 The graph on the next page provides an overview of the different stages in this process. As shown, some of them are carried out concurrently, and close to 100 employees worldwide are involved in making it a success. 1 The principles for defining report quality according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards are explained at https://www.globalreporting.org/ standards/. GRI 102-32, 102-46, 102-54 Amadeus Global Report 2018 141 Annex 1. About this report Roadmap to the Amadeus Global Report _External verification _GRI Content Index Service Launch _Approval by Executive Committee _Presentation to the Board of Directors for endorsement Design _Content providers’ input _Shaping the content by Editorial Committee _Production process review Communication plan _Project planning implementation _Materiality analysis Monitoring of impact Among these employees, 14 internal units provide all material information regarding operational and non-financial content. Methodology In the sections below, we explain in more detail the process used to define material issues. Reporting principles Shaping the content is a complex process that requires constant The aforementioned objectives represent the starting point efforts to enhance dialog within the company. In that respect, for defining the content of the Global Report. In addition, widely the Amadeus Global Report Editorial Committee plays a key role. recognized reporting standards such as the Global Reporting The main mission of the committee is to agree on the objectives Initiative (GRI) or the International Integrated Reporting <IR> of the report, as well as the structure and strategic overview Framework help us align the Global Report with the latest of the content. Led by the Sustainability, Global Reporting & reporting trends. Certifications unit, this transversal team is composed of heads of key units at corporate level: Communications, Branding, Industry The GRI reporting framework has been the main point of Affairs, Strategy, Investor Relations and CEO Office. reference for the selection of the basic topics and metrics to be included in this report. The GRI Sustainability Reporting All members of the Amadeus Executive Committee↪ review, Standards are used to report our impact on the economy, validate and approve the Amadeus Global Report. Once the the environment and society. document is endorsed by the Board of Directors, it is released through internal and external communication campaigns at all This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI geographical levels. Standards: Core option. For the GRI Content Index Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for all disclosures included align with the ↪ See “Corporate governance,” p. 122. appropriate sections in the body of the report. 142 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-44, 102-46, 102-47 Annex 1. About this report This report brings together information about Amadeus’ “capitals” 2 into a single corporate document. To this end, the guiding principles of the International <IR> Framework have been taken into account throughout. In this document, we aim to explain how Amadeus’ strategy, governance, performance and prospects, in the context of its external environment, lead to the creation of Amadeus materiality matrix value in the short, medium and long term. In line with the <IR> concept of connectivity, we report the activities of the different Amadeus units by using cross-references to point readers to other sections of the report for more detailed information. High Efficiency and operational excellence The external assurance of the report by an independent organization (KPMG) ensures that the quantitative and qualitative material issues listed in the GRI Content Index are reported accurately (see KPMG Assurance Report in Annex 2). Sustainable Customer satisfaction profitable growth Innovation Materiality analysis Employee engagement In 2018 we undertook a materiality assessment to review and talent attraction the environmental, social and economic aspects most critical Stakeholder concern Training and education to Amadeus and its stakeholders. In this review process we have Transparency relied on the expertise of external consultants to analyze the main and integrity Business diversification reporting standards and sustainability indices: the GRI, and leadership the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, Sustainalytics, FTSE4Good, and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and Global Compact. On the other hand, internal units managing relationships Efficiency and with key Amadeus internal and external stakeholders, as well Company environmental Data security emissions and other benefits of as the teams in charge of reporting non-financial information, environmental impacts our solutions Risk management provided their input on the material topics, based on the impact Internal Indirect economic impacts on both their stakeholders and on our business. energy consumption The graphic on the left represents the material matters resulting Social Anti-corruption responsibility from that assessment in two dimensions: their relevance to the Environmental Diversity and equal company, and their influence on our stakeholders’ decisions. For and social compliance opportunity this materiality matrix, we have selected the aspects with at least a medium or high degree of materiality in both dimensions. It is Supply chain Occupational also important to note that: sustainability Industry health and safety commitment regulations Medium 2 As the International Integrated Reporting Council explains in its International <IR> Framework, “capitals” are stocks of value that are affected or transformed by the activities and outputs of an organization. The framework categorizes them as financial capital, manufactured capital, intellectual capital, human capital, social/ Medium Impact on Amadeus' business High relationship capital and natural capital. GRI 102-9, 102-44, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Efficiency and environmental benefits Amadeus Global Report 2018 143 of our solutions), 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Supply chain sustainability commitment) Annex 1. About this report __The materiality matrix depicts an evaluation for the short technology is extremely important for us, given the high-energy to medium term. intensity of the travel industry.↪ __All subjects included in the matrix form part of Amadeus’ regular operations and relationships with stakeholders, and therefore Amadeus’ suppliers should not be viewed in isolation. __The chart is not meant to be a precise representation, but rather Most of our external providers fall under the following categories: an indication of principal factors. __Consulting and marketing services The materiality matrix is reviewed on a yearly basis in the first __Hardware providers phase of the production of the Global Report. __Software providers __Data communication providers Scope and limitations of the Amadeus Although Amadeus has a worldwide presence, most of our spend, Global Report around an 80%, is concentrated in Spain, France, Germany and North America. The materiality analysis identifies the information that must be From a supply chain perspective, our activity is related to online reported in more detail. From that starting point, we build the transaction processing and technology development. In this content together with the relevant internal units, who define the context, Amadeus’ exposure to third-party providers who may not boundaries for each topic and provide their input. comply with minimal social or environmental requirements is low, The reporting scope for each material aspect includes the entire and that is why our external reporting is limited. Amadeus Group unless otherwise indicated. In terms of the dataDespite having around 10,000 suppliers, our top 50 represent gathering process and scope of the report, we have considered approximately 51% of our total spend with external providers. This the materiality of the information on the one hand and the effort facilitates our control and access to information in the supply chain. of collecting the data on the other. As a result, for some topics we cover less than 100% of the scope. In cases where data is limited, The Amadeus Corporate Purchasing Policy aims at ensuring that this is specified in the section in question. all employees involved in the procurement of goods and services factor in social and environmental responsibility aspects in their In addition to the most relevant aspects determined from the purchasing decisions. materiality analysis, we report on other matters for the purpose of improving overall transparency and stakeholder engagement. An organization of local, regional and global Amadeus purchasing teams oversees the operations on the supply chain side and deals Below are specific remarks regarding the materiality of some aspects. with both internal stakeholders and vendors. Amadeus’ emissions and other environmental impacts As a travel technology provider, Amadeus has a relatively low direct environmental impact. That is, we are not involved in physical manufacturing processes, and our main source of energy consumption is our Data Center in Germany. Moreover, one principal objective of the solutions we provide to our customers is to improve their operational efficiency, and this often entails the reduction of energy and natural resource consumption. Evaluating and maximizing the positive environmental benefits of our ↪ See “Environmental sustainability,” p. 90. 144 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 Annex 1. About this report Stakeholder Communication channel Approach to __Direct engagement through local, regional and global Amadeus stakeholder engagement People & Culture teams At Amadeus, want to make sure that all our stakeholders have easy __Engagement surveys across all sites Employees and access to up-to-date information about the company. These are __Collective bargaining agreements the main publications concerning our performance and activities, external candidates __Employee Box email which help ensure clear communication and transparency: __Intranet and internal weekly newsletter __Amadeus Global Report __https://jobs.amadeus.com/ __Consolidated Annual Accounts and Directors’ Report __Direct engagement through Investor Relations team __Annual Report on Corporate Governance of Listed and periodic reports Stock Corporations Shareholders __Roadshows and conferences __Annual Report on the Remuneration of Directors of Listed Companies __Investor Relations Inbox __Quarterly financial results announcements __https://corporate.amadeus.com/ (specific pages for investors) __Blog posts on global, regional and local Amadeus websites __Press releases __Social media updates on LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter, Google+, __Direct engagement through local, regional and global sales, Instagram and YouTube Customers as well as customer management teams around the world In addition to these publications and the specific methods of __Voice of the Customer Program stakeholder engagement described throughout this report,↪ we __Local and global customer support centers use additional channels to facilitate dialog (see table on the left). The specific regularity of engagement depends on the need and __Direct contact through the Amadeus Corporate Purchasing department, the type of communication tool used in each instance. In any case, Suppliers other internal units and local teams across offices worldwide we interact with each stakeholder group at least once a year. __Social responsibility and environmental surveys __Direct engagement through participation in main industry associations Amadeus’ contribution to Industry associations __Blog posts Sustainable Development Goals __Direct contact through the Industry Affairs team and local Amadeus The United Nations has outlined 17 Sustainable Development Governments, authorities general managers Goals (SDGs) for member states and businesses to strive toward and regulatory bodies __Participation in related meetings and events by 2030. The SDGs represent a universal call to action to end __https://corporate.amadeus.com/ (specific pages for industry affairs) poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. The 17 goals balance the three dimensions of __Direct engagement through multi-stakeholder panels sustainable development: economic, social and environmental. __Industry Affairs Box email Society and __Collaboration on joint social responsibility and sustainability initiatives the environment __Blog posts ↪ See “Customer experience,” p. 46; “Amadeus people and culture,” p. 62; __https://corporate.amadeus.com/ (specific pages for sustainability) “Amadeus industry affairs,” p. 80; “Environmental sustainability,” p. 90; “Social responsibility,” p. 104; and “Shareholders and financial institutions,” p. 132. Amadeus Global Report 2018 145 Annex 1. About this report Technological innovation has a tremendous potential to make The graph below represents Amadeus’ contribution to the a positive contribution to the SDGs. As a travel technology SDGs. We have marked in which section of the Global Report company, we invest↪ to develop IT solutions that help make the we describe our specific actions for each one. In 2018 we have industry more sustainable over the long term. The travel industry reviewed our contribution to the SDGs based on the input of is growing and we need to address this growth by finding ways external consultants as well as a deep analysis by our social and to travel more sustainably. Looking toward the future, we also environmental sustainability units. need to join forces with other stakeholders and share different perspectives, working together with a common goal of long-term travel industry sustainability. As a global company, we are aware that we create social and economic value. From the point of view of corporate governance, ◀ finance and labor practice point of view, we aim to increase our Amadeus’ Head of Sustainability positive impact on society, thus contributing to the SDGs directly participated in the congress “The Travel Future We Really linked to people’s welfare, for example related to standards of living, Want,” organized by our Belgian working conditions, education, economic growth and social equality. customer Joker. Sustainable Development Goal Amadeus in the travel industry Business lines Customer experience Technology and innovation Amadeus people and culture Amadeus industry affairs Environmental sustainability Social responsibility Corporate risk management Corporate governance Shareholders and financial institutions About this report Quantitative information and GRI Content Index ↪ See “Technology and innovation,” p. 52. 146 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 (Sustainable profitable growth), 201-1, 102-55 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index Annex 2. Direct economic value generated and distributed* Quantitative information and GRI Content Index Distributed economic value (figures in € million) 20171 2018 Operating costs 1,428.5 1,525.3 Employee wages and benefits 1,334.2 1,382.1 Payments to providers of capital** 434.2 1,017.8 Payments to governments 363.4 287.6 3,560.3 4,212.8 Generated economic value (figures in € million) 20171 2018 Net sales 4,637.2 4,935.7 Financial incomes 1.3 2.0 Sales of assets 0.0 0.0 4,638.5 4,937.7 * As defined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standard 201-1). ** All financial payments made to providers of the organization’s capital (interests and dividends paid). 1 Due to the implementation of the new International Financial Reporting Standards 9, 15 and 16, some figures have been reclassified and restated in 2017 for comparison purposes. GRI 302-1, 302-3, 302-4 Amadeus Global Report 2018 147 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index Tables related to environmental sustainability Energy consumption 2015 2016 2017 2018 20182 Electricity consumption top Amadeus sites* (GJ) 134,594 129,596 135,107 140,101 201,124 Number of employees* 10,192 10,465 11,009** 11,887 17,598 Electricity consumption per employee* (GJ) 13.2 12.4 12.3 11.8 11.4 Electricity consumption Amadeus data center (GJ) 173,899 193,041 220,452 231,801 231,801 Number of transactions processed at the data center (millions) 1,386 1,510 1,738 1,849 1,849 Electricity required per one million transactions (GJ) 125.5 127.8 126.8 125.4 125.4 Total electricity consumption top Amadeus sites and data center (GJ) 308,493 322,637 355,559 371,908 432,925*** Natural gas (GJ) 15,166 22,106 20,327 21,240 30,110 Diesel oil (GJ) 2,704 4,438 2,834 1,750 2,481 Total energy consumption top Amadeus sites and data center (GJ) 326,363 349,181 378,720 394,898 465,516 * Does not include Amadeus Data Center. ** The methodology to report the number of employees in Miami has been corrected in 2017 to reflect only those employees that work directly from our premises. As a result, the total number has been significantly reduced. *** Regarding renewable energy, Amadeus doesn’t purchase renewable energy certificates. We report renewable energy use based on the production mix per country published by the International Energy Agency. Accordingly, the proportion of renewable energy for our Data Center, i.e. biofuel, waste, hydro, geothermal solar photovoltaic, solar thermal, wind and tide is 31% over the total. We have also calculated the proportion of renewable energy for our top 14 sites which corresponds to 20.9% over the total. The percentage of total renewable for our Data Center and top 14 sites is 27.2% which corresponds to 28,210 MWh (101,556 GJ). Type of fuel used for electricity generation (GJ)* Coal Fuel Oil Natural Gas Biofuel Waste Other** Total Top 14 Amadeus sites 82,653 4,062 45,497 8,731 3,278 90,376 234,597 Data Center 295,633 5,567 73,468 42,846 12,628 81,965 512,107 * All figures expressed in gigajoules equivalent, obtained from the energy mix data of each country and the energy-transformation efficiency factor for each type of energy source. ** Other: Nuclear, hydropower, geothermal, photovoltaic, solar thermal, wind power and tidal power. 2 Scope: Total Amadeus sites worldwide. For comparability purposes we have included two sets of data for 2018. One including top 13 Amadeus sites by number of employees (same scope as of 2017) and the other with the estimated total of Amadeus calculated from the top 14 Amadeus sites. 148 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 301-1, 303-1, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 306-2 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index CO2 emissions* 2015 2016 2017 2018 20183 Scope 1. Direct emissions (fossil fuels)** 983 1,467 1,263 1,237 1,754 Scope 2. Indirect emissions from purchased electricity** 33,188 35,389 38,810 38,100 46,463 Scope 3. Indirect emissions from other sources*** 8,872 7,944 7,712 9,464 9,468**** Carbon offset 2,364 5,050 8,267 n/a 16,410 Natural gas (m3) 394,822 575,488 529,186 552,964 783,878 Diesel oil (L) 70,043 114,949 73,404 45,328 64,257 * All figures in t of CO2 unless otherwise indicated. ** Carbon offset not discounted. *** Includes emissions from air travel (7 sites until 2016, 9 in 2017 and 10 sites from the top 14 Amadeus sites in 2018) and paper use (top 11 sites until 2016 and top 13 in 2017). **** Includes emissions from air travel (10 sites) and paper use (based on data from 14 sites). Paper consumption 2015 2016 2017 2018 20183 Paper consumption (kg) 56,704 44,951 47,023 52,833 79,044 Number of employees 10,192 10,465 11,009 11,887 17,598 Paper consumption per employee (A4 sheets per working day) 5.06 3.90 3.88 4.04 4.08 Water consumption and waste generation 2015 2016 2017 2018 20183 Water consumption (m3) 272,288 250,233 253,179 213,897 255,512 Total estimated waste (kg)* 320,476 235,970 315,241 348,480** 507,220 * For comparability purposes, the figures for waste since 2017 do not include obsolete equipment or hazardous waste, since this information is only available in some of our sites. In 2018 we do not include single stream waste in our reporting in Waltham as this is mainly debris generated as a consequence of the works in the building and this is not related to the normal running of the building, and therefore not comparable with other sites. For waste generation in Manila, only paper consumption has been considered due to there is no other data available. Total obsolete equipment in 2018 was 26.8 tonnes and total hazardous waste was 10.8 tonnes. ** The percentage of obsolete equipment and hazardous waste that was sent for recycling in 2018 was 100% and 82%, respectively. For non-hazardous waste, 63% was sent for recycling and 17% was sent to composting. 3 Scope: Total Amadeus sites worldwide. For comparability purposes we have included two sets of data for 2018. One including top 13 Amadeus sites by number of employees (same scope as of 2017) and the other with the estimated total of Amadeus calculated from the top 14 Amadeus sites. GRI 405-1 Amadeus Global Report 2018 149 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index Tables related to human resources information4 Diversity in the workforce Workforce by employment contract by region in 2018* Gender diversity by employment type and contract in 2018* Permanent Temporary Employment type Employment contract Europe 9,088 356 Full-time Part-time Permanent Temporary Asia-Pacific 3,692 75 Male 10,062 210 10,004 268 North America 2,758 29 Female 5,905 743 6,424 224 South America 483 7 Total 15,967 953 16,428 492 Middle East & Africa 407 25 Total 16,428 492 * Scope: This scope includes all fullly owned company including new acquired Travelclick as integration on concepts is still in place. Figures on headcounts unless otherwise indicated. Headcounts include permanent staff and temporary staff as of 31st Dec. VPs and directors Senior managers and managers Staff 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 By age range <30 n/a 0 0 n/a 15 10 n/a 2,787 2,836 30-50 n/a 79 80 n/a 2,598 2,677 n/a 7,015 7,426 >50 n/a 113 109 n/a 870 971 n/a 1,532 1,666 By gender Male 164 159 154 2,336 2,350 2,465 6,216 6,754 7,143 Female 29 33 35 1,085 1,133 1,193 4,230 4,580 4,785 Total workforce 193 192 189 3,421 3,483 3,658 10,446 11,334 11,928 4 Scope: This scope includes all fully owned company excluding new acquired Travelclick as integration on concepts is still in place. Figures on Headcount as of 31st Dec. Overall HC for the included population is 15,775. 150 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 205-2, 404-1, 405-1 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index Diversity in the workforce Average hours of training in 2018 Male Female Total Governance bodies Employee category 2016 2017 2018 SVPs, EVPs and VPs 3.87 6.45 4.17 Percentage by age range Directors 13.76 12.51 13.51 <30 0% 0% 0% Associate directors 10.13 11.90 10.52 30-50 20% 0% 0% Senior managers 14.51 16.04 14.94 >50 80% 100% 100% Managers 11.21 20.46 20.35 Percentage by gender Staff 25.18 21.21 23.59 Male 90% 82% 82% Female 10% 18% 18% Training on Code of Ethics and Business Conduct in 2018 Percentage by nationality Online* Face to face Total Other than Spanish 70% 64% 64% Number of employees trained 1,242 468 1,710 Percentage of employees (FTEs) trained 7% 3% 10% Number of training hours 997 594 1,591 Employees with disabilities * Figures include active employees in December 31 , 2018. st 2016 2017 2018 Total 147 178 186 Anti-fraud policy training in 2018 Top management trained* 27 Total number of top management** 426 % of top management trained 6% * Breakdown by region is as follows: 24 employees in Asia-Pacific, 1 employee in Europe, Middle East and Africa and 2 employees in North America. Top management is not trained on yearly basis. Nevertheless the total amount of top management trained in the last three years represents almost the 100% of top management. ** Top management includes associate directors, directors, vice presidents, executive vice presidents, senior vice presidents and CEO. GRI 401-1 Amadeus Global Report 2018 151 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index Employees hires and turnover Employee hires Employee turnover 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Headcounts Headcounts Headcounts Rate Headcounts Headcounts Headcounts Rate By region Europe 764 1,132 1,288 14% 569 714 744 8% Asia-Pacific 681 604 743 20% 410 337 439 12% North America 288 304 287 10% 227 190 247 9% South America 72 79 36 7% 70 58 55 11% Middle East and Africa 49 29 42 10% 39 46 33 8% Total 1,854 2,148 2,396 14% 1,315 1,345 1,518 9% By gender Male 1,148 1,274 1,532 15% 792 820 940 9% Female 706 874 864 13% 523 525 578 9% Total 1,854 2,148 2,396 14% 1,315 1,345 1,518 9% By age range <30 871 1,139 1,295 46% 421 469 526 17% 30-50 892 926 1,030 9% 723 675 805 7% >50 91 83 71 2% 171 201 187 6% Total 1,854 2,148 2,396 14% 1,315 1,345 1,518 9% 152 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-41, 403-2 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index Work-related injuries in 2018 Europe Asia-Pacific North America South America Middle East and Africa Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Injuries per type Neck or back 5 3 2 1 Bone 9 4 Soft Tissue 3 2 1 1 Burns 2 RMI 1 Other 41 29 1 20 20 Total injuries 59 40 1 0 3 1 20 21 0 0 Injury rate 5.88 6.78 0.24 0.00 1.19 0.61 38.73 37.57 0.00 0.00 Occupational diseases rate 0.01 0.02 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.00 0.00 0.00 Lost day rate 0.09 0.10 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.46 0.58 0.00 0.00 Absentee rate 1.76 2.79 0.74 1.27 0.00 0.00 2.09 1.94 0.12 0.04 Work-related fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Collective bargaining agreements 2016 2017 2018 Percentage of employees covered by collective agreements 52% 51% 47% GRI 102-55 Amadeus Global Report 2018 153 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index GRI Content Index* GRI standard Disclosure Page number(s) / direct answer(s) Omission(s) GRI 101 Foundation 2016 GRI 102 General disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization Amadeus IT Group S.A. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services p. 10, 13, 15, 20-21 102-3 Location of headquarters p. 14 102-4 Location of operations p. 14, 47, 53-54 102-5 Ownership and legal form p. 9 102-6 Markets served p. 20, 22, 32 102-7 Scale of the organization p. 8-9 Organizational profile 102-8 Information on employees and other workers p. 8, 11, 63 102-9 Supply chain p. 143 102-10 Significant changes to the organization p. 131 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach p. 118-119 102-12 External initiatives p. 81, 83, 85, 87, 101 102-13 Membership of associations p. 83, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker p. 2-3, 4-5 Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities p. 11, 101, 116 * For the GRI Content Index Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for all disclosures included align with the appropriate sections in the body of the report. 154 Amadeus Global Report 2018 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index GRI standard Disclosure Page number(s) / direct answer(s) Omission(s) 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms p. 72, 104, 116-117 of behavior Ethics and Integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns p. 116-117 about ethics 102-18 Governance structure p. 122-124 102-22 Composition of the highest governance p. 124-128 body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body p. 124 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest p. 130-131 governance body Governance 102-26 Role of highest governance body p. 122-123 in setting purpose, values, and strategy 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes p. 116-117, 129 102-32 Highest governance body’s role p. 141 in sustainability reporting 102-35 Remuneration policies p. 123, 129-131 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 84, 144 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements p. 152 Stakeholder 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 80, 144 engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 144 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised p. 142 -143 Amadeus Global Report 2018 155 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index GRI standard Disclosure Page number(s) / direct answer(s) Omission(s) 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Amadeus Consolidated Annual Accounts 2018 financial statements pages 93-101 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries p. 141-142 102-47 List of material topics p. 142 There have not been any re-statements 102-48 Restatements of information of information provided in earlier reports. There have not been any significant changes 102-49 Changes in reporting from previous reporting periods. 102-50 Reporting period 2018 Reporting practice 102-51 Date of most recent report 2018 (information regarding 2017) 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding p. 170 the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance p. 141 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index p. 153-163 102-56 External assurance p. 164 Material topics Anti-corruption 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 116-120 and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 p. 116-120 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 116-120 156 Amadeus Global Report 2018 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index GRI standard Disclosure Page number(s) / direct answer(s) Omission(s) 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related p. 120 to corruption GRI 205 Anti205-2 Communication and training about antip. 150 corruption 2016 corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption In 2018 Amadeus did not identify any incidents and actions taken of corruption. Business diversification and leadership 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 21, 42 and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 p. 21, 42 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 21, 42 Customer satisfaction 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 46, 50 and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 p. 46, 50 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 46, 50 Data security 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 58-59, 121 and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 p. 58-59, 121 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 58-59, 121 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning In 2018 there were no complaints regarding GRI 418 Customer breaches of customer privacy and losses breaches of customer privacy and losses privacy 2016 of customer data of customer data. Amadeus Global Report 2018 157 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index GRI standard Disclosure Page number(s) / direct answer(s) Omission(s) Diversity and equal opportunity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 65 and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 p. 65 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 65 GRI 405 Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and equal p. 149-150 and employees opportunity 2016 Efficiency and environmental benefits of our solutions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 90-91, 94, 143 and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 p. 90-91, 94, 143 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 90-91, 94, 143 GRI 301 Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume p. 148 2016 GRI 303 Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source p. 148 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p. 148 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions p. 148 GRI 305 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions p. 148 Emissions 2016 305-4 GHG emissions intensity p. 148 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions p. 12, 96-98, 148 GRI 306 Effluents 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method p. 148 and waste 2016 158 Amadeus Global Report 2018 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index GRI standard Disclosure Page number(s) / direct answer(s) Omission(s) Efficiency and operational excellence 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 46, 98 and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 p. 46, 98 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 46, 98 Employee engagement and talent attraction 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 62, 63, 68 and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 p. 62, 63, 68 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 62, 63, 68 GRI 401 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover p. 151 Employment 2016 Environmental and social compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 117 and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 p. 117 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 117 GRI 307 In 2018 there was not imposed on the Group 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental Environmental either a penalty for incidents or breaches laws and regulations compliance 2016 or a significant fine on environmental issues. GRI 419 In 2018 there was not imposed on the Group 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in Socioeconomic either a penalty for incidents or breaches the social and economic area compliance 2016 or a significant fine on social issues. Amadeus Global Report 2018 159 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index GRI standard Disclosure Page number(s) / direct answer(s) Omission(s) Indirect economic impacts 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 107 and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 p. 107 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 107 GRI 203 Indirect economic 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts p. 107 impacts 2016 Industry regulations 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 81-82 and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 p. 81-82 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 81-82 Innovation 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 52, 60 and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 p. 52, 60 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 52, 60 Internal energy consumption 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 91 and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 p. 91 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 91 160 Amadeus Global Report 2018 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index GRI standard Disclosure Page number(s) / direct answer(s) Omission(s) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization p. 96, 147 302-2 Energy consumption outside Energy consumption outside of the organization of the organization is 127,505 GJ. GRI 302 Energy 2016 302-3 Energy intensity p. 96, 147 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption p. 147 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements p. 58 of products and services Occupational health and safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 71 and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 p. 71 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 71 GRI 403 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, Occupational health occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, p. 152 and safety 2016 and number of work-related fatalities Risk management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 116-120 and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 p. 116-120 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 116-120 Social responsibility 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 104-105, 107 and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 p. 104-105, 107 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 104-105, 107 Amadeus Global Report 2018 161 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index GRI standard Disclosure Page number(s) / direct answer(s) Omission(s) 413-1 Operations with local community GRI 413 Local engagement, impact assessments, p. 107 communities 2016 and development programs Supply chain sustainability commitment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p.143 and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 p.143 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p.143 100% of new suppliers in Madrid, US, Philippines and Dubai were screened using environmental criteria. Amadeus has implemented a new Vendor Creation process. For the time being is only available in Madrid, US, Philippines and Dubai. The other main sites (Nice and Erding) will be 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using GRI 308 Supplier included in early 2020 and then, gradually, environmental criteria Environmental the other countries. As part of this process, Assessment 2016 Amadeus has a mandatory questionnaire to be completed by all the vendors, which includes issues related to human rights, discrimination or environmental policies. If suppliers respond incorrectly they can not move forward in the process and Amadeus could not work with them. 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply In 2018 Amadeus did not identify any chain and actions taken environmental impact in the supply chain. 162 Amadeus Global Report 2018 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index GRI standard Disclosure Page number(s) / direct answer(s) Omission(s) 100% of new suppliers in Madrid, US, Philippines and Dubai were screened using social criteria. Amadeus has implemented a new Vendor Creation process. For the time being is only available in Madrid, US, Philippines and Dubai. The other main sites (Nice and Erding) will be 414-1 New suppliers that were screened included in early 2020 and then, gradually, GRI 414 using social criteria the other countries. As part of this process, Supplier Social Amadeus has a mandatory questionnaire to be Assessment 2016 completed by all the vendors, which includes issues related to human rights, discrimination or environmental policies. If suppliers respond incorrectly they can not move forward in the process and Amadeus could not work with them. 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain In 2018 Amadeus did not identify any social and actions taken impact in the supply chain. Sustainable profitable growth 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 101, 146 and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 p. 101, 146 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 101, 146 201-1 Direct economic value generated p. 146 GRI 201 Economic and distributed performance 2016 201-2 Financial implications and other risks p. 101-102 and opportunities due to climate change Amadeus Global Report 2018 163 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index GRI standard Disclosure Page number(s) / direct answer(s) Omission(s) Training and education 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 65 and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 p. 65 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 65 404-1 Average hours of training per year p. 150 GRI 404 Training and per employee education 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills p. 65, 72 and transition assistance programs Transparency and integrity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 81, 117 and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 p. 81, 117 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 81, 117 GRI 206 In 2018, there were no legal actions 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Anti-competitive for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust anti-trust, and monopoly practices behavior 2016 and monopoly practices. GRI 415 415-1 Political contributions p. 117 Public policy 2016 164 Amadeus Global Report 2018 GRI 102-56 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index Amadeus Global Report 2018 165 Annex 2. Quantitative information and GRI Content Index 166 Amadeus Global Report 2018 Annex 3. Glossary Annex 3. Glossary Amadeus air travel agency bookings: air bookings processed by travel agencies using Amadeus’ distribution platform. Ancillary services: additional services provided to customers beyond the ticket. Typical examples of airline ancillary services include extra baggage, priority seating, catering on board, etc. API: Application Programming Interface, a language that enables communication between computer programs. CRS: Computer Reservation System is a computer network containing travel-related information such as schedules, availability, fares and other services, which enables automated travel-related transactions between travel providers and travel agents. GDS: A Global Distribution System is a computer network containing travel-related information such as schedules, availability, fares and related services, which also enables automated travel-related transactions between travel providers and travel agents. In addition to providing a Computerized Reservation System, GDSs offer travel-related content to a broad range of agents worldwide, making global reach an important element of their value proposition. IATA: The International Air Transport Association (IATA) is the trade association for the world’s airlines, representing 265 airlines or 83% of total air traffic. IATA supports many areas of aviation activity and helps formulate industry policy on critical aviation issues. IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards. The IFRS® Foundation is a not-for-profit international organization responsible for developing a single set of high-quality global accounting standards, known as IFRS Standards. Amadeus Global Report 2018 167 Annex 3. Glossary International Integrated Reporting Council: A global coalition PPA: Purchase Price Allocation of regulators, investors, companies, standard setters, accounting professionals and non.governmental organizations sharing the Property Management System: A computerized system that view that communication about value creation should be the next facilitates the management of hotel properties. step in the evolution of corporate reporting. PNR: Passenger Name Record, a record of passengers’ travel IT transaction: defined as a single message received from requirements containing all the necessary information to enable a user that requires one or more responses to be sent. A user reservations to be processed and controlled by the booking can be a person or a computer system. and participating travel provider. Each PNR must contain the following five mandatory items or ‘elements’: name element KPI: Key Performance Indicators (passenger name), itinerary element (booking), contact element (a telephone number), ticketing element (arrangement for issuing NDC: NDC refers to New Distribution Capability, a program a ticket) and received from element (name of the person who launched by IATA for the development and market adoption made the booking). of a new xml-based data transmission standard (NDC standard) between airlines and travel agencies. IATA establishes various levels PSS: Passenger Service System, a series of mission-critical of NDC certification, depending on the NDC capabilities. systems used by airlines. The PSS usually comprises a Reservation System, an Inventory System and a Departure Open systems: in computing and informatics, a class of systems Control System (DCS). built using open source software (OSS) standards that offer a high level of portability and independence from the hardware PUE: Power Usage Effectiveness, a common metric used to platforms on which they operate, especially in contrast to the measure the energy efficiency of data centers. It is equal to Total more entrenched mainframes that were once common in the Facility Power/IT Equipment Power. The closer to 1 the PUE, travel industry. the more efficient the data center is. Passengers boarded: Actual passengers boarded onto flights Transactions processed at the Amadeus Data Center: operated by airlines using at least the Amadeus Altéa Reservation defined as basic operations linked directly to Amadeus’ business, and Inventory modules or Navitaire New Skies. such as bookings or processed passengers boarded. PCI-DSS: Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, a Travel agency air booking industry: defined as the total proprietary information security standard for organizations that volume of travel agency air bookings processed by the global handle branded credit cards from major card brands. Mandated CRSs. It excludes air bookings made directly through in-house by the card brands and run by the Payment Card Industry Security airline systems or single country operators, the latter primarily Standards Council, the standard was created to increase controls in China, japan and Russia, which together combined represent around cardholder data to reduce credit card fraud. an important part of the industy. This report includes pictures of people taken at public industry or specific Amadeus events attended by media representatives and communications departments that make use of several types of graphical material, including pictures of attendees to the event. By entering the event premises, they consented to authorizing Amadeus to photography and its release, publication, exhibition or reproduction to be used for internal communication, or for any other fair and lawful purpose related to any of the businesses of Amadeus, inclusion on websites or the cloud. They can have access to, correct, delete and object to the processing of personal data and they may exercise this right at any time by writing to the following email address: industry.affairs@amadeus.com. on 100% Printed Printed oneco 100% paper, paper,(Forest ecoFSC® FSC® Stewardship (Forest Stewardship Council®) Council®) and and ECF (Elemental ECF (Elemental Chlorine-Free) certified,certified, Chlorine-Free) environmentally environmentally friendly friendly GRI 102-53 Amadeus IT Group S.A. C/ Salvador de Madariaga, 1 28027 Madrid. Spain Phone: +34 91 582 0100 industry.affairs@amadeus.com www.amadeus.com © Amadeus IT Group and its affiliates and subsidiaries
