UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HLPF REPORT | 1 2 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 ABOUT THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT The United Nations Global Compact is a call to companies everywhere to align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and to take action in support of UN goals and issues embodied in the Sustainable Development Goals. The UN Global Compact is a leadership platform for the development, implementation and disclosure of responsible corporate practices. Launched in 2000, it is the largest corporate sustainability initiative in the world, with more than 9,500 companies and 3,000 non-business signatories based in over 160 countries, and nearly 70 Local Networks. For more information, follow @globalcompact on social media and visit our website at www.unglobalcompact.org. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS The UN Global Compact wishes to thank the Governments that have, over time, generously supported the initiative by contributing to the UN Global Compact Trust Fund: Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Republic of Korea, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom. Additionally, we are grateful for the financial support provided by companies and other organizations to the Foundation for the Global Compact. The UN Global Compact also wishes to express gratitude to Accenture Strategy, our partner in developing this report, for their extensive support, particularly the Progress on the Sustainable Development Goals section. PHOTOS Cover: Dana Smillie/World Bank Pgs 8-9: Sarah Farhat/World Bank Pg 13: Boris Balabanov/World Bank Pg 22: Simone D. McCourtie/World Bank DISCLAIMER The inclusion of company names and/or examples in this publication is intended strictly for learning purposes and does not constitute an endorsement of the individual companies by the UN Global Compact. COPYRIGHT © 2018 3 CONTENTS FOREWORD FROM ANTÓNIO GUTERRES, SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE UNITED NATIONS 4 FOREWORD FROM LISE KINGO, CEO & EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 5 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 6 THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT: A PRINCIPLES-BASED APPROACH TO THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 12 WHAT THE TEN PRINCIPLES MEAN FOR BUSINESS 14 PROGRESS ON THE TEN PRINCIPLES 16 PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 20 4 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 The mission of the United Nations to foster a peaceful, prosperous, inclusive and sustainable world requires bringing people and society together to support common goals. The private sector can and must play a central role in this effort by advancing international cooperation, engaging in public-private partnerships, finding innovative solutions to shared challenges and doing business responsibly. I am encouraged that thousands of businesses around the world — of all sizes and from all sectors — are demonstrating support for UN values and objectives through their commitment to the UN Global Compact and its Ten Principles, which encompass fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This report details the work of the world’s leading corporate sustainability initiative, and aims to promote better, more tangible understanding of the contribution of business as the world strives to implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and achieve the 17 Global Goals. Together with its Local Networks, the UN Global Compact will continue its efforts to create a critical mass of responsible companies to help fulfil the core promise of the 2030 Agenda: to leave no one behind. In that spirit, I recommend this progress report to a wide global audience. – H.E. António Guterres Secretary-General of the United Nations 5 As we mark the first three years of the 2030 Agenda and its Sustainable Development Goals, this Progress Report offers a snapshot of how far have we have actually come as a global community and, in particular, the private sector’s contribution to this global effort. These 17 Global Goals and their 169 targets are a scorecard for the world’s progress. This report provides an assessment of how businesses are adopting the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact into their strategies and operations, as well as an evaluation of their actions to deliver on the Global Goals. We have come a long way since the turn of the century. The maternal mortality rate in sub-Saharan Africa has declined by 35 per cent, and the under-five mortality rate has halved. In South Asia, a girl’s risk of marrying in childhood has declined by over 40 per cent. And in the least developed countries, the proportion of people with access to electricity has more than doubled. Globally, labour productivity has increased and unemployment decreased. The proportion of the world’s workers living with their families below the poverty line on less than US$ 1.90 a day declined from 26.9 per cent to 9.2 per cent in 2017. Despite these advances, our lack of progress to rollback climate change, build peaceful and just societies, empower women and ensure people have enough to eat could severely hamper our ability to deliver on the 2030 Agenda as a whole. The challenges facing the world today are multiGeneral Assembly, we need to be showing action and dimensional and interconnected. In a rapidly polarizing impact at scale. word, pressing environmental and political crises affect groups such as women, youth and indigenous communiTo achieve the momentum needed and exponential shift ties disproportionately. required to deliver on this Agenda, it is clear we will need to find ways to better measure and manage progress This report offers some encouraging evidence that the on every one of the Goals in order to ensure our shared private sector is stepping up to the challenge. Around ambition is matched by the impact required. This will 80% of the companies participating in the UN Global also require better company reporting, particularly on Compact are taking action to deliver on the Global Goals, societal impact and activities in the supply chain, as you and 66% are addressing the Goals through adherence to will see in this report. our Ten Principles as the first essential step. These are tall challenges but, for the first time ever, we The Global Goals have also created new ways of have a scorecard that allows us to unite in joint action to working, with all sectors exploring opportunities to scale achieve the world we all want. It can be done… up their collective impact through cross-sector partnerships — with business as a vital partner across all 17 of – Lise Kingo the Goals. CEO & Executive Director of the United Nations Global Compact The UN Global Compact supports thousands of responsible companies on this journey with tools, learning opportunities, accountability and encouragement. However, three years since all 193 UN Member States adopted the 2030 Agenda to thunderous applause in the 6 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY BUSINESSES DEMONSTRATE governance function, reporting on which is approved by HIGH PUBLIC COMMITMENT the Board of Directors or equivalent. AND RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE Additionally, publicly communicating their commitment ENGAGEMENT, AT THE EXECUTIVE is among the top actions that companies take (79 per LEVEL AND WITH STAKEHOLDERS cent) to embed corporate responsibility throughout their strategies and operations, and 64 per cent report The 2018 United Nations Global Compact Progress that the Board of Directors establish or approve these Report is an assessment of how businesses are targets. adopting the Ten Principles of the Global Compact in their strategy and operations, as well as an evaluation Engagement on responsible action is not only limited of their actions to deliver on the UN Sustainable to the internal organizational environment — but also Development Goals, commonly to external supply chain partners. referred to as ”Global Goals.” The Approximately 86 per cent of findings are both encouraging large companies with more than and informative — the level of 50,000 employees report that they engagement from CEOs and top executives is sending a strong message to employees, + 90% include corporate responsibility expectations in external documents such as contracts and purchase customers and stakeholders on OF COMPANIES REPORT orders. While this figure drops to 58 the importance of sustainability to THAT THEY HAVE per cent for companies with fewer business. And it is encouraging to POLICIES OR PRACTICES than 5,000 employees. see that 80 per cent of companies IN PLACE COVERING ALL Most companies report on their are reporting that they are taking TEN PRINCIPLES sustainability commitments. actions to advance the Global However, they need to do more to Goals. Now, with fewer than publicly communicate their actions 5,000 days remaining to meet and the impact of their specific the deadline of Agenda 2030, sustainability initiatives. For commitments needs to translate example, 55 per cent of companies into tangible action and impact, the 68% have not integrated sustainability measurement of which remains a metrics into their annual financial challenge. reports. Effective communication As the largest corporate OF COMPANIES REPORT about the impact business is sustainability initiative in the THAT CORPORATE having on people and the planet is world, the UN Global Compact RESPONSIBILITY POLICIES essential for responsible business is well-positioned to support AND STRATEGIES ARE practices, as set out in the UN businesses to take action on the DEVELOPED AND/OR Guiding Principles on Business and Global Goals. The UN Global EVALUATED AT THE Human Rights. Compact provides a practical CEO LEVEL Further, we support the efforts of framework for the development, the business community to more implementation and disclosure effectively communicate their of sustainability policies and sustainability actions publicly. In practices, offering participants a wide spectrum of 2018, together with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), workstreams, management tools and resources — all we published Integrating the Sustainable Development designed to help advance sustainable business models Goals into Corporate Reporting: A Practical Guide. and markets. This resource outlines a three-step process to embed This year, our research demonstrates that business the Global Goals into existing business and reporting leaders are increasingly embedding corporate processes. It helps businesses better report their impact sustainability throughout their company’s strategy and on the Global Goals and address the information needs operations and are publicly committing to them. of relevant stakeholders. This Guide follows an approach aligned with the GRI Standards and the UN Guiding For the majority of companies that responded, Principles on Business and Human Rights. corporate responsibility policies are addressed by executive leadership. Approximately 68 per cent of respondents reported developing and/or evaluating policies at the CEO level, while 73 per cent attest that corporate responsibility is a priority management and 7 WHICH OF THE FOLLOWING GLOBAL GOALS DO YOUR ACTIVITIES TARGET? Consistent with last year’s survey, companies say that the top three Global Goals they are targeting are Goal 8 on Decent Work and Economic Growth, Goal 5 on Gender Equality and Goal 3 on Good Health and Well-Being. 69% GOAL 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 64% GOAL 5 GENDER EQUALITY 62% GOAL 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING 53% GOAL 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE 53% GOAL 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION 48% GOAL 4 QUALITY EDUCATION 48% GOAL 13 CLIMATE ACTION 43% GOAL 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY 43% GOAL 10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES 40% GOAL 17 PARTNERSHIP FOR THE GOALS 37% GOAL 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES 36% GOAL 6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION 28% GOAL 1 NO POVERTY 28% GOAL 16 PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS 23% GOAL 2 ZERO HUNGER 21% GOAL 15 LIFE ON LAND 13% GOAL 14 LIFE BELOW WATER 8 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 BUSINESS COMMITMENT TO THE TEN When looking at which specific Goals their activies focus on, PRINCIPLES IS STRONG 69 per cent of companies report to specifically focus on Goal 8 on Decent Work and Economic Growth, 64 per cent focus on Businesses show strong commitment across the four Goal 5 on Gender Equality and 62 per cent focus on Goal 3 on overarching categories of the Ten Principles of the UN Good Health and Well-being. In contrast, Goal 14 on Life Below Global Compact: human rights, labour, the environment Water is targeted by only 13 per cent of companies, while Goal and anti-corruption. More than 90 per cent of companies 15 on Life on Land is targeted by just 21 per cent of companies. report that they have policies or practices in place covering Businesses are taking a lead on the critical environmental all Ten Principles. The following is an overview of some key goals through the UN Global Compact Action Platform data points found this year. for Sustainable Ocean Business, which aims to develop a HUMAN RIGHTS framework for leadership for the Global Goals and the ocean. Approximately 92 per cent of companies There remains untapped potential have instituted policies and practices for business to address the Global related to human rights, with 80 per cent Goals more holistically. A core 80% reporting that they incorporate human feature is their interconnectedness, rights principles within the company’s thus business action towards one overall corporate codes. Meanwhile, Goal may progress or impede 53 per cent of companies report that the achievement of others. OF COMPANIES REPORT they offer human rights training and Identifying and addressing THAT THEY INCORPORATE awareness programmes for employees. these interconnections will help HUMAN RIGHTS Finally, 72 per cent of companies report businesses build systemic solutions PRINCIPLES WITHIN THE that the UN Global Compact has had an that amplify progress across Goals COMPANY’S OVERALL essential to moderate impact on enabling and minimize negative inter-Goal CORPORATE CODE. them to address human rights. impacts. LABOUR Given this interconnectivity, businesses are uniquely positioned Over 85 per cent of companies report to drive progress across multiple that they have policies for non-discrimination, equal Goals. For example, smart or digital water metering in opportunity and to ensure safe working conditions. production units will drive progress on Clean Water and At the same time, 62 per cent of the companies claim Sanitation (Goal 6), Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure that the UN Global Compact has had an essential to (Goal 9), Responsible Consumption and Production (Goal 12) moderate impact on the how they address labour rights. and Life Below Water (Goal 14). ENVIRONMENT Caution must be exercised when taking steps to prioritize and advance the Global Goals, as there may be unintended Of the companies that responded, 78 per cent attest to consequences and adverse impacts on some Goals, despite having sustainable consumption and responsible use objectives. A quarter of the companies report to fully integrate water, climate change, renewable energy and biodiversity issues into their corporate strategy and operations. Two-thirds of companies report that the UN Global Compact has had an essential to moderate impact on how they address environmental matters. ANTI-CORRUPTION Approximately 82 per cent of companies report that they integrate the tenth principle against corruption within their overall corporate code and principles, while two-thirds report to have zero tolerance policies towards corruption and 92% OF COMPANIES HAVE explicit policies addressing anti-corruption. Meanwhile, 62% of companies attest that INSTITUTED POLICIES the UN Global Compact has had an essential AND PRACTICES to moderate impact on their ability to RELATED TO address anti-corruption. HUMAN RIGHTS BUSINESS IS INCREASINGLY ADDRESSING THE GLOBAL GOALS Of the business respondents, 80 per cent report that they are taking action to advance the Global Goals. 9 driving progress on others. And although there is no single In deeper granularity, UN Global Compact participants “human rights” Goal, a study by the Danish Institute for Human outperform in 30 out of 36 dimensions, ranging from Rights showed that more than 90 per cent of the 169 SDG intellectual property to resource management. targets reflect core international human rights and labour Compared to the sample, these signatories rank 31 per standards. cent higher on corporate governance, 22 per cent higher on human and labour rights, and 29 per cent higher on Companies participating in the UN Global Compact recognize emissions management among others. this interconnectedness, with 66 per cent noting that they are addressing the Global Goals through adherence to the Ten ROOM TO IMPROVE Principles. In fact, integrating the Ten Principles is reported to ON IMPLEMENTATION 80% be the main business activity driving progress on the Global Goals. For further insights, companies should refer to the OF PROCEDURES TO Blueprint for Business Leadership on the SDGs, which illustrates ASSESS RISK AND how the five leadership qualities of Ambition, Collaboration, IMPACT ON HUMAN OF COMPANIES Accountability, Consistency and Intentionality can be applied to RIGHTS REPORT THAT THEY business strategies, business models, products, supply chains, ARE TAKING ACTION partnerships and operations to raise the bar and create impact Approximately 27 per cent of companies perform risk TO ADVANCE THE at scale. GLOBAL GOALS. assessments directly linked TRANSLATING INTO STRONG FINANCIAL to human rights, with 17 PERFORMANCE per cent conducting impact assessments linked to Arabesque S-Ray®*, a source for sustainable metrics that human rights. One-third take integrates environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria human rights into account in their supply chain and with financial and momentum analysis, conducted a portfolio subcontracting operations. analysis of UN Global Compact signatories. It revealed that UN Global Compact signatories outperform competitors on multiple Today, more than 450 million people work in supply fronts. chain-related jobs, which represents a space where more business action would have significant impact The mean ESG score of UN Global Compact signatories is 55.87, on sustainable development. Currently, 42 per cent of while the rest of the universe (composed of ~7,000 publicly companies conduct due diligence processes on potential listed companies across the world) is 50.56. In addition to ESG, suppliers. Arabesque also calculates a UN Global Compact score — a norms-based assessment of business integration of the Ten Companies are addressing this through the UN Global Principles of the UN Global Compact. Signatories have a mean Compact Action Platform on Decent Work in Global score of 62.21 compared with to 53.89 for companies not Supply Chains. This alliance of companies is committed participating in the UN Global Compact. to respecting human rights and fundamental principles and rights at work by leveraging their supply chains and taking collective action to address decent work deficits. TOP 5 ASPECTS OF HUMAN RIGHTS ADDRESSED IN COMPANY POLICIES 66% OF COMPANIES NOTE 93% WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY THAT THE PRIMARY WAY THEY ARE ADDRESSING THE GLOBAL GOALS IS 92% THROUGH ADHERENCE NON-DISCRIMINATION TO THE TEN PRINCIPLES 89% GENDER EQUALITY 76% HEALTH 72% LIFE, LIBERTY, SECURITY OF THE PERSON *Through machine learning and big data analytics, Arabesque’s technology, S-Ray®, systematically combines over 250 environmental, social and governance (ESG) metrics with news signals from over 50,000 sources across 15 languages. It applies a values-based lens on universal principles of humanity, together with a systematic assessment of ESG factors that are financially material to corporations. 10 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT IS HELPING COMPANIES ADVANCE THEIR SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS Together with its Local More than 80 per cent of companies report Networks, the UN Global that participation in the UN Global Compact is a pathway to increasing trust through making a Compact will continue public commitment to sustainability. Approximately 64 per cent of companies publicly advocate for its efforts to create a actions in relation to the Ten Principles and other UN goals. Meanwhile, 41 per cent have company critical mass of respon­ leaders participating in conferences and public policy sible companies to help interactions related to the Ten Principles. Currently, the main impact that the UN Global Compact has on fulfil the core promise business is related to the acquisition of knowledge on sustainability and the promotion of sustainability of the 2030 Agenda: to actions across the value chain. leave no one behind. Looking forward, there are many areas where the UN — António Guterres, UN Secretary-General Global Compact can continue to work with business to enhance sustainability performance: 76 per cent of companies want the UN Global Compact to focus on helping them implement sustainability into business strategy and operations; 68 per cent want to emulate good practice examples; 75 per cent report to have insufficient internal processes to monitor and measure sustainability impact, and 70 per cent highlight the lack of standard performance metrics. OUR PARTICIPANTS REPORT THAT THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT HAS PLAYED AN IMPORTANT ROLE IN… driving our guiding our motivating our implementation of corporate company to sustainability policies sustainability advance the and practices reporting Global Goals 66% 65% 71% METHODOLOGY This report incorporates insights from the 2018 UN The designations employed and the materials in this Global Compact Annual Survey: a comprehensive publication do not imply the expression of any opinion questionnaire of corporate participants that asks whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat of the United business to report on their sustainability commitments Nations. The designations “developed” and “developing” and action. This year, 1,130 companies from 100 used for countries and regions are intended for statistical countries participated in the survey. This report purposes only and do not express any judgment about the highlights some of the key data gathered through the stage reached by a particular country, territory or area in survey. You can explore this and additional data in the development process. greater depth at progress.unglobalcompact.org. In addition to the Annual Survey, this report also draws upon the wider UN Global Compact data repository, such as the UN-Business Partnerships survey, Communication on Progress reports, and external studies and resources from the United Nations and other key organizations. 11 TOP 5 SECTORS REPRESENTED IN THE SURVEY AT WHAT LEVELS WITHIN YOUR COMPANY ARE 213 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY POLICIES AND STRATEGIES INDUSTRIAL GOODS AND SERVICES DEVELOPED AND/OR EVALUATED? 71 24% CONSTRUCTION AND MATERIALS MIDDLE MANAGEMENT 70 TECHNOLOGY 57 FINANCIAL SERVICES 57 68% 48% FOOD & BEVERAGE CEO SENIOR MANAGEMENT 38% CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OR ETHICS 48% 9% SUBSIDIARIES ANNUAL BOARD OF OFFICER REVENUES DIRECTORS (IN US$) <25 million 52% 25 – 250 million 22% 250 million – 1 billion 9% > 1 billion 17% REGIONAL REPRESENTATION 608 EUROPE 206 LATIN AMERICA 158 ASIA 51 AFRICA 49 MENA 45 NORTHERN AMERICA 12 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT: A PRINCIPLES-BASED APPROACH TO THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Launched in 2000, the United Nations Global To accelerate progress in 2015, all 193 Member Compact is a call to companies everywhere to align States of the United Nations agreed to an ambistrategies and operations with Ten Principles in the tious agenda to free humanity from poverty, secure areas of human rights, labour, environment and a healthy planet for future generations, and build anti-corruption. As the UN flagship for responsible peaceful, inclusive societies as a foundation for business action, the UN Global Compact is built ensuring lives of dignity for all. In support of the on the fundamental belief that business can be a 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the powerful force for good and United Nations formulated play a significant role in 17 Sustainable Development improving our world. Goals, otherwise known as OUR MISSION: the Global Goals, to define Over the past 18 years, the what success will look like UN Global Compact has MOBILIZE A GLOBAL in 2030. evolved into a leadership MOVEMENT OF platform for the developSUSTAINABLE For the past three years, ment, implementation and the UN Global Compact has disclosure of responsible COMPANIES AND worked with businesses and corporate practices. Today, STAKEHOLDERS TO other organizations from all the UN Global Compact CREATE THE WORLD over the world to develop is the world’s largest and share ideas on ways corporate sustainability WE WANT. businesses can measure initiative, with more than their individual impact on 9,500 companies and the Global Goals, and help 3,000 non-business signatories based in over 160 accelerate global progress toward their fulfillment countries, with activities supported by nearly 70 by 2030. Local Networks. 13 14 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 WHAT THE TEN PRINCIPLES MEAN FOR BUSINESS Smart companies understand that principlesnot generated at the expense of people, society based business is about far more than minimum or the environment. This principles-based apstandards or compliance. Principles proach provides a common ethical and practical provide the common ground for partnerships, framework for corporate responsibility — one that a moral code for employees, an accountability can be understood and implemented by businesses measure, and ultimately are the foundation for around the world, regardless of size, complexity or building trust across the board. location. To contribute positively to sustainable development, companies must implement the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of THE UNIVERSAL APPLICABILITY human rights, labour, environment and anti-corrupOF THE TEN PRINCIPLES tion, each derived from landmark UN Declarations and Conventions. By embedding these Ten Because the Ten Principles are derived from core UN Principles into strategies, policies and procedures, Declarations and Conventions, they are relevant and applicable around the world wherever a company might and establishing a culture of integrity, companies have a presence. The Ten Principles are derived from: are not only upholding their basic responsibilities to people and planet, but also setting the stage for 1 The Universal Declaration of Human Rights long-term success. 2 The International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work The Ten Principles are a universal framework for 3 The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development 4 The United Nations Convention Against Corruption responsible business conduct, guiding business toward practices that ensure financial profit is THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT 1 Businesses should support and respect the 7 Businesses should support a precautionary protection of internationally proclaimed approach to environmental challenges; human rights; and 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater 2 make sure that they are not complicit in environmental responsibility; and human rights abuses. 9 encourage the development and diffusion of LABOUR environmentally friendly technologies. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of ANTI-CORRUPTION the right to collective bargaining; 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and bribery. compulsory labour 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 15 MAKING THE CONNECTION: THE TEN PRINCIPLES AND THE GLOBAL GOALS For responsible business, the Ten Principles represent the fundamental values that they should embed in their business strategy and operations to guide their conduct, and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals describe the destination “Businesses can contribute towards which we want to go — time-bound, in important ways to the quantitative targets to work towards. realization of a world free of poverty and hunger by 2030, By defining clear objectives and targets for global including through job creation, society to reach by 2030, the Global Goals provide technological innovation and the a unique opportunity for business — and a source provision of finance resources. of inspiration to explore how to develop new The private sector brings both business models, product and service innovations, agility in delivery and new and solutions to tackle the challenges outlined approaches to SDG implementaby the Goals. Taking a principles-based approach tion. The 2030 Agenda cannot be to the Global Goals by first integrating the Ten achieved by Governments alone. Principles ensures that attempts to make a positive To address the needs of the contribution to the Global Goals are not undermost vulnerable in communities mined by negative impacts that business might around the world, we need a have as the result of neglecting its responsibilities bolder approach to partnership, related to human rights, labour, environment and a dynamically engaged business anti-corruption. community, and new forms of sustainability financing.” To understand how a company can meaningfully — Amina J. Mohammed, Deputy contribute to sustainable development, it must first understand its actual and potential, direct and Secretary-General of the United indirect, negative and positive impacts across its Nations, 17 July 2018 entire value chain related to all Ten Principles and 17 Global Goals. By understanding and prioritizing its impacts, and taking action to prevent, mitigate and remedy any negative impacts while investing in scaling positive impacts, a company ensures it is making a positive contribution to the Global Goals and sustainable development more broadly. 16 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 A CLOSER LOOK AT PERFORMANCE: PROGRESS ON THE TEN PRINCIPLES The 2018 UN Global Compact Progress Report takes stock of how companies participating in the UN Global Compact are performing when it comes to integrating the Ten Principles into their business strategies and day-to-day operations. This year marks the 10th anniversary of this survey. For some parameters, we can now track performance all the way back to 2008 to assess how companies have maintained or changed their sustainability practices over the years. Good performance on the Ten Principles is when a company not only states its public commitment to them and establishes policies covering the four areas, but when this commitment is also translated into concrete action, such as assessing the company’s risks and impacts to improve conduct, and regularly monitoring and evaluating performance. The findings are encouraging, and we see good performance in some important areas: Sustainability reporting is becoming mainstream Risk assessments An increasing number of on the rise 65% companies publicly disclose Approximately 37 per cent of their sustainability activities. In respondents report that they 2018, 65 per cent of companies conduct corporate responsibility report they publicly disclose risk assessments, an increase OF COMPANIES REPORT THEY their sustainability policies and from 32 per cent in 2012. PUBLICLY DISCLOSE THEIR practices. Looking at our largest SUSTAINABILITY participants (with more than Integrating sustainability POLICIES AND PRACTICES 50,000 employees) 100 per cent Approaches to integrating report that they issue a sustainsustainability into core business ability report (40 respondents). strategies and operations have This is up from 50 per cent of remained fairly consistent over companies in 2008 indicating the years (44 per cent report that they had submitted a Comthat they integrate responsibility munication on Progress (CoP). for sustainability into different 37% corporate functions, and Strategic leadership similarly, 44 per cent say they Sustainability is treated strategiallocate responsibility to their cally, and at a higher level in different business units). When business organizations. In 2018, this question was first posed in OF RESPONDENTS REPORT 68 per cent of companies report 2011, 48 per cent were integratTHAT THEY CONDUCT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY RISK that the CEO is responsible ing sustainability into relevant ASSESSMENTS, AN INCREASE for their corporate responsibilcorporate functions, and about FROM 32% IN 2012 ity strategy, and 48 per cent half (49 per cent) were integratallocate this responsibility to the ing into business unit strategies Board of Directors. This figure and operations. has been fairly consistent over the years. 17 10 AREAS WITH PROGRESS 2008 Total number of respondents 2018 2008: 718 OVER 10 YEARS 2018: 1138 The company reports its sustainability 50% performance 65% Reporting helps the company integrate its commitment to 60% corporate responsibility into business operations 81% The company focuses on sustainable 60% consumption and responsible use 78% The company conducts human rights training and 43% awareness raising for employees 53% The company has a policy in place to not 57% use or benefit from forced labour 68% The company has a policy in place to not 61% use or benefit from child labour 71% The company has an explicit policy 42% addressing anti-corruption 67% The company has a zero-tolerance policy 44% towards corruption 69% The company requires it supply chain 7% partners to adhere to the Principles 14% Participation in the UN Global Compact has helped advance 67% corporate responsibility internally in the company. 74% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% LOOKING ACROSS THE ISSUES: OVER 90% HAVE POLICIES AND PRACTICES IN PLACE ACROSS THE TEN PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR The figure shows a strong commitment to the Ten Principles. More than 90 per cent of companies that have 94% 94% joined the UN Global Compact 88% 92% have policies or practices in place covering all the Ten Principles. For the 10-year period we have 2008 2018 2008 2018 measured performance on this indicator we see strong growth in the number of companies with policies relating to human rights ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION and anti-corruption between 2008 and 2012. Do you have policies or practices 92% 94% 91% in place related to: 81% Human Rights Labour Environment 2008 2018 2008 2018 Anti-corruption 18 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 STEADY RISE IN SPREADING SUSTAINABILITY THROUGHOUT THE SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLY Does your company consider the following areas in Human Rights Environment CHAIN: its supply chain and subcontracting arrangements? Labour Anti-corruption Applying sustainability throughout the value chain is one of the main challenges HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR that companies face in realizing the commitment to the Ten Principles. 38% 38% 33% 42% 39% We have seen steady growth in extending sustainability 2009 2018 2009 2018 throughout the supply chain since 2009 across the issues. While still less than 50 per cent implement the against the Ten ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Principles, the growth seen is promising, particularly when it comes to anti-corruption, which saw the steepest gain of 23 per cent since 2009. Today, 40% 43% 22% 45% 45 per cent of companies say they have activities to combat corruption in the supply chain. 2009 2018 2009 2018 STILL ROOM FOR IMPROVEMENT IN MONITORING PERFORMANCE Does your company monitor and Human Rights Environment MONITORING AND evaluate its performance related to: Labour Anti-corruption EVALUATION: Systematically and objectively assessing an on-going or HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR completed project, programme or policy, and its design, implementation and results 21% 33% 44% 53% There is growth in reporting and 2010 2018 2010 2018 monitoring practices. More than half of respondents currently report that they are monitoring performance on the labour and environmental principles. In fact, ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION when it comes to labour, we see a promising improvement in practices from 2010 when only 44 per cent of companies 49% 53% reported that they monitored performance, compared to 53 31% 33% per cent today. 2010 2018 2010 2018 19 WHILE REPORTING HAS BECOME MORE MAINSTREAM, REPORTING ON SPECIFIC ISSUES REMAINS CHALLENGING PUBLIC Does your company publicly disclose its Human Rights Environment DISCLOSURE: policies and practices related to: Labour Anti-corruption A non-confidential communication of activities and investments, typically HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR the results of your impact assessment and monitoring and evaluation efforts. 25%13% 35% 39% 42% Approximately 65 per cent of companies report that 2010 2018 2010 2018 they disclose their overall sustainability performance and practices to the public. Indeed, for many, the public reporting of commitments is the main ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION reason to join the UN Global Compact. When we look at reporting on the different issues, 49% 48% however, the numbers are lower. There has been a noted rise in reporting on anti-corruption over the years, increasing from 27 27% 36% per cent in 2010 to 36 per cent today. 2010 2018 2010 2018 MIND THE GAP: IMPACT ASSESMENT IS LAGGING BEHIND IMPACT Does your company conduct Human Rights Environment ASSESSMENT: impact assessments on: Labour Anti-corruption A process for identifying, understanding, assessing and addressing the effects of your company’s programmes, HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR projects and activities on society and your operating environment 13% 16% 23% 26% Nearly 90 per cent of companies report that they have some form 2012 2018 2012 2018 of policy or practice in place relating to all Ten Principles. Looking at impact assessment, however, we still see a low percentage of companies with a ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION clear assessment of impact. 51% 50% 22% 14% 2012 2018 2012 2018 20 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS This section is a review of current progress on each of the 17 Global Goals and considers impact measurement perspectives drawn from the wider literature and repository of the UN Global Compact. We assess the impact of business across the Global Goals — with the aim of recognizing opportunities and challenges faced by corporate leaders as they seek to report impact towards Agenda 2030. It is based on the companies’ reported actions toward advancing the Global Goals. This section looks at what Goals businesses report to be targeting (which most say are Goal 3, Goal 5 and Goal 8), also where they report to be having impact (which are also Goal 3, Goal 5 and Goal 8). And for which goals they have products and services which directly address the relevant targets, which are Goal 3, Goal 8 and Goal 12). This section highlights how business is taking action to advance the Goals, notably through their commitment to the Ten Principles and partnerships. It also provides an overview of the areas that are perceived as most challenging, like extending their commitment through the supply chain. The data is drawn from the UN Global Compact Annual Survey and from an assessment of some of the most recently submitted Communications on Progress (CoP). As we look ahead, the UN Global Compact is reorienting its approach to gathering information from companies so that we can better tell stories about how they are having an impact on societal goals. Our objective is to provide critical insights into how the private sector is helping to advance the Global Goals, and learn what the next steps are for scaling-up action so that people and planet can thrive. 21 ACTIONS THAT COMPANIES TAKE TO ADVANCE THE GLOBAL GOALS Companies report that upholding the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact is one of the primary ways that they are contributing to the Global Goals. This reinforces the relevance and core nature of the Ten Principles in terms of advancing the global sustainability agenda. Over half of companies are engaging in partnership projects with public or private organizations which shows that alliances are a key mechanism to have impact across the Goals. CORE BUSINESS: Upholding the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact 66% Align core business strategy with the Global Goals 40% Develop products and/or services that contribute to the Global Goals 43% Design business models that contribute to the Global Goals 30% Set goals that are ambitious, science-based and/or align with societal needs 30% SOCIAL INVESTMENT AND PHILANTHROPY: Voluntary financial contributions to charitable organizations 53% Voluntary non-financial/in-kind contributions to charitable organizations 47% ADVOCACY: Publicly advocate the importance of action in relation to the Global Goals 42% Participate in events on public policy 31% Publicly communicate your practices for and impacts on the Global Goals 49% COLLABORATION AND PARTNERSHIPS: Engage in partnership projects with public or private organizations 51% Participate in industry collaboration to advance the Global Goals 36% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% WHAT CHALLENGES DOES YOUR COMPANY FACE IN ADVANCING TO THE NEXT LEVEL OF IMPLEMENTATION? Consistent with last year, the most difficult area is extending strategy throughout the supply chain. The UN Global Compact Action Platform on Decent Jobs in Global Supply Chains will help to identify solutions. Extending strategy throughout the supply chain 40% Lack of support from top management 36% Lack of financial resources 36% Implementing strategy across business functions 34% Competing strategic priorities 30% Lack of knowledge 24% No clear link to business value 18% Extending strategy throughout subsidiaries 16% Lack of recognition from investors 13% Difficulty due to operating environment 13% (e.g., conflict area, poor state governance) 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% 22 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 23 UN Global Compact Company Contribution Extreme poverty affects 636 million, or 8 per cent of the global population.2 It is estimated Globally, companies are reporting progress on eliminating poverty that one-in-five persons in developing in 2018. Compared to statistics from the 2017 UN Global Compact countries live on less than US$ 1.25 a day.3 Annual Survey, in which 34 per cent of companies reported to have a The international poverty line, estimated by positive impact on Goal 1, this year, 45 per cent of companies report the World Bank, is currently defined as US$ to have a positive impact. A high percentage of companies from 1.90 a day, using 2011 purchasing power Africa are reporting progress — with 84 per cent reporting significant parity.4 and somewhat positive impact. UN Global Compact participant responses to Goal 1: Broad Considerations for Business Companies report to have: Of the respondents, 34 per cent self-reported that they have no impact on Goal 1. However, companies do make a contribution Significant positive impact 18% towards eliminating poverty through their direct impact on linked factors such as the promotion of social protection systems, legal Somewhat positive impact 45% rights to resources, and so forth. Companies’ impact on decent employment, access to capital, nutrition, healthcare, education and Targeted the Goal 28% sanitation are vital cross-overs that progress Goal 1. Products/services contributing to the Goal 33% Young workers are particularly susceptible to living under the international poverty line as they are paid substantially lower wages ONE-IN-FIVE than adults. Measuring the number of quality jobs increased for persons in developing regions live on less marginalized groups and the removal of employment barriers are than US$ 1.25/day thus important variables in assessing impact on Goal 1. Forced labour, 8% poor working conditions and unfair wages do exist among more than of the Global Population still live in extreme 450 million people globally who work in supply-chain related jobs poverty estimated by the ILO.5 19% The Poverty Footprint is an assessment tool that enables companies companies report not to have any policies in place to pay adequate wages in the 2018 UN and civil society partners to understand corporate impacts on Global Compact Annual Survey multi-dimensional poverty. As a tool to help implement the SDGs, the Poverty Footprint provides a comprehensive overview of factors 2 World Data Lab https://worldpoverty.io/ that influence poverty, and it emphasizes stakeholder engagement 3 Report of the Secretary-General (2017) Progress and partnership between companies and civil society as a means for towards the Sustainable Development Goals, establishing pro-poor business strategies.6 United Nations Economic and Social Council, E/2017/66 Case Study: Unilever Shakti Initiative 4 World Bank Group, Global Poverty Line http:// www.worldbank.org/en/topic/poverty/brief/globalUnilever’s Shakti Initiative in India, aimed at creating employment poverty-line-faq and entrepreneurship opportunities for women by building a last5 Human Rights Watch (2018) Human Rights mile distribution network, has immensely benefited over 75,000 in Supply Chains https://www.hrw.org/ report/2016/05/30/human-rights-supply-chains/ women from low income families through higher incomes. The call-binding-global-standard-due-diligenc Shakti entrepreneurs are also trained in basic accounting, sales, 6 UN Global Compact, OXFAM, The Poverty communication and IT skills, and provided with smartphones to Footprint https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ facilitate greater sales. The success of Shakti has prompted Unilever library/3131 to scale up the programme to South-East Asia, Africa and Latin America. 24 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 UN Global Compact Company Contribution Currently, 795 million people, or 1 in 9 globally, are undernourished.7 Asia alone accounts for High impact industries such as food and beverage producers as well 64 per cent of total undernourished people as retailers demonstrate strong positive impact on Goal 2: 85 per in the world. The targets of Goal 2: Zero cent report a significant to positive impact, and 60 per cent attest to Hunger include specific targets on agriculture, setting targets linked to hunger elimination. Globally, there remains particularly small-scale food producers. The tremendous opportunity for business to impact Goal 2. In Asia, agriculture indsutry is the world’s largest particularly, fewer than one-fifth of companies report to have any employer — providing livelihood for 26 per cent significant impact despite the region having the most undernourished of the global population.8 people. UN Global Compact participant Broad Considerations for Business responses to Goal 2: Companies report to have: Impact assessment on Goal 2 is inherently linked to many factors including the availability, affordability and accessibility of nutritional Significant positive impact 14% sources, as well as secure and equal access to land for small-scale farmers — dimensions upon which corporate impact on Goal 2 can be Somewhat positive impact 39% assessed. Measuring impact on Goal 2, thus, would require companies to measure how their operations impact these dimensions as well, Targeted the Goal 23% including through their respect for land rights and the payment of fair prices in their supply chains. Since a third of the produced food ends up Products/services contributing to the Goal 28% as waste, companies looking to measure their impact can also consider the ways in which their own practices contribute to or may alleviate food waste. Food losses and waste amounts to: Case Study: Kellogg Breakfasts for Better Days ~$680 BILLION in industrialized countries Kellogg launched the Breakfasts for Better DaysTM program in 2013 with the aim of donating 2.5 billion servings of food to people ~$310 BILLION in developing countries vulnerable to hunger across the globe. The program is driven in collaboration with food banks and includes further commitments ~1.3 BILLION TONNES including nutrition education programs for children, support to of food produced in the world for human farmers to sustainably improve yield and reduce waste and employee consumption every year—roughly 1/3— volunteering. gets lost or wasted 222 MILLION TONNES of food wasted by consumers in rich countries each year vs. 230 MILLION TONNES net food production of sub-Saharan Africa9 7 FAO, IFAD and WFP (2015) The State of Food Insecurity, pg. 2, org/save-food/resources/keyfindings/en/ http://www.fao.org/3/a-i4646e.pdf 10 Zero Hunger Challenge http://www.un.org/en/zerohunger/ 8 ILO (2018) Employment by Sector, ILO World and Social pdfs/ZHC%20Commitment%20Framework_Business%20 Outlook FAQ_FINAL.PDF 9 UN FAO, Key Findings on Food Loss and Waste http://www.fao. 25 UN Global Compact Company Contribution Each year, more than 6 million children die globally before the age of five. Children Approximately 83 per cent of companies report having a positive born into poverty are almost twice as likely impact on Goal 3, and are also increasingly (85 per cent) to die than those from wealthier families. implementing policies and programmes to promote the good Vaccines and access to quality medication health and well-being of their employees. About 89 per cent of has improved since 2000: 15.6 million deaths African companies have reported setting targets to advance Goal 3, have been averted by measles vaccines, compared to 62 per cent of North American companies and 59 per 6.2 million deaths from malaria were cent of European companies. Expectedly, 77 per cent of companies in averted, and HIV has dropped 38 per cent the healthcare space, including healthcare equipment and services, since 2001.11 Chronic non-communicable pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, report significant positive impact diseases such as cardiovascular disease, on Goal 3, and 97 per cent report setting targets to achieve Goal 3. cancer, diabetes and respiratory disease are now the leading causes of death and illness Broad Considerations for Business worldwide. They are projected to cost $47 trillion by 2030 and push millions of people An interconnected approach to understanding impact would below the poverty line.12 incorporate additional dimensions pivotal to measuring a company’s holistic impact on Goal 3. A major risk factor for infectious diseases UN Global Compact participant and mortality is the lack of safe water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) responses to Goal 3: services, which disproportionately affects sub-Saharan Africa and Central/Southern Asia. Thus, an impact on Goal 6 on Clean Water Companies report to have: and Sanitation will have, among others, a direct bearing on Goal 3. Yet 43 per cent of companies reporting a significant or positive impact on Significant positive impact 32% Goal 3 also report no impact on Goal 6. Somewhat positive impact 51% Case Study: AstraZeneca Young Health Programme Targeted the Goal 62% AstraZeneca’s Young Health Programme (YHP) targets young people and focuses on prevention of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) Products/services contributing to the Goal 64% like type 2 diabetes, cancer, heart and respiratory disease. The YHP 400 MILLION PEOPLE addresses NCD risk behaviours (such as tobacco use, alcoholism, lack access to essential health services unhealthy eating, physical inactivity) and provides support to young globally13 people through on-ground education and mentoring programs. Launched in 2010, the programme has reached over 20 countries and 6 MILLION CHILDREN improved the lives of over 2.25 million youth. under the age of five die annually $16 TRILLION Global economic cost due to mental illness over the next two decades14 $576 BILLION Annual loss to US economy due to employee illness15 11 UNDP (2018) Goal 3: Good Health and Well-being http://www. www.who.int/mediacentre/news/releases/2015/uhc-report/en/ undp.org/content/undp/en/home/sustainable-development14 Science Daily (2018) Poor Mental Health Days May Cost the goals/goal-3-good-health-and-well-being.html Economy Billions of Dollars https://www.sciencedaily.com/ 12 WHO (2011) The Global Economic Burden of Nonreleases/2018/07/180730120359.htm Communicable Diseases http://apps.who.int/medicinedocs/en/d/ 15 Forbes (2012) US Workforce Illness Cost Annually https:// Js18806en/ www.forbes.com/sites/brucejapsen/2012/09/12/u-s-workforce13 WHO, (2015) Press Release, New Report Shows that 400 illness-costs-576b-annually-from-sick-days-to-workersMillion do not have access to essential Health Services http:// compensation/#561121e45db0 26 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 UN Global Compact Company Contribution Enrollment in primary education in developing countries has reached 91 per cent in 2015, Corporate progress is strong: 71 per cent companies report having yet 57 million primary-aged children remain a positive impact on Goal 4. Sub-Saharan Africa and Southern Asia out of school worldwide, 50 per cent of account for over 70 per cent of the global out-of-school population. whom live in conflict-affected areas. 103 Companies in Africa are reporting strong progress: 86 per cent of million youth lack basic literacy skills, companies have reported a positive impact on Goal 4, with over half with 60 per cent being women, resulting in of them reporting significant progresss, and three-fourths reporting further marginalization from decent work targets to boost education levels. and employment opportunities. Globally, six out of ten children and adolescents do not Broad Considerations for Business achieve the minimum level of proficiency in reading or mathematics.16 Additionally, the Business can develop their future workforce through cost-effective shortage of trained teachers and poor school education products and services. Recent analysis shows that digital conditions (­ particularly lack of electricity and skills are a seminal trend impacting the employment sector in clean water) in many parts of the world are developing countries. In developed economies, 90 per cent of jobs jeopardizing prospects for quality education. require some level of digital skills.20 This is necessitated by the increasing pace of adoption of new technologies, requiring employee UN Global Compact participant upskilling as well as graduate training to develop a labour force responses to Goal 4: capable of working with emergent technologies. Private sector Companies report to have: initiatives like the Global Coalition for Education can play a significant role through engagement with policymakers to advocate for quality Significant positive impact 26% education. Initiatives must be cognisant of any inter-goal positive or negative impacts, or exasperating risks associated with Goal 5 on Somewhat positive impact 45% Gender Equality or Goal 10 on Reduced Inequalities. Targeted the Goal 48% Case Study: BASF’s Educational Initiatives in Africa Products/services contributing to the Goal 44% BASF drives progress on Goal 4 in Africa through investment in projects aimed at improving education levels of children and youth. BASF has donated over 1 million desks to schools as part of the 4 MILLION OF 7.4 MILLION Tutudesk Campaign. The company has set up Kids’ Labs and Virtual refugee school age children do not Chemistry Laboratories to promote science education in African undergo schooling17 schools. 750 MILLION Population of illiterate adults globally18 1.4 MILLION Jobs at risk by 2026 in the US due to technological disruption in the absence of reskilling19 16 UNDP (2018) Goal 4: Quality Education http://www.undp.org/ 19 WEF (2018) Towards a Reskilling Revolution Report content/undp/en/home/sustainable-development-goals/goal-420 UNESCO (2017) Working Group on Education: Digital Skills for quality-education.html Life and Work 17 UNHCR (2018) Turn the Tide: Refugee Education in Crisis 21 Starbucks, Initiatives https://news.starbucks.com/news/ Report starbucks-canada-launches-canadian-work-placement18 UNESCO (2017) UIS Fact Sheet No.45 program-with-three-not-fo 27 UN Global Compact Company Contribution Approximately 83 per cent of companies reported a significant or Globally, women earn only 82 cents for every positive impact on gender equality, and 68 per cent reported no pay dollar that men earn doing the same work, gap between women and men in top management. Further, 90 per and are more likely to be unemployed and cent of the companies reporting to have non-discrimination policies overrepresented in low wage, vulnerable, or and 87% reporting to have equal opportunity policies. undervalued jobs.22 In 18 countries, men can legally prevent their wives from working.23 Broad Considerations for Business Gender-based discrimination and patriarchal The share of women in the global workforce is weak. Women attitudes have resulted in physical and/or constitute just 39 per cent of the global workforce,26 hold fewer than sexual violence, with seven in ten women a quarter of managerial positions and less than 4 per cent of CEO around the world experiencing physical and/ positions.27 The number of Fortune 500 women CEOs has plummeted or sexual violence in their lifetime.24 from 32 in 2017 to 24 in 2018, a significant drop (25 per cent) in a single year.28 UN Global Compact participant responses to Goal 5: If the employment participation and wage gaps were closed globally, women could increase their income by up to 76 per cent, a global value Companies report to have: of US$17 trillion.29 The effects on the economy and spending power of the consumer would spur growth for many companies far increasing Significant positive impact 39% results from a business-as-usual approach. Additionally, studies have shown that introducing more women in the workplace brings together Somewhat positive impact 44% more diverse perspectives and results in more creative and innovative solutions and products. Targeted the Goal 64% Women’s Empowerment Principles Gender Gap Analysis Tool is Products/services contributing to the Goal 55% an online platform which helps global business leaders identify strengths, gaps and opportunities to improve gender equality and women’s empowerment in the workplace and within the markets and 217 YEARS communities they serve. The tool offers an assessment of a company’s Estimated to achieve gender equality at workplace progress in advancing gender equality, profiling companies as “Beginner”, “Improver,” “Achiever” or “Leader.” Visit weps-gapanalysis.org. 82 CENTS Earnings of women per dollar earned by men Case Study: L’Oreal L’Oreal has been at the forefront of promoting gender equality in the SEVEN OUT OF TEN WOMEN workplace. Women comprise 70 per cent of L’Oreal’s workforce, 62 experience physical and/or sexual violence per cent of executives, 33 per cent of executive committee members 15 MILLION and 46 per cent of board members. Women managed 58 per cent of girls under the age of 18 lose their childhood the company’s brands (as of December 2016). L’Oreal was ranked to harmful practices such as child marriage first among over 3,000 global companies by Equileap, a non-profit organization that aims to accelerate progress towards gender equality at work. 22 PEW Research (2018) Gender Pay Gap Facts http://www.pewresearch.org/ org/indicator/SL.TLF.TOTL.FE.ZS fact-tank/2018/04/09/gender-pay-gap-facts/ 27 Catalyst (2018) Percentage of Women in Senior Roles https://www.catalyst. 23 World Economic Forum (2015) Countries where women require husband’s org/knowledge/women-management permission to get a job https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2015/11/1828 Fortune (2018) The Share of Female CEOs in the Fortune 500 countries-where-women-need-their-husbands-permission-to-get-a-job/ http://fortune.com/2018/05/21/women-fortune-500-2018/ 24 UNDP (2018) Goal 5: Gender Equality http://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/ 29 Action Aid (2015) Close the Gap! The cost of inequality in women’s work, pg. 9 home/sustainable-development-goals/goal-5-gender-equality.html 30 IFC (2017) Tackling Childcare Report, October https://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/ 25 World Economic Forum, Closing the Gender Gap Parity Task Force https:// connect/2ec7e545-437e-43bb-8d2a-c929229c6ce6/Tackling+Childcare+Repo www.weforum.org/projects/closing-the-gender-gap-gender-parity-task-forces rt+Final+October+2017.pdf?MOD=AJPERE 26 World Bank (2017) Labour Force, Female Statistics https://data.worldbank. 28 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 UN Global Compact Company Contribution Water scarcity affects more than 40 per cent of the global population, and nearly 663 Business is driving positive impact on clean water and sanitation million people do not have access to clean efforts — 60 per cent of companies report to have a positive impact drinking water.31 Around 1.2 billion people on Goal 6. But there is more to be done: although the objectives of globally live in areas of water scarcity, and Goal 6 are universal, there is a critical need in regions that are more 1.8 billion people are expected to live in severely water scarce, particularly in Asia and Africa for companies regions with absolute water scarcity by to make positive contributions. One-fifth of companies surveyed 2025.32 Northern Africa and Western Asia reported having operations in these water scarce regions, and yet, experience water stress levels above 60 per half of them have not set minimum water reduction targets. Even cent, which indicates the strong probability at a global level, over half of companies report to not have water of future water scarcity.33 Each day, nearly conservation targets for facilities located in water-stressed regions. 1,000 children die due to preventable water Fewer than a quarter of the companies across the world have and sanitation related diseases, and women fully integrated water stewardship into the company strategy and in sub-Saharan Africa collectively spend 40 operations. billion hours a year collecting water. Broad Considerations for Business UN Global Compact participant Businesses across sectors can have a multi-fold impact on water, responses to Goal 6: from auditing its direct operations (water-use assessments) to Companies report to have: wider supply chain and watershed management (supplier strategy, water risk), to enhancing community engagement (supporting local Significant positive impact 23% groups, water education), to even contributing to the development of public policy (collective advocacy, transparency reporting). In Somewhat positive impact 37% 2010, the UN General Assembly explicitly recognized the human right to safe drinking water and sanitation, and the Human Rights Targeted the Goal 36% Council reaffirmed this recognition. Products/services contributing to the Goal 39% The CEO Water Mandate is a public-private initiative designed to assist companies in the development, implementation and 80% disclosure of water sustainability policies and practices. of global wastewater flows back into the Visit ceowatermandate.org. ecosystem without being treated or reused34 Case Study: Suez France 892 MILLION people worldwide still practise open defecation35 Suez delivers clean water and sanitation services to millions of people on five continents while taking stronger steps to safeguard the natural 2.3 BILLION resources of the planet. To deal with the threat of climate change, people lack even a basic sanitation service36 shrinking biodiversity and dwindling natural resources, a transformation of Suez’s business model radically upgrades its environmental management methods from a “use and throw away” approach to a “resource efficiency approach.” 31 UNDP (2018) Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation http://www. 34 UN Water, http://www.unwater.org/water-facts/quality-andundp.org/content/undp/en/home/sustainable-developmentwastewater/ goals/goal-6-clean-water-and-sanitation.html 35 UN Water, http://www.unwater.org/water-facts/water32 UN Water (2018) Water Scarcity Facts http://www.unwater. sanitation-and-hygiene/ org/water-facts/scarcity/ 36 UN Water, https://washdata.org/report/jmp-2017-report-final 33 UN Sustainable Development Knowledge Platform (2017) Progress of Goal 6 https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdg6 29 UN Global Compact Company Contribution Energy is the dominant contributor to climate change, accounting for 60 per cent Companies are making progress in developing capabilities for of global greenhouse gas emissions and affordable and clean energy –— 63 per cent of companies report necessitating a shift towards cleaner to have significant to positive impact on Goal 7. Nearly 27 per cent renewable sources of power generation of African companies and 24 per cent of Asian companies report a like solar, wind and hydro. One in seven significant impact on Goal 7, on par with companies in Europe (20 per people around the world still lack access to cent) and North America (24 per cent), even though the per capita electricity and over 3 billion people, most of consumption of electricity in developed nations far exceeds that of them in Asia and sub-Saharan Africa, cook developing nations. Developing countries are investing more than with unclean fuels.37 developed countries in renewable technologies due to their cost effectiveness. Fewer than half the global companies surveyed meet UN Global Compact Participant less than a quarter of their energy requirements from renewable sources of power. Only 18 per cent of companies have reported to responses to Goal 7: have fully integrated renewable energy policies. Companies report to have: Broad Considerations for Business Significant positive impact 25% Companies across the globe are setting goals to reduce their reliance Somewhat positive impact 38% on conventional energy by shifting to cleaner technologies. The RE100 is a collaborative union of 140 global companies who have Targeted the Goal 43% committed to procure 100 per cent of their energy requirement from renewable sources by a specified year.41 While managing energy Products/services contributing to the Goal 50% consumption is an effective method to measure contributory impact on Goal 7, renewable energy producers need to be cognisant of 14 BILLION potential human rights violations and their impact across other Global Number of cooling devices by 2050 (from Goals. current 3.6 billion)38 Case Study: Microsoft and Renewable Energy 2052 Depletion year of known crude oil reserves Microsoft joined the RE100 initiative in 2015 and has invested in 1.2 2088 GW of renewable energy. The company has been sourcing 100 per Depletion year of known coal deposits39 cent of its electricity requirements from renewable sources since 2014 and its data centres have been carbon neutral since 2012. In BETWEEN 1990 AND 2010 2018, Microsoft signed the largest corporate solar deal in the US with the number of people with access to Power to supply 315 MW to its data centres in Virginia. electricity has increased by 1.7 billion 37 UNDP (2018) Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy http://www. 40 Frankfurt School FS-UNEP Collaborating Centre (2018) Global undp.org/content/undp/en/home/sustainable-developmentTrends in Renewable Energy Investment http://fs-unep-centre. goals/goal-7-affordable-and-clean-energy.html org/sites/default/files/publications/gtr2018v2.pdf 38 Oil and Gas Technology (2018) World Energy Consumption 41 RE100, http://there100.org/companies Report http://www.oilandgastechnology.net/news/global42 Business and Human Rights Resource Centre https://www. quadrupling-cooling-appliances-14-billion-could-seebusiness-humanrights.org/en/ethiopia-gibe-iii-dam-impactsstaggering-increase-world%E2%80%99s-energy indigenous-people-in-lake-turkana-and-omo-river-region 39 Electrocity (2018) The End of Fossil Fuels https://www. ecotricity.co.uk/our-green-energy/energy-independence/theend-of-fossil-fuels 30 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 UN Global Compact Company Contribution The business community reports to have the strongest contribution to Goal 8 compared to other goals — ­ with 89 per cent of companies Exploitation of workers and labour rights reporting to have a significant to positive impact on providing decent violations remain systemic around the work and economic growth. Companies also report progressive practices world. An estimated 168 million children are on labour rights — 94 per cent have policies and practices specifically victims of child labour,43 193 million — or advancing labour rights, and 71 per cent and 68 per cent report to have 5.6 per cent of the global population — is policies on not using or benefiting from child labour and forced labour, unemployed. This is especially true among respectively. Close to three-fourths of companies benchmark supply young people; the youth unemployment rate chain partners to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and 88 reached 13 per cent in 2014, three times per cent of companies report to have policies to ensure safe working higher than adults. It is estimated that 470 conditions. million jobs will be needed to absorb new entrants to the labour market between Broad Considerations for Business 2016-2030.44 Business must consider impact across the organizational value chain. UN Global Compact participant According to the ILO, more than 450 million people globally work responses to Goal 8: in supply-chain related jobs.49 While global supply chains can offer important opportunities for economic and social development, they also Companies report to have: present risks that businesses may have inadvertently failed to mitigate and respond to. These challenges are also opportunities for business Significant positive impact 43% to link efforts on Goal 8 with other Goals, including Goal 1, through promoting the payment of adequate minimum wages as well as safe Somewhat positive impact 47% working conditions, and Goal 10 through its emphasis on a fair income, security in the workplace and social protection for individuals and Targeted the Goal 69% families. This is a direct means to reduce inequalities in income, wealth and economic influence. Products/services contributing to the Goal 65% The UN Global Compact Decent Work in Global Supply Chains Action 6,000 DEATHS/DAY Platform will build an alliance of companies committed to respecting (2.3 million/year) due to work-related human rights and fundamental principles and rights at work by leveraging accidents or diseases45 their supply chains and taking collective action to address decent work deficits. 4 BILLION people do not have social security46 Case Study: Nestle Needs YOUth 24.9 MILLION in forced labour in 201647 Nestle’s global youth initiative, Nestle Needs YOUth, was conceived with 212 MILLION the objective of equipping 10 million young people with skills to improve Number of people that will be out of work employability and help them become successful agripreneurs and by 2019 entrepreneurs by 2030. The programme also encompasses training for farmers to adopt sustainable agricultural practices and waste disposal 600 MILLION methods. Number of jobs that need to be created by 2030 to keep pace with growth of working age population 43 ILO (2016) Global Estimates of Child Labour https://www.ilo. 46 ILO, https://www.ilo.org/global/about-the-ilo/newsroom/news/ org/wcmsp5/groups/public/@dgreports/@dcomm/documents/ WCMS_601903/lang--en/index.htm publication/wcms_575541.pdf 47 Global Slavery Index, https://www.globalslaveryindex. 44 UNDP (2018) Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth org/2018/findings/highlights/ http://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/home/sustainable48 ILO (2017) How Data Can Protect Workers Health and Lives, development-goals/goal-8-decent-work-and-economic-growth. https://www.ilo.org/asia/media-centre/articles/WCMS_551700/ html lang--en/index.htm 45 ILO, Occupational Safety and Health, https://www.ilo.org/ 49 Human Rights Watch (2018) Human Rights in Supply moscow/areas-of-work/occupational-safety-and-health/ Chainshttps://www.hrw.org/report/2016/05/30/human-rightsWCMS_249278/lang--en/index.htm supply-chains/call-binding-global-standard-due-diligence 31 UN Global Compact Company Contribution Worldwide, 2.4 billion people lack access to basic sanitation and 2.6 billion people in Globally, companies have shown progress in developing infrastructure developing countries do not have access to aid in the developmental process, with 79% reporting a significant to consistent electricity services.50 Over to positive impact on Goal 9. It is encouraging to observe 45% of 3.5 billion people across the world do not African companies reporting a significant impact on the goal, a higher have access to the internet;51 90 per cent of proportion than North American (40%) or European (32%) companies. whom are from developing nations. Africa This may be a contributing factor to the 20% jump in the number of has an internet penetration level of just 21.8 internet users in Africa in 2017. per cent, the lowest in the world, as opposed to an 80 per cent penetration level in Europe Broad Considerations for Business in 2017.52 UNCTAD estimates that in some low-income African countries, infrastructure Measuring impact on Goal 9 will require a more holistic SDG impact constraints cut business productivity by 40 assessment criterion that links to Goal 1 (Poverty Reduction), per cent.53 Without access to all-season Goal 8 (Decent Work), Goal 10 (Reduced Inequalities) and Goal roads, people remain marginalized from 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production). Measuring the crucial services and markets. Patents performance of high impact industries such as Banks, Financial encourage innovation and provide incentives Services, Construction and Materials, Industrial Goods and Services, for research. In 2016, China registered the Technology and Telecommunications across these goals will be most patents, totalling 1.3 million.54 indicative of business impact on Goal 9. Also, new advancements like automation which threaten to disrupt the livelihoods of millions of workers employed in manufacturing hubs across the globe, UN Global Compact participant particularly in Asia, and limit the process of job creation in the responses to Goal 9: industry must be part of impact analysis. Companies report to have: Case Study: BMW Significant positive impact 37% BMW’s electric vehicles sub-brand BMWi signed a MoU with UN Somewhat positive impact 42% Environment to provide technical support to accelerate the MOVE platform, an initiative to promote electric mobility in Latin America Targeted the Goal 53% and the Caribbean. BMWi’s engagement extends beyond introduction of electric vehicles and includes installation of electric charging Products/services contributing to the Goal 62% stations. 5.1 BILLION Unique mobile phone users globally BARELY 30% The amount of agricultural production that undergoes industrial processing in developing countries, compared to 98 per cent in developed nations 50 UNDP (2018) Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure region/ http://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/home/sustainable53 UN Conference on Trade and Development (2009) Economic development-goals/goal-9-industry-innovation-andDevelopment in Africa Report http://unctad.org/en/Docs/ infrastructure.html aldcafrica2009_en.pdf 51 Wearsocial (2018) Global Digital Report https://wearesocial. 54 WIPO (2017) China Tops Patent, Trademark, Design Filings com/blog/2018/01/global-digital-report-2018 in 2016 http://www.wipo.int/pressroom/en/articles/2017/ 52 Statista (2018) Internet Penetration by Region https://www. article_0013.html statista.com/statistics/265149/internet-penetration-rate-by32 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 UN Global Compact Company Contribution Income inequality within countries has worsened despite marginal improvement in Of the respondents, 43 per cent attested to targeting Goal 10, and the inter-country inequality. The richest 1 per products and services of 42 per cent of the respondents are reported cent hold more than half of the total global to contribute to this Goal. One-fourth of the companies report to wealth.55 In 2017, economic inequality was have a significant positive impact. Two-thirds of the companies pay the major driving force behind the migration their executives more than twice the salary of the median employee; of 258 million people from their home 22 per cent pay executives over ten times the compensation of countries to other nations.56 the median employee. Close to half the companies have fewer than 20 per cent of their new hires representing marginalized or disadvantaged groups including women, persons with disabilities and UN Global Compact participant religious or ethnic minorities. responses to Goal 10: Companies report to have: Broad Considerations for Business While the first action for business would be to ensure equality among Significant positive impact 26% their direct employees — such as through working to reduce salary Somewhat positive impact 46% gaps within their organizational pyramid — companies can also focus on reducing inequality amongst their indirect employees and workers. This would require greater product traceability and supply chain Targeted the Goal 43% transparency. Implementing the UN Guiding Principles on Business Products/services contributing to the Goal 42% and Human Rights is also crucial, particularly to enable businesses to see and understand their impact on diverse stakeholders such as local communities. With 24.9 million people around the world are 3.5 BILLION — 2.7% being victims of forced labour, permeating supply chains across all Share of global wealth owned by bottom half of the world’s population industries, business must take steps to end modern slavery. $2 TRILLION Case Study: Telenor Increase in women’s incomes if equal pay is provided in developing countries57 Telenor is working to reduce inequality through a focus on supply 97% chain sustainability, with 97 per cent of its suppliers covered by Percentage of transgender employees requirements on health and safety, human and labour rights, reporting discrimination or harassment at the environment and anti-corruption. Capacity building and work58 rigorous monitoring of compliance means that over 80 per cent 64.4% of non-conformities are mitigated within a year. As the largest Percentage of products exported by least telecommunications provider in Myanmar, a country battling with developed countries faced zero tariffs corruption, the policy has been particularly important to improve 50% wages and working conditions, and Telenor has trained over 15,000 Higher likelihood of women living below the workers in the country. median income compared to men 55 The Guardian (2017) Income Inequality https:// www.theguardian.com/inequality/2017/nov/14/ worlds-richest-wealth-credit-suisse 56 UN (2017) Population Facts 57 Actionaid (2018) Close the Gender Gap Report 58 Huffington Post (2016) Workplace Discrimination: The LGBT Workforce https://www.huffingtonpost. com/kurina-baksh/workplace-discrimination_b_10606030.html 33 UN Global Compact Company Contribution In the coming decades, 95 per cent of the urban expansion will take place in the Construction and Materials, Real Estate and Utilities companies report developing world. Unplanned city growth strong impact on progressing sustainable cities and communities: 78 per in South Asia and Africa has led to squalid cent of companies report to have a significant to positive impact on Goal 11. living conditions, pollution, outbreak of Regionally, companies in Africa (48 per cent) are reporting slightly greater contagious diseases and lack of access impact than companies in developed regions such as Europe (33 per cent) to water, power and sanitation facilities. and North America (43 per cent). Currently, half of the world’s population (~3.5 billion people) live in cities of which The UN Global Compact Cities Programme, the urban arm of the UN Global 828 million people live in slums.59 A study Compact, facilitates collaboration between cities and regional governments of the 85 largest cities in the United States with the private sector and civil society. Addressing complex global revealed that health savings from parks challenges on the local level, it is a platform for partnered sustainable urban amounted to over $3 billion in addition to development action. Visit citiesprogramme.org. environmental savings.60 Broad Considerations for Business UN Global Compact participant Businesses own property, develop physical assets and offer services responses to Goal 11: throughout the urban space, positioning them to have a large role in shaping Companies report to have: sustainable urban areas and connecting residents to essential services. In the construction sector, business leadership can include the development Significant positive impact 22% and delivery of resilient infrastructure, buildings, and materials that maximize mobility and access to green space while minimizing resource use, Somewhat positive impact 39% pollution and negative impacts on vulnerable groups in society. The business impact on Goal 11 can be measured by studying the progress across high Targeted the Goal 37% impact industries like construction, finance and insurance, manufacturing, retail, tourism, transportation and energy. However, fewer than one-third Products/services contributing to the Goal 49% of the companies across these industries have reported significant positive impact on Goal 11, with the best performers being construction (35 per cent) and tourism (33 per cent). Urban cities are a platform where human rights 6.5 BILLION are protected; where equity, fair labour practices, and transparency and good Estimated urban population by 2050 governance are constructed and promoted. 60 – 80% Percentage of global energy consumption Case Study: Mastercard’s “City Possible” by cities Pioneered by Mastercard, City Possible is a new model of public75% private partnerships that brings together cities with a united private Percentage of global carbon emissions sector to address challenges that are shared by most cities. Connectby cities ing city leaders from across the globe to share learnings and best practices aims to shift the conversation in urban technology to focus 883 MILLION on people. By tapping into the super power of collaboration, cities, Number of people who live in slums today, companies and organizations all are empowered to foster inclusive, primarily in Eastern and South-Eastern Asia accessible and sustainable communities. 59 UNDP (2018) Goal 11: Sustainable Cities http://www.undp.org/ and the Importance of Green Space in Cities to Human and content/undp/en/home/sustainable-development-goals/goalEnvironmental Health http://www.hphpcentral.com/article/ 11-sustainable-cities-and-communities.html urban-planning-and-the-importance-of-green-space-in-cities60 Healthy Parks Healthy People Central, Urban Planning to-human-and-environmental-health 34 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 UN Global Compact Company Contribution Approximately 86 per cent of the world’s population resides in countries that consume Globally, large corporations are leading the way, with 86 per cent resources at a rate faster than they can be reporting a positive impact on Goal 12. Meanwhile, 61 per cent of replenished, leading to an ecological deficit.61 companies in Asia, where a significant proportion of global production At this rate, we would require 1.7 Earths to is done, report to have set targets centred around Goal 12, and 65 per satisfy the global resource demand. Only 3 per cent claim that their products and services contribute to achieving cent of the world’s water is fresh for human these targets. Globally, 78 per cent of companies have policies and consumption, and only 20 per cent of the world’s practices promoting sustainable consumption and responsible use energy consumption comes from renewable of resources, and 62 per cent have cleaner and safer production sources.63 objectives. However, only 12 per cent conduct corporate responsibility due diligence of their entire supply chain, and fewer than one-fifth UN Global Compact Participant assist suppliers with resources for improvement projects, training and responses to Goal 12: goal-setting. Companies report to have: Broad Considerations for Business Significant positive impact 31% Companies are measuring progress on Goal 12 by tracking resource Somewhat positive impact 45% consumption and raw material costs; however, corporate actions aimed at driving down resource intensity have far reaching consequences on Targeted the Goal 53% the quality of land and water resources and climate change mitigation. Additionally, minimization of food spoilage and wastage during Products/services contributing to the Goal 61% production, transportation, storage and consumption can go a long way in alleviating global hunger and having a direct impact on attainment of 1.3 BILLION TONNES Goal 2 targets. Amount of food wasted or lost annually Case Study: Renault 4.5 TRILLION Potential value unlocked through adoption of Renault has partnered with several companies to build a reverse supply circular economy business models by 203066 chain to recycle automobile components, resulting in 36 per cent of the mass of a Renault vehicle made in Europe being constituted by recycled materials and thereby, minimizing the ecological footprint of mining activities and plastic production that degrade land, water and air quality.67 This demonstrates that it is imperative to follow a multi-dimensional approach while estimating the impact of business on Goal 12. 61 UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (2018) Earth’s Overshoot-Day-in-2018 Annual Resources Budget Consumed in Just 7 Months https:// 65 UNDP (2018) Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and unfccc.int/news/earth-s-annual-resources-budget-consumedProduction http://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/home/ in-just-7-months sustainable-development-goals/goal-12-responsible62 WWF (2018) August 1 marks Earth Overshoot Day in 2018 consumption-and-production.html https://www.wwfindia.org/?17542/August-1-marks-Earth66 Accenture Strategy, Waste to Wealth Executive Summary Overshoot-Day-in-2018 https://www.accenture.com/_acnmedia/Accenture/Conversion63 UNDP (2018) Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Assets/DotCom/Documents/Global/PDF/Strategy_7/AccentureProduction http://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/home/ Waste-Wealth-Exec-Sum-FINAL.pdf sustainable-development-goals/goal-12-responsible67 Ellen Macarthur Foundation, Short Loop Recycling consumption-and-production.html of Plastics in Vehicle Manufacturing https://www. 64 WWF (2018) August 1 marks Earth Overshoot Day in 2018 ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/case-studies/short-loophttps://www.wwfindia.org/?17542/August-1-marks-Earthrecycling-of-plastics-in-vehicle-manufacturing 35 UN Global Compact Company Contribution From 1880 to 2012, average global temperature increased by 0.85 degrees Half of the companies reported to have targets to achieve Goal 13, with Celsius, and since 1970, the number of 94 per cent reporting environment-related policies and practices. Fewer natural disasters worldwide has quadrupled than a quarter have reported incorporating climate change policy into to ~400 a year. For each 1-degree Celsius the overall company strategy, and 60 per cent of the companies have increase in temperature, grain yields decline reported that they do not measure their greenhouse gas emissions. by 5 per cent and greenhouse gas emissions Science-based targets provides companies with a clearly defined are 50 per cent higher than 1990 levels. Goal pathway to future-proof growth by specifying how much and how quickly 13 aims to mobilize $100 billion annually they need to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. Learn more at by 2020 to address the needs of developing unglobalcompact.org/take-action/action/science-based-target. countries and mitigate climate-related disasters.­68 Broad Considerations for Business UN Global Compact participant Rapidly shifting climate patterns can seriously impede the achievement responses to Goal 13: of several other goals including Goal 3 (Good Health and Well-being), Companies report to have: Goal 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy), Goal 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth), Goal 9 (Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure), Goal 10 (Reduced Significant positive impact 24% Inequalities), Goal 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities), Goal 12 (Responsible Production and Consumption), Goal 14 (Life Below Water) Somewhat positive impact 40% and Goal 15 (Life on Land). This is best demonstrated by the case of subSaharan Africa, which is among the most vulnerable regions to climate Targeted the Goal 48% change. Rising temperatures have led to loss of economy, forced mass migrations, competition among communities for dwindling resources like Products/services contributing to the Goal 53% water, abuses against women and children, and rise of extremist groups, all of which have ramifications on the political stability of the region, which in turn results in an environment which is not conducive to doing business. $1 TRILLION Business can lead and arrest this slide by leveraging a $783 billion Loss to global economy due to flooding in investment opportunity in clean energy in the region.72 coastal cities by 205069 52 TO 98 CENTIMETRES Case Study: SkyPower Rise in sea levels under business-as-usual scenario by 210070 SkyPower delivers utility-scale solar energy projects across the world. Operating in 36 countries, SkyPower works hand in hand with 2016, 2015, 2017 diverse communities to meet their increasing energy needs with clean, Warmest years on record71 sustainable, solar solutions. In 2006, SkyPower brought together experts, 50% investors and civil society to advocate and ensure that clean energy and Percentage global emissions of CO2 have climate action were legislative priorities for Ontario, Canada, with the increased since 1990 introduction of the Renewable Energy Standard Offer Programme. This programme gave small businesses, farmers and communities an equal chance to access renewable energy, neatly demonstrating the commercial gains for small and large businesses in the transition to renewable energy. 68 UNDP (2018) Goal 13: Climate Action http://www.undp.org/ 71 World Meteorological Organisation, https://public.wmo.int/ content/undp/en/home/sustainable-development-goals/goalen/media/press-release/wmo-confirms-2017-among-three13-climate-action.html warmest-years-record 69 The Guardian (2013) Costal Cities face $1 trillion floods 72 IFC, Climate Investment Opportunity Report https://www. by 2050: Study Finds https://www.theguardian.com/ ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/51183b2d-c82e-443e-bb9benvironment/2013/aug/19/coastal-cities-trillion-floods-2050 68d9572dd48d/3503-IFC-Climate_Investment_Opportunity70 IPCC, Sea Level Change https://www.ipcc.ch/pdf/assessmentReport-Dec-FINAL.pdf?MOD=AJPERES report/ar5/wg1/WG1AR5_Chapter13_FINAL.pdf 73 Science Based Targets Initiative, https://sciencebasedtargets.org 36 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 UN Global Compact Company Contribution The ccean is an area where companies can make a greater contribution, considering only 13 per cent of respondents indicated having targets linked with Goal 14. Up to 80 per cent of the plastic in the world’s oceans originates from Asia; however, only one-fifth of Asian companies have reported to have set objectives to achieve the targets linked with Goal 14. The UN Global Compact Sustainable Ocean Business Action Platform focuses on growth, innovation The ocean is one of the largest carbon sinks and sustainability, exploring how to best protect the health of the in the world, absorbing 30 per cent of the ocean. It aims to mobilize the private sector to take tangible action, carbon dioxide generated by human activity.74 make investments and form partnerships to leverage the ocean as a Over 3 billion people across the world resource to deliver the Global Goals. depend on marine and coastal ecosystems for their livelihood. As much as 40 per cent Broad Considerations for Business of the ocean is heavily affected by pollution, depleted fisheries, loss of coastal habitats The ocean covers most of the planet’s surface and is a vital part and other human activities. The market of the biosphere, producing more than half of the world’s oxygen value of marine and coastal resources and and regulating global temperatures. It is an important part of the industries is estimated to be $3 trillion USD global economy, providing natural resources and open spaces for per year, or about 5 per cent of global GDP. transportation and other economic activity. The importance of the ocean is set to grow, as it has potential to provide protein to feed a UN Global Compact participant growing world population and accommodate offshore renewable energy production. responses to Goal 14: Companies report to have: Economic activity both on the ocean and on land is depleting common resources, such as fish stocks, and degrading vital ecosystems. The Significant positive impact 9% effects of greenhouse gas emissions, such as ocean acidification and warming, are further stressing the health and productivity of the Somewhat positive impact 22% ocean. The interconnected and fluid nature of the ocean ecosystem, exemplified by fish migration and ocean currents, makes it hard Targeted the Goal 13% to fully understand the long-term impacts of ocean depletion and degradation. Products/services contributing to the goal 16% As many of the Targets of Goal 14 has deadlines already in 2020, 8 TO 13 MILLION TONNES taking immediate action is critical. The multi-stakeholder group Volume of plastic dumped into marine participating in the Sustainable Ocean Business Action Platform ecosystems annually commits to exploring ideas and inspiring innovations for technical and operational improvements to advance ocean health. 1.6 MILLION SQ. KILOMETRES Size of the Great Pacific Garbage Patch Public-private partnerships are necessary to explore attractive (twice the size of France)76 and viable solutions and establish guidelines and best practices for 3 BILLION sustainable use and management of the ocean. Number of people who rely on the ocean as their primary source of protein Case Study: H&M’s BIONIC® 200 MILLION H&M’s BIONIC® yarn was introduced in 2017 as part of its Conscious Number of people employed directly or Collection that uses sustainably sources raw materials. BIONIC® is indirectly by marine fisheries manufactured using recovered and recycled shoreline waste, including plastic bottles and bags. A single BIONIC® dress is designed using 88 PET bottles that pollute oceans and waterways. 74 UNDP (2018) Goal 14: Life Below Water http://www.undp. environment/2018/mar/22/great-pacific-garbage-patchorg/content/undp/en/home/sustainable-development-goals/ sprawling-with-far-more-debris-than-thought goal-14-life-below-water.html 77 Climate News Network (2017) High Marine Extinction Risk By 75 Nikkei Asia, Asian Plastics Choking World Oceans https:// 2100 https://climatenewsnetwork.net/23166-2/ asia.nikkei.com/Spotlight/Cover-Story/Asian-plastic-is78 https://phys.org/news/2018-07-sea-world-trillion-year.html choking-the-world-s-oceans 79 WIRED (2018) Lab Grown Meat https://www.wired.com/ 76 The Guardian (2018) Great Pacific Garbage Patch Sprawling story/lab-grown-meat/ with Far more Debris https://www.theguardian.com/ 37 UN Global Compact Company Contribution Up to 75 per cent of the world’s land area is degraded, and this figure could rise to 90 per Less than half of the business respondents (42 per cent) reported having cent by 2050, with adverse impacts being visible a positive impact on Goal 15. The metals and mining industry contributes primarily across Asia and Africa.80 The latest significantly to land degradation; however, very few companies (6 per cent) IUCN Red List research finds that 26,000 species in the industry have set targets to counter the impact of their activities. of flora and fauna are at the brink of extinction.81 Only 10 per cent of companies globally have fully integrated biodiversity Humans represent just 0.01% of all living things policies with the overall corporate strategy. 15 of the 17 megadiverse on Earth; however, research has shown that countries of the world are in Asia, Africa and Latin America; however, we have been responsible for the loss of 83 per close to half the companies located in these regions have reported having cent of all wild animals and half of the plants.­82 no impact or a negative impact on Goal 15, and fewer than 30 per cent Worldwide, 2.6 billion people depend directly on have attested to setting targets to achieve the Goal or fully integrating agriculture to earn a living, and eight out of ten biodiversity issues into their business strategy. people living in rural areas in developing countries rely on traditional plant-based medicines and Broad Considerations for Business healthcare.83 The industries that significantly impact the condition of land include agriculture, forestry, metals and mining, and the activities of these industries UN Global Compact participant affect the quality of other natural resources like water and air. Globally, responses to Goal 15: around 2.6 billion people depend on agriculture and 1.6 billion people depend Companies report to have: on forests for a livelihood. Hence, it is imperative that these industries take the lead in driving actions to restore the quality of land resources. Goal Significant positive impact 12% 15 is closely linked with elimination of hunger (Goal 2), access to clean water (Goal 6), tackling climate change (Goal 13) and restoration of marine Somewhat positive impact 30% ecosystems (Goal 14), and therefore, any tangible impact on Goal 15 will require a more holistic impact assessment criterion across all Global Goals. Targeted the Goal 21% Case Study: Beraca Products/services contributing to the Goal 26% Beraca provides natural and organic-certified ingredients for the cosmetics industry, that are ethically sourced from the Amazon 1.8 BILLION Rainforest. The company subsequently found commercial success by People facing absolute water scarcity by 202584 developing economic and social inclusion opportunities for thousands of families while working to ensure the environmental integrity of 135 BILLION the region. Currently, 2,500 families at 105 community centers in 12 People displaced by desertification by 204585 Brazilian states — supply local crops to Beraca. In order to effectively measure the social impacts of the programme’s activities, Beraca 3 BILLION TONNES partners with the University of São Paulo to monitor the progress of the Potential volume of carbon fixed annually by local development index. restoration of degraded soil86 80 SDG Knowledge Hub (2018) Third World Atlas on Desertification Offers 84 UN Convention to Combat Desertification , Land and Drought https://www. Customizable Data to Combat Land Degradation http://sdg.iisd.org/news/ unccd.int/issues/land-and-drought world-atlas-shows-70-of-earths-lands-degraded/ 85 UN Convention to Combat Desertification , Land and Human Security https:// 81 The Guardian (2018) Red List Research Finds 26000 Species Under www.unccd.int/issues/land-and-human-security Extinction Threat https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2018/jul/05/red86 UN Convention to Combat Desertification , Land and Climate Change https:// list-research-finds-26000-species-under-extinction-threat www.unccd.int/issues/land-and-climate-change 82 The Guardian (2018) Human Race and Wild Mammals Study https://www. 87 Wiley Online Library (2007) Restoring Jarrah Forest Trees after Bauxite theguardian.com/environment/2018/may/21/human-race-just-001-of-all-lifeMining in Western Australia https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/ but-has-destroyed-over-80-of-wild-mammals-study j.1526-100X.2007.00289.x 83 UNDP (2018) Goal 15: Life on Land http://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/ 88 Future Terrains, http://www.futureterrains.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/04/ home/sustainable-development-goals/goal-15-life-on-land.html WCMT-report-full-images.pdf 38 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 UN Global Compact Company Contribution UNHCR estimates that there are 10 million stateless people around the world who are Approximately 69 per cent of companies report to have zerodenied nationality and associated rights, tolerance policies towards corruption, yet only half of them have leaving them vulnerable to a wide range policies limiting the value of gifts, and fewer than one-third have of abuses.89 According to the Global Peace attested to having policies against collusion and policies mandating Index, the impact of violence on the global pre-approval of facilitation payments. economy is USD 14.76 trillion in 2017,90 and 68.5 million people were forcibly The UN Global Compact Peace, Justice anmd Strong Institutions displaced.91 Businesses and individuals pay Action Platform aims to provide global business standards in an estimated $1.5 trillion in bribes each understanding, implementing and reporting on business engagement year, which represents about 2% of global in these areas. GDP — and 10 times the value of overseas development assistance (World Bank). Broad Considerations for Business Corruption hinders responsible business practices, fair competition UN Global Compact participant and market stability. It impedes foreign investment and economic responses to Goal 14: growth. It prevents people, countries and businesses from fulfilling Companies report to have: their potential and achieving the Global Goals. The Anti-Corruption Call to Action of the UN Global Compact is an initiative that has Significant positive impact 18% brought together private sector enterprises on a common platform to demand Governments implement anti-corruption measures Somewhat positive impact 35% and establish systems of good governance. Launched in 2014, the initiative has over 250 signatories with the common objective of Targeted the Goal 28% elimination of corruption of all forms.93 Products/services contributing to the Goal 28% Case Study: Linklaters NY 10% Linklaters LLP, works to translate the Global Goals into local Average increase in cost of doing business realities within the New York legal community, as well as more due to corruption broadly within the private and public sectors. This includes working with: The New Partnership for Africa’s Development, African Union $1.5 – 2 TRILLION states and other pan-African entities to develop a project that would Loss to global economy due to corruption in create tailored governance frameworks to combat illicit financial governmental institutions92 flows; The UK’s Independent Commission for Aid Impact to analyze 31% the impact of DFID’s anti-corruption programming, particularly on Proportion of prisoners held in detention the poor; UN University to conduct a governance review of the UN without sentencing, remained constant in the development system to ensure it is fit for purpose in the age of the last decade Global Goals. 89 UNHCR, Stateless People ttp://www.unhcr.org/stateless92 Reuters (2016) IMF: Global Corruption Costs Trillions in Bribes, people.html lost Growth https://www.reuters.com/article/us-imf-corruption/ 90 Vision of Humanity (2018) Global Peace Index http:// imf-global-corruption-costs-trillions-in-bribes-lost-growthvisionofhumanity.org/app/uploads/2018/06/Global-Peace-IndexidUSKCN0Y22B7 2018-Snapshot.pdf 93 https://www.unglobalcompact.org/take-action/action/anti91 UNHCR (2018) Forced Displacement http://www.unhcr.org/ corruption-call-to-action news/press/2018/6/5b27c2434/forced-displacement-above68m-2017-new-global-deal-refugees-critical.html 39 UN Global Compact Company Contribution The UN Conference on Trade and Development estimate the realization Nearly 51 per cent of companies recognize that building up of Agenda 2030 requires USD $5 – $7 partnerships is an effective way to advance the Gloal Goals. According trillion annually in addition to pooling to the Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC), technological capabilities, manpower and compared to global average, companies the region maintained other resources by multiple stakeholders.94 stronger partnerships with Governments (+8 per cent), NGOs, (+6 per Developed countries have not lived up to cent), companies (+8 per cent) and academia (+9 per cent). their development aid commitments; only six countries have achieved the Overseas Broad Considerations for Business Development Assistance commitment target of contributing 0.7% of the Gross National Partnerships between stakeholders are key to the progress in achieving Income towards foreign aid.95 the Global Goals and hence, the attainment of the targets linked to Goal 17 have a direct bearing on all the Goals. The case study of UN Global Compact participant USAID’s efforts to make coffee supply chains sustainable effectively demonstrates the linkages between Goal 17 and the rest of the Goals. responses to Goal 17: USAID partners with global coffee companies to support small-scale Companies report to have: coffee growers in Africa, Latin America, Asia and the Caribbean with technology, credit, access to markets and education on sustainable farm Significant positive impact 24% practices, using public and private funds. This collaborative ecosystem has helped improve farmer incomes (Goals 1 and 10) and nutrition levels Somewhat positive impact 42% (Goals 2 and 3), while lowering the environmental footprint of coffee cultivation (Goals 12, 13, 14, 15). Targeted the Goal 40% Case Study: Accenture and ID2020 Alliance Products/services contributing to the Goal 40% Accenture is a founding member of the ID2020 Alliance, a publicprivate partnership aimed at providing a digital identity to every Organizations that companies individual across the world and safeguarding the Right to Identity partner with to drive progress on enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The alliance of thre Global Goals: companies, non-profits and Governments targets the provision of legal 46% identity for all, including birth registration, by 2030 that will ultimately 76% Non-governmental Government enable efficient delivery of basic services and developmental benefits organizations to those in need. The prototype, built by Accenture in collaboration 44% with Microsoft and Avanade, leverages blockchain technology and 59% United Nations enables data sharing with multiple parties with high security. Companies 32% 54% Other multilateral Academia organizations 50% Industry associations 94 Government of Switzerland (2017) Remarks by Ambassador 95 UNDP (2018) Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals http://www. Michael Gerber, High Level Conference on Financing undp.org/content/undp/en/home/sustainable-developmentfor Development http://www.un.org/esa/ffd/high-levelgoals/goal-17-partnerships-for-the-goals.html conference-on-ffd-and-2030-agenda/wp-content/uploads/ 96 IID2020 Alliance, https://id2020.org/ sites/4/2017/11/Ministerial-Round-Table-1_Gerber.pdf 40 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 41 THIS IS A SUMMARY OF REPORTED OVERALL POSITIVE IMPACT ON EACH GLOBAL GOAL AND THE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES TARGETING THE GOALS. Goal 1 Goal 2 Goal 3 No Poverty Zero Hunger Good Health and Well-Being 64% 53% 83% 33% 28% 64% Goal 4 Goal 5 Goal 6 Quality Gender Equality Clean Water Education and Sanitation 71% 83% 60% 44% 55% 39% Goal 7 Goal 8 Goal 9 Affordable and Decent Work Industry, Clean Energy and Economic Innovation and Growth Infrastructure 63% 89% 79% 50% 65% 62% Goal 10 Goal 11 Goal 12 Reduced Sustainable Responsible Inequalities Cities and Consumption Communities and Production 72% 61% 76% 42% 49% 61% Goal 13 Goal 14 Goal 15 Climate Action Life Below Life on Land Water 64% 31% 42% 53% 16% 26% Goal 16 Goal 17 Peace, Justice and Partnerships Strong Institutions for the Goals Companies reporting positive impact on the Global Goals Companies reporting Global Goals that products and services contribute towards 53% 66% Source: UN Global Compact Annual Survey 2018 28% 40% 42 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2018 KEY RESOURCES BLUEPRINT FOR BUSINESS LEADERSHIP ON THE SDGS Aims to inspire all business — regardless of size, sector or geography — to take leading action in support of the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It illustrates how the five leadership qualities of Intentionality, Ambition, Consistency, Collaboration and Accountability can be applied to a business’ strategy, business model, products, supply chain, partnerships, and operations to raise the bar and create impact at scale. The Blueprint is a tool for any business that is ready to advance its principled approach to SDG action to become a leader. THE SDG COMPASS Guides companies on how they can align their strategies as well as measure and manage their contribution to the realization of the SDGs. The SDG Compass presents five steps that assist companies in maximizing their contribution to the SDGs: understanding the SDGs, defining priorities, goal setting, integrating sustainability and reporting. INTEGRATING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS INTO CORPORATE REPORTING: A PRACTICAL GUIDE Outlines a three-step process to embed the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into existing business and reporting processes. It helps business to better report their impact on the SDGs and address the information needs of relevant stakeholders. This Guide follows an approach that is aligned with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the GRI Standards. EXPLORE MORE DATA FROM THE 2018 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL SURVEY Visit www.progress.unglobalcompact.org to explore the data found in this report and more from the Annual Survey. You will be able to dive deeper into the data and explore what implementation looks like in your geography and among companies of your size. THE ACADEMY The UN Global Compact Academy is the premier learning platform for sustainable companies, designed to give Participants the knowledge and skills they need to meet their sustainability objectives, mitigate business risks and achieve long-term growth. The Academy offers learning opportunities on a range of topics across the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, with a special focus on the Global Goals, and it allows learners to measure their progress. To access the Academy Learning Platform, please visit visit: academy.unglobalcompact.org. ACTION PLATFORMS The UN Global Compact invites its Participants to collaborate with like-minded peers and experts on unique and innovative approaches to critical corporate sustainability issues through our suite of Action Platforms. To achieve the ambitious and necessary goals set out in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the UN Global Compact has developed a portfolio of Action Platforms to advance responsible business activities and fill emerging gaps in meeting the Global Goals, the pillars of the 2030 Agenda. Rooted in the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, each Action Platform will convene business, Global Compact Local Networks, leading experts, civil society, Governments and UN partners to solve complex and interconnected issues, explore new market opportunities and innovate around the Sustainable Development Goals. LOCAL NETWORKS On the ground, companies face unique challenges to operating responsibly and have different opportunities to make a positive impact. Companies with operations and supply chains extending around the world need to understand locations far from headquarters and view sustainability through a local lens. Global Compact Local Networks are all businessled, multi-stakeholder platforms anchored in the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and uniquely positioned to advance the Sustainable Development Goals. They help companies understand what responsible business means within different national, cultural and language contexts and facilitate outreach, learning, policy dialogue, collective action and partnerships. 43 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE ABOUT THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT The United Nations Global Compact is a call to HUMAN RIGHTS companies everywhere to align their operations 1 Businesses should support and respect the and strategies with ten universally accepted protection of internationally proclaimed principles in the areas of human rights, labour, human rights; and environment and anti-corruption, and to take action in support of UN goals and issues 2 make sure that they are not complicit in embodied in the Sustainable Development Goals. human rights abuses. The UN Global Compact is a leadership platform for the development, implementation and LABOUR disclosure of responsible corporate practices. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Launched in 2000, it is the largest corporate association and the effective recognition of sustainability initiative in the world, with more the than 9,500 companies and 3,000 non-business right to collective bargaining; signatories based in over 160 countries, and 4 nearly 70 Local Networks. the elimination of all forms of forced and For more information, follow @globalcompact compulsory labour on social media and visit our website at 5 www.unglobalcompact.org. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. © 2018 United Nations Global Compact 685 Third Avenue New York, NY 10017, USA ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact are derived from: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. 1. 44
