UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 MCCONNELL DOWELL MARCH 2019 Introduction 2 Monthly Business Review: Built Environs Values Safety & Care We look after each other. No one gets hurt. Honesty & Integrity Everyone gets a fair go. We play by the rules. Honesty with ourselves and others builds confidence and promotes trust and loyalty. Customer Focus We develop and foster long term relationships. We deliver on our promises. We are rewarded for value delivered. Working Together We are on the same team. We trust, respect and support each other. Performance Excellence E achieve great results. We learn and drive continuous improvement 3 Monthly Business Review: Built Environs Human Rights McConnell Dowell respects human rights across it’s business operations all employees, communities and countries. We are committed to ensuring healthy lives and well being, strong social performance reducing inequality within and among all countries. A key to achieving these goals is working with our subcontractors – support, education and teamwork to deliver improvements in employment and community initiatives. Community sponsorships Employees of the Marina Bay Sands project in Singapore have created a tow path for public use in Singapore. This initiative provided education to the local workforce around environmental practices and included mosquito wipe out to improve the public health around the area. The work brought direct employees and subcontractors together equally to provide a tow path for all to use and an area of better public health for all. WPA project employees and contractors have also worked together on various charity events to raise money for Backpack4Kids. Backpack4Kids provides essential items to children who are placed into emergency care – providing them with toiletries, blanket, toy and clothing which they then own and can take with them should they be relocated further. 4 Monthly Business Review: Built Environs Human Rights • The Auckland Office support KidsCan, by collecting donations from the business unit and hosting fundraising events. KidsCan is a charity that provides over 161,000 kids with access to food, clothing and healthcare items in partnership with 675 schools across the New Zealand • Built Environs support the Salvation Army’s DUO program. Working alongside South Australian police to provide a safety presence for latenight revellers and to connect with rough sleepers. The café van is an extension to this ministry, to provide a static point of contact. • WPA in Melbourne continues to colaborate with Melbourne City mission, a charitable organisation who work with refugees, and other disadvantaged groups to build capability in our teams to understand cultural diversity and the positive of inclusion in the workplace. • Built Environs in New Zealand is working with Auckland City Mission to construct their new Mission building. As part of the process, Built Environs is supporting the Mission with it’s work – providing shelter, food and care to Auckland’s homeless and disadvantaged residents. 5 Monthly Business Review: Built Environs Human Rights Policies/Standards/Reference Documents • Code of Business Conduct • Diversity & Inclusion Policy • Operating Standard – Resources • Operating Standard – Managing Employment Issues Sustainability Development Goals • SDG3 • SDG10 Monitoring Results • MCD monitors the contributions made to local communities and reports through the company CSR reporting 6 Monthly Business Review: Built Environs Labour Indigenous Employment The Western Program Alliance worked with Outlook to offer long term employment to people who face significant barriers to employment due to disability. The team has collaborated with Outlook in sharing the vision for empowering people with disability. As the Head Contractor on the Northern Gas Pipeline (NGP) project (located in remote central Australia), we engaged local indigenous businesses/contractors to undertake activities such as clear and grade, maintenance of access tracks, civil works and traffic/security control works, as the work was to be undertaken on land that would be relevant to local indigenous people who had a legal interest in the land Our recruitment program identified 33 suitable indigenous candidates for roles within the NGP project of which 27 commenced on the project. In addition, Local Contractors were required to provide a monthly report identifying the number of local indigenous employees were employed on the project The Western Program Alliance (WPA) has implemented initiatives to engage businesses that are indigenous owned in the Western Suburbs of Melbourne. McConnell Dowell remains committed to equal employment opportunities on all of our projects Worldwide. 7 Monthly Business Review: Built Environs Labour Engagement from local communities in disadvantaged areas For the NGP project, MCD have utilised Project Ready Graduates and the Projects Jobs & training Portal to maximise local labour participation. The Local Content Plan document for the project identified that 20% of the construction work force including sub-contractors was to be achieved WPA has implemented local social procurement initiatives with PPE purchases, catering, stationary and consumables through locally-based traders WPA is supporting a program to recruit refugees who are looking to work in the civil engineering and construction industry. Codesafe Platform – Education & Development The release of our new Home Without Harm Codesafe platform has allowed our subcontractors, as well as our direct workforce and Clients, to access material to assist in education about risks on projects. The platform provides access, via scanning a QR code, to educational films and documents – designed to increase safe practice in the workplace. The platform is actively shared with all of our workers, regardless of the employer, plus our Clients – the aim is to increase safety within the industry as a whole and improve the knowledge base of the whole labour force. 8 Monthly Business Review: Built Environs Labour Policies/Standards/Reference Documents • Code of Business Conduct • Diversity & Inclusion Policy • Operating Standard – Resources • Operating Standard – Managing Employment Issues Sustainability Development Goals • SDG5 • SDG8 Monitoring Results • Monitoring of employment diversity through employment records. • KPI of increasing gender equality and diversity year on year. 9 Monthly Business Review: Built Environs Environmental At McConnell Dowell we focus on the small everyday environmental achievements and initiatives as much as the larger ones. We encourage our project teams to think for themselves and implement activities to minimise environmental impact – supporting this learning process results in a network of environmental initiatives that are then continued in the individual homes. Examples are: • Cleaning of the shoreline at the Karimun project – involving employees, contractors and the community. • Maintaining the public roads in Singapore – cleaning and providing shelter for the public on areas of road near our projects. Providing a clean and safe environment for all public road and transport users. • Recycling of rail and materials to local volunteer railways in the Yarra Valley and Melbourne. • Active protection of local wildlife in New Zealand • Increased use of Eco bins into Melbourne Head Office – reduction in landfill waste of 90% • Involvement in construction of ‘waste for fuel’ plants • Donation of time and materials to Friends of Lower Kororoit Creek Group in Victoria for tree planting. 10 Monthly Business Review: Built Environs Environmental • Recycling of vegetation cleared from our projects in Victoria to provide mulch to local schools. • Collaboration with local authorities in Singapore to provide environmental education to schools On our projects, environmental management is everybody’s responsibility, regardless of their role and the nature or location of the projects. We lead by example in promoting environmental management. We empower our people and teams to be their best and our people are actively encouraged to be creative and innovative in approaching environmental management. We have a dedicated team of environmental professionals that actively supports all staff in achieving the high environmental standards expected. We do this with a positive and collaborative approach and a focus on accountable leadership; reducing emissions; managing efficient use of energy, resources and project materials; minimising waste; and through responsible biodiversity management of local flora and fauna. We take on a “one team” approach with our clients and partners in our commitment to the environment. Our method has created a framework for our environmental standards which have been recognised throughout the industry. 11 Monthly Business Review: Built Environs Environmental Policies/Standards/Reference Documents • Environment Policy • Operating Standard Environment • Sustainability Policy • Code of Business Conduct Sustainability Development Goals • SDG9 • SDG11 Monitoring Results • Measurement of data through the Sustainability Warehouse • Assurance of data through EY audit process 12 Monthly Business Review: Built Environs Anti-Corruption Our Code of Business Conduct has been refreshed and issued to every employee globally, in addition each employee has annual mandatory training – this is across all countries and locations. It is our vision is to build a legacy that every employee, their families and future generations can be justly proud of and at its very foundation it assumes that everything we do is of the highest ethical standard. We take pride in our commitment to corporate citizenship, which is formalised in our code of business conduct. We expect every person at McConnell Dowell to adhere not only to the letter, but also to the spirit of this code and all relevant legislation. We expect that ethical behaviour be practised by every employee, form the executive team to each and every person employed by every operating group. We have zero tolerance policy to all forms of corruption and have developed an Anti-Corruption Framework as a working framework, not only to assist us in avoiding corruption in our own activities, but also doing what we can to promote higher ethical standards across the entire sector. 13 Monthly Business Review: Built Environs Anti-Corruption Policies/Standards/Reference Documents • Anti-Corruption Framework • Code of Business Conduct • Hotline for Reporting Corruption • Operating Standard Anti-Fraud • Operating Standard Conflict of Interest Monitoring Results • Data collected from mandatory Code Of Business Conduct e-learning module • Monitoring of Anti-Corruption hotline activity. 14 Monthly Business Review: Built Environs
