PIC COP REPORT 2019 THE PUBLIC INVESTMENT CORPORATION:– COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT ON THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT’S 10 PRINCIPLES FEBRUARY 2019 0 PIC COP REPORT 2019 Table of Contents 1. INTRODUCTION ...........................................................................................Error! Bookmark not defined. 2. Social Impact ...............................................................................................Error! Bookmark not defined. 1 PIC COP REPORT 2019 THE PUBLIC INVESTMENT CORPORATION’s STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT The PIC’s investment thesis is underpinned by an unwavering and resounding commitment to responsible Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practises demonstrated by remaining a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Responsible Investing (PRI), the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the Code for Responsible Investing South Africa (CRISA), and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs 2030). The PIC’s values and business processes underpin its strategic approach to sustainability and reflect the desire to preserve the future for all its stakeholders. Therefore, the PIC remains fully committed to the sustainability principles and will continue on its sustainability journey with unwavering commitment and aims to be a responsible citizen at all levels. The PIC commits to remain an active participant of the UNGC and proponent of its principles on human rights, labour issues, the environment and anti-corruption. The PIC understands that long-term value creation is not achievable through short term solutions nor at the expense of future generations nor through moral decay. There can be no doubt that environmental, social and governance factors cannot be ignored if we are to ensure a sustainable future. We believe that integrating ESG factors culminates in enhanced and informed decision making, it will enhance long term value creation and the risk return profile of our portfolio of investments. In line with best practice to relate ESG management to the financial performance and growth of investee companies, the PIC continues to embed and further entrench ESG in its investment processes, as well as monitor, assess and report on the impact of ESG activities within our investee companies. The PIC further supports South Africa’s developmental agenda by embracing transformation as an investment driver. As a result, the PIC requires that investments fulfil this mandate to drive the transformational strategy through the Broad Based Black Economic Amendment Act no. 46 of 2013. 2 PIC COP REPORT 2019 During 2018, the PIC was commended for the Best Responsible Investing Report by an Asset Manager of Larger Funds. The PIC continues to uphold principles of transparency and disclosure and continued to publish the proxy voting results for all our listed investee companies as well as continued to publicly disclose the ESG scores of our unlisted investment portfolio. The PIC office is situated in a five star rated green building, with further plans afoot to reduce our carbon footprint. We remain committed to continue playing an even bigger role in promoting sustainable investing, encouraging the inclusion of ESG considerations in our investee companies processes and advancing the UNGC principles wherever possible within our sphere of influence. We recognise that a key requirement for the UN Global Compact participation is the annual submission of the Communication on Progress (COP) report detailing our efforts to encourage, aid and implement the ten principles. We continue to support transparency and public accountability and commit to reporting on our progress in accordance with the UNGC COP policy. Yours sincerely Matshepo More Acting Chief Executive Officer 3 PIC COP REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 1. INTRODUCTION The PIC’s Vision 2030 exploits the PIC’s Policy Action Plan (IPAP) and the New unique strengths, which includes our Growth Path. ability to take a long-term investment perspective, a global presence, and Therefore, the PIC remains committed to capabilities to invest in multi-asset class the implementation of sustainable opportunities, a skilled and experienced practices and good corporate governance. team, and a strong corporate governance Through our mandates, the PIC has to structure. This enables the PIC to meet a certain financial return as well as continue to play a significant role in drive good corporate governance, growing the South African economy encourage social returns and foster through our “DIRECT” investment enhanced environmental practices while approach – Developmental Investing for contributing to the economic growth and socio-economic transformation in key socio-economic development impact priority sectors and inclusive growth. The needs of the African society. The PIC’s DIRECT approach is informed by values and business processes underpin statistical evidence that shows a positive its strategic direction for sustainability and correlation between South Africa’s gross reflect its desire to preserve the future for domestic product and the growth of PIC’s all its stakeholders. The PIC will continue assets under management, which equates on its pathway for a sustainable world and to almost a third of SA’s GDP. The PIC’s it realises that this pathway will continue to DIRECT approach is congruent with key demand fundamental changes in governmental priorities of economic governance structures, economic development such as the National frameworks, business and human Development Plan (NDP), the Industrial behaviour. 4 PIC COP REPORT 2019 2. THE PIC APPROACH TO DEVELOPMENTAL INVESTMENT Our investments focus on sustainable defined investment period, without returns over the longer term, whilst sacrificing commercial returns. stimulating economic growth and sustainability. This approach is These investments are geared towards underpinned by robust risk management responding to the government initiatives and ensures that the PIC remains a such as the National Development Plan beacon for responsible investing by (NDP) 2030; New Growth Path, Broad driving good corporate governance in Based Black Economic Empowerment every investee company. As a corporate (BBBEE) and Sustainable Development entity, the PIC is aware of the need to Goals (SDG) 2030. The NDP outlines adhere to corporate governance best what South Africa should look like in 2030 practice and it also ensures that these are and what needs to be done to get there. embedded in investee companies. We The plan outlines a path to achieve strive for good corporate citizenship and meaningful development in South Africa recognize the need for social and a rise in per capita income. transformation, prompting investments in Acknowledging the variety of challenges impact investing. The key objectives for South Africa faces the NDP places at its impact investing is in line with the nexus the elimination of poverty and developmental investment agenda that reduction of inequality by 2030 (SDG10). ensures that in addition to earning good To ensure broader impact, the PIC financial returns, investments support remains committed to its commitment in positive, long-term economic, social and implementing the SDG 2030 agenda environmental outcomes that yield a good which is a plan of action for people, planet social return in South Africa and the rest of and prosperity. It also seeks to strengthen the African Continent. The PIC continues universal peace. It recognises that to work to identify companies with the eradicating poverty in all its forms and potential for commercial and social dimensions, including extreme poverty, is improvement with the aim of investing in the greatest global challenge and an these companies and generating both indispensable requirement for sustainable economic and social returns over a predevelopment. 5 PIC COP REPORT 2019 Through impact investing the PIC strives to achieve the following:  Ensure that ESG is fully integrated into  Promote transformation by applying Bthe PIC investment processes, BBEE principles across all  ESG risks within investee companies investments; are mitigated and  Encourage a service-oriented  ESG opportunities are capitalised to approach to optimise use of public and ensure long term sustainability and private resources; and enhanced investment value;  Encourage local private provision of  Grow the economy and reduce poverty services and development of local through job creation, skill development industries for infrastructure and promote entrepreneurs; development and maintenance of facilities. 3. PIC CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY UPDATES (a) GOVERNANCE The PIC believes that sustainable performance can only be achieved if good corporate governance principles, underpinned by the Companies Act (Act 71 of 2008) and the King IV Report, are embraced and implemented. This has been achieved through:  The PIC board ensured that all relevant and required board committees are established, appropriately constituted and adequately resourced with the best skills mix and relevant experienced members.  Terms of Reference for all committees exist and are revised to ensure relevance.  Advancing policies that protect minority shareholders such as community trusts, employees and BBBEE partners; and  Nominating PIC representatives to the Boards of PIC investee companies to drive and ensure implementation of good governance in line with best practise. In addition hereto the PIC addressed the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the following ways: 6 PIC COP REPORT 2019 (b) HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. As a Public Entity, the PIC must comply joining the Corporation. Internal policies, with all South African legislation. Human procedures and practices prohibit any rights are enshrined in the Constitution of violation of human rights. Any breach of the Republic of South Africa. South these is treated seriously and will result Africa is a member of the International in disciplinary action. Labour Organisation (ILO) and has ratified the ILO instruments. These Holistic employee health (physical as requirements have been included in well as mental) is an important South African labour legislation which is component of creating value for applicable to the PIC. employees, for this purpose the PIC has contracted an external service provider to Human rights are central to the PIC’s provide the PIC staff as well as their legitimacy and are principally addressed immediate family members with an in the PIC’s Code of Conduct and Ethics Employee Wellness Programme, free of which includes: charge. All PIC employees are  Acting according to the law; subscribed to the programme. Annually  Acting fairly; the PIC hosts Health Awareness Day  Properly exercising powers; where all employees can have their  Explaining the reasons for cholesterol, blood sugar levels, blood decisions; pressure etc. tested on site. Dieticians  Being honest, truthful and are also available to give advice to staff conscientious. members. The PIC has an HIV/Aids policy and Each PIC employee has a copy of the through its Employee Wellness Code of Conduct and Ethics and new Programme, also provides assistance to employees are issued with copies upon employees living with this disease. 7 PIC COP REPORT 2019 Programmes which cover education and procurement policies. The PIC’s policy is prevention are also frequently run. to promote employment equity at all Employees are continually encouraged levels of the organisation, including its to know their status and to look after Board. themselves and others accordingly. The PIC realises that it does not exist in All PIC employees enjoy the benefits of a isolation and that it should also reach out medical aid scheme and a pension fund. to the communities in which it operates. To this end various corporate social Broad-based black economic responsible programmes aimed at empowerment (BBBEE) is very important enriching and improving the lives of in the South African context and is others are undertaken and supported. embedded in the PIC’s recruitment and (c) LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The PIC remains strongly committed to The PIC maintains transparency and eliminating any form of discrimination in worker consultation in decision-making respect of employment and occupation. through meetings and other forums. The PIC practices freedom of association which enables employees to join trade Employment equity policies have been unions. Employees may use established implemented that are inclusive of race, grievance procedures which prohibit gender, and people with disabilities to victimisation. ensure that the PIC is an organisation that is representative of all the people of 8 PIC COP REPORT 2019 South Africa. The PIC complies fully and innovative ideas in their field of with the Employment Equity Act. expertise. Our culture of open and honest dialogue promotes immediate Alignment of the PIC business plan with and direct performance feedback its skills requirements is critical. between the manager, employee, and Demand and supply of required skills and team to help individuals identify competencies within all business units performance gaps and address are assessed, skills levels defined and development needs more accurately and timeframes set for the filling of vacancies. effectively. A combination of internal development (talent management), internal We invest significantly in a number of promotions, and external recruitment opportunities for development and forms part of the recruitment strategy of training of our employees. The graduate the PIC. The PIC also has a graduate programme runs for a two year period, programme in place, recruiting graduates with a high retention rate. The PIC from various South African Universities strives to be an active participant in youth and assisting them with practical training employment and skills development. within different divisions in the PIC. There is no child or forced or compulsory labour at the PIC or any of its Within our workforce, we engage, subsidiaries. Such employment is not develop, and retain a high-performance only illegal but it goes against the PIC’s culture. Our performance management internal values, standards, policies, and culture is robust, agile and rewards procedures. Established recruitment excellence. Through performance practices are followed in all appointments consulting and regular reviews, we track made at the PIC for the period under and monitor individual contribution and review and no instances of child labour provide development coaching and have ever been found. Current opportunities for our staff. This is to screening practices will highlight any ensure that our staff remains abreast of under-age applicants. the latest and most effective best practice 9 PIC COP REPORT 2019 (d) ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Given the increasing impact of climate entity. The PIC moved its business change, the PIC has a renewed focus on premises to a head office which is a 5 star environmental standards. The PIC green rated building. This building has remains conscious of its environmental contributed significantly in ensuring that footprint, with constant effort and focus on the PIC meet its obligations related to enhanced environmental management, environmental sustainability and resource not only through its investee companies efficiencies through the following but also for the PIC as an operational initiatives: WATER AND ELECTRICITY USAGE In line with its commitment to ESG maintained and leakages are monitored principles, the PIC implemented initiatives and repaired immediately. The building to monitor and reduce water and management strategy now includes electricity usage, as well as its carbon proactive monitoring and maintenance to footprint. Water infrastructure is avoid any wastage through leakages. CARBON FOOTPRINT The PIC is sensitive to its impact on the environment and implemented measures to monitor and reduce its carbon footprint. 10 PIC COP REPORT 2019 PAPER RECYCLING The PIC collaborated with Mpact development initiative, and proceeds from Recycling to recycle an average of 9.14 paper collected went to the Society for the tons of paper annually. Service providers Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA). used for collections were all empowered The business also prints documentation small and medium sized entrepreneurs double-sided and uses a board pack benefiting from an enterprise application to reduce paper usage. (e) ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The PIC is governed by the Constitution of suppliers and other stakeholders, as well the Republic of South Africa, the Public as its investment decisions. Investment Corporation Act, the Public Finance Management Act, the Companies The PIC has a whistle blowing hotline Act as well as the King Codes on which is in operation 24 hours a day, every Corporate Governance and its own day of the week. This hotline ensures the Corporate Governance Policy. In anonymity of any person reporting a addition to the prevailing legislative complaint. All fraud and corruption environment, internal policies and allegations are investigated and reported procedures at the PIC prohibit any corrupt to the Audit and Risk Committee of the behaviour. Criminal behaviour is not Board. Where possible and practical, the tolerated and formal charges will be laid PIC will pursue full recovery of all losses against any perpetrator. Integrity is a resulting from acts of fraud and corruption. core PIC value and the organisation is committed to the highest standards of The PIC has various policies in place ethical behaviour in all its actions and aimed at the prevention of fraud and decisions. This ethical awareness also corruption, and dealing with the influences the PIC’s engagement with declaration of interests, ethics and 11 PIC COP REPORT 2019 acceptance of gifts, among others. The PIC has an internal audit function Facilitated by the human resources, which reports functionally to the Audit and compliance and legal divisions of the PIC, Risk Committee. The terms of structured sessions take place with all appointment of the Internal Audit Manager employees and Board members as well as his performance assessment emphasising proper conduct to ensure are conducted by the Audit and Risk compliance with legislation and internal Committee. values, standards, policies and procedures. (f) THE SOCIAL AND ETHICS COMMITTEE The PIC has established, in line with the The SEC’s monitoring role includes the Companies, Act, a Social and Ethics monitoring of any relevant legislation, Committee (SEC). The SEC operates other legal requirements or prevailing within a Terms of Reference (ToR) that codes of best practice, specifically with complies with the Companies Act and regard to matters relating to social and King IV requirements and is approved by economic development, good corporate the Board of Directors. The ToR is subject citizenship, the environment, health and to an annual review by the Board. safety, as well as labour and employment. The main objective of the SEC is to assist During the period under review, in the the Board to address social and ethics execution of its duties, the SEC reviewed matters and to assist the Board and the the PIC’s progress in addressing the Executive Committee in the fulfilment of principles of the UN Global Compact their duties and responsibilities to ensure Principles and the OECD Guidelines; as that the PIC remains a good corporate well as the PIC’s performance and citizen. This is done by monitoring the strategy in terms of sustainable sustainable development practices of the development as it relates to the following: PIC, thereby assisting the Board in  Socio and Economic Development; achieving one of its values of doing  Corporate Social Investment; business ethically.  Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment; 12 PIC COP REPORT 2019  Stakeholder Relations; Companies indicated that they would  Health and Safety; consider the disclosure of this information.  Labour Relations, including Employment Equity; and The initial ESG Matrix for Listed  Management of the PIC’s Investments has evolved over the years environmental impacts. and there was a specific drive to include additional social and environmental During the period under review, the SEC metrics. In the past the Matrix had only either put in place or reviewed PIC’s: been populated with publicly available information. With the current inclusion of  No-Gifts Policy – the Gift Policy was the new additional metrics, certain amended that employees may no information that is not publicly available longer receive any gifts; will be included, such information will be  Safety, Health and Environmental sourced directly from the company. This Policy; will enable us to make more informed  Procurement Policy, as it relates to decisions with regards to ESG issues. environmentally friendly purchasing; Particular care will be taken to ensure that  Politically Connected Persons Policy; no price sensitive information is disclosed  ESG Policy for Listed Equities; to the PIC.  ESG Policy for Unlisted Investments;  ESG Policy for State Owned Entities; The ESG Unlisted investment matrix was  ESG Policy for Fixed Income; and based on the same underlying principles  Corporate Social Investment Policy. as the matrix for Listed Investments to  B-BBEE Guidelines Policy ensure consistency across the metrics applied. Several remuneration policy matters were discussed with investee companies. The The PIC’s Code of Conduct’s compliance PIC voted against a number of is monitored through a whistle-blowing remuneration policies and Companies facility, the details of calls and follow-up were engaged on these matters. In actions are presented to this Committee particular, Companies were requested to for consideration. disclose the ratio between highest and lowest paid employees. Of these, some 13 PIC COP REPORT 2019 (g) PRINCIPLES FOR RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS: The PIC adopted a belief system that incorporates economic, social and institutional considerations into investment decisions. This approach to investment management is consistent with increasing global concern and awareness around sustainability issues. The United Nationsbacked Principles for Responsible Investment Initiative (UNPRI) is a network of international investors working together to put the six Principles for Responsible Investments into practice. The Principles were devised by the investment community. They reflect the view that environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) issues can affect the performance of investment portfolios and therefore must be given appropriate consideration by investors if they are to fulfil their fiduciary (or equivalent) duty. The Principles provide a voluntary framework by which all investors can incorporate ESG issues into their decision-making and ownership practices and so better align their objectives with those of society at large. The PIC lived-up to these principles in the following ways: Principle 1: We will incorporate ESG issues into investment analysis and decision-making processes. The PIC’s commitment to ESG matters in any business to be sustainable it has the investment process is informed by the to take broader society (all believe that: stakeholders and not only  Sound environmental management shareholders) into account in its forms an essential part of sustainable decision making processes. economic growth and social  Good governance practices mitigate development which lead to the risk of corporate failure and that sustainable businesses; ultimately will lead to enhanced long  Social matters need to be addressed term returns. especially in a society such as South There is currently ESG policies in place in Africa with its discriminatory past. For all the PIC investment divisions. 14 PIC COP REPORT 2019 Principle 2: We will be active owners and incorporate ESG issues into our ownership policies and practices. Given the PIC’s active role in addressing  Economic infrastructure (comprising matters of governance and ethics within energy, logistics, water, broadband, corporate South Africa and as the largest liquid fuels and commuter transport); institutional investor on the African  Environmental Sustainability projects Continent it was fundamental to ensure such as renewable energy, energy that its investment decisions moved efficiency, clean technology, recycling beyond the mere financial performance of and green firms, environmentally companies. The challenge was to delve friendly construction, green buildings into the core of a company’s controls, its and conservation; sustainability strategy, its social  Social infrastructure, focusing on responsibility intent and ultimately its health, education and affordable commitment to all stakeholders. The PIC housing; uses an ESG rating matrix to measure the  New Enterprise, Job Creation and ESG compliance of investee companies BBBEE focusing of SMME and various engagements with companies development, support for fund on ESG performance occurred to drive managers espousing principles of desired behaviour and outcomes. BBBEEE and investments in sectors that foster growth, job creation and The PIC, especially through its Isibaya BBBEE particularly in those priority Fund, invests significantly in socio sectors identified by Government’s economic development including skills Industrial Policy Action Plan (IPAP) development. The Isibaya Fund has (including agriculture, agroevolved from having a mainly private processing, green and renewable equity focus to one which predominantly energy technology, tourism and focuses on the following priority areas: business process outsourcing). 15 PIC COP REPORT 2019 Principle 3: We will seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by the entities in which we invest. The PIC was one of the key role-players issues in investment processes. It also involved in initiating the drafting of the Code requires these institutions to have policies for Responsible Investing in South Africa dealing with ESG matters publicly available (CRISA). and to disclose voting records Principle 1 of the Code states that “An institutional investor should incorporate ESG The PIC is one of only a few asset considerations into its investment analysis and managers that has its Corporate activities as part of the delivery of superior Governance Code as well as proxy voting risk-adjusted returns to the ultimate records available on its website. Quarterly beneficiaries”. reports detailing all voting are also The Code requires both asset owners and submitted to clients. institutional investors to incorporate ESG Principle 4: We will promote acceptance and implementation of the Principles within the investment industry. The PIC works closely with its external issues with the external managers and managers to promote the implementation there are frequent discussions between of the UNPRI. The ESG team undertook the PIC and the external managers on numerous discussions on various ESG company specific issues. Principle 5: We will work together to enhance our effectiveness in implementing the Principles. The PIC is an active member of the UNGC where we proactively engage on policy, and UNPRI South African Network. It is regulatory and issues of common concern. also a member of the Association for Savings and Investments in South Africa The PIC will, via this platform, further (ASISA). ASISA is empowered by a ensure that the UNGC principles are mandate from an industry that manages implemented throughout the South African assets of more than R5.5 trillion and is investment and asset management therefore considered a formidable partner industries. around Government’s negotiation table 16 PIC COP REPORT 2019 The PIC is also represented on the Centre frequent participant at both UNPRI and for Corporate Governance in Africa at the UN Global Compact events and University of Stellenbosch. The PIC is a conferences. . Principle 6: We will each report on our activities and progress towards implementing the Principles. The PIC is one of a few asset managers that publicly disclose its voting records as well as its unlisted investment portfolio ESG ratings. The Corporate Governance Policy of the PIC is also a public document. Additional public information reflecting PIC’s commitment can be found at the following link:https://www.pic.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/Public-Investment-Corporation-IntegratedAnnual-Report-2018.pdf CONTACT US The PIC would appreciate comments or suggestions on the contents of this report. Please forward all comments to rubeena.solomon@pic.gov.za 17
