UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT In the following, we present our annual Communication on Progress, where we describe our actions to integrate the United Nations Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Since our last state of affairs, Baxx Promotion have been working persistently with responsible sourcing and sustainable product design. Our overall politics, goals and processes to advance within the fields of UNGC are integrated part of our business procedures, and we have focused on communication internally as well as externally. By focusing on our must-win-battles in a renewed business strategy, we have been able to align our business goals with our core values within the fields of labour rights, employee satisfaction and human rights, among others. A close dialogue with customers and key suppliers has provided us with valuable information on their work with sustainability, enabling our own journey towards fulfilling the goals we set out. At the same time, our ISO certification within environmental and quality management creates the best platform for reducing Baxx Promotion’s environmental footprint of our business and practice responsible sourcing. Baxx Promotion will continue our close collaboration with local and regional actors, such as NGO’s, educational institutions and job centers, in order to create value both for us as a company as well our community. This is a part of our CSR and environmental strategy, guiding us on the road map for our future efforts. We are pleased to reaffirm Baxx Promotion’s continued support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. Yours sincerely Michael Eriksen CEO, Baxx Promotion / / 2 · 20191025 UN GLOBAL COMPACT · COP OUR APPROACH Our work at Baxx Promotion, to promote the ideas and principles of the UN Global Compact, can be divided into 3 levels: 1. STRATEGIC LEVEL ISO 9001and 14001-certifications, and our focus on the UN Strategic Sustainable Development Goals 2. TACTICAL LEVEL Close customer dialogue and Tactical collaborations, supplier Level partnerships and evaluations, etc. 3. OPERATIONAL LEVEL Sustainable product design, Operational recycled packaging, reduced energy consumption, etc. Level This following Communication on Progress is based on the fiscal year 2018/2019 for Baxx Promotion A/S / / 3 · 20191025 UN GLOBAL COMPACT · COP VISION AND FOCUS AREAS The CSR and environmental strategy of Baxx Promotion is founded on the 10 principles of the UN’s Global Compact, relating to human rights, labour rights, respect for the environment and anti corruption. FUTURE ROAD MAP Our primary goal is to ensure that our business, and how we conduct it, has the least possible adverse impact on our We remain committed to continuously develop and improve our performance in all environment. Where we as a company can exercise most areas of our CSR strategy – we will continue influence is by putting sustainability on the very top of the to set policies, goals and define relevant agenda at all times and encourage all of our business measurement tools within our ISO management system, in order to ensure focus partners to do the same. and progress. We maintain our goal that at least 70% of our turnover comes from We will continue and maintain our overall focus areas in our suppliers that are audited on a regular basis. CSR strategy, which is: responsible sourcing/production at our sub-suppliers and bringing as many environmentally sustainable products as possible to the market. These areas will continue to serve as a guideline for focusing and prioritizing our resources. Through 2018 Baxx Promotion have optimized our purchasing and sourcing work-flows, as well as upgrading our product design . and we have created new tools to help us make the best and most responsible choices of suppliers. Our environmental outlook is now a key part of our customer dialogue, where we also discuss and promote social responsibility at our production sites. Our continued efforts within our Quality and Environmental management system have resulted in a re-certification in 2018. We see this as a testament of the stability of our work. In the coming year, we will focus more on collaborations with key customers as well as partnerships with suppliers and NGOs, working to promote the UNSDGs no. 8 and 12 as well as UN Global Compact and increase our joint social responsibility. / / 4 · 20191025 UN GLOBAL COMPACT · COP LABOUR ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Baxx Promotion believe that everyone has a basic right to PRINCIPLES be free from discrimination and harassment, the right to MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES collective bargaining, the right to choose to work freely and 1. Business should support and not at least that every child should have the right to respect the protection of The past year we have performed double education. We have formulated this in our CSR strategy and internationally proclaimed audits at more than 50 percent of our human rights suppliers. Furthermore, all new suppliers our suppliers are held to these standards through our Code have affirmed their commitment to our work of Conduct, which complies with the ILO conventions. Our by signing our revised Code of internal risk assessment has identified that the highest risk 2. Business should make sure Conduct/Supplier Manual. of non-conformity, lies within our supplier network in Asia. that they are not complicit in In accordance with last years goal we have human rights abuse collected and assessed Social Audits of our We have also identified country specific risks, when key suppliers carried out by independent inspection agencies. More than 35 reports sourcing certain products, and achieved our goal of from our main suppliers have been analyzed. performing double audits in 2018. One of our new goals for No non-conformity in relations to human next year is now to perform double audits of at least 60 rights has been recorded. percent of our suppliers in the countries with highest risks within labour rights. Another goal for next year is to intensify our collaboration with global NGO’s working on social responsibility, in order to increase the percentage of our goods produced on socially audited factories. IMPLEMENTATION Before entering into a business relationship with Baxx Promotion, all suppliers are asked to commit to the Baxx Promotion Code of Conduct and are obliged to sign this. We have an internal system for recording and evaluating Code of Conduct compliance. In order to enhance transparency and inform our stakeholders, our updated Code of Conduct is also published at our website. When performing double audits, we will be focusing on social factors and work safety as well as labour rights. / / 5 · 20191025 UN GLOBAL COMPACT · COP HUMAN RIGHTS MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS At Baxx Promotion, we are continuing our efforts to create a healthy and attractive work Baxx Promotions goal is to actively influence and facilitate PRINCIPLES environment for our employees. Employee that both our employees and business partners adhere to involvement has been increased and no work3. Business should uphold the related injuries has been recorded in 6 years. the Universal Declaration of Human rights. Our overall Baxx Promotion is aware of any discrimination freedom of association and vision is only to do business with partners that respect the and aim at creating a workplace with room for the effective recognition of all individuals, representing our surrounding international conventions on human rights and share the the right to collective society. The following is a table of Baxx values of Baxx Promotion. Based on a previously carried Promotion’s employees by age and gender: bargaining out risk assessment, we maintain that our focus within human rights should lie primarily on our supplier network in Headcount Male Female Total (%) 4. The elimination of all forms Asia. of forced and compulsory Age -18 0 0 0 (0%) labour Age 18-25 0 1 1 (3%) IMPLEMENTATION 5. The effective abolition of Age 26-35 2 3 5 (16%) child labour Work safety is a top priority at Baxx Promotion, of course at Age 36-45 4 10 14 (45%) our warehouse but also in our offices in general. This 6. The elimination of Age 46+ 5 6 11 (35%) shows in our total absence of work-related accidents discrimination in respect of through 6 years and running, which we take great pride in. Total (%) 11 (35%) 20 (65%) 31 (100%) employment and occupation Our goal is again to avoid any accidents next year. Baxx Promotion Management team by gender: Male: 6 (75%) | Female: 2 (25%) Employee welfare has also been a great focus for Baxx Promotion in 2018, and increased employee involvement has been one of our improvements. The coming year we will focus even more on the wellbeing of our employees especially their personal work-life balance. Through 2018 we have been even more selective in our suppliers, increasing our collaboration with the partners that prove to be in compliance with our standards, also following up on their sub-suppliers. This will be a focus point for us again the coming year. / / 6 · 20191025 UN GLOBAL COMPACT · COP ENVIRONMENT MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Again this year, we have carried out a risk analysis of our suppliers and audited 5 of the ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS high-risk partners through the past year. No critical areas have been identified; only small Baxx Promotion operates in the business of promotional PRINCIPLES improvement areas have been suggested. and give-away articles. The nature of this market is In order to ensure product compliance and characterized by relatively cheap products with a short 7. Businesses should support a product safety, we continue – planned as well Product Life Cycle. We pride ourselves in doing everything precautionary approach to as unplanned – product specific test of environmental challenges REACH compliance. No deviations have been we can to design products that are worth keeping, recorded this year. maximizing our customers marketing budgets and visibility, and minimizing the negative impact on the environment. We 8. Undertake initiatives to In relation to our goal of minimizing our use of promote greater packaging materials, this year we have call it sustainable product design. registered positive deviations of product environmental responsibility packaging for customers. Through the past Our overall aim is to bring safe, legal and sustainable year, we have been able to avoid the planned 9. Encourage the development use of more than 200,000 plastic polybags. products to the market. As our product range and This KPI indicates that our efforts are paying application is so widespread this is inherent challenging. and diffusion of off, and we will maintain this effort the coming We want to be at the forefront in our business, and try to environmentally friendly years. push both our colleagues, suppliers and customers to act technologies responsibly and source more sustainable products. IMPLEMENTATION Baxx Promotion has been certified according to the ISO 14001 standard since the beginning of 2015. All environmental policies, goals and procedures are implemented in the management system. This way we reduce the negative environmental impact of our products and ensure that they live up to all relevant legislation. Through 2018 we have achieved our goal of minimizing the use of individual polybag packaging, a goal that will be ongoing for the coming years. We have also implemented a new classification of our products, defining how we categorize sustainable products – an important tool for us and our customers. These categories are primarily based on product lifetime, production and reusability, recycling. / / 7 · 20191025 UN GLOBAL COMPACT · COP ANTI-CORRUPTION ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Baxx Promotion follows a strict policy of zero tolerance of PRINCIPLES all forms of corruption, including bribery, facility payments, kickbacks, theft, blackmail, fraud and favoritism. We expect 10. Business should work MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES all our suppliers and employees to adhere to this principle against corruption in all its and are in constant dialogue with our partners to ensure forms, including extortion Baxx Promotion has never been involved in this is followed. any legal cases or any other accusations and bribery. regarding corruption or bribery. We keep a strict record of all stock and samples, to ensure that they are not misused in any quidpro-quo exchange. No cases have been recorded the past year. IMPLEMENTATION All employees and suppliers of Baxx Promotion have been made aware of our policy on anti-corruption through our Code of Conduct. Also the area is covered in individual employment contracts, stating our company policy regarding gifts, hospitality and entertainment. / / 8 · 20191025 UN GLOBAL COMPACT · COP See all facts about our CSR strategy, Code of Conduct, UN Global Compact and our ISO certification at www.baxxpromotion.com B A X X PROMOTION A / S / / MARSVEJ 26 / / 6 0 0 0 KOLDING // DENMARK PHONE: +45 75 52 5 0 0 0 / / W W W . BAXXPROMOTION.COM
