Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) APRIL 2019 MYANMAR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PTE. LTD Contents Statement of Continued Support for UN Global Compact ............................................................. 2 Human Rights Principles ....................................................................................................................... 3 Labour Principles ...................................................................................................................................... 5 Environmental Principles ..................................................................................................................... 7 Anti-corruption Principles.................................................................................................................... 9 Page 1 of 10 Statement of Continued Support for UN Global Compact Dear stakeholders, I am extremely honored and pleased to commit to support the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact covering the fields of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this 'Communication on Progress (COP)', it briefly lays out how we have studiously integrated our vision, mission, business strategy, process and operational procedures into the Global Compact Principles. Furthermore, it demonstrates how we value equal importance in dealing with every aspect of the principles such as how we focus our effort in capacity building and training while best practices are incorporating into the procedures and processes. This commitment overwhelms not only organization and personnel but also stakeholders alike and as such, we constantly emphasize on our operations and initiatives to uphold the UNGC principles. Thus strengthen our contribution in achieving corporate social responsibility to further benefit to our community and environment in sustainable manner. Your Sincerely, Dr. Tun Thura Thet Founder and CEO Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Page 2 of 10 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals In accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd (MIT) embedded the fundamentals of human rights in its business operations and strategies. The staff members are entitled the equal rights and opportunities in the workplace that enable the team to fully access individual benefits and increase work life balance harmonization. External stakeholders’ communications are developed with respect and highly maintain the human rights in all interactions. MIT targeted in its goals to promote the protection of human rights principles and zero tolerance in misuses of human rights in the workplace. Implementation Our organization has been monitoring and reviewing the business practices and procedures enabling to integrate the core principles of human rights that we value. Company policies have been enforced to discourage forced and child labour, discrimination of gender, age, race and religion in the employment. Gender equity is taking into account in the recruitment process. The knowledge and awareness of MIT staff members on the human rights are strengthened through the comprehensive code of conduct that enhanced their understanding of human rights and applying in their day-to-day business as well as personal life. Orientation sessions are scheduled for the staff regarding the prevention of harassment such as physical, verbal, sexual or psychological abuse or threats in the workplace. Promoting human rights, MIT focused on the Corporate Social Responsibility activities throughout the period to further support youth and the communities particularly in the education sector. MIT continuously awarded in terms of the Page 3 of 10 scholarship programme for the selected outstanding students at the University of Information Technology, Yangon Region. Additionally, under E-village programme, MIT provided necessary technical and financial support to the computer training centres in Kayin State and Mon State. Moreover, Eight students of University of Distance Education are appointed and training them for software related professional skills and tasks. This support aim to in turn beneficial to the communities and tribal youths in the remote border area by delivering their knowledge and know-how. Likewise, having witnessed ourselves hardships encountered by students in rural areas, of travelling to and from schools, MIT has denoted (16) bicycles to Shyu Khinn Tha village in Ingapu Township, Ayayarwaddy Division. MIT offered on-the-job trainings and internship programme to the University students to support for their career path. MIT employed the interns, as per quorum (20 staff), from the students of the University of Computer Studies, Yangon and in States and Regions, and then from the students of National Management Degree College. Corporate Social Responsibility activities included the support to government sector, i.e. two officials from the Ministry of Education are sponsored as second time by MIT for their travel requirements to attend a workshop held at Harvard Business School, Harvard University in the USA. In addition to providing day-to-day office ferry transportation, MIT has entered into an agreement with the Grab Taxi Service for MIT staff to have safe, comfortable and fast official ways. Immediate support provided in cases of sending to the hospitals or clinics for those who suffer illness while on duty. Medical entitlements for staff are ensured in terms of having proper medical treatment, leave benefits according to labour law and health condition, entitlement of maternity leave and full Social Security Board (SSB) benefits during pregnancy, as well as injection program against hepatitis B. For those staff residing in the staff hostels are provided full support for health related matters. Measurement of outcomes Page 4 of 10 MIT management oversees the overall implementations of the Human Rights principle and duly addresses the areas that need improvement by taking corrective measures. MIT aims women empowerment in the leadership roles in the upcoming years. External stakeholders (customers, suppliers, partners) recognized towards our corporate initiatives and implementation. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle.5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals In the scope of business operations and mainly in staff recruitment process, labour principles are fully enforced and upheld by MIT. According to its labour principles, company policies are aligned to eliminate all forms of forced and child labour, and discrimination in the selection and recruitment process of staff employment. We uphold freedom of association, effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, equal opportunity for all staff without bias towards disability, gender, marital status, age, religion, and political beliefs. MIT aims to promote sustainable working mechanism focusing team-orientated, fair and fully rights-supportive working conditions and environment. Implementation MIT’s staff handbook is updated to reflect the update governing labour laws and disseminated to staff members to comply in practice. Staff members are treated in transparency and open communications channel for counselling related to the social/personal requirements, employment and working conditions. Employment agreement and its terms and conditions between MIT and new Page 5 of 10 recruits are in conformity with the governing laws and labour principles, in addition, adhering to the minimum salary standards per staff. Forced and compulsory labours are totally prohibited at MIT which has been scrutinizing. MIT ensures that all staff enjoy comprehensive employment benefits for those provided by the Social Security Board of the Ministry of Labour, Immigration and Population. All type of leaves according to the government policy such as medical leave, casual leave, earned leave, leave without pay, maternity leave and so on are fully entitled by the staff. In addition, family bereavement leave and exam leave are allowed for the staff as necessary. Finally, MIT contributed funds towards the cost of MIT drivers' and office helpers’ children education. Funding and cash as an advanced salary are supported to those staff who have financial difficulties to cover their medical expenses, and social necessities. Special cash allowances are provided for the social occasions (arranging wedding present, birthday gifts and sympathy contribution for late immediate family member) that support the needs effectively for the concerned staff. In order to mitigate monetary or financial burden shouldered by staff, MIT formed a credit loan committee to offer monetary assistance for the request of housing loan or renting an apartment. All staff are provided with standardized office supplies and equipment, technical and software support to perform their duties productively. For example, leave request, attendance (in/out), and overtime request are controlled through mobile application called “HCM Connect that is supported in the payroll and HR processes. We closely monitored the cleanliness and hygiene both of the canteen as well as the food and refreshment. Clean and fresh drinking water is supplied daily and fresh seasonal fruit are available once a week for staff health care. Social and health promotional activities are organized for staff members including football match, and yoga sessions, thus, enable the team building and enhance the interactions among the staff. As a remarkable event in 2018, more than a hundred of our staff members participate in POCARI SWEAT RUN MYANMAR. MIT organized and implemented the training sessions during this year namely orientation sessions on the company rules and practices by HR upon staff Page 6 of 10 appointment (12 sessions), 33 in-house technical training sessions, 2 external trainings and 1 oversea training are participated by staff members and support for the improvement of the capacity building. The management team is encouraging staff to deliver public presentations, and speeches. Technical sharing programmes facilitated by senior staff have been initiated to experience course organization and designing. Learning sessions for staff member are scheduled with internal and external professional experts from the IT fields and from diverse fields to promote the general knowledge that can integrate to the innovations and system development. Sponsorships scheme for youths in IT industry are continuously supported. Last year, MIT staff celebrated the Kahthein Robe Offering, an annual Buddhist ceremonial occasion (usually taking place in the festive month of November) where robes, fresh and dried food, religious articles and temple utensils are offered to the temples. Moreover, short recreation trips were occasionally arranged for all staff so as to raise awareness and importance of team spirit. Likewise, monthly birthday party, annual staff party and get-togethers were organised so that all staff keep building the trust, exchanging the information and keep productive. Measurement of outcomes MIT operated and structured its business in compliance with labour principles and applicable laws both the labour laws of Myanmar and those of the ILO in respect of any working conditions. During the implementations stage, the productivity and performance of the staff are improved by having applicable rights. MIT management adhered strictly to the rules and regulations, and issued notices and circulars regularly to observe by all staff. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Page 7 of 10 environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibilities; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals MIT is keenly aware of the importance of safeguarding and preserving the environment wherever we operate. We strongly support and promote environmentally friendly approach in our day-to-day operations. At the same time, we do our best to bring our stakeholders to utilize green technologies and better methods of waste materials disposal. Implementation Environmental initiatives are widely undertaken by the staff member and fully aware the internal practices to promote the environmentally friendly workplace in terms of regulating the usage of electricity (light, electrical appliances and equipment and devices). We aim to spread these simple practices to all concerned parties to realize how to protect the environment. MIT management implemented environmentally friendly supplies and approaches by means of practicing the computerized system for all forms of recruitment process, application of HCM Connect to support the preservation of the environment and create a paperless workplace by reducing the use of papers in our daily business operations. For leave requests, recording of staff attendance; in/out, overtime requests, and so on are computerized. We strongly monitored and addressed the procedural measures in case of emergencies, adopting systematic disposal of waste, installing sanitized drinking water measured at PH Level, draining all residual and waste water properly, refrain smoking in the office, maintaining check -list on facility management to sustain environmentally friendly workplace, and to mitigate health and environmental Page 8 of 10 issues. Besides, last year, a huge fire broke out at the Yangon City rubbish dump site which took several days to put out the fire by the hundreds of firemen. MIT donated several pairs of boots to those firemen. In addition, MIT also followed the applicable guidelines for the safety measures as advised by local authority. This year, we initiated and stimulated Beat Plastic Pollution in order to reduce the use of plastic in office for environmentally friendly event. As a first initiative in our work place, water glasses and jugs instead of plastic bottles have been providing in the meetings. Measurement of outcomes These overall measures, through constant implementation of environmentally friendly activities, enhance the awareness of the environmental protection by the staff and related parties by means of effective approach. At the same time, our workplaces and surroundings are kept clean, and fresh. We will further move forward by way of advanced technologies to reduce environmental degradation and to fight against global climate change. We aim to outline the checklist for environmentally friendly events to further enhance in operational implementation. Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including· extortion and bribery. Assessment. Policy and Goals MIT aims in the fight against corruption is to adopt a high level of transparency and accountability in all our business operations. As such, we conduct business transactions ethically according to our Code of Conduct while maintaining zero tolerance for all forms of corruption. We fully comply not only with the all the existing applicable Myanmar anti-corruption Laws but also adapt to international and regional legal frameworks. Page 9 of 10 Implementation Anti-corruption principles are applied into the operational process in its rules and regulations and employment agreements’ terms and conditions to prevent malpractices and misconduct. We strengthened anti-corruption commitment in the institutionalization in the staff code of conduct. MIT has comprehensive policy in selecting vendors and suppliers and follows well established process. On matters relating to tender submissions, MIT emphasizes that all submitted MIT tenders strictly follow tendering guidelines and adhered the anti-corruption commitment. MIT management team oversees that all cash transactions are processed in accordance with the standardized business practices. All staff are informed of formal practices in paying contributions towards social and religious functions and occasions. Measurement of outcomes We assure the anti-corruption principles are fully complied in all forms of our business operations including coordination with the public and private sectors. Quarterly and annual audits are conducted according to the systematic transaction procedures laid down by MIT and no specific issues on corruption are observed till now. These formalities and practices has ultimately contributed to achieving MIT's core values, mission, vision, and operational objectives. Page 10 of 10
