Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Building a better future For more than 80 years, we have been providing safe, sustainable products that help people thrive. In this report you’ll find out how we’re developing innovative new options to tackle climate change, Who we are ROCKWOOL uses rock to produce stone wool ROCKWOOL Today, we are insulating and cladding the walls of great buildings and everyday homes to create support the move to a circular economy and enhance the wellbeing of people around the and create fire safe insulation, cladding, acoustic at a glance ceiling and wall tiles, urban flood management safe spaces and lower emissions. We are enabling world. You’ll also see how our work is creating products and horticulture solutions. We are the modern horticulture to feed thousands of people measurable progress on the United Nations world’s leading manufacturer of engineered stone more resource-efficiently. And every day, we learn Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). wool products, delivering specialist options for Founded more than new ways to help societies be better for everyone. This is our sustainability story. the building, horticultural, marine, transport and offshore sectors through our five key brands. 80 years ago Five brands with one common purpose To release the natural power of stone to enrich modern living. 11 600 employees Fire safe insulation for all types of buildings and installations: › Building insulation Acoustic ceiling solutions 61 › Technical insulation nationalities › Core solutions 45 manufacturing facilities Engineered stone wool for composite applications, noise and vibration control, and water management Precision growing for the horticultural industry 39 Exterior cladding for countries of operation building facades 02 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook A positive impact for all Core elements of sustainability ROCKWOOL solutions Positive societal impact Enriching modern living is fundamental to everything we do. We extensively measure how our products and processes contribute to three core elements of sustainability. Combatting climate change Everything we produce helps combat climate change, grow Energy efficiency contributes 40 percent of ROCKWOOL insulation is one of the most costemission reductions in low-carbon scenarios the circular economy or safeguard citizens’ wellbeing. effective solutions to cutting building energy that are designed to achieve the Paris use and CO2 emissions, now and for decades. Agreement’s ambitions. What’s inside Introduction 04 Building a more sustainable future As the effects of climate change Our pioneering Rockflow offers new types of 05 A year of highlights increase, communities will need better urban water management solutions. 06 The Global Goals steer our ambitions defences against urban flooding. 07 Committed, together Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy 09 Beating the 2°C challenge 10 Renovate today to reshape tomorrow Grodan’s solutions enable increased yields As our population grows, we need to feed 13 Protecting people with stone with less water, land and fertilisers. more people using fewer natural resources. 14 Minimising our operational climate impact Growing the circular economy 17 Future proofing growth Our circular business model helps us turn waste into new raw materials and Embracing circularity minimises resource 18 Solutions for a circular society take back and recycle construction site consumption and waste to landfill. 20 Taking a lifecycle approach to buildings 21 Regenerating food supplies waste and used products. 22 Towards a smaller footprint Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing 25 Safer, healthier societies Thanks to excellent thermal and acoustic In an increasingly urban world, people need 26 Enabling safe spaces properties, our products support healthier comfortable, quiet places to live, learn, work 28 Enhancing acoustic performance schools, hospitals and other buildings. and recover. 30 Doing more for the people behind our products 32 Helping communities thrive Sustainability factbook Our insulation withstands temperatures greater than 1 000°C and can help prevent Non-combustible insulation improves building 35 Managing sustainability resilience and helps keep people safer 36 Materiality fire from spreading. indoors. 37 Operating as an ethical business 38 2030 sustainability goals 39 Key performance metrics ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 03 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Building a more sustainable future Welcome to ROCKWOOL’s Today, buildings consume 30 percent of the world’s energy use. By renovating and filling them with Sadly, however, we experienced a workplace fatality in 2018, our first since 2012. Our colleague was only 2018 Sustainability Report high-quality, recyclable and fire-resistant insulation 24 years old and had been working with us for eight such as ROCKWOOL’s we could reduce the heating years, having started his career in ROCKWOOL as You may notice it looks a little different. That’s demand of buildings by 70 percent. an electrician apprentice. His loss touched me and because we’ve decided to report on the three core many others at ROCKWOOL very personally. We elements where we believe our products provide 2018 was the year that ROCKWOOL put have redoubled our efforts to ensure the continuous the greatest positive impacts, namely: combatting renovation on the agenda, kicking off with a safety of our colleagues. climate change; growing the circular economy; and global awareness campaign at the New York safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing. Climate Week in September. We provided Our commitment to safety and wellbeing extends research, advice and support as part of our impactto our products as well, which include nonIt’s a privilege to lead a company whose products focused collaborations, including with the C40. combustible insulation and cladding that help are on the cutting edge of solving some of society’s stop the spread of fire as well as our acoustic greatest challenges, foremost among those being Creating circular ceiling tiles that reduce unwanted noise and help climate change. The positive impact of our products solutions create healthier, more productive and less disruptive is overwhelming. For example, our building indoor environments. insulation sold in 2018 over the lifetime of its use As resource constraints become ever more saves about 100 times the carbon emitted in its challenging, taking a lifecycle approach bolsters We achieved a lot in 2018, but there’s still plenty production. Our new Rockflow product is helping our contribution to growing the circular economy of work to be done. Everyone at ROCKWOOL cities and towns to deal with local flooding that can and reducing the negative environmental is committed to building a safer, healthier, more result from extreme weather events. impacts that population and economic growth productive and more sustainable future. That’s the can sometimes generate. In 2018, we recycled passion that drives us forward each and every day. Across the full range of our products and approximately 130 000 tonnes of stone wool from operations, ROCKWOOL is dedicated to enriching Jens Birgersson, CEO the market and doubled the number of countries modern living. In reading this year’s Sustainability in which we offer recycling programmes – and Report, I hope you will feel the same energy we’re aiming to increase that number threefold and passion that motivates and inspires each by 2030. We’re also working to reduce the waste ROCKWOOL employee. Good reading! we send to landfill as well as our own water consumption and the energy and carbon intensity Putting renovation of our production processes. on the agenda In 2018, we saw many stakeholders reinforce Working for safer, their commitment to achieving the ambitious healthier societies targets set by the Paris Agreement – ROCKWOOL Safety and wellbeing is at the heart of what we do. was no exception. That commitment starts with our 11 600 employees We produce one of the most potent and costand everyone else who works for or visits us, effective solutions to the climate crisis. It’s difficult with practices and processes guided by leading safety to overstate just how much impact stone wool and occupational health management principles. could have on carbon emissions – and how quickly. 04 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook A year of highlights Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Recycling services 5 more Launch of new innovative wall system in Consistently advocated for use Rockzero of non-combustible insulation in high-rise and high-risk buildings. – pioneering nearly zero-energy homes countries. built with stone wool. Grodan products sold in 2018 The acoustic solutions Rockfon will save an estimated delivered to schools in 2018 improved the learning 94 million conditions of more than ROCKWOOL technical insulation sold in 2018 can save energy in its lifetime equal to litres of water. 300 000 57% students globally. of the total annual energy 3.1 use in the U.S. industrial sector. Lost Time ROCKWOOL became the Trucost Incident rate SDG Evaluation Tool’s highest in 2018. scoring company. CO2 intensity reduction from production of 4% against the 2015 Grodan growing solutions enabled 76% £ Living Wage accreditation baseline year. in the UK. more vegetables to be grown compared to soil-based horticulture. Launched the global renovation Prime rating for Global employee engagement campaign ‘Renovate today. sustainability with ESG campaign on the UN Sustainable Reshape tomorrow’ based rating agency ISS-oekom Development Goals. on collaborative research. for the third year running. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 05 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook The Global Goals steer our ambitions ROCKWOOL has made a commitment to This year, we were one of the first drive an increased positive contribution companies to be assessed by the Trucost Examples of our quantified 2018 # product impact on the SDGs to 10 UN Sustainable Development Goals SDG Evaluation Tool, which quantitatively (SDGs) – also called the Global Goals. analyses a company’s performance on 200 million 5 400 TWh 94 million litres 300 000 students 130 000 tonnes the SDGs. ROCKWOOL achieved the tonnes of CO2 avoided heating energy saved in of water saved by benefited from better of stone wool product We evaluate our SDG performance highest score, with 100 percent of the in the lifetime of the lifetime of technical greenhouse growing learning environments waste collected based on the effects of our products as building insulation products sold in 2018 with Rockfon acoustic for recycling in our Group’s products being classified as insulation sold in 2018 well as our operational impacts. We track sold in 2018 (SDG 13)1 (SDG 7) 2 (SDG 6)3 solutions (SDG 3)4 reclaimed waste our performance through a combination SDG positive. schemes (SDG 12)5 of sustainability goals and product impact metrics where possible. Increasing our positive impact We are increasing our positive impact on people and society by maximising our positive product impact and minimising our operational footprint. # Product impact metric Our sustainability goals Maximising product impacts NEW # # # # # # Enabling more Reducing noise Enhancing water Creating more Providing Enabling more Supporting Expanding Enabling more Engaging effective food and creating efficiency in energy-efficient local jobs and durable and more affordable product recycling carbon-efficient in effective production. acoustically sound horticulture. buildings and economic growth. fire resilient housing and services. buildings and collaboration. buildings. industry. infrastructure. energy. industry. Improving Improving Zero fatalities and Reducing landfill Reducing CO2 water efficiency energy efficiency in reducing Lost waste from emission intensity in factories. own office buildings. Time Incidents. production. in factories. Minimising operational impacts 1 Calculation methodology can be found at www.rockwoolgroup.com/carbon-impact 2 Calculation methodology can be found at www.rockwoolgroup.com/carbon-impact 3 Calculation methodology can be found at www.rockwoolgroup.com/precision-growing-impact 4 Calculation methodology can be found at www.rockwoolgroup.com/acoustic-impact 5 See Product impact metrics in the Sustainability factbook at the back of this report. 06 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Committed, together Engaging to multiply impact In June 2018, we launched the iRockGlobalGoals employee campaign to build a sense of community and personal ownership of ROCKWOOL’s solutions to the Global Goals. We invited employees to express what sustainability means to them and share their story of China Denmark Germany driving progress towards a global goal. The one-month campaign was launched by 30 employee ambassadors in our global business units. The campaign achieved a very high level of engagement, increasing the employees’ awareness in their role in driving progress on the Global Goals. France Poland United States ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 07 Introduction Combatting climate change Combatting change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Buildings consume 30% of global energy use and generate 28% of all carbon emissions1. ROCKWOOL’s insulation turns the spaces that shape our lives into a solution for climate change. Energy saving built-in. 08 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Combatting climate change Combatting change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Beating the 2°C challenge Without significant changes, our society will not meet the “well below 2°C” goal set by the Paris In this chapter Agreement, let alone the 1.5°C scenario. Since energy efficiency contributes over 40 percent 10 Renovate today to reshape tomorrow of carbon emission reductions in all low-carbon 2°C scenarios2, we need a step-change in our 13 Protecting people with stone 40% approach to energy. And as energy demand is predicted to rise by up to 27 percent by 20403, we must focus on efficiency, in addition to renewable energy. 14 Minimising our operational climate impact of all carbon emission reductions in Energy efficiency boosts productivity and low-carbon 2°C scenarios economic growth. Out to 2035, it’s estimated that How we’re supporting the UN SDGs come from energy efficiency. the annual increase in GDP from capturing costSDG 7 – Products: effective energy savings would be 1.7 percent in Insulation improving the the United States and 1.1 percent in Europe4. energy efficiency of buildings Buildings currently consume 30 percent of the and industry. world’s energy use5, but they can also deliver SDG 11 – Products: by far the most carbon emission savings of any Insulation supporting more sector for the same level of investment6. 70% affordable housing and less 2018 was the year that ROCKWOOL put energy poverty. renovation on the global agenda with the – the heating SDG 13 – Products: campaign ‘Renovate today. Reshape energy savings stone wool Insulation strengthens resilience tomorrow’. It was launched at the New York insulation can contribute by saving carbon emissions Climate Week and supported by solid research in buildings. from buildings and industry. and effective collaborations. Operations: As the latest example, ROCKWOOL has Reducing CO2 emission now joined the Global Alliance for Buildings intensity in factories. and Construction, which is a global alliance SDG 17 – Products: supporting the transition towards a low-carbon, Engaging in effective energy-efficient and resilient buildings and collaboration within key 660 construction sector7. business areas across sectors Jens Birgersson, CEO, and geographies. New York Climate Week, September 2018 million tonnes of carbon could be saved by retrofitting Europe’s 1 Global Alliance for Buildings and Construction, 4 IEA World Energy Outlook 2012. ’Global Status Report 2018’. 5 Global Alliance for Buildings and Construction, buildings with stone wool 3 Calculation conducted by Material Economics, ’Global Status Report 2018’. insulation – or twice the 2018 based on IPCC AR5 Database, 2018. 6 IPCC, ‘Climate change 2007 – Mitigation of climate change’. 3 IEA World Energy Outlook 2017. 7 https://www.globalabc.org/about-gabc/introduction annual emissions of France. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 09 Introduction Combatting climate change Combatting change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Renovate today to reshape tomorrow Globally, more than 50 percent of existing In 2018 alone, the ROCKWOOL Group created buildings will still be in use in 20508. In OECD stone wool building insulation that can save countries, the number is as high as 75–90 percent. up to 200 million tonnes of CO2 throughout its These buildings may be renovated only once lifetime15, which is the equivalent of more than more before 20509. That means that we need to 43 000 wind turbines running for a year16. Rejuvenating a community exploit this opportunity now. In 2018, 50 years after they were built, the three 13-storey residential towers of Lion The International Energy Agency estimates that Farm Estate in Oldbury, UK, received a wellonly 20 percent of the economically viable energy deserved renovation. The towers were built efficiency potential of buildings is exploited10. as affordable housing for more than 200 families but their physical condition had The EU recently presented a strategy for a deteriorated and poor insulation generated climate-neutral Europe by 2050 – “A Clean high energy costs. Planet for all“11. It is estimated that up to 97 percent of Europe’s building stock The contractor installed ROCKWOOL stone needs partial or deep renovation to be wool insulation and chose Rockpanel façade in harmony with the long-term strategy. boards for the exterior walls. Together, they Achieving this would require a doubling of significantly improve the building’s thermal, the renovation rate by 205012. sound and fire safety performance as well as its appearance, ensuring residents can Buildings offer a much more cost-effective feel safe and comfortable as well as proud pathway to reducing carbon emissions than any of where they live. other sector. Europe, for example, could save €22 billion using among others stone wool “The use of ROCKWOOL and Rockpanel insulation to save energy and thereby reduce delivers a safe, low-maintenance solution CO2 emissions rather than generating additional and will mean an end to energy poverty renewable energy13. for the Estate’s residents”. Carl Yale, Regional Refurbishment Director The role of insulation of Lovell, primary project contractor Buildings hold the largest climate action Retrofitting Europe’s buildings with stone wool potential and within that energy efficiency is Oldbury, United Kingdom could save 660 million tonnes of CO2 – twice as the cheapest path. Buildings are the ultimate much as France is currently emitting14. Thermal climate solvers”. insulation has long been considered crucial for 8 IEA, 2013, ‘Transition to Sustainable Buildings – strategies 14 Calculations conducted by Material Economics, 2018 based and opportunities to 2050’. on: BPIE, 2011, ‘Europe’s buildings under the microscope’; the future of energy consumption and meeting Emma Stewart, Director, Urban Efficiency 9 BPIE, 2011, ‘Europe’s buildings under the microscope’. European Commission, Joint Research Centre: EDGAR – the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction & Climate, World Resources Institute Ross 10 IEA, 2012, World Energy Outlook 2012. Emissions Database for Global Atmospheric Research. objective, but most of Europe’s existing buildings 11 European Commission: https://ec.europa.eu/clima/policies/ 15 Energy and carbon emission savings in the lifetime of Center for Sustainable Cities strategies/2050 our sold building insulation and technical insulation stock has yet to improve insulating performance. 12 European Commission, 2018, ‘In-Depth Analysis In Support products is calculated by ROCKWOOL, endorsed and Of The Commission Communication Com(2018) 773’. following methodologies developed by Navigant. 13 Calculations conducted by Material Economics, 2018 based See www.rockwoolgroup.com/carbon-impact on: BPIE, 2011, ‘Europe’s buildings under the microscope’; 16 https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gasEuropean Commission, Joint Research Centre: EDGAR – equivalencies-calculator Emissions Database for Global Atmospheric Research. 10 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Combatting climate change Combatting change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Supporting better air quality Renovation also delivers other surprising and life-enhancing benefits for communities. In areas The affordable solution where there is energy poverty, people may need Growing sustainable energy networks to burn low-quality fuel or waste to heat their homes. Renovating buildings to reduce the Dutch port owner Groningen Seaports is developing a local network of For the same amount of money, steam pipelines to capture heat from nearby manufacturers and use it as energy demand for heating can help alleviate buildings can save almost 70% sustainable energy for businesses. A bio steam pipe has been constructed in both energy poverty and air pollution. an industrial park. more carbon emissions than the next most cost-effective sector18. The steam flows through an above-ground pipeline for 2.7 km, so retaining ROCKWOOL building heat with minimal loss is essential. ROCKWOOL’s technical insulation around 5.7 insulation can through its the pipes was chosen for its efficiency. The steam enters the pipeline at a lifetime avoid particulate temperature of around 300°C and arrives at the destination with only a few matter (PM) emissions that are degrees of temperature loss. equal to taking more than 50 million cars off the road17. 3.4 3.3 2.7 Beyond buildings It’s not just buildings that can help combat climate 2.1 change. Industry also has significant cost-saving 1.7 and efficiency potential. Almost any industrial Energy Supply activity typically carries untapped efficiency Agriculture savings. Protecting and insulating components Buildings Industry Forestry Transport such as pipes, appliances, vessels, boilers and turbines can deliver large efficiency gains. 17 Annual avoided air emissions from heating energy Groningen Seaports, The Netherlands GtCO2e/year at carbon price <50 USD/tCO2e in 2030 production as a result of our sold building insulation. Calculation method available at www.rockwoolgroup.com/ carbon-impact Car emission calculation based on data from Bureau of Transportation Statistics from U.S. Department of Transportation and European Commission – DG Climate Action, 2015, ‘Improvements to the definition of lifetime mileage of light duty vehicles’. 18 IPCC ‘Climate change 2007 – Mitigation of climate change’. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 11 Introduction Combatting climate change Combatting change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Multiple benefits of renovation City collaboration Renovating can also alleviate energy poverty and the associated health impacts from living in low-quality for climate buildings. Energy poverty means people cannot afford energy to keep their homes properly heated. Cities, along with national This degrades the indoor environment, which contributes to health issues from damp and mould. governments, are key players in leading the transformation of the building stock. An estimated 15% of Energy poverty means Energy poverty can In 2018, ROCKWOOL started collaborating 30% greater risk of people in developed affect mental wellbeing with C40, a network of the world’s largest cities admission to hospital countries live in and social contact. representing one-quarter of the global economy or primary care and commited to addressing climate change. facilities for infants. energy poverty. By the end of 2020, every C40 member city will 19 have developed and begun implementing a comprehensive, measurable climate action plan to deliver low-carbon resilient development Energy poverty affects children’s diet that is consistent with the ambitions of the 30–50% of excess winter if households reduce Paris Agreement. mortality is attributed to spending on food to Our partnership provides the analysis and housing conditions. afford fuel to keep warm. knowledge to implement renovation at scale. Through our work with C40, ROCKWOOL is part of a global partnership supporting workable Around the world, C40 cities are taking solutions for climate action. bold climate action, leading the way towards a healthier and more sustainable future. The main value of the C40 building retrofit project is that it will enable cities Up to 97% to efficiently and effectively measure the of Europe’s building multiple benefits of retrofitting buildings. stock needs renovation. Evidencing the wider benefits of buildings retrofit is crucial to unlock action and drive change”. Piero Pelizzaro, Chief Resilience Officer, City of Milan Milan, Italy 19 ‘Putting renovation on the agenda – Global perspectives on the value of renovation’, ROCKWOOL Group in collaboration with Copenhagen Economics, 2018. 12 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Combatting climate change Combatting change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Protecting people with stone The effects of climate change are being felt in cities around the world, with many urban centres experiencing increasingly heavy rainfall. Stone wool’s remarkable properties also help cities Driving cost-effective improve their resilience to flooding. climate solutions When the borough of Maasbracht, The 70% of cities are already dealing with the Netherlands, needed a new sewer system capable of handling an extreme rain event, a custom-designed option was deemed too expensive. effects of climate change20. To help manage the impacts of flooding, the municipality chose Rockflow, our water Stone wool can be engineered to absorb or management solution that’s built to stand repel water, depending on what’s needed. Once the test of time and manage the effects of excess water has been quickly drained from hard excessive rainfall. surfaces like roads and roofs, it can be collected in underground buffers of stone wool. The water Now when it rains in Maasbracht, the is rapidly absorbed before slowly being let out rainwater is diverted away from the into the surrounding soil, mimicking natural wastewater sewer into a Rockflow rainwater absorption processes. buffer that runs underneath all 2.5 km of Our Lapinus business unit has harnessed these the borough’s streets. Rockflow absorbs the characteristics to develop an innovative water rainwater quickly and releases it slowly into management system called Rockflow. The the surrounding soil over a period of Rockflow system can absorb 95 percent of its 24 hours, all without disrupting life and volume in water – in other words, a cubic metre activity on the roads above. of Rockflow can absorb 950 litres in 10 minutes. The result is a solution that takes peak This is the first product of its kind and is part of pressure off the Maasbracht municipal ROCKWOOL’s embedded culture of innovation sewer system and prevents damage to local and our commitment to use the exceptional properties of stone to protect people. infrastructure. By minimising flooding runoff, it also helps to keep local water supply systems clean, allowing the borough to protect this valuable resource. Rockflow under the streets, Maasbracht, The Netherlands 20 C40, 2012, ‘Ending climate change begins in the city’. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 13 Introduction Combatting climate change Combatting change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Minimising our operational climate impact Manufacturing any product requires using resources – particularly in our case, that means Building insulation: Avoided carbon emissions energy. And that means carbon emissions as well. We are confident that our products are some of the most powerful solutions to global CO2 emissions saved during product lifetime of building insulation environmental challenges. But we want our solutions to leave the smallest negative footprint = 100 times the emissions in production21. possible, which is why we continuously work to improve the sustainability of our operations. In 2016, we set six ambitious Group sustainability goals to drive substantial improvements in our environmental and safety performance by 2030. One of these goals is to reduce the CO2 intensity of our manufacturing facilities. We will drive this among others through an increased focus on energy efficiency. We’ve relaxed our standard internal payback timeframe on sustainabilityrelated investments to ensure we give this work the resources it needs. A small footprint with a big impact Over their lifetime, our insulation products save far more energy and carbon emissions than we use and generate to make them, delivering a comprehensive climate solution. We also want to show leadership and set the standard in the field of energy-efficient buildings. That is why we have an ambitious goal to improve energy efficiency in the Group’s non-renovated office building stock and to build new offices with Key ultra-low energy demand. 1 tonne of CO2 1 tonne of CO2 emissions avoided emissions generated 21 Energy and carbon emission savings in the lifetime of our sold building insulation and technical insulation products is calculated following methodology 14 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 developed by Navigant, who also validate the annual results. See www.rockwoolgroup.com/carbon-impact Introduction Combatting climate change Combatting change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Progress on our sustainability goals CO2 emissions SDG Energy efficiency SDG Revolutionising the way buildings are built with Rockzero 13 7 Our goal: Reduce CO2 emission Our goal: Reduce energy consumption When we decided to construct a new innovation laboratory at our Headquarters in Hedehusene, intensity (CO2/t stone wool) (kWh/m2) within own (non-renovated) Denmark, we put our values – and our products – into action. Constructed using a Rockpanel from our stone wool production offices by 35 percent by 2022 façade, Rockzero walls, Rockfon acoustic ceilings and, of course, ROCKWOOL building facilities by 10 percent by 2022 insulation, the new laboratory is all about demonstrating ultra-low energy-efficient building technology. The new laboratory will have an energy consumption of only 25 kWh/m2. 4% 10% 0% no change 35% In 2018 we launched Rockzero – a pioneering new wall system that integrates the natural benefits of stone wool insulation with the structural support of the home or building. 2015 2018 2022 2018 2022 baseline goal 2015 baseline goal With Rockzero, you can construct homes and low-rise buildings with ultra-low energy consumption, fire protection and indoor comfort. So not only does it deliver on energy performance, but it’s also airtight, yet breathable. Achieving less CO2-intensive operations: Reducing energy need: We haven’t seen During 2018, we made good progress the needle move yet on our office building towards our 2022 CO2 goal by reducing energy efficiency goal since it was set in the carbon intensity of our factories by four 2016. However, in 2018, four deep renovation percent compared with 2015. We continued investments were approved. These will get the rollout of a live, energy-monitoring tool us close to a third of the way towards our for our production. The tool – named NRG 2022 goal. We are currently carrying out deep – helps the production facilities to assess renovation assessments on a number of other energy efficiency by highlighting potential buildings to ensure we reach our goal. areas of improvement for the operators, During 2018 we developed a specific Group process engineers and for management. NRG policy for energy efficiency in new office is now in operation in five facilities and is due buildings: the policy states that all new to be introduced in nine more in 2019. office buildings shall be constructed using Part of our decarbonisation commitment is passive measures to achieve ultra-low to use, where feasible, less carbon-intensive energy demand. fuels in our production facilities. This is why in 2018 we announced that our facility in Moss, Norway will be converted to an electrical melter powered by energy from renewable sources. Rockzero walls at ROCKWOOL’s new innovation laboratory, Denmark ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 15 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Our pioneering solutions don’t just make homes more efficient and resilient – they help cut waste and grow the circular economy, too. Circularity built-in. Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Future proofing growth The world has experienced unprecedented growth in recent decades, lifting millions of people out of poverty. However, as the UN reports1, this has also put incredible pressure on resources In this chapter and accelerated the rate of environmental damage globally. 18 Solutions for a circular society ROCKWOOL applies lifecycle thinking and the circular economy business approach to the environment – and we’re working to ensure ROCKWOOL helps society to 130 000 tonnes of stone wool 20 Taking a lifecycle approach to buildings 21 Regenerating food supplies 22 Towards a smaller footprint our value chain to help reduce some of the grow sustainably. environmental impacts of growth. We use an were collected for abundant material2 and engineer it to perform recycling. consistently for decades. How we’re supporting the UN SDGs Our solutions enhance the sustainability of the SDG 2 – Products: societies that use them, offering environmental Precision growing solutions information on the whole lifecycle to make it enabling more sustainable simpler to construct more sustainable buildings. food production. We also make stone wool for precision growing in greenhouses, so that growers can produce more food with less water and fertiliser and using much less space. SDG 6 – Products: Precision growing solutions enhancing water efficiency in horticulture. 10 countries with a ROCKWOOL Operations: recycling service Our production processes are guided by Improving water efficiency in offered to customers. ambitious goals to minimise our negative our own production facilities. impacts. We are currently tracking our progress against 2022 and 2030 goals to cut the waste we SDG 12 – Products: Increasing send to landfill, reduce our water use and lower the number of countries offering our energy and carbon intensity. We also have a product recycling services. goal to increase the number of recycling services Operations: 94 that take back our own products, and more Reducing landfill waste programmes are being added each year. We also from production. recycle other industries’ waste by using it as a million SDG 17 – Products: litres of water saved substitute for virgin raw material, diverting waste Stone wool recycling, Denmark Engaging in effective streams that would otherwise end up in landfill. by Grodan products. collaboration within key We believe that it’s possible to expand our business areas across sectors business and communities without harming and geographies. 1 United Nations Environment Assembly (UNEA) Regional Assessments Announcement, 2016. TW Dahl, et al. 2011, International Geology Review (Volume 53 Numbers 7–8, June–July 2011) ‘The human impact on natural rock reserves using basalt, 2  anorthosite, and carbonates as raw materials in insulation products’. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 17 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Solutions for a circular society In a circular economy, waste is not waste, Keeping improvement accountable What makes our products circular? but a valuable resource that can be In 2018, ROCKWOOL partnered with Circle regenerated or repurposed and turned into Economy to analyse gaps in our value chain something new. Circular business approaches and to identify more opportunities for circular design out waste and keep products and economy thinking. Thanks to this partnership, materials in use, driving greater resource we have identified ways to strengthen efficiency and cutting down on virgin materials. ROCKWOOL’s business model. Stone is one of Earth’s This helps to reduce the environmental ROCKWOOL recycling services will most abundant raw impacts of production and enables our cities collect your used products to recycle materials and societies to grow sustainably. Responsible from start to finish – and start again ROCKWOOL has a goal to offer recycling services for our products in 30 countries by 2030. We are also tracking our performance against an interim goal to have product recycling services in 15 countries by 2022. Easily Made from up This year we have taken a big step forward, disassembled to 50% recycled as we have deployed product recycling and separated material programmes in five additional countries, bringing the total number of countries with a product recycling service programme to 10. ROCKWOOL also ensured that approximately 130 000 tonnes of stone wool from the market At Circle Economy, we are delighted were collected for recycling in our existing to welcome ROCKWOOL as a Member product recycling services, including from both and further deepen our collaboration by the construction and horticultural sectors. connecting them with other frontrunners in As well as recycling our own waste from the circular economy. This formula for radical collaboration is an effective and proven Fully recyclable production, we upcycle secondary materials from other industries. In 2018, our stone wool route to inspire scalable action in the built products had a recycled content of up to environment and beyond”. Long lifespan 50 percent, excluding closed-loop recycling of of more than Harald Friedl, CEO, Circle Economy waste generated in the factory. 60 years 18 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Progress on our sustainability goals Collaborative solutions Collaboration is key for a robust and effective Reclaimed waste SDG recycling infrastructure. We depend heavily on Constructing a better future for Skanska 12 finding strong partners in the building sector Multinational construction company Skanska aims to build for a better society. They are one of Our goal: Increase the number of value chain. This enables us to develop specific the customers using ROCKWOOL’s new recycling service in Sweden in the project Solna United countries where we offer recycling solutions, including combining take-back services for our products to 15 in Stockholm. Solna United is an office building aiming for LEED Platinum rating. The project with product delivery to building sites and requires a maximum of two percent of all waste going to landfill. countries by 2022 promoting the benefits of our service as part of sustainability building rating schemes. “When we found out that ROCKWOOL offers a recycling service, it created new opportunities 5 10 15 to reach the target. Stone wool is a circular material that can be recycled and this contributes However, collaboration can do only so much. positively to Skanska’s own sustainability goal to avoid construction waste going to landfill”. 2015 2018 2022 We face several barriers in implementing these baseline goal programmes, such as long transport distances Bertil Rosquist, Green Business Development at Skanska and low landfill prices for mixed building waste. Such barriers can be difficult for individual Our recycling service: After a successful producers like ourselves to overcome. For pilot period, we established new product recycling infrastructure to develop in both scale recycling services in Norway and Sweden. and effectiveness, more supportive regulation We partner with Ragn-Sells, which needs to be put in place. collects the wool coming from building sites, compresses it and delivers it to ROCKWOOL’s production facilities. In the United States and Canada, we introduced a service for a limited number of customers. Our product recycling services Countries with product recycling services collect the cut-off materials from these customers, ensuring they are brought Existing: New in 2018: back to us to be incorporated into new Belgium Canada ROCKWOOL products. Denmark France (expansion) This year we also expanded the product Germany Norway recycling service in France, particularly Luxembourg Sweden for large façade projects (on a case-bycase basis). The Netherlands United States Stockholm, Sweden ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 19 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Taking a lifecycle approach to buildings In order to design and build sustainable buildings, we need to take a holistic approach across the lifecycle or we risk sub-optimising in the long run. Builders and architects depend on Enabling sustainable buildings globally accurate information about how products are made and how they will perform so they can make the right choices in their designs. To support sustainable choices, we provide Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) in more than 20 markets for many of our products. The EPDs clearly summarise the product’s lifecycle environmental impacts from extracting the raw materials and the process of manufacturing, right through to the end of their life and their recycling. These EPDs help builders and architects to achieve higher ratings in sustainable building rating schemes such as LEED, HQE, DGNB Marina One, Singapore World Cup stadiums, Russia and BREEAM, empowering people to build Singapore’s dramatic skyline The FIFA World Cup in the more sustainably. has become synonymous with summer of 2018 was one of the progressive, modern design – and main events of the year. Did you Innovation for better buildings it’s a skyline that the Marina One know that all 12 of the new or Digitalisation plays an increasingly important role development deserves to join. renovated World Cup stadiums across the construction sector value chain. We’re Marina One comprises four highin Russia meet international rise buildings: two office towers sustainability standards, like Middelfart City Hall, Denmark Intelligent Quarters, Germany developing sophisticated building information that are occupied by blue-chip BREEAM Bespoke? And that The city hall in Middelfart, In Hamburg, a different modelling (BIM) data capabilities that contribute tenants including Facebook and all stadiums have ROCKWOOL Denmark, designed by the ROCKWOOL solution met the to less wasteful construction and more costPwC; and two residential towers insulation built-in? renowned Henning Larsen needs of Intelligent Quarters, a effective and sustainable operations, maintenance providing city apartments for Architects, is the first building 70-metre office tower. and eventual deconstruction of buildings. Since our products in Russia carry around 3 000 residents. in Denmark to become DGNB Working together with architects, contractors, the EcoMaterial Absolute label; The building height called for Architect Christoph Ingenhoven Platinum + Diamond certified. software developers, standardisation bodies are included in the GreenBook of approximately one kilometre used ROCKWOOL building The outstanding thermal and and other stakeholders, we’re promoting more eco-safe construction materials; of fire barriers to be installed. insulation and this choice of fire resistance properties of comprehensive outlooks and sustainability in BIM. and come with detailed EPDs, ROCKWOOL building insulation material helped Marina One ROCKWOOL insulation were there were additional points to products helped Intelligent become Green Mark Platinum key in achieving the highest In addition, we are continuously developing our be gained in sustainable building sustainability certification. Quarters meet the requirements products to add even more built-in sustainability. and LEED Platinum. schemes. That was a strong for a German Sustainable Building Our innovative bio-binders, which have no added factor in the decision to include Council (DGNB) certificate. formaldehyde, are a good example. our products in the FIFA 2018 stadium projects3. Together, these solutions form part of ROCKWOOL’s response to the growing trend for sustainable buildings. 20 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 3 FIFA, 2018, ‘More Sustainable Stadiums’. Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Regenerating food supplies As our populations and cities grow, our food Grodan products also saved nearly 26 000 needs increase, too. The United Nations estimates hectares of land, an area almost three times that by 2050, there will be 9.7 billion people on the size of Paris9. Grodan: growing more with less quality and reduced sensitivity to diseases. Earth, two billion more than today4. This means NG2.0 crops have also been shown to use More than 90 percent of Grodan customers NG2.0 is Grodan’s latest growing media that as early as 2030, global food demand is set up to 15 percent less water than the previous in Europe have access to recycling solutions, technology to enable growers to produce to rise by 35 percent5 and may double by 20506. generation solution from Grodan. and we are continuously working to extend more with even less water, nutrients and land. Through our Grodan brand, ROCKWOOL the availability of recycling solutions for non“With NG2.0 both the horizontal as well The benefits of NG2.0 include more uniform supports sustainable hydroponic horticulture, European customers. as the vertical water distribution efficiently water distribution, ensuring the crop makes which allows plants to be grown without soil, nourishes the plant, making better use of the We are highly dependent on strong collaboration more efficient use of the whole substrate while using less water, fertiliser and land. entire substrate volume”. in our value chain to maximise the environmental volume. This promotes continuous growth of Stone wool is the most widely used medium in new roots in both the block and the slab for Rob Moors, Kwekerij Moors, vegetable benefits of recycling. In 2018, we released our hydroponics as it gives the optimal conditions for a healthy and vigorous crop throughout the wholesaler, The Netherlands first recycling manuals for growers to advise root growth and plant health. season. That means higher yields, improved them how to recycle used Grodan substrate. In During the year, Grodan products enabled a 2019, we will release a manual for recyclers. The saving of an estimated 94 million litres of water7. manuals will be continuously updated with market That would be enough water to grow a year’s information and insights. worth of coffee for almost 137 million Americans8. Sustainable food The calculation 58% methodology is available at 80% nitrogen www.rockwoolgroup.com/ land use fertiliser precision-growing-impact reduction saving 53% water 76% saving 4 5 United Nations, ‘World Population Prospects, 2015 Revision’ and World Population Clock, https://www.census.gov/popclock https://farmingfirst.org/Post2015-Food#2 vegetable 6 FAO, IFAD, UNICEF, WFP and WHO, 2017, ‘The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2017. Building resilience for peace and food security‘. yield gain 7 8  The calculation methodology is available at www.rockwoolgroup.com/precision-growing-impact http://www.e-importz.com/coffee-statistics.php, assumptions: average kettle uses 1.7 litres of water, eight cups of coffee per kettle. 9 The calculation methodology is available at www.rockwoolgroup.com/precision-growing-impact ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 21 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Towards a smaller footprint We are committed to reducing the environmental Managing waste Progress on our sustainability goals footprint of our operations, and have set goals Utilising proprietary ROCKWOOL technology, we to, among others, reduce water intensity and Water consumption SDG Landfill waste SDG have developed ways to increase the circularity waste to landfill. We have robust environmental 6 12 of our factories. Firstly, the fact that stone wool Our goal: Reduce water intensity Our goal: Reduce landfill waste management systems in place in all our is 100 percent recyclable presents us with a (m3/t stone wool) within our factories from our factories (tonnes) manufacturing facilities. We conduct regular significant opportunity to have fully closed-loop internal audits and are subject to external audits stone wool systems at all our factories. This 2% 2018 10% 2018 to continuously pinpoint areas for improvement. -5% 40% means we can recycle waste wool generated We also use state-of-the-art abatement during the production process and take back our 2015 2022 technology when building new production products from construction and demolition sites. baseline goal 2015 2022 facilities or retrofitting existing ones. baseline goal Secondly, we have developed ways to use waste from other industries. Thanks to these processes, we are confident we will fulfil our ambitious 2030 Saving water: In 2018, we improved our Investing to reduce waste to landfill: Due goal of 85 percent reduction in waste to landfill. water efficiency by two percent, leading to a mainly to increased sales of stone wool, the two percent accumulated saving compared amounts of waste sent to landfill increased with the 2015 baseline. These savings come by 10 percent in 2018 alone and increased from strengthened water management five percent when compared with the 2015 practices, together with technical baseline. However, we remain on track to meet improvements in our factories. the 2022 goal of 40 percent reduction, due mainly to the impact of significant investments in new recycling plants in South Asia and ROCKWOOL and Flechtingen: Russia, together with a new electrical melter in a partnership in clean air Norway which will enable higher recycling rates. Achieving a healthy community takes the efforts of industry, government and local 50% residents working together. In 1990, when we took over a facility in the town of Flechtingen, Germany, our priority was investing in new Up to and innovative technologies to improve recycled content of environmental conditions. our products. Tourism is a year-round industry in this region and one of the top drivers of economic development, and Flechtingen welcomes thousands of respiratory recovery patients and tourists annually. The partnership between the town and industry including ROCKWOOL helped Flechtingen, located under a kilometre from our factory, achieve ‘clean air resort’ status. Flechtingen, Germany 22 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Protecting local water systems concerns related to the impact of the factory on local air quality. We are actively working Our production process is designed for zero with the community to allay their concerns. waste water discharge to the environment. No For example, we’ve made a commitment to production process waste water is discharged into both independent, third-party monitoring waterways or the ground at any of ROCKWOOL’s and publicising air quality data around the manufacturing facilities. In 2018, four percent of production facility. We will cover the costs of our water use came from rainwater harvesting. installing monitors and will also pay for the There are plans in place to increase this third-party operators to manage them. We are percentage in the coming years. confident that the measurements will confirm We continue to monitor closely and drive that there will be no deterioration in the local improvements in the four factories in the Group air quality. that are deemed to be located in highly or extremely highly water-stressed areas10. In 2018, significant improvements were achieved in water efficiency in two of these factories, in Russia and India, whereas water intensity increased in both factories in Malaysia. This negative trend is now Making the case for low carbon being addressed. in Canada Our facility in Milton, Ontario, served as the Being a good neighbour backdrop for Canada’s Minister of Environment and Climate Change Catherine McKenna to As a part of our production process, we generate announce funding to support Canada’s lowair emissions. Our production facilities are carbon future. subject to strict air quality regulations that During her visit, the Minister learned more are in place to protect sensitive groups of the about our commitment to responsible population, animals and the environment. Many citizenship through our products, operations, of our factories are located close to residential programmes and policies. We demonstrated neighbourhoods, schools, businesses, parks and processes for upcycling, recycling, heat protected greenspaces, and we have successfully recovery, water conservation, energy efficiency operated in these neighbourhoods for decades. and more; and then discussed how others could This is the case, for example, at Flechtingen in apply ROCKWOOL’s model to support a more Germany, where we have been located for more circular and resource-efficient economy. than two decades and worked with the town to It’s encouraging to see our work gaining achieve a clean air resort status. attention from policy-makers because In 2018, ROCKWOOL experienced local that’s how we can scale our results to opposition to its new production facility in West businesses everywhere. Milton, Ontario Virginia, United States. Many of the residents’ 10 Water scarcity assessment conducted for ROCKWOOL by Ramboll Environ in 2017. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 23 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Comfortable and safe spaces support healthy human development. That’s why thriving societies need safe, quiet places to live, work, learn and recover. The superior solutions from ROCKWOOL support people and progress by delivering fire safety, sound management and empowering environments. Safe and sound built-in. Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Safer, healthier societies Due to rapid urbanisation and people spending more time in front of screens, much of our lives take place inside. It is vital that the buildings where we live, work, study and heal keep us safe In this chapter and enhance our wellbeing. 26 E nabling safe spaces 28 E nhancing acoustic performance ROCKWOOL’s products do both. Our noncombustible insulation and cladding help How we’re supporting the UN SDGs Fire safety advocacy 30 D oing more for the people behind to stop the spread of fire in buildings, and post-Grenfell contributes to the our products our Rockfon tiles optimise acoustics to help SDG 3 – Products: UK ban on combustible façade 32 H elping communities thrive children to learn, employees to focus and Reducing noise and insulation and cladding. patients to heal. Alongside our products, creating acoustically sound we also partner and engage with multiple buildings for improved stakeholder groups worldwide to advocate for health and wellbeing. stronger fire safety regulations for buildings. SDG 8 – Products: Our mission to protect wellbeing starts with Providing local jobs and our 11 600 employees. We apply leading Improved acoustic learning economic growth. safety and occupational health management conditions for over 300 000 Operations: to our facilities to keep our colleagues safe. Zero fatalities and reducing We also actively promote diversity and Lost Time Incidents. inclusiveness for our global workforce, and continuously seek to avoid discrimination and SDG 9 – Products: students. provide equal opportunities for all. Enabling more durable and And as a company with manufacturing fire-resilient infrastructure. facilities, we know that our ability to operate depends on the benefits we bring to SDG 17 – Products: communities – for example, through taxes Engaging in effective and job creation – and society globally. In collaboration within key 3.1 addition, we seek to provide these benefits business areas across sectors through the impacts of our products, our and geographies. responsible supply chain management, our work against corruption and in the other ways Lost Time Incident rate at our we operate a responsible business. production facilities in 2018*. * Lost Time Incident (LTI) rate: total Lost Time Incidents per 1 million working hours. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 25 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Enabling safe spaces The right to protection Achieving change Collaborating for fire safety We spend most of our lives indoors – with friends, During 2018, media focus on Grenfell helped This year we shared insight with the European family and colleagues, and on our own. It’s every drive real progress, and ROCKWOOL supplied Commission on the Energy Performance of person’s right to feel safe when they’re inside. facts and expertise including making submissions Buildings Directive about including fire safety But as events like London’s 2017 Grenfell Tower to the public consultations and the Hackitt review. during renovations, and advocated for an tragedy show, safety isn’t always assured. Years In June, our Senior Vice-President, Mirella Vitale, alternative European approach to assess the of lax oversight and loosening standards meant testified in Westminster for the Independent fire performance of facades. regulations failed the people they were designed Review of Building Regulations and Fire Safety. to protect. In North America, we collaborate with the The results are encouraging. The UK government National Fire Protection Association and has now banned combustible insulation and Supporting robust regulation cladding from the facades of residential buildings, ASTM International. We are a President’s Council member of the National Association ROCKWOOL has long advocated for greater hospitals, care homes, residential schools and of State Fire Marshals, and work with Fire fire safety and we support our convictions with student accommodation above 18 metres. The Safe North America and the International products that provide the protection people ban applies to all new buildings and when there Firestop Council. These networks advance deserve. Fires are developing 5–10 times faster are refurbishments with material alterations to fire safety provisions in building code today than in the 1950s1. The safety of building the building. development processes and are contributing occupants and first responders depends, among But there’s still more to do. We strongly advocate to the development of a new façade fire test other things, on delaying the release of toxic Events like Grenfell in London shook our to extend the ban to all high-risk buildings, standard for apartment buildings that have smoke, which causes more than half of building profession to the core and are a call to regardless of height, including hospitals, schools, historically been unregulated. fire casualties in the UK2. arms that the safety and wellbeing of a sheltered housing and hotels. building’s inhabitants are one of our primary Stone wool’s built-in fire protection is not responsibilities as architects. As cities grow dependent on flame retardants and curbs toxic Strengthening our industry and become ever denser fire safety should emissions. We believe these life-saving attributes We are starting to see important changes in the play a fundamental role in any design as should be the minimum when it comes to building  ur insulation withstands O construction industry. Not only are robust fire we create environments where people will design. We have always advocated this and safety measures increasingly being taken into temperatures greater than work, learn, play and live in the future”. 1 000°C supported public debates with facts and expertise. consideration, but we’re also seeing a growing Kai-Uwe Bergmann, Partner, BIG NYC demand for fire safe products. and can help prevent fire from spreading. 1 UL, 2012, ‘Analysis of Changing Residential Fire Dynamics and Its Implications on Firefighter Operational Timeframes’. 26 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 2 Department for Communities and Local Government. Fire Statistics: Great Britain, April 2013 to March 2014. January 2015. Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Sharing know-how Fire safety is not just about regulation – it’s about awareness and hands-on experience, too. Educating builders, building owners, specifiers Protection from and architects is key to keeping citizens safe. We every angle provide installation guides, host expert advice on our blogs and provide fire safety advice to the Baltyk Tower is an eye-catching, end users of our products. Guidance could be 16-storey new building in Poznań, videos on how to properly install a fire barrier or Poland that resembles a giant helpful tips on how to improve fire safety in your staircase. The 25 000 m2 tower own home. includes retail spaces, offices and a panorama restaurant. To make safety even simpler for end users, we’ve gathered all our installation guides, safety Due to the building’s height and instructions and much more on our website, unusual design, fire safety was a giving consumers all the support they need when key challenge for Dutch architects working with ROCKWOOL products. MVRDV. The thermal performance and non-combustible properties of stone wool insulation from ROCKWOOL provided a simple, robust solution to help prevent the spread of fire. It’s easy to see why this dramatic new development has become a new landmark in Poznań. And thanks to the use of noncombustible stone wool, every user of the building can safely enjoy its impressive facilities, now and in the future. Poznań, Poland ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 27 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Enhancing acoustic performance A growing issue at a typical office, which on a European scale, could be worth up to EUR 500 billion annually7. The conversation around healthier buildings often focuses on light and air quality. But noise levels That’s why ROCKWOOL supports including also significantly impact health and wellbeing. health and wellbeing benefits as criteria in In 2018, the World Health Organization (WHO) how we evaluate, renovate and develop updated its Environmental Noise Guidelines for buildings – especially our homes, schools, the first time since 1999, stressing that noise offices and hospitals. has negative impacts on human health and is becoming a growing concern. A recent survey on hospital acoustics found that 60 percent3 of patients surveyed complained of sleep disturbance due to noise. A research team Collaborative, but quiet in France found that for every 10-dB increase in noise pollution, 8to 9-year-old students performed When Canadian firm Aercoustics Engineering 5.5 points lower on their national standardised test4. needed to transform a 836 m2 former warehouse space into a modern, comfortable and attractive More significantly, approximately 16 600 cases of office, they wanted to make a design statement premature death from noise exposure occur each that improved office acoustics and showed their year in Europe and the annual cost of European expertise in noise and vibration control. noise pollution is estimated to be EUR 40 billion5. They chose Rockfon panels for their superior Impact is easy sound absorption and sleek, clean design, But research shows improving indoor environmental which suited the office perfectly. Since the quality results in substantial wellbeing benefits, Rockfon panel range is made entirely from including enhanced learning abilities for school stone wool, it does not encourage mould or children, better productivity in office workers and bacterial growth thereby improving indoor better recovery for patients. air quality in the office and contributes to a healthier working environment. For example, just improving acoustics in open-plan offices can increase concentration levels by Aercoustics Engineering has created an 48 percent, decrease stress levels by 27 percent aesthetically compelling and sound-absorbing and reduce error rates by 10 percent6. There is up space that matches its culture and demonstrates to a 12 percent increase in employee productivity its technical expertise. 3  ttps://www.aecom.com/without-limits/article/acoustic-design-health-environments h 4 Harvard, TH Chan, 2017, ‘Foundation for Student Success’. 5 European Environment Agency, 2014, ‘Noise in Europe 2014’. 6 Sykes, D, 2004, ‘Productivity: How Acoustics Affect Workers’ Performance in Open Areas’. 7 Buildings Performance Institute Europe, 2018, ‘Building 4 People: Quantifying the benefits of energy Mississauga, Canada renovation investments in schools, offices and hospitals’. 28 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Improving acoustics in Building real benefits open-plan offices can During 2018, ROCKWOOL collaborated with increase concentration Buildings 2030 on the Healthy Buildings report. Classrooms supporting concentration levels by This comprehensive report details the impact Caldicot School and Monmouth Comprehensive are brand-new schools in Wales that are 48%. of improved indoor environmental quality on equipped with state-of-the-art facilities. The schools feature spacious classrooms, theatre-style people’s health and productivity, and is the learning areas and studio spaces for informal study. first study to combine the impacts of the separate components of the indoor environment. Our Rockfon acoustic products play a pivotal role by creating stimulating learning environments. aim is for this data to help drive meaningful, Rockfon acoustic solutions are a tough, non-combustible and future-proof ceiling. Its high sound people-focused choices around building design absorption helps improve speech intelligibility, significantly contributing to learning outcomes. and renovation. “We’ve worked with Rockfon before on several projects and can specify their products with confidence. They’re aesthetically appropriate and there is an assurance of performance too, which is very important to us”. Tim Humphries, BDP Lead Architect on Caldicot School and Monmouth Comprehensive The acoustic solutions Rockfon delivered to schools worldwide in 2018 improved the learning conditions of over 300 000 students. The impact on learning conditions from acoustic products sold is calculated using methodology developed by Ramboll, who also validate the annual result. The methodology was first developed and applied for the 2018 results. See www.rockwoolgroup.com/acoustic-impact ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 29 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Doing more for the people behind our products Besides delivering solutions that protect our In 2018, Group Management set a new 2020 customers, ROCKWOOL is also committed to target of 25–35 percent female leaders in providing a safe, fair and engaging workplace executive and middle management positions. for our employees. At the end of 2018, 26 percent of the leaders We have developed a culture that puts the safety in executive and middle management positions of colleagues first, promotes equal opportunities, were women, the same as in 2017. One way we supports diversity and acts against discrimination. maintain the gender composition is ensuring a higher proportion of women among new line Engaging our global workforce managers for middle management positions. In 2018, 39 percent of new hires were women In order to promote and raise awareness of compared with 28 percent in 2017. policies and procedures in a global, culturally diverse organisation, we focus on ensuring To meet our diversity 2020 targets, we will that both managers and employees have read continue to strengthen general diversity growth and understood our Code of Conduct and that through our talent development processes and they act according to its values. This year, we goal-aligned management appointments. supported this with additional e-learning for the Code. In addition, we maintain a robust whistleblowing system, whereby all internal and external stakeholders can safely report misconduct or suspicion of misconduct. In 2018, we rolled out RockWise – our first global We employ digital learning platform. The cloud-based portal provides 24/7 access to educational resources and hosts mandatory training programmes that are easy to access and complete. One of many benefits is 11 600 people in 39 countries that it simplifies the process of onboarding new with 61 nationalities. employees, making it easier for new hires to become familiar with ROCKWOOL’s policies and culture. Creating a more diverse industry Our industry is traditionally a male-dominated one – something ROCKWOOL would like to In 2018, help change. We have focused on increasing the number of women in different levels of management. The gender split across the Group has been relatively stable over the past few years 39% of new hires for middle with an 18/82 ratio of women to men, but the management positions proportion of women is higher at executive and were women, compared middle management levels. with 28 percent in 2017. 30 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Progress on our sustainability goals A year of promoting various locations, we choose relevant topics ROCKWOOL’s production and develop awareness campaigns to engage facility in Croatia received safety awareness workers in activities and conversations that Safety, health and wellbeing SDG an award for outstanding We strive to create safe and healthy promote greater safety awareness. Our goal: Reduce Lost Time Incident 8 environments and conditions for all employees safety performance. (LTI) frequency rate by 10% annually Employees in North America chose to raise and people working with us globally. As an awareness of mental health and hosted a industrial company, there is potentially a high 11% competition to encourage employees to level of safety risk for our employees and we During the year, our ROCKWOOL production 2018 share coping advice. take the management of that risk extremely facility in Croatia was recognised with a safety seriously. We have a goal of zero fatalities for In Spain, colleagues participated in a charity award by the Croatian Office for Improving 2017 people working with and for us, and have an run to create awareness of workplace safety and Occupational Safety for its outstanding results 10% ambition to incrementally reduce the Lost Time 2018 goal to raise money for people who have been injured in reducing injuries, improving occupational Incident (LTI) rate by 10 percent every year. in work accidents. In China, a ‘commitment tree’ safety and implementing good safety practices. was created that employees could add a leaf to During the campaign’s two-year run, ROCKWOOL Our goal: Ensure 1 fatality 2018 Every year, ROCKWOOL organises Safety Day share their commitment to safety. Adriatic had zero Lost Time Incidents. 0 fatalities annually activities across our global operations. At our Safety first: In July, we experienced a tragic, fatal accident at our production facility in Gladbeck, Germany – the first fatality in ROCKWOOL since 2012. A 24-year-old employee from the maintenance department passed away due to injuries sustained in a fall through a roof. Following the incident, we reinforced existing practices for how we work at heights in the Group. The lessons have been shared among all the production facilities. This accident has been a difficult reminder that constant vigilance and focus on safety culture is required every day. In 2018, we reduced the Lost Time Incident (LTI) frequency rate by 11 percent, from 3.5 to 3.1, which means that we met our annual 10 percent reduction goal. In the course of the year, we introduced a series of initiatives in our production facilities across the Group designed to reinforce our safety culture and heighten a collective sense of duty and awareness to pre-empt and avoid risk. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 31 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Helping communities thrive Around 90 percent of our business is local, Growing communities meaning we produce close to our customers, and Scheduled to open in 2020, ROCKWOOL’s we hire from the communities where we operate. Proudly paying a Living Wage new factory in West Virginia represents an For ROCKWOOL, building and operating a In 2018, as part of Living Wage Week, approximately EUR 130 million investment production facility is a long-term investment. ROCKWOOL made a voluntary commitment designed to serve customers in the Mid-Atlantic We believe in supporting shared progress and to provide the Living Wage* for all directly region of the United States. The facility will nurturing open, lasting relationships with our employed staff and third-party contractors employ approximately 150 people in wellneighbourhoods. at our operations in the United Kingdom. paying positions, ranging from technicians to management, and all but a handful are expected We focus on making a significant, positive and Wales, where ROCKWOOL has its UK to be hired locally. When production begins, enduring economic impact in the communities manufacturing facility, has one of the an additional job is typically created for every that we are part of. We have a number of position hired. This includes roles in technical highest proportions of non-Living Wage factories in the Group where we have been services, trucking and the manufacturing of raw jobs in the country, at 24 percent. As part of operating for decades. materials. Local government will benefit from the commitment, we pay rates significantly In 2018, we witnessed a growing demand for higher than the government minimum for a broader tax base to support publicly funded fire safe insulation in the UK. In response, we’ve over 25s. activities and priorities. hired an additional 50 permanent production The Living Wage Campaign’s hourly rates employees at ROCKWOOL’s production facility in Building community resources Bridgend, Wales. We will also be hiring 65 more are recalculated annually in accordance with ROCKWOOL has been a part of Milton, Canada employees in 2019, when a new logistics centre is the actual cost of living, and ensure that for decades and has always looked for ways to built there. workers are paid enough to have a decent support the town. We continued to support the standard of living. We believe that tax practice is an important part Milton District Hospital Foundation, the local of responsible corporate citizenship. We are “ROCKWOOL is extremely proud to be community hospital, in 2018. committed to the principle of paying tax where a Living Wage employer. We have paid Our donation supported the expansion of value is created. employees above the minimum wage the Prenatal Assessment Area of the Maternal rates for many years and this accreditation Newborn Department. demonstrates our commitment to paying the real Living Wage in the long term”. Aside from the donation, ROCKWOOL stone Around wool insulation has also been integrated 90% Darryl Matthews, Managing Director, UK into the building. This has helped to make it an energy-efficient and cost-saving green building. It also delivers sound dampening for of our business a calm, quiet environment for the patients and is local. staff at the hospital. * A Living Wage is the minimum income necessary for a worker to meet their basic needs. 32 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Supporting shared progress At its heart, ROCKWOOL is a family business founded on the idea of not just keeping Helping children heal communities safe but also helping people to We also partnered with the Hard Rock flourish. Philanthropy and corporate citizenship Heals Foundation to develop a music have always been an integral part of our culture room at the children’s hospital at La and we strongly believe in being good stewards. Paz University Hospital in Madrid, That’s why, in 1981, six members of the Kähler Spain, which uses music therapy to family established the ROCKWOOL Foundation. treat hundreds of patients per year. The Foundation reflects the passion and values Our partnership resulted in a music the Kähler family defined from the outset. As space with instruments and a recording part of the Kählers’ ongoing commitment to and rehearsal area where young progress, the family remains an active member patients can play music and recover. of the Foundation’s Board to this day. The We donated Rockfon acoustic ceiling ROCKWOOL Foundation supports research and tiles to give the room an authentic interventions that contribute to society’s body of music studio function and appearance. shared knowledge. In 2018, There are two primary objectives of the ROCKWOOL Foundation: • t o analyse and provide knowledge about society through reliable independent research; and 23% of ROCKWOOL Group’s dividend supported • t o develop interventions that address the ROCKWOOL societal challenges. Foundation’s activities. Madrid, Spain ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 33 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook ROCKWOOL Sustainability factbook This factbook contains facts on ROCKWOOL’s sustainability priorities, including how we manage and govern issues such as stakeholder engagement, responsible business conduct, human rights and other compliance issues. The factbook also contains tables with key performance metrics. 34 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Managing sustainability Sustainability at ROCKWOOL is embedded Sustainability governance in every aspect of our business. It’s as much a The Director of Group Sustainability reports to Board of Directors part of how we operate as our drive to innovate the Senior Vice President for Group Marketing, Audit Committee and create leading stone wool products. Our Communications and Public Affairs – a member The Audit Committee comprises three Board sustainability governance structures are aligned of Group Management. The Director of Group members who monitor progress on ROCKWOOL’s with the highest levels of our Company’s Sustainability is responsible for driving the sustainability projects and targets as well as the management, ensuring that we have the resources sustainability agenda across the Group as well as non-financial reporting process. The Committee and input to engage with our stakeholders and coordinating and tracking progress of the Group also oversees the Group’s whistleblower policy and continuously improve our performance. sustainability goals. related integrity cases. Governing our sustainability Group Management Sustainability Committee Integrity Committee Role Role • Senior Vice President, Group Marketing, • Chief Executive Officer Communications and Public Affairs • Chief Financial Officer • Senior Vice President, Group Operations • Senior Vice President, Insulation North and Technology East Europe • Senior Vice President, Head of • Group General Counsel Systems Division Responsibility • Managing Director, ROCKWOOL Southern and Central Europe The Integrity Committee oversees the Group’s compliance within areas such as • Director Group Sustainability business ethics, competition law, anti-bribery, • Director of Group Safety, Health, data privacy and export control. It is also Environment and Quality charged with responding to and remediating all issues raised through our anonymous Responsibility whistleblower system. The Sustainability Committee formulates and enacts key decisions related to strategic sustainability initiatives. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 35 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Materiality We determine ROCKWOOL’s material issues Our material impacts annually through a number of internal and external processes. Key social and environmental Compliance and impacts on the SDGs transparency Since 2015, we have used our strong strategic focus on the Sustainable Development Goals as Energy efficiency and carbon management our main process to identify and account for our Circular economy key social and environmental impacts. Fire resilience As part of our communication on progress (COP) to UN Global Compact, we also report on Safety, health and wellbeing the management and performance of several Water efficiency and management environmental, social and governance issues that are considered material from a compliance and Public and private sector collaboration transparency perspective. Decent work and job creation We also regularly engage with stakeholders across Anti-corruption and bribery our value chain to understand the stakeholder Environmental management concerns and expectations of us as a business. Many expectations faced by corporations are Human rights well established and have been formalised by Supply chain management law, including emission limits, tax schemes, safety requirements and minimum wages. However, as a Responsible tax corporation we also need to understand and meet informal, evolving and location-specific expectations to maintain our social licence to operate. Communities today frequently become more aware and active when corporations engage in building on greenfield land or when they significantly expand their manufacturing facilities. We need to engage with local communities more extensively and earlier in the process than we have in the past. 36 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Operating as an ethical business Our Code of Conduct (the Code) is our Using Transparency International’s annual Managing our supply chain Human rights across ROCKWOOL key communication on and guidance for country risk assessment for bribery and ROCKWOOL’s Supplier Code of Conduct We oppose all discrimination due to age, ROCKWOOL Group’s way of working with corruption, we provided training to staff in anti(Supplier Code) explains in detail our gender, race, colour, religion, political opinion, integrity. The Code includes Group policies corruption and bribery in four countries in 2018. expectations of all our suppliers and of their social origin or any other human rights aspects. related to anti-corruption, gifts and hospitality, The training, conducted by the Group Legal suppliers. Accepting the ROCKWOOL Supplier We let our employees know that any incident conflict of interest, competition law, data department, was done in the local language Code or having the supplier’s own equivalent of discrimination must be reported – and they privacy, human rights and labour rights, health and was directed at staff with contacts to third code of conduct approved is a prerequisite for can do so safely to their manager or via the and safety, and the environment. parties such as sales, marketing, procurement, becoming a ROCKWOOL supplier. whistleblower system. operations, HR and finance. In 2018, to ensure the rigorous implementation Our online e-procure system for supplier We also rigorously support the right to of the Code, we made it an integral part of our During 2018, we received a total of 15 integrity management, selection and contracting is exercise freedom of association and collective annual internal organisation-wide audit and cases. This is an increase of three cases now fully implemented, meaning that almost bargaining. We are opposed to child labour legal service reviews. At the end of 2018, we compared to 2017. The reported cases involved all expenditures within the Group are centrally and do not use forced or compulsory labour or also launched an e-learning course of the Code, fraud, conflict of interest, breach of legislation, managed, instead of partly decentralised to knowingly engage with business partners that covering business ethics, anti-corruption and bribery, working conditions and other issues. our subsidiaries. do so. In 2019, we will carry out a human rights conflict of interest. Special emphasis is put on The majority of cases were reported directly risk assessment across our value chain including how and where to seek necessary guidance and by employees to management or through This also means that a large number of existing our own operations to better understand our risk how to report concerns. The course has a target the whistleblower system. All reported cases suppliers are in the process of being reassessed. in this area as the basis for further activities. group of approximately 6 000 employees. resulted in investigations. Out of the 15 This reassessment also covers sustainability. investigated cases, 10 resulted in ROCKWOOL Of our existing suppliers, 43 percent have been initiating corrective actions. reassessed for acceptance of the ROCKWOOL Zero tolerance for corruption Supplier Code. We expect to reassess the ROCKWOOL Group has zero tolerance towards remaining suppliers during 2019. any kind of fraud, corruption, bribery and ROCKWOOL’s approach to agents facilitation payments and we maintain an antiROCKWOOL Group only uses agents where Between now and 2020, we will be corruption policy that also applies to suppliers, it makes more commercial and financial sense implementing a risk-based, due diligence and agents and other third parties. than establishing our own marketing and collaborative approach to sustainable sourcing. sales presence. Before appointing an agent, This will involve working with suppliers to assess In 2018, the Group adopted a new policy gaps, build awareness and provide incentives we conduct a screening of the company. In and manual that covers the appropriate use for sustainable improvements. 2018, we carried out an internal review of the of gifts and hospitality and the required Group’s use of agents and identified measures During 2018, six of our suppliers were audited approval levels. The policy is aligned with to improve the operational management of by third parties. This led to zero corrective the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and agents. The focus on robust risk management action plans. However, one supplier refused the UK Bribery Act. As a part of the policy, of agents will continue across all geographical the external auditor access to the required ROCKWOOL Group employees are no longer areas in 2019. documentation. We are currently in dialogue allowed to receive gifts from business partners. with this supplier. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 37 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook 2030 sustainability goals We have five operational goals across energy, CO2 emissions Energy efficiency climate, water, waste and safety to track our performance and keep us accountable to Our goal: Reduce CO2 emission Our goal: Reduce energy consumption our customers, colleagues and communities. intensity (CO2/t stone wool) from our (kWh/m2) within own (non-renovated) These have been designed to drive progress stone wool production facilities by 20% offices by 75% in 2030 (35% by 2022) on the SDGs by reducing the negative impact by 2030 (10% by 2022) 75% from operations on material issues. Our 20% sixth goal is our reclaimed waste goal, which relates to product impact. Together, these goals provide additional measures of how by 2030 our products really do contribute to a better by 2030 future for people around the world. More detail on progress against the goals can be Safety, health and wellbeing Water consumption found in the relevant chapters of this report. Our goal: Reduce Lost Time Incident Our goal: Reduce water intensity (LTI) frequency rate by 10% and ensure (m3/t stone wool) within our zero fatalities annually manufacturing facilities by 20% by 2030 (10% by 2022) 10% annually 20% by 2030 Reclaimed waste Landfill waste Our goal: Increase the number of Our goal: Reduce landfill waste (tonnes) countries where we offer recycling from our manufacturing facilities by services for our products to 30 by 2030 85% by 2030 (40% by 2022) (15 by 2022) 5 30 85% by 2030 by 2030 The baseline for five of the six Group sustainability goals is 2015. Our safety goal baseline is revised annually. 38 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Key performance metrics Aligning with leading global standards Product impact metrics Unit 2017 2018 Notes SDG impact Carbon emissions avoided in the lifetime of building insulation sold Mt CO2 193 206 1 SDG 13 Carbon emissions avoided in the lifetime of industrial insulation sold Mt CO2 1 133 1 176 1 SDG 13 Energy saved in the lifetime of building insulation sold TWh 853 908 1 SDG 7 Energy saved in the lifetime of technical insulation sold TWh 5 220 5 372 1 SDG 7 ROCKWOOL is a participant in the United Nations PM air emissions avoided in the lifetime of building insulation sold kt 84 2 Global Compact and we would like to express our continued support for the Global Compact by SOx air emissions avoided in the lifetime of building insulation sold kt 256 2 hereby renewing our ongoing commitment to the NOx air emissions avoided in the lifetime of building insulation sold kt 302 2 initiative and its principles. Water saved by precision growing products sold kL 89 364 93 907 3 SDG 6 Our reporting is informed by the Global Reporting Fertiliser saved by precision growing products sold t 16 978 17 623 3 SDG 2 Initiative (GRI) Standards. The Standards highlight a number of material topics across three Land use reduction by precision growing products sold ha 26 489 27 495 3 SDG 2 categories: economic, environmental and Yield gain of vegetables by precision growing products sold kt 1 870 1 941 3 SDG 2 social, which are material to our business. Stone wool collected and recycled through ROCKWOOL recycling services t 120 000 129 000 4 SDG 12 For our complete GRI index, please visit Significantly improved learning environments from acoustic solutions sold Number of students 339 000 5 SDG 3 www.rockwoolgroup.com/sustainability Our performance on CO2 emissions is regularly disclosed to stakeholders and through international reporting platforms such as the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). In 2018, Notes 1 Energy and carbon emission savings in the lifetime of our sold building insulation and technical insulation products is calculated following methodology ROCKWOOL received a score of B. developed by Navigant, who also validate the annual results. See www.rockwoolgroup.com/carbon-impact 2 Annual avoided air emissions from heating energy production as a result of our sold building insulation calculated using methodology developed by Navigant, who also validate the annual results. The methodology for avoided air emissions was first developed and applied for the 2018 results. See www.rockwoolgroup. com/carbon-impact Our ESG performance was rated ‘Prime’ – 3 Quantitative comparison between soil-based cultivation systems and stone wool systems using methodology developed by Wageningen University & Research, the highest rating category – by leading who also validate annual results. Methodology available at www.rockwoolgroup.com/precision-growing-impact 4 Stone wool building insulation received at our factories for recycling and estimated dry weight of stone wool growth media recycled by external partners. sustainable investment rating agency 5 The impact on learning conditions from acoustic products sold is calculated using methodology developed by Ramboll, who also validate the annual result. ISS-oekom in April 2018. The methodology was first developed and applied for the 2018 result. See www.rockwoolgroup.com/acoustic-impact ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 39 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Operational metrics Category Indicator GRI disclosure Value 2015 2016 2017 2018 Note number number Anti-corruption Confirmed incidents of corruption and 205–3 Number 3 1 3 2 actions taken Management approach Monetary value of significant fines and 419–1 kEUR – – – – disclosures total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 206–1 kEUR – – – – anti-trust, and monopoly practices Workplace safety Fatalities 403–9 Number – – – 1 1 Frequency of LTI – employees & 403–9 No./mill hrs 3.1 3.2 3.5 3.1 2 contractors (per million hours worked) Environmental laws and Factories certified to ISO 14001 and/or n/a Number 17 17 21 22 regulations – non-compliance OHSAS 18001 and/or ISO 50001 Share of stone wool factories certified to n/a % 63 61 75 78 ISO 14001 and/or OHSAS 18001 and/or ISO 50001 Audits for environment, health, safety n/a Number 123 107 91 186 3 Fines – monetary value 307–1 kEUR 1 2 3 2 Energy Energy consumption 302–1 GWh 4 519 4 536 4 817 5 303 4, 5, 6 Energy per tonne stone wool 302–3 Index 100 99 97 98 4, 6 Greenhouse gas (GHG) Total direct and indirect greenhouse 305–1, 305–2 Mt CO2e 2.0 2.2 6, 7 emissions gas emissions Total direct and indirect CO2 emissions 305–2 Mt CO2 1.60 1.59 1.71 1.85 4, 5, 6 CO2 direct (Scope 1) 305–1 Mt CO2 1.29 1.28 1.40 1.51 4, 5, 6 CO2 indirect (Scope 2) 305–2 Mt CO2 0.31 0.30 0.31 0.34 5, 6 CO2 intensity direct (Scope 1) 305–1 Index 100 98 98 97 4, 5, 6 per tonne stone wool CO2 intensity indirect (Scope 2) 305–2 Index 100 95 90 91 5, 6 per tonne stone wool CO2 intensity direct and indirect 305–1, 305–2 Index 100 98 97 96 4, 5, 6 (Scope 1+2) per tonne stone wool 40 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook Operational metrics Category Indicator GRI disclosure Value 2015 2016 2017 2018 Note number number Air emissions NOX intensity 305–7 Index 100 123 121 132 6, 8, 9 SO2 intensity 305–7 Index 100 101 88 83 6, 8 CO intensity 305–7 Index 100 29 33 3 6, 8 Ammonia intensity 305–7 Index 100 90 87 85 6, 8 Phenol intensity 305–7 Index 100 94 100 100 6, 8 Formaldehyde intensity 305–7 Index 100 100 120 80 6, 8 Particulate matter (PM10) intensity 305–7 Index 100 147 147 123 6, 8 Water consumption Water consumption total 303–5 Mm³ 3.23 3.32 3.51 3.70 4, 6 Water consumption excl. rainwater 303–5 Mm³ 3.02 3.19 3.32 3.56 4, 6 Total water consumption from all 303–5 Mm³ 0.27 0.28 6, 10 areas with water stress Water intensity per tonne stone wool 303–1 Index 100 104 100 98 4, 6 Water withdrawal by source Groundwater own abstraction 303–3 Mm³ 0.93 1.00 1.02 1.11 6 Municipal water a.o. utilities 303–3 Mm³ 1.80 1.89 1.99 2.10 4, 6 Rainwater own abstraction 303–3 Mm³ 0.22 0.13 0.19 0.14 4, 6 Surface water own abstraction 303–3 Mm³ 0.29 0.30 0.32 0.35 6 Waste and recycling Total waste generated 306–2 t 189 252 201 531 222 152 218 501 6 Total hazardous waste generated 306–2 t 26 551 18 236 6, 11 Waste landfilled 306–2 t 93 761 91 185 89 538 98 238 4, 6, 12 Waste for external recycling 306–2 t 75 480 81 672 96 243 87 123 4, 6 Waste for external recovery (energy) 306–2 t 8 600 13 160 2 547 2 997 6, 13 Other external waste disposal n/a t 36 371 33 141 6, 14 Recycling of waste from other industries n/a t 788 035 607 526 596 400 622 559 6, 15 Average % recycled content 301–2 % 35.9 27.0 24.5 23.5 6, 15 Notes to Key Performance Indicators for Operations 1 Fatal accident at our production facility in Gladbeck. 9 Data corrected for 2015. 2 Lost days count begins the day after the accident and connotes scheduled work 10 New indicator based on water scarcity assessment conducted for ROCKWOOL days. Minor (first-aid level) injuries are not included. by Ramboll Environ in 2017. Data series starts in 2017. 3 The number includes external audits related to environment and health and 11 Data corrected for 2017. Hazardous waste data series starts in 2017. safety carried out by authorities, certified bodies etc. together with Group SHE 12 Deep well injection and on-site storage not part of landfill. audits carried out at the factories. 13 Change in methodology from 2017. 4 Data corrected for 2015, 2016 and 2017. 14 Other waste disposals e.g. composting, deep well injection, incineration. 5 2017 data updated with data verified after publishing of the 2017 report. Data series starts in 2017. 6 Data covers 28 stone wool factories. 15 Includes secondary melt raw material and reclaimed waste, and excludes 7 N2O emissions are estimated. Data series starts in 2017. internal closed-loop recycling. Change in methodology in 2018, with revised 8 Values for five factories in South East Asia and China based on numbers for the previous years. representative average. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 41 Introduction Combatting climate change Growing the circular economy Safeguarding citizens’ wellbeing Sustainability factbook The ROCKWOOL® trademark The ROCKWOOL trademark was initially registered in Denmark as a logo mark back in 1936. In 1937, it was accompanied with a word mark registration; a registration which is now extended to more than 60 countries around the world. The ROCKWOOL trademark is one of the largest assets in ROCKWOOL Group, and thus well protected and defended by us throughout the world. ROCKWOOL Group’s primary trademarks: ROCKWOOL® Rockfon® Rockpanel® Grodan® Lapinus® Additionally, ROCKWOOL Group owns a large number of other trademarks. Credits Page 17: Frank Boutrup Schmidt Page 18 right: Casus Adam Banka Page 22: FOTOFLUG.de GmbH Page 25: Click&Boo Page 26: BIG Page 28: Studio Shai Gil Page 30: Michael Best 42 ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2018 ROCKWOOL International A/S Hovedgaden 584 DK-2640 Hedehusene Denmark CVR No. 54879415 Tel: +45 46 56 03 00 www.rockwoolgroup.com twitter.com/ROCKWOOLInt linkedin.com/company/ROCKWOOL-Group facebook.com/ROCKWOOLinternational instagram.com/ROCKWOOLInternational Released 3 April 2019 © ROCKWOOL International A/S 2019 All rights reserved
