CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 RENEWI PLC 2/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT ABOUT US US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES ABOUT US FROM WASTE TO PRODUCT ORANGE PEEL ESSENTIAL OILS Renewi will collect citrus peel from supermarkets and catering companies and transport them to PeelPioneers’ new plant. The peel will be turned into essential oils and citrus pulp, which will be used as ingredients in products such as detergents. Every 1,000kg of peel processed will provide enough detergent to clean 4,500m2 of floor. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 3/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES INTERNATIONAL EXPERTISE OUR OUR PURPOSE VISION UNRIVALLED OUR RANGE OF to protect the world to be the leading APPROACH PRODUCTS AND by giving new life waste-to-product SERVICES to used materials company LOCAL DELIVERED BY OUR PASSIONATE AND COMMITTED PEOPLE SERVICE RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 4/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES CONTENTS 02 About us 05 Renewi at a glance PLANET20 PARTNERSHIPS30 06 Our CSR highlights 2019 We take waste and create something new. Our actions and innovations help society move 07 Our approach This helps to protect the world’s natural towards a more sustainable future. Our local 09 What we do, Our Values resources and preserve the planet for future communities and society as a whole are key 10 CEO’s statement generations. Our work puts us at the heart of stakeholders 12 Green finance the circular economy 13 Special interview Case study: Sustainable partnerships 33 Meet politician and Renewi Case study: CO2 Performance Ladder 23 Our challenge is to innovate continuously, NED Jolande Sap Reducing our carbon footprint is always front working with different partners in the recovery of 15 Stakeholders and objectives of mind and this year we reached level four raw materials, using state-of-the-art processing 19 Our approach to CSR on the CO2 Performance Ladder techniques 20 Main sections and case studies 35 Appendix Case study: Route optimisation 24 Case study: Odour reduction  34 44 UN Global Compact ten principles Fundamental to preserving the planet is Working proactively with local communities 45 Principal offices optimising our waste collection truck routes, and using the latest technology, we have recorded which will significantly reduce our a record zero odour complaint days at ATM carbon footprint over 2018/2019 PEOPLE25 The health, safety, wellbeing and engagement of our people is crucial to Renewi’s success. We are proud to have that responsibility and we take it very seriously Case study: UK Safety Champions 28 Our new UK Safety Champions programme helps us to engage with all our people and ensures safety is at the top of our agenda Case study: Young Renewi 29 Young Renewi is an internal community for our young employees, ensuring everyone has a voice and is encouraged to contribute to our success On our front cover: Last year we recycled enough sheet glass to produce around 4.2 million square metres of laminated glass RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 5/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT ABOUT US US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES RENEWI AT A GLANCE OUR DIVISIONS Commercial Netherlands Canada Netherlands Luxembourg UK 68 2,967 3 44 98 4,259 1 6 Commercial Belgium 33 605 41 1,892 3 0 39 1,768 Germany 0 3 33 24 Hazardous Waste 3 29 17 919 2 0 Monostreams Belgium 27 484 45 1,988 Municipal KEY 24 746 36 649 Group Central Services NUMBER OF NUMBER OF 125 OPERATING PEOPLE SITES1 (FTE) France Hungary Portugal RENEWI TOTALS 4 82 1 2 NUMBER OF NUMBER 1 22 OPERATING OF WASTE SITES WITH COLLECTION 4 0 1 0 RECYCLING/ AND TRANSPORT RECOVERY TRUCKS2 1 0 189 7,036 107 2,541 1. Active operating sites; does not include offices and other non-operational sites 2. Does not include vans, passenger cars, mobile plant used on site and similar RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 6/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES OUR CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2019 66.9% Our specific recycling rate 90.0% We recycled and recovered 90.0% 7% We had fewer accidents that resulted 1.8% Our carbon avoidance intensity increased 0.6% to 66.9% of the total waste we handled in an employee being off work for ratio per tonne of waste more than three days, improving handled improved by 1.8% our >3 day accident rate by 7% 64% The number of near misses 21.9% The percentage of our senior 14% We improved our lost-time 34.9% We increased the proportion reported by our employees managers that are female injury rate by 14% of Euro 6 trucks in our (accidents that did not happen) fleet to 34.9% improved by 64% RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 7/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES OUR APPROACH FROM WASTE TO PRODUCT BOTTOM ASH CERAMICS Bottom ash is produced from specially selected and processed mineral residues, released during combustion processes and separation of household waste. Already used in the concrete industry and civil engineering as an alternative to sand and gravel, it is now being used for fine and coarse ceramic products. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 8/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES WE GENERATE …AND BY SELLING REVENUE FROM RECYCLATES AND COLLECTING AND ENERGY WE PROCESSING RECYCLING PRODUCE WASTE… €€€ €€€ OUR BUSINESS MODEL By giving new life to used materials we are in the heart of COLLECTION the circular economy, creating CONVERSION TO RAW MATERIALS value for all our stakeholders Find out about our stakeholders Page 16 Renewi Renewi Society Society WASTE PRODUCER MANUFACTURER RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 9/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES WHAT WE DO OUR VALUES As a pure-play waste-to-product company we have a unique Our Values are the foundation for everything we do. They show that how position in the value chain, linking waste producers to secondary we act is just as important as what we do. We use our values to guide the raw material consumers. way we behave and make decisions at Renewi. We are committed to giving new life to used materials and recovering energy. Whether we recycle plastics into high-quality materials used WHAT WE ARE to produce new products, turn construction waste into aggregates or transform household waste into fuel, we tackle the full range of waste recycling and recovery. Safe Innovative Sustainable Safety above Do it better Make a daily all else every day difference to our planet This means we can provide new materials for manufacturers to create products and enable our customers to meet their sustainability goals. Our work is the pragmatic face of sustainability. By helping to reduce waste, avoid pollution and prevent the unnecessary use of finite natural resources, we aim to protect those resources from contamination and preserve them for future generations. HOW WE ACT As a recycler, we play a tangible and important role in the circular economy. After products have been used for as long as possible, recycling Accountable CustomerTogether will close the loop and bring valuable raw materials back into the product Do what we say focused Always open and value cycle. We seek to keep resources in use for as long as possible we’ll do respectful Add value for our through recycling and give them a useful purpose as an energy source customers through recovery. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 10/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES CEO’S STATEMENT I joined Renewi because of its great purpose and Our ambition is to recycle or recover 90% of OUR OBJECTIVES I am passionate that we continue to improve the waste we process by 2020 – a target that we our contribution to society and the planet. Over achieved one year early! We also aim to convert We started the year with clear CSR ambitions. the past year we have advanced in almost every 70% of the waste we handle into new, high-quality We wanted to establish a holistic CSR structure target area. raw materials. Each year, we process more than for Renewi that is embedded into our different 13.5 million tonnes of waste from companies and divisions and acts as a guiding principle. We Sustainability is at our heart. There is an increasing households, in turn creating new raw materials also wanted to initiate a company-wide CSR ambition from governments, our clients and other and energy. We are directly supporting five of the policy relevant to all our stakeholders and to stakeholders to promote recycling and the use of UN’s Sustainable Development Goals: responsible start developing our approach to the CSR areas: secondary raw materials, in combination with a consumption and production, sustainable cities people, planet and partnerships. Otto de Bont demand from society for sustainable solutions for and communities, climate action, affordable and CEO waste management and recycling. This gives me clean energy, and clean water and sanitation. We take a carefully planned and thought-out great hope. approach to objectives and goalsetting, ensuring We’ve achieved a great deal over the past year: we focus on material themes for all internal and To achieve a circular economy, demand for higher external stakeholders, and acknowledging their quality recyclates needs to increase, which will `` We recycled enough glass to manufacture importance. We do this via a materiality matrix and require more technically advanced sorting and 2.2 billion wine bottles; assessment (see page 17); this plots the themes treatment capacity, including for waste streams that that are important to us as a Group against those are still incinerated or landfilled today. Renewi’s `` We cleaned enough waste water to fill of our stakeholders, and demonstrates the relative unique position links waste producers to secondary 246 Olympic-sized swimming pools; value of different issues. We aim to set challenging raw material consumers, and we benefit from our but realistic objectives based on our current unparalleled collection capability with increasingly `` We generated enough electricity to light up performance. advanced sorting. the Eiffel Tower for 22 years; Overall, we have made positive progress in meeting We protect the environment by giving new life to `` We prevented the use of enough diesel to fuel our CSR objectives. For the first half of the year, we used materials. This helps to protect the world’s 200 trucks for one year by replacing trucks and focused on processes and strategy behind data natural resources and to preserve the planet for optimising routes; collection and embedding internal structures. future generations. Everything we do is integral to This meant that in the second half we were more protecting the environment and this puts us at the `` We recycled enough PP (polypropylene) plastic outward-looking, exploring key CSR focus areas, heart of the circular economy. to manufacture new plastic parts for 1 million such as safety and wellbeing, and employee vacuum cleaners. engagement. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 11/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES CEO’S STATEMENT continued We handled more than 13.5 million tonnes of waste Target setting is one example: last year we reset in 2018/19. Our overall recycling and recovery rate some of our health and safety objectives because increased to 90.0%. We are investing to ensure we had achieved them early. For example, we we can continue to keep improving our recycling reset our near-miss close-out target from 75% to and recovery rate, by optimising our sites and by 85% and revised our severity rate target. This has investing in pioneering processes to ensure we resulted in our performance lagging behind in some stay efficient. Innovation is at the heart of how we areas. We accept this change in performance and work and plays a vital part in tomorrow’s recycling there is little point in setting targets which are easy solutions (see case study, page 33). to achieve. We continued to take positive steps towards We have worked hard to increase the number of reducing our own carbon footprint, decreasing near-misses raised by our employees, and have our emissions. Carbon avoidance as a result of our been successful – this figure increased by 64% in activities has again increased, due to our recycling 2018/19. Our focus in 2019/20 is to continue the and recovery performance. improvements we have seen in near-miss rates, while targeting other areas for improvement to Ensuring the health, safety and wellbeing of our meet 2020 targets. people is crucial. We take our responsibility to our people very seriously. Safety is embedded into I look forward to continuing our efforts as a everything we do – there is nothing more important connecting link in the circular economy and than getting our people home safely every day. to announcing our progress against our 2020 I’m proud of the progress with our Safety Culture objectives in next year’s report. Initiative over the past year, which has seen the launch of new programmes such as our new 10 Lifesaving Rules, HomeSafe Awards for safety innovation, enhanced and more stretching accident reduction targets and our Executive Committee’s new safety vision statement. Otto de Bont CEO RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 12/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES GREEN FINANCE Our pioneering green financing initiatives align Over the past 12 months this has included new with our focus on innovation in sustainability, Green Leases to fund our Euro 6 trucks, which GREEN SCORECARD KEY INDICATORS ensuring that by giving life to used materials will reduce Renewi’s operating costs due to their 2018/19 2018/19 2023 we can also reduce the costs of funding. efficiency, as well as a Green European Private Objective target performance target Placement instrument. As a result, we are on track Recycling and recovery rate 89.5% 90.0% 91.0% Last year we established our Green Finance to be almost entirely Green funded during 2019 Carbon avoidance intensity ratio 1 0.216 0.218 0.220 Framework, which positions Renewi as a pure after the repayment of the 2013 Belgian Retail bond. player focused on sustainability, and provides Fuel efficiency collection/transport2 3.120 3.117 2.990 assurance to all stakeholders that any investment Our innovative ‘Green Scorecard’ includes Euro 6 compliance 3 29.2% 34.9% 50.0% in Renewi will make a positive contribution to sustainability improvement into the terms of our >3 day accident rate 1,467 1,404 1,313 the environment. Green Loan. This means that the banks providing 1. Million tonnes CO2-equivalent per million tonnes waste handled our loans charge lower borrowing costs if we 2. Litres of fuel used per tonne of waste collected / transported achieve the targets we have set ourselves for 3. % of waste collection / transport truck fleet compliant with Euro 6 standard We were able to do this because we are completely focused on sustainability, with the vast majority of recycling percentages, carbon emission avoidance our assets classified as ‘green’ because they support and pollution reduction. We are delighted and ‘pollution prevention and control’, as defined in encouraged that we have exceeded our ambitious the ICMA Green Bond Principles and the LMA Green targets against all five of our key indicators Loan Principles. associated with the Green Scorecard. Our main banking facility margin will be slightly reduced for We are one of the first listed companies to establish the year ahead. a Green Finance Framework encompassing the whole business, and to convert our entire €550m bank borrowing into a Green Loan. This loan facility has been extended to May 2023 with options to extend into 2025. It is structured so as to allow future green bonds and green debt placements to be issued under the same Green Framework. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 13/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES SPECIAL INTERVIEW A CIRCULAR ECONOMY DRIVEN BY PURPOSE AND PROFIT Jolande’s understanding of the circular economy and environmental regulation as a national Q Do you feel that large businesses are taking sustainability seriously enough? Q What role do smaller companies play in sustainability? Green party politician in the Netherlands gives Renewi a fascinating and valuable perspective. The circular economy is growing, and more We are seeing lots of innovation originating from She explains how joint efforts are needed by businesses are exploring sustainability, driven by smaller companies and start-ups collaborating. business and Government to innovate and to the wider economy, legislation and social pressure. These shouldn’t be downplayed, because they drive forward the circular economy. There is growing market demand for more sustainable are really making a difference to sustainability in products and services and increasing government our world. Smaller companies are the backbone Jolande Sap Q Why did you want to join Renewi’s Board of Directors? incentives in the form of legislation and regulations. This means that more businesses are taking of most economies and are also often more nimble and better at working in partnership. NON-EXECUTIVE sustainability seriously and realise they should be Some of our exciting new innovations at Renewi DIRECTOR AND FORMER Renewi is well known for the positive impact it contributing to society. are coming from partnerships with smaller GREENLEFT (GROENLINKS) has on society and the environment. By using companies, such as our new PeelPioneers POLITICIAN innovative collection, sorting, processing and Much more needs to happen in order to tackle the big citrus residue recycling to make essential oils recycling methods, companies like Renewi are challenges the world is facing with climate change for things like detergents. ensuring that, eventually, all waste will be used and loss of biodiversity. Large businesses certainly either as a raw material or for the generation of green energy. play an important role here and need to upscale and accelerate changes in their production processes, Q Could companies do more to work directly with their customers on sustainability? sourcing and output. But it’s not just a business issue, There is no doubt in my mind that we need to we need a wider system change towards an economy I think more businesses are looking for guidance transition to a circular economy where materials that is driven both by purpose and by profit. For that, and advice about circular thinking and practices. are recovered from waste to be used again. I believe we need active involvement and cooperation between For example, thinking about how their own used this is the shape of our future. We believe in the business and industry, politics, science and the public. materials can once again be used for new products, same goal – a strong commitment that we should or how their customers can make their own be contributing to something vitally important in procurement practices more circular. this world – ‘waste no more’. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 14/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES SPECIAL INTERVIEW A CIRCULAR ECONOMY DRIVEN BY PURPOSE AND PROFIT continued Legislation is not yet It’s a different way of thinking and it is something that more businesses need to be proactive about. moving enough towards Q How will sustainability affect our economy? At Renewi, we are helping our customers to design their products, to make it easy for materials to be the heart of the system: There are lots of positives, from the new job extracted for reuse or recycling at the end of the product life. We also work with our customers to getting the market opportunities that are created to dynamic new waves of innovation. There is a real social help develop their own circular business models pricing right dimension of sustainability innovation that hasn’t so that scarce materials stay within the chain for been fully articulated yet but is going to shape our as long as possible. economy going forward. Sustainability is not just Q Does legislation go far enough to push Q How important is innovation to advance sustainability? about planet and profit, but also about people. Topics like living wages, employability and job sustainability to the top of the agenda? losses due to robotics are articulated increasingly In the future, recycling will be more difficult as as a responsibility of government AND the business Legislation is playing a part in boosting the products become more complex. Products are world. How can we create inclusive, sustainable development towards a fully circular economy, but made up of many more parts than in the past and economies where employment is not just for the we need more action. I believe that legislation will are becoming smaller and thinner, with different happy few? I believe that creating new employment only succeed when companies and governments are layers of materials glued or fused together and opportunities will become an important goal for working towards common goals. Long-term value being coated. We need innovation in more companies in our future economies. creation through a circular economy is a very valuable advanced technologies and collaborations to message and I am quite optimistic about the future, as we can see many countries across the globe are taking recover these materials at the end of their life cycle. We are seeing lots of innovation in less carbonQ What are the key issues for the next few years for recycling? huge sustainability steps. There is lots of legislative intensive ways and more circular ways of producing change going on, such as the COP21 Paris Agreement products, and this all helps to make big steps in Plastics is a key area. We are seeing increasingly on climate change, the UN’s Sustainable Development reducing carbon emissions. heavy regulation here, which will help. Innovation Goals, the EU’s Waste Framework Directive, the in chemical engineering is really driving change implementation of a landfill ban, the EU directive on packaging and its Circular Economy Package – all But to be honest, legislation is not yet moving enough towards the heart of the system: getting the market Q So does innovation in the circular economy go far enough? and we are seeing new ways of processing plastics that have previously gone to landfill. I am also ways in which policymakers are supporting the reuse pricing right. The problem is that current market prices very interested in the Internet of Things, and think and recovery of raw materials. do not reflect the so-called externalities – the impact A circular economy needs solutions and ideas that that this will help in recycling, such as the sorting products have on the social and natural environment. go much further than just waste collection and process. In the longer term we will also see a If we would price this in by taxing extracted value processing, so innovation plays a really big part structural shift to producers selling their product as and carbon emissions, a whole new market dynamic here. In the past, innovation and legislation have a service; this is already starting in the energy and would evolve, which would boost renewables as their not been good partners – legislation has lagged consumer goods sectors, and this will impact the relative prices would reduce. behind innovation, holding back new advances. waste chain in a positive way. Jolande Sap is also board member at Netherlands Green Fund, Governments and companies need to stop Chair of Supervisory Board at Netherlands Public Health Federation, operating separately on sustainability, and instead Chair of Supervisory Board at Arkin and Fairfood, and member of cooperate in a transparent way to build trust and Supervisory Boards at KPN and KPMG NL. shape a sustainable future. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 15/46 STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND AND OBJECTIVES OBJECTIVES STAKEHOLDERS AND OBJECTIVES FROM WASTE TO PRODUCT DOMESTIC WASTE ENERGY Renewi uses mechanical biological treatment technology to produce solid recovered fuel or refuse-derived fuel from UK household black bag waste. A combination of mechanical and biological processes is used to sort the waste. This includes removing recyclates, such as metals, removing moisture and shredding. The remaining material can be used to produce green electricity. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 16/46 STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND AND OBJECTIVES OBJECTIVES STAKEHOLDERS INVESTORS We are committed CUSTOMERS As a pure-play wasteto delivering stable to-product company we We focus on the CSR issues that matter profitable growth have a unique position in most, both for our business and for our and attractive returns the value chain, linking stakeholders. for our investors. waste producers to We intend to reduce secondary raw material volatility and increase consumers. We actively We aim to integrate sustainability and other CSR issues into the way cash generation for support our customers we work for the benefit of our business, our customers, our people longer-term stability. to achieve their recycling and all our stakeholders. targets, secure secondary raw materials and to To enable this, we follow a clearly defined strategy across our create circular solutions. three focus areas : people, planet and partnerships. OUR Objectives Our CSR objectives are set in five-year cycles and are embedded STAKEHOLDERS into every part of our business. This means that every decisionmaker across the company, from Board Directors to front-line managers, ensures that the decisions they make are compatible with our CSR ambitions and targets. We work with many different stakeholders as we run our business, and value their insights and perspectives. We strive to be open and honest about how we work and to listen and respond to our stakeholders’ views, and engage in a variety of formats and channels. COMMUNITIES GOVERNMENTS (Local and (Regulators and Policy Evaluation Wider Society) Makers) Reviewing our performance and progress throughout our We aim to be a We support government five-year objectives cycle and at the end of each cycle is key good neighbour initiatives to further to feedback into setting new objectives for the next five-year and make a positive stimulate recycling and improvement cycle, and ensures our CSR strategy remains contribution to the the use of secondary relevant, material and stretching. We intend to set our 2020-2025 local community. raw materials. We targets over the next 12 months. work with regulators EMPLOYEES to ensure the market We also track our performance against internal and external Our success is driven by our talented team of people and we are receives high-quality objectives, through regular reporting to our different stakeholder committed to developing and driving our people agenda and products, manufactured groups. Open-ended dialogue means that our stakeholders can see keeping our people safe. responsibly. clearly what we intend to do, and the targets we intend to reach. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 17/46 STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND AND OBJECTIVES OBJECTIVES MATERIALITY Summary CSR Financial Sustainable Integrity Environment Society and Customer and Summary and example main engagement routes subject area employer and ethical and community consumers trading sustainability ASSESSMENT Internal stakeholders 6 12 13 14 8 6 Employee engagement surveys, consultation meetings, whistleblowing line, internal communications, newsletters, announcements, reports, briefings and Board meetings Getting the right focus on our CSR activities means first of all Customers Customer feedback surveys, direct face-to-face contact, understanding what is material and clients 7 14 28 30 14 20 emails, letters and websites to all our stakeholders. Annual report, shareholder briefings, face-to-face Financial bodies meetings, ESG surveys, AGM, websites, audits at half-year For our CSR activities to have a positive impact, it is and investors 10 14 26 26 11 11 and full year with ad hoc communication between, CSR important that they resonate with the concerns and Report, direct contact and completion of assessments priorities of all our shareholders. To achieve this, we use a structured approach when selecting our key areas of focus. Government and Lobbying activity, face-to-face contact, email, letters, site national structures 10 35 43 60 38 25 visits and membership of bodies including regulators This table summarises the main Renewi stakeholder materiality matrix. It plots the themes that are important to us as a Group against those of Community Liaison committees, site visits, leaflets, meetings, websites our stakeholders. Key themes have been selected and society 4 8 15 26 18 12 and other communications in accordance with the list of material topics in the GRI standards. For an overview, please see our GRI navigator document at www.renewiplc.com/ Overall score for stakeholders our-responsibilities 37 83 125 156 89 74 The scores represent sums of our detailed materiality matrix (page 36). The different colours Overall score highlight in ‘heat’ format the issues in terms of factored to score importance to different shareholder groups, out of ten 4.9 5.5 5.6 6.9 5.9 4.9 and help us to decide those we need to focus and report on. Renewi score out of ten (based on To promote improvement for these indicators, Renewi CSR 2.0 8.5 3.2 7.8 7.0 5.3 we aim to set challenging but realistic objectives, materiality matrix) based on our current performance. Reference icon given in heat diagram on This is assessed materiality relating to Renewi, and page 18 not in general. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 18/46 STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND AND OBJECTIVES OBJECTIVES MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT continued 10.0 KEY THEMES Sustainable Employer Customer and consumers 9.0 Health and safety; employee rights; cultural needs; Continuity of service to clients and customers for Sustainable employer working conditions and wellbeing; employee their waste (waste does not stop being produced); 8.0 Environment and relations and engagement; (non-discriminating) privacy of clients and customers sustainability diversity and equality; training and development Integrity and ethical trading 7.0 Society and Environment and Sustainability community Prevention of fraud, bribery and similar; financial Potential emissions to air, land and water, including governance; good control environment; integrity spills; recycling and recovery; potential pollution management; fair practices in business 6.0 from activities; impact of environmental regulations and compliance; energy consumption, carbon Financial Renewi score Customer and emissions and prevention; raw material use 5.0 consumers The financial sustainability of the company Society and community 4.0 Positive contribution to society from recycling and recovery activities and knowledge sharing and education, potential negative impacts on local Integrity and communities close to operations 3.0 ethical trading 2.0 Financial 1.0 0.0 4.0 4.5 5.0 5.5 6.0 6.5 7.0 7.5 8.0 Stakeholder score RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 19/46 STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND AND OBJECTIVES OBJECTIVES OUR APPROACH TO CSR PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS PAGE 20 PAGE 25 PAGE 30 Protecting and preserving Keeping our people Making society better and being the environment safe and well a good neighbour We take waste and we create something new. This Safety is our first value and number one priority. Our actions and our innovations help society helps to protect the world’s natural resources and There is nothing more important than getting our towards a more sustainable future. We also preserve the planet for future generations. Our work people home safely every day. Ensuring the health, understand that our activities can have an impact is integral to preserving the environment and it puts safety and wellbeing of our people and their full on the communities that host us and we do our us at the heart of the circular economy. engagement with Renewi is crucial to our success. best to mitigate this. Our local communities and We are proud to have that responsibility and we society as a whole are key stakeholders for us. take it very seriously. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 20/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES PLANET FROM WASTE TO PRODUCT WASTE CLEAN WATER WATER Renewi’s ATM plant treats soil, sludges, oils, solvents and water. The contaminated water is usually received at the site’s own jetty. It is treated on-site using ATM’s bio-water system, comprising physical and biological cleaning processes. The cleaned water is then discharged off-site for further treatment. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 21/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES PLANET – PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES MAKING A POSITIVE IMPACT We communicate with our upstream clients and waste we handle, and tracks our performance. The encourage them to sort and segregate their wastes higher the number, the better our performance. We protect the environment by taking waste and so that we can provide the highest sustainability creating something new. This helps to protect benefits to society from our activities. We In 2018/19 both our recycling and overall recycling the world’s natural resources and to preserve encourage our upstream customers to direct their and recovery rates continued to increase, and for the planet for future generations. Our work wastes towards sustainable waste management our overall rate we have met our 2020 target a year is integral to preserving the planet’s natural options rather than to disposal. We place our early. Recycling rates rose 0.6% to 66.9%, edging resources and it puts us at the heart of the downstream recycled and recovered products and closer to our 70% target, mainly as the result of circular economy. green energy into markets where their sustainability improved recycling in the Netherlands and the UK. benefits can be maximised. Doing so, we promote A decrease in waste to landfill in Belgium and the Taking a precautionary approach to environmental greater environmental responsibility, both within UK also helped us to meet our overall targets. Total challenges, we believe that today’s waste materials our supply chain and in society as a whole. waste handled reduced to 13.85 from 14.02, mainly are tomorrow’s resources. That’s why we prioritise due to a decrease in soil cleaning activities at our waste recycling over energy recovery or landfill Recycling and recovery ATM plant in the Netherlands. However, over the disposal for all the waste we receive. Moreover, Recycling and recovery rates are key indicators of past year materials recovered for energy production we invest in innovative technologies and business our sustainability performance. We set ourselves from waste continued to increase, from 3.19 million models for circular products. We keep our objectives for our combined recycling and tonnes to 3.20 million tonnes. The long-term trend environmental impact and carbon footprint as recovery rate, as well as our recycling rate. For both over the past 10 years shows an increase in terms of low as possible and strive to maximise the carbon measures, the higher the percentage, the better both tonnes of waste recycled and recovered as a avoidance benefit within our value chain. We make our performance. percentage of million tonnes of waste handled. sure our emissions to soil, water and air stay well within the legally-permitted boundaries and we Our recycling and recovery activities also have a Carbon benefit measure our performance for these indicators carbon avoidance benefit. We report this avoidance By increasing our recycling and recovery rates, we and have set improvement targets. benefit in total and as an intensity ratio per tonne of create a positive carbon benefit. In addition, over waste handled. This ratio accounts for the weight of 2018/19 we have also continued to make a positive impact on our carbon footprint by reducing our emissions. Our carbon avoidance intensity ratio rose by 1.8%, partially as the result of a small RECYCLING AND RECOVERY OBJECTIVES increase in recycling, but mainly due to an increase in waste-derived fuels produced and sold. 2017/18 2018/19 2020 performance performance target Recycling rate % total waste handled 66.3% 66.9% 70.0% Recycling and recovery rate % total waste handled 89.1% 90.0% 89.9% RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 22/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES PLANET – PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES continued 2020 target CARBON AVOIDANCE INTENSITY RATIO OBJECTIVES 2017/18 2018/19 performance performance 2020 target 66.9% Recycling rate % total waste handled 70.0% Carbon avoidance intensity ratio: Million tonnes CO2-equivalent 0.214 0.218 0.217 per million tonnes waste handled 90.0% Recycling and recovery rate % total 89.9% This effect counteracts a decreased carbon Our route optimisation initiatives and investment avoidance from waste used as a fuel at our ATM in Euro 6 waste collection vehicles during 2018/19 waste handled site in the Netherlands, which was caused by a have helped us meet our transport energy efficiency drop in production at the site’s thermal cleaning installation. Over the past 10 years our long-term carbon avoidance trend, in terms of tonnes of CO2objectives early. Truck fuel use improved by 1.1% – we used slightly more fuel but collected more waste – and so the litres of fuel used per tonne of waste 34.9% % of waste collection / transport truck 34.4% equivalent per million tonnes of waste handled, is collected and transported also reduced to meet our fleet compliant with Euro 6 standard on an ongoing upwards trajectory. 2020 target of 3.12 litres of fuel per tonne of waste collected. We expect our fuel efficiency rates to Energy efficiency While green electricity production reduced over the past year, largely as a result of the sale of our improve further over the coming year. With Euro 6 vehicles now accounting for 34.9% of our total fleet, compared with 24.2% last year, we have continued 0.218 Carbon avoidance intensity ratio 0.217 Energen Biogas anaerobic digestion (Cumbernauld to reduce vehicle emissions and retire older AD) plant in the UK, green electricity production vehicles. This has also meant that we have beaten over the past ten years continues on an upwards our 2020 target of 34.4% Euro 6 fleet compliancy. trajectory, as measured in terms of MWh of green ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND GREEN ELECTRICITY PRODUCTION OBJECTIVES electricity we produce. Our green electricity production target of 213, 170 MWh for 2020 also 2017/18 2018/19 2020 performance performance target includes the likely contribution from our new Derby plant in the future. Energy use on sites in kWh per tonne of waste handled1 28.3 29.1 26.6 Litres of fuel used per tonne of waste collected / transported 3.15 3.12 3.12 % of waste collection / transport truck fleet compliant 24.2% 34.9% 34.4% with Euro 6 standard Green electricity produced ’000 MWh 143,462 124,582 213,170 1. Due to the restatement of the Energy data (see page 38), the Energy efficiency intensity ratios also changed. We have adjusted the target in accordance with this change. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 23/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES CASE STUDY 67,000 tonnes Our reduction in CO emissions A STEP UP THE CO2 2 over the past year PERFORMANCE LADDER Reducing our carbon footprint is part of Renewi’s DNA. We embrace sustainability throughout the organisation, not just in what we do, but how we act. So everyone at Renewi is a vital part of our CSR decision-making, and involved in striving for our CSR goals. We were delighted that during the year we obtained level four on the CO2 Performance Ladder, a Dutch certification scheme encouraging organisations to reduce carbon emissions. This was a step up from level three for both the legacy organisations. The level three Ladder Award recognises businesses that are reducing their own carbon emissions. With a certificate on the Ladder, organisations can receive an award advantage for their registration on tenders. The level four and five Ladder awards recognise businesses that are also demonstrating a reduction in CO2 emissions in their supply chain and sector. “It was a major achievement, because Renewi has several divisions and subsidiaries, each with their own challenges,” explains Bart Nevels, CSR Manager. “Three of these divisions (Commercial Netherlands, Hazardous Waste and Monostreams) contribute in varying ways to our total CO2 footprint, with different challenges and opportunities. We first identified the CO2 emissions for the separate divisions and opportunities and then determined how much each division could contribute to the overarching goal.” Our overarching goal is a 3.5% reduction in CO2 emissions per tonne of waste handled in 2021 relative to 2017, accounting for over 10,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions saved. We are on track to reach this goal. The CO2 Performance Ladder is a great instrument to shape and direct Renewi’s CSR Policy and offers a clear strategic roadmap. To reach level four of the Ladder, we identified three important pillars: fuel use reduction, energy efficiency and green energy use. We aim to reach level five of the CO2 Performance Ladder. “We are currently working on a uniform reporting system, which should provide better insight in fuel and energy use per division and site. With this information we can develop even more effective CO2 reduction measures,” Bart adds. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 24/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES CASE STUDY ROUTE OPTIMISATION Ideas that drive sustainable growth and preserve the planet are crucial. By focusing on our waste collection truck routes this year, we’ve reduced our environmental footprint and delivered cost savings. Since our merger, we have identified significant areas of logistics overlap and there are some clear opportunities to reduce our fleet size and improve our environmental impact. Key to this approach was rationalising the waste collection trucks operated by both businesses. “In Belgium, we operate the largest truck fleet in the country. We wanted to reduce the number of trucks the two legacy companies ran every day to our customers,” explains Veronique Delanote, Environment & Quality Expert at Renewi’s Commercial Belgium division. By optimising and integrating the routes, each route will be served by only one Renewi truck. The Belgian operations expect to reduce trucks on the road, reducing mileage and delivering fuel savings. “By reducing the number of trucks on the roads, we will also be helping to make the communities where we work quieter, cleaner, safer places to live,” Veronique adds. 34.9% In addition to route optimisation, we are replacing older trucks with new Proportion of our waste vehicles, making our truck fleet more sustainable with lower emissions. “Our integration involves much more than the delivery of cost synergies: collection truck fleet that by reducing the size of our fleet and investing in more sustainable trucks, is Euro 6 compliant we are significantly reducing our carbon emissions and our impact on the environment,” says Veronique. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 25/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES PEOPLE FROM WASTE TO PRODUCT WASTE STEEL NEW STEEL Renewi will collect and transport asbestos contaminated steel direct to PMC’s recycling facility, which has been specifically designed to recycle such contaminated steel. The fibrous parts of the asbestos are destroyed and other hazardous substances such as chromium-6 and mercury are captured or neutralised. The process prepares steel for reuse in the steel industry in the form of Purified Metal Blocks (PMBs™). RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 26/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES PEOPLE – PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES LEADING WITH A SAFETY CULTURE fatal accidents, and while accident severity rates increased slightly, this was against a significant Safe is the first of our six core values that improvement in 2017/18, and since our merger we underpin what we are and how we act. We have improved our severity rate by 43%. launched our new Safety Culture Initiative in 2018/19, focusing on five key themes: Near-misses are events when accidents nearly leadership, employee engagement, common happened, and our people are encouraged to standards, communications and performance. report them. We’ve worked hard to increase the number of near-misses raised by our employees, Long-term, sustainable success starts with which demonstrates that we are integrating a safety treating our people fairly and respecting culture throughout our workforce. We have been their rights. successful, and the number of near-misses raised increased by 64% over the year, from 10,934 in Safety 2017/18 to 17,927 in 2018/19. Our safety efforts are paying off. Our top-line >3 day accident rate (accidents at work when people are We have also reduced the number of accident off for more than three days) improved by 7%, types with potentially serious outcomes, such as and we are on course to reach our 2020 target. machinery safety, traffic accidents and falls, by The number and rate of lost-time injury (LTI) more than a half. Going forward, we will also focus accidents (those resulting in a person off work on our more common accident types, such as slips, for a day or more) has also improved. We had no trips and manual handling accidents. HEALTH AND SAFETY OBJECTIVES 2017/18 2018/19 2020 performance performance target >3 day accident rate 1,505 1,404 1,355 Lost time injury frequency rate 12.5 10.8 8.7 Severity rate 17.4 18.8 13.1 Near-miss close-out rate 83% 69% 85% RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 27/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES PEOPLE – PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES continued Diversity We benefit enormously from our diverse workforce. Our people come with different backgrounds and Employee data As we have integrated two companies, we have gained synergies, including in employee roles. 21.9% of our senior managers are female from a wide range of cultures, creating a vibrant While the total number of permanent employees workforce where we can all learn from one another. at Renewi has reduced slightly, to 7,035 from 7,100, One of our six core values is ‘together’, which means that we are always open and respectful to each other. We work across all boundaries to listen and learn the percentage of female employees increased from 16.2% in 2017/18 to 17.5% in 2018/19. In our senior management team, the percentage of female 7% reduction in >3 day accident rate from one another and value everyone’s role and employees is higher. contribution. We are an equal opportunities employer, which means that full and fair consideration is given to Our HR division is working hard towards a new applications from, and the continuing employment, Renewi-wide HR policy, in which vitality and career development and training of, vulnerable and absenteeism reduction play an important role. disadvantaged members of the community. We measure our Gender Pay Gap and although the total female population employed is significantly lower than the total male population, the difference within the mean pay gap category is negligible. Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are self-evident, fundamental rights. As such, Renewi is committed, in accordance with local laws, to respect the rights of all employees to form and join trade unions of their own choosing, to bargain collectively and to engage in peaceful assembly, as well as to respect the rights of workers to refrain from such activities. Employees and/or their representatives shall be able to openly communicate and share ideas and concerns with management regarding working conditions and management practices without fear of discrimination, reprisal, intimidation or harassment. In addition to the existing channels of communication via our Works Council arrangements in the Netherlands and Belgium, the Board has designated Non-Executive Director Jolande Sap to assist the Board with workforce reporting. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 28/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES CASE STUDY 14% UK SAFETY CHAMPIONS Our lost time injury rate Being safe and accountable are core values at Renewi. Listening to and engaging with our people improvement on these topics, and acting upon their input, is vital to how we work. In our Municipal Division we wanted to use our new HomeSafe campaign as a way to promote engaging with our people and to encourage a two-way dialogue with them, so last year we set up a UK Safety Champions programme. “We issued a call to arms to all our 650 people in the UK, asking for volunteers to act as Renewi’s UK Safety Champions and I’m proud that 75 people stepped forward to take up the mantle across all our seven UK regions,” explains Adam King, SHEQ Director, Renewi. Once we had identified our Safety Champions, we brainstormed key safety issues that are important to our people and together developed a proactive feedback and management approach. Renewi’s Safety Champions are clearly visible on site with uniforms and provide a focal point for change on key safety issues. They have two deliverables: to organise and arrange weekly site tours and to attend monthly SHEQ meetings. This gives our Safety Champions an opportunity to identify and raise upcoming issues, and to track with our leaders how existing issues are being addressed. Safety issues that have been solved range from changing the height of ladders, to maintenance and cleanliness at waste reception areas. “We are on a mission to improve engagement with our team and this initiative has been really well received. It gives our people that opportunity to open up and talk directly to management about the safety matters that are really important to them,” says Adam, who has personally met every single UK Safety Champion. “By showing that we are listening, and setting an action timeframe that is accountable, our Safety Champions are showing our team that Renewi’s metrics for safety change are working,” he adds. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 29/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES 13% CASE STUDY of our permanent employees under 30 years old are members of Young Renewi YOUNG RENEWI Our people are our most important asset, and our young people bring new ideas, energy and passion to our business. At Renewi we want to capture this enthusiasm and ensure that all our young people have a voice. Investing in our young colleagues is crucial to our success, and our Young Renewi programme aims to engage and inspire future generations throughout the organisation. Young Renewi is a community of highly-involved younger Renewi employees. Launched at the end of 2017 in our Netherlands operations, it now includes over 100 members from Netherlands Commercial, Monostreams and Renewi Group. “Young Renewi is a great opportunity for young professionals to exchange knowledge, experiences and learn from each other. It completely matches our value about being together, because we keep in touch and work across all boundaries. Every three months we do a site visit to learn in detail about what goes on in different areas of the business. We also have access to an external online learning platform, and informational calls with Executive Committee members via Skype,” explains Alex de Waal, Corporate Communications Executive and member of Young Renewi. Young Renewi encourages active participation through brainstorming sessions and meetings on key issues, motivating and keeping young employees engaged. It also is a key tool for promoting Renewi’s employer brand and attracting future employees. A recent sustainability survey among Young Renewi members highlighted six areas that the members have presented to the Executive Committee for development: paperless office, annual Renewi trashwalk, communicating sustainable efforts, collecting valuable materials, using ‘waste-to-product’ internally, and food waste circularity. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 30/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES PARTNERSHIPS FROM WASTE TO PRODUCT PLASTIC WASTE VACUUM CLEANERS Renewi’s waste electrical recycling specialist subsidiary, Coolrec, collects and dismantles old devices such as refrigerators, televisions, vacuum cleaners and mobile phones. The plastic components are treated and processed into granules, which are used by Philips for making new vacuum cleaners which consist of 36% recycled materials. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 31/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES PARTNERSHIPS – PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES BEING A RESPONSIBLE PARTNER When Derby falls under our operational control, our focus will be to reduce the number of complaints. COMMUNITY OBJECTIVES We are passionate about helping society work towards a more sustainable future, and we Elsewhere, our good performance is a result of 2017/18 2018/19 2020 performance performance target do this working in partnership with different the quality of our processes across our sites and communities. an increase in awareness about community issues Average number of complaints per site 1.5 2.9 1.4 among our employees. We are committed to playing our part in the circular economy and we work with a growing number of We aim to meet global standards in health and different stakeholders and partners within society safety, environmental management and the who share our commitment. quality of our processes. Our formal management accreditations are an important indicator of this. Our activities have a positive benefit for society as a As we continue to integrate, the number of formal whole. However, we understand that our activities accreditations will reduce while we maintain or can also have an impact on the communities where improve overall coverage. For example, in Municipal we operate, and our goal is to act in partnership our UK operations merged their individual site with our local communities. We aim to be a accreditations into one divisional accreditation. responsible partner by minimising the impact of The aim for 2019/20 is to further merge different our sites on the environment that we share with accreditations at a divisional level. This should nearby residents, community organisations and further promote integration within our divisions. businesses. We actively engage with communities and use the latest technology to help us identify potential issues before they arise, such as changes in air quality (see page 34 for more). While we reduced the number of complaints received by most of our sites outside the UK, the total amount of complaints increased to 576 from 306. This was largely as a result of complaints received by Renewi’s new Derby plant, which is being commissioned by a contractor under our environmental permit. We set our objectives as a ratio per site as a more accurate measure than total number of complaints, no matter how many sites we operate. The lower the figure, the better the performance. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 32/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES PARTNERSHIPS – PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES continued The importance of diversity, quality and While we do not operate in higher-risk countries, nondiscrimination is highlighted in our new Code we uphold the principles in the United Nations of Conduct, which we launched together with a Universal Declaration of Human Rights and range of policies and protocols focused on the therefore subscribe to the UN Global Compact. prevention of bullying and harassment, disciplinary We respect our employees’ human rights. We measures and grievance mechanisms. It provides support the rights of the child and do not employ direction in who we are, what we do and how we anyone under 16. We consider the rights of act, as well as how we put our values into practice. other young people relative to their work and We have an integrity management team which is do not employee anyone under the age of 18 in responsible for putting these policies and protocols operational roles. We will not tolerate any aspect into practice. It also offers training and workshops of modern slavery. Our modern slavery statement to our employees and management on how to deal can be found on our website. with integrity issues. See page 43 for an overview of our compliance and Moreover, we ensure that our business practices governance performance. comply with legislation and guidance, and that we trade, operate and compete fairly and within competition laws. We will never gain or maintain business through illegal or unethical conduct. We do not tolerate any form of bribery or the offering or soliciting of a bribe by any employee or agent operating on our behalf. We do not make any payments to political parties, organisations or their representatives. We comply with ethical trading requirements and standards such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) anti-corruption directive. Our Board is independent from our executive functions. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 33/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES CASE STUDY 2.2 billion Every year we recycle SUSTAINABLE enough glass to manufacture 2.2 billion wine bottles PARTNERSHIPS We innovate so we can extract value from waste, using state-of-the-art processing techniques. Working closely with different partners on innovative waste treatment, we are making the planet even more sustainable. Renewi’s Coolrec subsidiary processes electrical and electronic equipment, plastics and non-ferrous metals into high-quality raw materials. Together with Renewi, Dutch watch specialist Circular Clockworks launched the world’s first range of circular watches, made from secondary raw materials. Dieter Avonds, Director of Coolrec explains: “Many of the parts in discarded appliances are made from valuable materials. Coolrec can recover specific plastics from discarded appliances to reuse in new products, such as these sustainable watches. We are proud to be involved in this circular collaboration.” Coolrec supplies plastic granules which are recycled from discarded electronic and electrical appliances to give new life to used materials. Renewi collects and processes the discarded appliances, grinding them into small pieces. The black watches in the range are made from materials such as recycled televisions and the white watches are created from old fridges. The watch straps are made from leather left over from shoe manufacturing processes. Through Renewi’s specialist organic waste subsidiary, Orgaworld, we recently started converting organic household waste into bioplastics. Orgaworld is one of the most versatile and innovative international processors of organic waste materials and can recycle up to 96% of waste received. Bioplastics are more environmentally friendly than other plastics due to their biodegradable nature and use of less fossil fuels in production. The circular conversion process means bioplastics produced will be reused in the production of, for instance, recyclable bin bags for collecting kitchen and green waste. Eventually these products will return to Orgaworld, closing the circle. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 34/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES CASE STUDY NIL No odour complaint ODOUR days received at our ATM plant REDUCTION Open and transparent communication with the local communities where we operate is vital. At our ATM plant, one of Europe’s largest sites for treating contaminated soil and water, our proactive approach with the local community delivered record results this year. This year we focused on reducing odour. Using innovative technologies and initiatives resulted in a record zero odour complaint days. We participate in a local 24/7 ‘e-nose’ network, which monitors changes in the air. Together with wind direction, e-nose electronic technology can identify an odour, assess its severity and even track where it comes from. We also use an infrared camera to detect diffuse emissions. We’ve started to immediately close all emission points before unloading or cleaning ships, and now operate a degassing installation, which means ships no longer emit odours on the river. Within our communities, we proactively communicate with the public every quarter as well as on unplanned issues, publish a magazine twice a year and support local social initiatives. “Our focus is on continuous improvement. Our hunt to reduce odour emissions never stops, and our focus on innovation helps us to get better every day,” says Jacques de Jong, Director Compliance & Public Affairs at ATM. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 35/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES APPENDIX FROM WASTE TO PRODUCT FOOD WASTE COMPOST Renewi processes green waste from flower and vegetable growers. During a closed composting process, the green waste is placed into tunnels to decompose. It takes approximately two weeks to process the waste into a sustainable source of compost, which is supplied to the agricultural industry. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 36/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES CSR STAKEHOLDER Core CSR subject area Financial Sustainable employer Integrity and ethical trading Environmental and sustainability Society and community Customer and consumers ENGAGEMENT AND Financial sustainability and success Employee relations and Prevention fraud, bribery and Energy efficiency, upstream Environmental regulation, Waste no more: Recycling and Potential negative impacts on Continuity of service to customers Product liability, health and other Complicity in poor human rights, Data protection, cyber-crime, Positive contribution to society MATERIALITY MATRIX Health and safety, working similar, financial governance, economic impacts on third party privacy of clients, customers and resource sustainability and carbon emissions, potential pollution from recovery performance, and carbon from recycling and recovery, and local communities close to Renewi (waste does not stop being potential impacts from Renewi of Renewi engagement, diversity and equality The matrix on this page lists CSR issue areas conditions, wellbeing integrity, fair practices in business countries from activities employees emissions activities, and compliance avoidance benefit educational activities operations produced) products To enlarge text please scroll over words and welfare (core areas and specific issues) against different stakeholder groups. These areas are based Specific CSR subject area Summary and example main engagement routes engagement surveys, Employee engagement surveys, consultation meetings, whistleblowing consultation meetings, whistle blowingline, line,internal internal on standard areas from organisations such as Internal Employees Employees 3 3 3 2 1 2 1 2 2 1 2 1 1 Employee communications, newsletters, announcements etc stakeholders and Board 3 3 3 3 3 2 3 3 3 2 3 2 2 GRI, but then customised to Renewi’s context. Board members Reports, briefings, Board meetings Commercial (small/medium) 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 2 1 1 1 3 1 Customer feedback surveys, direct face-to-face contact, emails, letters, websites etc In the main matrix a score of 1-3 (1 = low, 2 = National Commercial (large/blue chip) 2 2 2 2 2 3 3 2 3 1 2 3 2 Direct face-to-face, emails, letters, websites etc customers medium, and 3 = high) is given for the materiality Customers and clients Local authorities 2 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 2 3 3 2 Direct face-to-face, emails, letters, websites etc each stakeholder group likely assigns to the Overseas OECD countries 1 1 1 2 1 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 2 Email, letters etc relevant CSR issue. Please note, this is assessed customers Non-OECD countries 1 1 1 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 Email, letters etc stakeholder materiality relating to Renewi, and Shareholders, investors Shareholders 3 2 2 3 2 1 2 2 2 1 1 1 2 Annual report, shareholder briefings, face-to-face meetings, ESG surveys, AGM, websites etc and funders Investors / funders 3 2 2 3 2 1 2 2 2 1 1 1 2 Annual report, shareholder briefings, face-to-face meetings, ESG surveys, AGM, websites etc not in general. For example, an investor may rate Financial bodies and investors Auditors 3 1 1 3 1 2 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 Audits at half-year and full year with ad hoc communication between Verifiers and the materiality of human rights, such as the rights assessors ESG/CSR rating organisations 1 2 2 3 3 2 3 3 3 2 3 1 2 CSR Report, direct contact and completion of assessments of the child, as very high in general, but only as Political National government 1 2 1 2 2 2 3 2 3 2 2 1 1 Lobbying activity low for Renewi because of the countries Renewi structures Local government 1 2 1 1 2 2 3 3 3 3 3 2 1 Lobbying activity operates in and that it does not import items Environmental 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 3 3 1 3 1 2 Face-to-face contact, email, letters, site visits, membership of bodies including regulators etc Trade / financial 1 1 1 3 1 3 1 1 2 1 1 1 2 from higher-risk countries. The column headed Annual report and ad hoc contact Government Safety 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 2 Face-to-face contact, email, letters, site visits, membership of bodies including regulators etc ‘summary and example main engagement routes’ and national structures Regulators and litigators Planning 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 3 2 1 3 1 1 Face-to-face contact, email, letters, site visits etc lists typical sources from which these materiality Labour 1 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 3 1 1 Face-to-face contact, email, letters, site visits etc scores have been gained. Civil litigators 1 2 3 2 1 2 1 3 1 1 3 1 2 Ad hoc as required for civil cases Trade unions 1 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 Face-to-face contact, formal consultations and meetings, email, letters, site visits etc Others Below the main matrix are various averaged NGOs 1 1 1 2 2 1 3 3 3 2 3 1 1 Ad hoc as required and lobbying activity Local residents to Renewi sites 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 3 2 2 3 3 1 Liaison committees, site visits, leaflets, meetings etc and analysed scores. This includes the average Direct public Other members public 1 1 1 1 2 1 2 2 3 1 2 3 1 Websites and other communications Community stakeholder scores out of 10 for reasons of data and society National 1 1 1 2 1 2 3 1 3 2 2 1 1 Website, PR activity via media presentation. Also listed are Renewi scores for Public cultures 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 3 3 1 1 As appropriate, liaison committees, site visits, leaflets etc each CSR issue. These stakeholder and Renewi scores are then presented as a heat diagram 10.0 Overall score for stakeholders 37 43 40 45 39 41 48 55 53 36 53 37 37 9.0 2 9 (lower right). 8 8.0 3 11 Overall score factored to score out of ten 4.9 5.7 5.3 6.0 5.2 5.5 6.4 7.3 7.1 4.8 7.1 4.9 4.9 7.0 12 6.0 10 7 Renewi score Renewi score out of ten (based on 5.0 Renewi CSR materiality matrix) 2.0 9.0 8.0 5.0 2.0 2.5 6.0 8.5 9.0 6.0 8.0 7.0 3.5 4 4.0 13 Reference number for issue 3.0 6 from 2018 Renewi CSR materiality 2 9 9 1 8 10 4 3 5 7 7 11 6 2.0 1 5 matrix (for reference) 1.0 New number for each issue 0.0 (correlates with numbers in heat 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 4.0 4.5 5.0 5.5 6.0 Shareholder score 6.5 7.0 7.5 8.0 map, right) RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 37/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES PLANET – RECYCLING AND RESOURCE The left-hand table shows how much waste we received at our sites, and how much of this was recycled and recovered, rather than disposed. The right-hand table shows our energy consumption as raw data. Some of our operations produce green electricity directly. RECYCLING AND RECOVERY PERFORMANCE1 RESOURCE USE AND SPILLS1 Indicator 2017/18 2018/19 Indicator 2017/18 2018/19 Total waste handled at sites (million tonnes) 14.02 13.85 Electricity consumption (Megawatt hours) 195.735 192.091 Materials recycled (million tonnes) 1,2 9.30 9.27 Gas used at sites and offices (Megawatt hours) 81.820 90.082 Materials recovered for energy production from waste (million tonnes)1,2 3.19 3.20 Fuel such as diesel used at sites and offices (Megawatt hours)2 118.962 120.238 Total materials recycled and recovered for energy production (million tonnes) 12.49 12.47 Total energy use at sites (Megawatt hours) 396.517 402.411 Recycling as % of total waste handled 66.3% 66.9% Fuel used waste collection vehicles (000’ litres) 34.296 34.042 Recycling and recovery as % of total waste handled 89.1% 90.0% % of waste collection / transport truck fleet compliant with Euro 6 standard 24.2% 34.9% 1. Recycling is materials given a ‘second life’ for reprocessing into new goods/materials. Recovery is waste used for energy production such as Green electricity generated (megawatt hours) 143,462 124,582 production of waste derived fuels, bio-mass and similar 2. Includes water recovery and moisture loss during treatment for some technologies employed Significant spills at sites – number of reported spills required by permits3 50 34 1 . Minor restatement of 2018 data as result of analysis of merged company data during the year 2. Includes diesel used in heavy mobile plant and static plant and machinery, plus oil etc used for heating 3. Spills are those as required to be reported by environmental permits RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 38/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES PLANET – CARBON FOOTPRINT AND AVOIDANCE DATA These tables show our carbon emissions and the carbon avoidance benefit of our activities. We also detail our carbon emission and avoidance benefit as ratios per tonne of waste, which is a more accurate measure of our carbon performance. EMISSIONS FROM OUR ACTIVITIES (CO2 EQUIVALENT ’000 TONNES)1,2 CARBON AVOIDANCE AS A RESULT OF OUR ACTIVITIES Source 2017/18 2018/19 Source 2017/18 2018/19 Process-based emissions Renewable energy generated 56 47 Emissions from green composting 76 90 Waste derived fuels produced and sold 946 970 Emissions from hazardous waste treatment 256 204 Materials separated for reuse/recycling 1,699 1,764 Emissions from landfill 101 91 Energy from waste used on site as a fuel 305 241 Emissions from other processes (mechanical biological treatment (MBT) and 67 50 Total potential avoided emissions 3,006 3,022 anaerobic digestion (AD)) Transport-based emissions Fuel used by waste collection and transport vehicles 120 120 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AND AVOIDANCE INTENSITY RATIOS Business travel (cars, trains, flights and similar) 5 5 Ratio 2017/18 2018/19 Energy use emissions Million tonnes greenhouse gases emitted (CO2 equivalent) per million tonnes waste 0.057 0.053 handled Electricity used on sites and in offices 121 117 Million tonnes greenhouse gases avoided by our activities (CO2 equivalent) per million 0.214 0.218 Gas used on sites and in offices 16 17 tonnes waste handled Fuel used on sites for plant/machinery and equipment / heating 36 36 Total emissions from significant sources 799 732 1. Figures rounded to nearest 1,000 tonnes – totals may reflect rounding. Some data based on carbon ‘factors’. These vary from country to country and are periodically updated, such as by Government agencies 2. Minor restatement of 2018 data as the result of analysis of merged company resource data during the year RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 39/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES PLANET – CARBON FOOTPRINT AND AVOIDANCE TRENDS The two graphs below show our long-term recycling and recovery rate, and carbon avoidance benefit produced by our activities. In both cases, while there may be annual variations, the overall trend is consistent improvement. RENEWI LONG-TERM RECYCLING AND RECOVERY RATE TREND RENEWI LONG-TERM CARBON AVOIDANCE PERFORMANCE TREND Million tonnes of waste recycled and recovered as % of million tonnes of waste handled Carbon avoidance in million tonnes of CO2-equivalent per million tonnes of waste handled 100% 0.250 95% 0.219 0.208 0.214 0.218 90% 0.200 0.188 87.0% 86.9% 87.5% 90.0% 89.1% 85.0% 87.7% 85% 85.5% 80.6% 0.156 0.150 0.162 80% 0.150 80.1% 0.149 77.1% 75% 0.123 70% 0.100 0.108 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Recycling and recovery rate Carbon avoidance Linear trend line (recycling and recovery rate) Linear trend line (carbon avoidance) RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 40/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES PLANET – ENERGY USE AND PRODUCTION TRENDS The graph below left shows our on-site energy efficiency since 2014. This is a key measure, and we aim to focus on this in the future. The graph below right shows our green electricity production over time. This is highly affected by the sale over the years of some of our anaerobic digestion and landfill gas power generation capacity. RENEWI LONG-TERM SITE ENERGY USE EFFICIENCY TREND RENEWI LONG-TERM GREEN ELECTRICITY PRODUCTION TREND Energy use on sites in kWh per tonne of waste handled MWh of green electricity produced 30 180 29.1 172,8343 170 28.3 160 28 150 140 26.6 26.6 132,612 130 143,462 137,166 26 120 124,582 25.7 120,723 116,928 110 102,559 113,152 100 95,884 102,220 24 90 96,523 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Energy efficiency on sites Green electricity production Linear trend line (energy efficiency on sites) Linear trend line (green electricity production) RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 41/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES PEOPLE – HEALTH AND SAFETY AND EMPLOYEE DATA Our safety performance is defined by the number, rate and severity of the accidents we record. Near-miss reporting is a proactive way of avoiding accidents before they occur. ACCIDENTS AND NEAR-MISSES EMPLOYEE NUMBERS Indicator 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 % of total 2018/19 % of total Number fatal accidents 1 0 Total number permanent employees 7,100 7,035 Number >3 day accidents 108 98 Number female permanent employees 1,153 16.2 1,229 17.5 >3 day accident rate 1,505 1,404 Number male permanent employees 5,947 83.8 5,806 82.5 Number lost time injuries (LTI) 172 168 LTI frequency rate 12.5 10.8 Number operational permanent employees 4,831 68.0 4,632 65.9 Severity rate 17.4 18.8 Number administration, managerial and support 2,269 32.0 2,399 34.1 employees Number near-misses raised 10,934 17,927 Number near-misses closed-out 9,097 12,293 Number female statutory plc Board directors 2 25.0 2 22.2 Near-miss close-out rate 83% 69% Number male statutory plc Board directors 6 75.0 7 77.8 Key >3 day accident: Accident which results in a person being off-work for more than three days Number female senior managers 76 20.8 67 21.9 >3 day accident rate: Number >3 day accidents / FTE x 100,000 = rate LTI (lost time injury): Accident which results in a person being off work for a day or more Number male senior managers 289 79.2 239 78.1 LTI frequency rate: Number LTIs / total number hours worked x 1,000,000 = rate Severity rate: Total number days lost as result of accidents / total number LTIs Near-miss: An accident which nearly, but did not, happen. Also called risk reports, close-calls etc Near-miss close-out rate: Number near-misses closed-out / number near-misses raised as a % Permanent employee turnover (%) 4.9 10.9 Number non-permanent employees 1,143 1,145 Total employee absenteeism from work 4.6 5.2 (% of available days) RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 42/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES PARTNERSHIPS – KEY COMMUNITY DATA These tables show our performance in mitigating potential adverse amenity effects on our local communities. NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS1 TYPE OF COMPLAINT Indicator 2017/18 2018/19 Indicator 2017/18 2018/19 Number environmental complaints received by our sites/operations1 306 576 Odour 221 423 Average number of complaints per site 1.5 2.9 Litter 11 12 1.Includes all complaints, both those substantiated and those not substantiated Vermin / flies 6 56 Traffic 2 2 Mud / dust 11 33 Noise 7 27 Other 48 23 Total 306 576 RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 43/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES PARTNERSHIPS – GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE AND EXTERNAL ACCREDITATION We exercise good governance across planet, people and partnerships. We also seek external verification of our approach and performance where appropriate. This may be through accreditation to formal standards, or through assessment to known standards such as FTSE4Good. OUR FORMAL MANAGEMENT ACCREDITATIONS OUR COMPLIANCE PERFORMANCE OUR GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE Accreditation 1 2017/18 2018/19 Indicator 2017/18 2018/19 Indicator 2017/18 2018/19 ISO 14001 / EMAS 150 149 Number of environmental convictions 5 4 Number of employees who received training/courses/ 292 243 and fines workshops on integrity ISO 9001 150 149 Number of health and safety convictions 3 2 Number of investigations on integrity issues 16 16 OSHAS 18001 117 125 and fines Number of advices to employees/management 142 135 1. Some accreditations cover more than one site or operation, such as an Legal actions for anti-competitive 0 0 following an integrity notification accreditation covering a group of sites. Comparison using basic site number quoted in this report may not be valid behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices Number of reports on ethical misconduct by employees 54 22 Key Number of reports on aggression and violence against 22 24 ISO14001 / EMAS – international environmental management standards ISO9001 – international quality standard employees OHSAS18001 – international health and safety standard SCC / VCA – national health and safety standards % employees covered by formal safety committees 100% 100% % of operations that have undergone risk assessment 100% 100% for bribery and other similar risks RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 44/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES UN GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES Renewi plc stands in full support of the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles, committing APPLYING THE TEN PRINCIPLES to continuously pursue improvements in human rights, labour, the environment Principles Pages and anti-corruption. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and This report describes our actions to continually Human rights 32 improve the four areas established by the UN Global Principle 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Compact, and demonstrates how the Ten Principles are fully integrated into our business strategy, Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the culture and day-to-day operations. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 27 The table directs readers to the sections of the Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; report that apply to each of the Ten Principles. Labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and 32 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 27 and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 21 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 21, 33 friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Anti-corruption 32 including extortion and bribery. RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 45/46 STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT US OUR APPROACH PLANET PEOPLE PARTNERSHIPS APPENDIX APPENDIX AND OBJECTIVES PRINCIPAL OFFICES Further information about our operations, CSR Report and other publications may be obtained from our website: www.renewiplc.com. Contact details for our main offices can be found below: Commercial Waste Netherlands Hazardous Waste Registered Office Renewi Nederland B.V. Flight Renewi Hazardous Waste B.V. Renewi plc Forum 240 Computerweg 12d 16 Charlotte Square 5657 DH Eindhoven 3821 AB Amersfoort Edinburgh The Netherlands The Netherlands EH2 4DF Registered in Scotland Commercial Waste Belgium Municipal No.SC077438 Renewi Belgium S.A./N.V. Renewi Municipal Gerard Mercatorstraat 8 Dunedin House Corporate Head Office B-3920 Auckland Park, Mount Farm Renewi plc Lommel Milton Keynes Dunedin House Belgium Buckinghamshire Auckland Park, Mount Farm MK1 1BU Milton Keynes Monostreams Buckinghamshire Renewi Monostreams MK1 1BU Flight Forum 240 Tel: 00 44 (0)1908 650580 5657 DH Eindhoven The Netherlands Company Secretary Philip Griffin-Smith, FCIS Email: info@renewi.com Websites: For investors: www.renewiplc.com For customers: www.renewi.com RENEWI plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS
