UN GLOBAL COMPACT SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 02 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 Who we are and why we’re here We are a sustainability agency that creates big ideas to inspire and deliver the necessary step 20 years of sustainability consulting experience change towards businesses that 75% are simply sustainable. We believe that this will be achieved through approx. collective ambition and action-led approaches that of our clients are from outside the UK are built to respond to the fast pace of change. 28 Less talking, more walking. This change is more than communications, more than business operating in isolation. We believe in doing things differently in order to engage all audiences New clients in 2018 differently. This means breaking the mould on conventional approaches to strategy, performance 33 and communications. This means taking a systems view of the issues and building strategies that are as agile as they are ambitious. Something that we have been doing for 20 years, with some of the world’s Average number of employees in 2018 leading businesses. Wherever the journey starts, together with our clients, we will help to make the step change happen, delivering positive growth and business impact by making sustainability creative, tangible and actionable. 03 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 About this report This is Salterbaxter Contents Contact MSLGROUP’S 13th Section One | Our commitment and our impact 05. Statement from our new leadership Communication on Progress 06. Accelerating transformation towards submitted to the UNGC. sustainable businesses 08. Contributing to the debate through thought leadership It covers the calendar year January to December 2018. 09. New perspectives on stakeholder engagement Sue Francis As part of Publicis Groupe we are also covered in with Directions 2018 their Group CSR and Annual Report documents Business Development Lead UK 10. A culture of change makers and their commitment to the UNGC. 11. Innovation Day 1 13. Measure and report +44 (0) 20731 38616 Section One introduces our business 14. Performance update: Social Sue.Francis@salterbaxter.com and our approach to delivering value to 15. Performance update: Environment 82 Baker Street society through our work as well as our 17. Looking forward London, W1U 6AE actions internally. www.salterbaxter.com 2 Section Two | The 10 Principles Section Two restates our commitment of the UN Global Compact to the UNGC 10 Principles and highlights 18. The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact some of our activities that make progress 21.  Human Rights against each of these. 22. Labour 3 23. Environment Section Three is where you’ll find 24. Anti-corruption our responsible business policies and procedures. Section Three | Policies 26. Anti-Slavery and human trafficking policy 29. Data privacy 30. Equal opportunities policy 31.  Health and safety policy 32. Environmental procurement policy 04 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 Our section one commitment and our impact 05 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section one Statement from our new leadership We are proud to share our 13th Suffice to say that it has been incredibly rewarding, within this context, that our clients and peers Communication On Progress named us as one of the UK’s leading Management to the UN Global Compact, Consultancies in Sustainability in the Financial Times ranking. and the second that I am Reporting to the UN Global Compact each year penning as business leader. gives us an opportunity to reflect on our progress and whether we are driving change at the necessary From concerted stakeholder action, to the elevation pace. As I look back at 2018, I see tremendous strides of the science of climate change, to a mainstream in the influence and positive change we have driven consumer awakening, 2018 was a tipping point through our work – from defining transformative to which we have a unique responsibility to sustainability strategies, to engaging in ever Kathleen Enright help accelerate a transformation to sustainable deeper dialogue with stakeholders and using Managing Director business and ultimately, to an equal, mindful our communications strategies to propel forward and thriving society. debate and deeper commitments to issues such as plastics and regenerative agriculture. As a sustainability consultancy providing strategic counsel and challenge to some of the world’s leading The next step in our journey needs to also be one businesses, we take this responsibility to heart in of inflection and ensuring that what we are delivering every conversation, never missing an opportunity for our clients we are also delivering for our staff. to challenge our clients, to propose more ambitious That we nurture the great people behind the action and commitments, to change our narrative great work, that we show how agency life can to one of urgency, of climate crisis and survival rather be different and that we push the boundaries than opportunity. In some instances, that has also on what it means to be a progressive business. meant turning down work and I am immensely proud These are exciting times! of our stance, despite the commercial pressures any business faces, when we have felt that clients Kathleen Enright wanted to do the talking without the walking. Managing Director Huw Maggs Deputy Managing Director, Head of Strategy 06 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section one Accelerating transformation towards sustainable businesses Our impact reaches further Annual Report messaging and narrative was going to be crucial to telling a more complete story about through our clients, some of Centrica’s activity and positive impacts. To launch the report, we took a campaignable approach to ensure the world’s largest companies, that the stories aligned with the strategic focus and embedding sustainability in their presented opportunities to gain much greater impact through audience-first outreach strategy. DNA and driving transformation. Some examples of our work CENTRICA | The power of Centrica’s customer story from 2018 included: Centrica has an important role to play in the future of energy and in supporting 25 million customer accounts across the UK, Ireland and North America. Last year’s ASICS | How can we showcase Asics sustainability Annual Report messaging and narrative was going to attributes? be crucial to telling a more complete story about Centrica’s activity and positive impacts. To launch the Centrica has an important role to play in the future of report, we took a campaignable approach to ensure energy and in supporting 25 million customer accounts that the stories aligned with the strategic focus and across the UK, Ireland and North America. Last year’s presented opportunities to gain much greater impact through audience-first outreach strategy. This included a diverse mix of qualitative and quantitative touchpoints, supported by engaging human stories from across the business, such as training in dementia awareness and investing in sustainable technology and services. We brought this to life through a toolkit of digital, social and video assets activated utilising a range of channels tailored for specific stakeholder groups. Through this approach we were able to create a big shift in Centrica’s year-end by increasing consistency and maximising positive impact. 07 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section one Accelerating transformation towards sustainable businesses (continued) BESTSELLER | United brands towards a bold North Star ‘Fashion FWD’ launched in Autumn 2018 with significant coverage of the major ambitions and We helped Danish fashion house BESTSELLER targets as well as links to external partners such develop a more ambitious group-wide sustainability as the Science Based Target Initiative. The roadmaps strategy, narrative and identity that stood up to empowered teams to engage and collaborate, stakeholder scrutiny. driving sustainable improvements throughout their value chain to ensure that sustainability remains We conducted initial internal engagement and building ‘at the core of the business’. buy-in amongst the brands and departments through inspirational workshops. We undertook an external stakeholder engagement and a materiality assessment to inform the strategic direction. We developed a robust sustainability vision and framework, based on material issues and their business model using pillars that reflect their value chain. We worked collaboratively to develop targets for each pillar, and commitments and KPIs. We also developed the overall narrative, creative look and communications plan for launch. 08 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section one Contributing to the debate through thought leadership At Salterbaxter we believe We believe in giving everyone in our organisation a voice through our blog where we regularly Quarterly/Spring 2018 Is your business goal-ready to move beyond 2020? Inside Explore a new generation of emerging sustainability goals that are unlocking that sharing our insights and business returns and driving transformational change. publish short pieces on the latest issues in continuously building on sustainability. We also participate in events that October 2018 foster our creativity and inspire us, for example MOVING them is essential to achieve in 2018, we co-chaired Company versus Climate THE Change, the B2B climate solutions event in the thought leadership needed Amsterdam and New York. The two days were to bring about sustainable insightful and engaging and we felt attendees GO came away with many new perspectives on transformation for business. solutions to solving our climate emergency. The Win-Win-Win of the Sustainability Experience AL POSTS Engaging employees in sustainability for the business, for employees and for society Despite the reality of running a growing commercial business keeps us devoted to client’s immediate needs, we believe in the need to foster a culture of continuous thought leadership, that bridges creativity Quarterly/Autumn 2018 Inside How can a campaignable approach In an always-on age, Annual and Sustainability to reporting add value? reporters are having to straddle the lines between disclosure and communications. and critical thinking to deliver solutions that are at the forefront of innovation. EDITION 17 In 2018 we published four supplements, Seen But Not Heard undertakes a review of leading businesses that THE As approaches to reporting BIG change, are you at risk of being have the most engaging reporting communications. Win-win-win of Sustainability outlines how companies can move their employees from sustainability awareness to being immersed in sustainability experience in order to meet ambitious goals and SHIFT GETTING TO GRIPS WITH SYSTEMS CHANGE targets. Moving the Goal Posts explored the new generation of emerging sustainability goals that are unlocking business return and driving transformational change beyond 2020. Finally, The Big Shift publication focused on getting to grips with systems change and addressing the big sustainability challenges. 09 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section one New Perspectives on Stakeholder Engagement with Directions 2018 Last year we hosted Salterbaxter’s 8th ‘Directions’ At the event, our speakers from Signify, Philips, event which focused on the concrete steps that SAC, Scania, H&M and DSM: business can take to enhance the return they can get from stakeholder engagement and collaboration. The • Challenged perspectives on the value of stakeholder event was hosted in the Impact Hub, Amsterdam to engagement and the ways in which business can embody and encourage stakeholder dialogue and apply new engagement principles in its operations; co-creation amongst attendees. • Uncovered learnings and insights from leading At the event we focused on exploring the triple companies who were already achieving an advantage of: outside-In driven ROI; Competitive agility: leveraging outside knowledge • Explored the practical tools and approaches and ideas to keep close to evolving trends and driving being used to transform the engagement process; value by finding smart ways to bring insights and stakeholders into the heart of business. • Connected with other practitioners and external stakeholders. Collaborative advantage: working in partnership to align future markets and systems with long-term trajectory as a business and the needs of society. Reputational integrity: building lasting relationships and shifting internal behaviours and culture to enhance the long-term position of business and brand. 10 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section one A culture of change makers “Following the departure of our founders in The ‘Culture Hack’ process followed the core Q1 of 2018, and the expected associated principles of design thinking: shift in company culture, we wanted to We choose this approach as we wanted to promote create a space for the team to share, and celebrate internally our flat hierarchy where ideas feedback and build the next generation reign, wherever they come from, one where every of Salterbaxter from the bottom up. person in our business contributes in some way The ‘Culture Hack’ was a process designed to making a positive difference in the world, from to be collaborative, non-hierarchical, typesetting to leading debates. inclusive, self-driven and empowering for the whole team. Each step of the iterative journey provided the team with The outcome was: an opportunity to actively participate, 7 by sharing their feedback, voting democratically on what matters most to them. This was a chance for anyone to step-up and lead change in issue areas they working groups were formed feel passionate about, work in small teams to ideate, design, pitch and prototype new 88 ideas to tackle the biggest challenges and opportunities in a new era for Salterbaxter.” Felicity McLean opportunities for improvement were discovered Account Director 20 ideas were implemented 11 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section one Innovation Day continues to grow and create lasting impact for social enterprises Social entrepreneurs build At Salterbaxter we dedicate all our staff to the entire day with strong support from other Publicis agencies. “I signed up for innovation day to tap into the bigger picture in life, like the solutions that people are businesses that tackle social More than 25 people from MSL signed up, 15 from working on, the causes that people are passionate and environmental challenges. Publicis. Sapient in addition to up to 10 volunteers each from Kekst CNC, August Media, Poke and about, and putting myself in the heart and mind of the entrepreneur and really using my skills and Publicis Health agencies. With 200+ participants, passions to drive it forward in any way I can.” For one day a year we dedicate our time to 3 locations supporting 14 entrepreneurs, Innovation Day 2018 was our largest event to date. Felicity McLean, Account Director, Salterbaxter supporting social entrepreneurs, using our skills and experience to help them increase their impact by boosting their communications. The dynamic atmosphere on the day in all three “I learned so much about the different methodologies locations was exhilarating for all who took part. they (the entrepreneurs) use and I think we can Innovation Day 2018 was our seventh annual event, The entrepreneurs were delighted with the outcomes apply it in our different agencies immediately.” and for the second time went international with a and the experience; first time participants relished the parallel event in our New York office and at MSL opportunity that the day brought, and experienced Pedro Gastal, Marketing Manager, Spindrift Sapient Amsterdam (another agency within Publicis Groupe). hands were reminded how much can be achieved In our focus on SDG 2Zero Hunger, the same as the when we come together to solve big challenges. “Innovation is not big labs, glass towers, or a really previous year, one third of the enterprises specifically Needless to say once again Salterbaxter colleagues expensive process; during Innovation Day we focused on food issues. We continued to work with demonstrated an enormous commitment to delivering see that innovation is often just bold thinking UnLtd, who offer the UK’s largest network of social a positive social impact by designing an amazing and courage and that everybody can drive it.” businesses and support hundreds of individuals each year through its programmes. This year UnLtd also event for all. The day continues to set a precedent for Kathleen Enright, Managing Director, Salterbaxter helped us make the event go international by putting more collaborative working and skills sharing us touch with one of their US partners, Blue Ridge throughout all the agencies and launched Labs, a social enterprise tech incubator. In new networks and friendships across our London, Amsterdam, the team partnered with Social New York and Amsterdam offices and the Groupe. Watch the Innovation Day 2018 here: Enterprise NL. The hope is that this will also lead to Innovation Day https://bit.ly/30hYgpA events in even more locations next year. 12 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section one Innovation Day (continued) Every year Innovation Day is scaling and expanding. This is the cumulative effect of everyone involved from across our network and number of social enterprises who we have supported over the years. Joanna Hamer, Juta Shoes “The day was great – we learned a lot, the team brought such energy, and I was impressed with how much we got done. It was definitely useful to have a full day to think about this, as well as the expert support, and more useful to have this concentrated help in one day rather than a longer-term consultancy project.” Fiona Ollerhead, The Pantry Partnership “It felt like marketing at speed! A whirlwind of creativity and an honour to have those many and varied skills in the team.” Marika Finne, UnLtd Connect Manager, London “On behalf of everyone at UnLtd and our 9 lucky social entrepreneurs in London, a big thank you to everyone at Salterbaxter and Publicis for arranging & hosting another brilliant Innovation Day” Rachel Sumekh, Swipe Out Hunger, NYC “It was an inspirational and useful day, thanks so much for everyone’s time and thoughtful guidance. We have already managed to put the work into action in how we communicate to others about the company and our work.” 18 agencies from across 200+ participants on the Publicis Groupe day in London, NYC participating and Amsterdam 14 social entrepreneurs 54 social entrepreneurs in one day supported since 2011 13 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section one Measure and report With a new People Team “ With the introduction of a dedicated People Team to Salterbaxter, Diversity and Inclusion in place we are working to (D&I) and Mental Health became a bigger measure and make progress focus at Salterbaxter last year. We believe that on our key social priorities. building a truly diverse and inclusive workplace is everyone’s business and responsibility. We want to create a culture where everyone feels We want to practise what we preach! As we share their voice matters, they are heard and their our working spaces in both Baker Street, London contribution is recognised and rewarded. and Broadway, New York with other Publicis businesses, our direct control over some areas is limited – in particular our environmental impact. D&I has two dimensions: external i.e. attracting As a result we continue to evaluate the meaningfulness diverse talent and internal being a truly of the indicators we can measure and manage. inclusive place. This section reviews some of the measurements and indicators that we track. We strive to create a culture and environment where employees feel they can bring their whole self to work and be open and honest about their mental health and wellbeing, 66% 1 whether that be physical or mental. We want to make conversations on mental health and wellbeing the norm so that they become a female employees male and female deeply embedded part of our culture. Doing members on so will make a difference, and make us better.” 900 the executive Subhani Rawat management board Head of People hours of training for employees in 2018 14 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section one Social: Promoting a work-life balance and increasing employee training Measuring our social Average daily hours: 7.5 (target 7.5) Length of service: 2.94 years (down from 5 in 2017) performance allows us to For the fourth year in a row we have achieved our work-life balance target. We believe that this In 2018 numerous senior employees who worked at Salterbaxter for over 5 years have left the company consider our progress on demonstrates that our efforts in monitoring and in the wake of the main change in senior management managing workload is contributing to an improved and the overall company change, which happened employee diversity and work-life balance. To add to our actions were the as a consequence to the new management and satisfaction, we believe these initiatives from Culture Hack that introduced work company culture shift. Many new people also joined from home allowances and three summer afternoons the company bringing new energy and enthusiasm to to be material indicators to off policies that ensured that colleagues get time accompany the new management board. For these our business success. back in recognition of a heavy workload. However, reasons, the length of service declined from last year, we do also recognise that there specific teams that however, Salterbaxter aims to increase the length of continue to longer hours and that there is still work service by creating an inspiring workplace for its new Since 2017 forward Publicis Groupe has signed up to do on process and planning to help the areas that employees who drive the company in a new era to the CEO Action for Diversity & InclusionTM pledge, are overstretched. management and company culture. The decrease the largest CEO-driven business commitment to reflects that we need to work hard to ensure that we advance diversity and inclusion in the workplace. Cumulative formal and informal offer career development opportunities in line with Network agencies based at 82 Baker Street staff training hours: 900.30 personal ambition. responded by setting up an Employee Resource Group Staff formal and informal training days (cumulative with representatives from all the brands including days per person): 2 days average (target 1 day) Students: 0 (target: 2.0) Salterbaxter and defined an agenda. Staff informal training days (cumulative days Interns: 0 (target: 3.0) per person): 4 days averagely (target 3 days) In 2018, we were not able to offer any internships or See our Quarterly reports for 2018 on Talent We are extremely pleased to have exceeded both student placements, we have retained the KPI despite Engagement and Inclusion the formal (i.e. externally provided) and informal failing to hit the mark in recent years. We realise this Q1: https://rse2017.publicisgroupe.com/fr/assets/pdf/ (i.e. in-house mentoring, knowledge-sharing sessions) is a missed opportunity for us and we are on track newsletter/Q1%202018%20-%20TEI%20Quarterly%20 training targets. We believe that this is the result to change our record regarding internships in 2019. R1.pdf of our training and development planner aligned with our appraisal system, access to Groupe wide Relationships with design courses in the past Q2: https://rse2017.publicisgroupe.com/fr/assets/pdf/ opportunities (eg. Viva Women and events) and have proved fruitful in terms of providing a great newsletter/Q2%202018%20-%20TEI%20Quarterly.pdf a more strategic approach to knowledge sharing. experience for students, mentoring responsibilities We are also much more disciplined in how we for our employees and recruiting great talent. So we record training time. would like to change in 2019. 15 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section one Social: Increasing volunteer day participation and maintaining gender diversity at all levels I feel proud to work for Salterbaxter: Additional social indicators Not measured (target: 85%) Indicator 2017 2018 In order to avoid employee survey fatigue our internal • Average number of full-time employees: 33 survey was postponed in order to align with MSL and • Average number of contractors: 26 Publicis Groupe’s broader employee engagement (including single day freelancers) practices. However, in 2018 no employee survey was conducted for the second year, which we consider • Average sick days per person: 5.6 days a missed opportunity. We are currently running our • Average age: 38 male, 37 female own Salterbaxter survey for 2019 to ensure that next year we will be able to post our survey results and, • Gender ratio: 14 male to 21 female alongside our company meetings, bi-annual reviews and monthly 1-2-1 line management meetings, we KPIs 2017 achievement 2018 target 2018 achievement meet our own standards for open and honest dialogue and feedback. Culture Hack participation days 2.6 (If Only initiative) 1 1 Volunteering day participation: Employees proud to work at Salterbaxter Not recorded 85% Not recorded employees, 93% of employees (target 60%) Our volunteering day participation was a great Number of student placements 0 2 0 success, outperforming our target strongly and raising the number to 93% from 12% the year before! Number of interns 1 3 0 31 employees participated in volunteering activity. Volunteering day take up 12% 60% 93% Average hours 8 8.5 7.5 Staff training formal 0.8 1 2 Staff training informal 4 3 4 16 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section one Environment: Complying with Publicis Groupe’s environmental approach In 2016 we moved to a We are therefore unable to compare our performance with that of others in the building with whom Publicis Groupe shared we share every aspect of the infrastructure, building at 82 Baker Street or set meaningful targets against which we can measure progress. with centrally managed Publicis Groupe measures a number of other premises including utilities, environmental indicators including water usage waste management and which of course in some of the network’s international offices could have a material impact. stationery procurement. Going forward measures and targets must be set at Groupe level and campaigns driven building-wide. The move came with benefits and challenges It is therefore our role and responsibility to see if we and these became apparent in our first year of can influence this in coming years. performance data in comparison with our previous office space. For example, electricity usage per head reduced dramatically due to the modernity of the building, whilst waste per person increased For more on the Groupe’s approach please visit: due to a lack of best practice recycling behaviour https://publicisgroupe-csr-smart-data.com/en/ building-wide and supporting infrastructure. https://rse2018.publicisgroupe.com/en/ We therefore stated that we would review and environnement redefine what we can meaningfully measure and influence. Our conclusion is that we must align our reporting on environmental indicators with Publicis Groupe. And whilst we can of course continue to apply best practice behaviours and try to influence operations and procurement at Baker Street, reduction targets are redundant. Numbers are calculated by building headcount of which we are approximately 50 of 600+ people. 17 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section one Looking forward “No year is ever quite 2018 was no different, and saw us step up as an agency to challenge and collaborate with our clients, the same at Salterbaxter. partners and each other in new and exciting ways. But a common thread of Throughout the year the growing importance of the sustainability agenda was underlined by events creating engaging and from Blue Planet II to the IPCC’s landmark report climate change and protests by Extinction Rebellion. inspiring sustainability With the gauntlet thrown down, we saw renewed strategies always runs ambition from our clients (old and new) to set ever higher standards. through every year.” 2018 saw ever greater opportunities to collaborate with our sister agency MSL and the wider Publicis Nicolas Heath Groupe. The Publicis ‘Power of One’ showed its Consultant, Sustainability and Communications value as a way to bring some of the best creative and strategic minds together to achieve our client’s sustainability ambitions. Making our way into 2019, there’s no doubt that it will prove to be another exciting year in sustainability. The agenda is becoming more important for all of society’s stakeholders and creative solutions are needed more than ever. But the greater the challenge, the more opportunity to step up and drive meaningful change – I have no doubt that 2019 will prove to be a year to do just that. 18 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 The 10 section two Principles of the UN Global Compact 19 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section two The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Labour 1 2 3 45 6 Principle 1: Businesses should Principle 2: Make sure that they Principle 3: Businesses should Principle 4: The elimination of all Principle 5: The effective abolition Principle 6: The elimination of support and respect are not complicit in uphold the freedom forms of forced and of child labour. discrimination in the protection of human rights abuses. of association and the compulsory labour. respect of employment internationally effective recognition and occupation. proclaimed of the right to human rights. collective bargaining. Read more page 21 Read more page 21 Read more page 22 Read more page 22 Read more page 22 Read more page 22 20 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section two The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact (continued) Environment Anti-corruption 7 8 9 10 Principle 7: Businesses should Principle 8: Undertake initiatives Principle 9: Encourage the Principle 10: Businesses should work support a precautionary to promote greater development against corruption in all approach to environmental and diffusion of its forms, including environmental responsibility. environmentally extortion and bribery. challenges. friendly technologies. Read more page 23 Read more page 23 Read more page 23 Read more page 24 21 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section two Human rights Principles Our approach and actions Principle 1: Approach Actions We continue to endorse the Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights We take a number of steps to ensure that we deliver a positive impact on the Businesses should support introduced by the UN Human Rights Council in 2011, as well as the Universal human rights of our employees: and respect the protection Declaration of Human Rights. We welcomed the Modern Slavery Act becoming law in 2015 as evidence that modern forms of slavery must be recognised as •W e promote the right to education, and encourage the development of skills of internationally proclaimed issues facing our society today in order to be systematically addressed and through formal and informal training and mentoring, including participation in human rights. workshops and talks with different agencies. combated. We take a proactive approach and assess the real and potential impacts of our •T hrough the way we manage the business and the salaries paid, we promote business operations, direct and indirect across our value chain. As our business the right to adequate standards of living. Principle 2: continues to grow in the US we must apply the same standards when working with new suppliers in new territories. •T hrough the way we manage the business we promote the right to freedom Make sure that they are not of expression. complicit in human rights abuses. Through our work and influence, we support and encourage our clients to report their human rights challenges in line with best practice and help them to analyse •W e promote the right to safe and healthy working conditions through the importance of the topic to their business through materiality assessments. managing the work environment and through a comprehensive Health and Safety policy. All new employees, both permanent and contract staff, are Publicis Groupe has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact since 2003, inducted in this as part of our new starter process. We have staff trained in first demonstrating its commitment to respecting Human Rights. Its code of conduct aid and fire risk assessment, prevention and response. also refers to the principles of the International Labour Organization (ILO) with special attention paid to gender equality in terms of employment, equal •W e have a well communicated grievance procedure that ensures employees opportunity, remuneration, social security and employee relations. The are familiar with how to raise concerns about staff, treatment or any other organisation takes a systematic and zero tolerance approach to human rights aspect of our work. abuses, assessing the real and potential impacts of business operations across the value chain. •A s our business evolves and expands into new territories we continuously review our approach to ensure that we live up to best practice approaches. As a subsidiary of Publicis Groupe, we report through the Groupe on this topic, however we publish our Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy in this report More on this topic is covered under the Labour Standards principles on the (see page 26). following page. For more information about Publicis Groupe’s approach and policies on human Further detail can also be found under “Performance update: social” in rights please see their latest Report. this report. 22 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section two Labour Actions • Publicis Groupe has signed up to the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion TM pledge, the largest CEO-driven business commitment to advance diversity and inclusion in the workplace. • Performance against objectives and compensation are formally reviewed on a twice-yearly basis supported by informal monthly check-ins with line managers. • Informal mentoring takes place between staff outside of formal line management. This includes Publicis-supported events such as the Viva Women speed mentoring sessions which meant that there were a few of our employees attending the event Principles Our approach and actions as well as one of our employees mentoring at the sessions. • We implemented new measures to not just monitor but proactively manage employees’ workload so that working hours are manageable. As a client-focused business we need to be agile and responsive to client needs which does require some flexibility, however we have guidelines and training for managers for assessing workloads and allocating lieu time when earned. Principle 3: Approach • Women continue to make up a majority of all staff at every level. At December 31, Businesses should uphold the As a UK-based professional services SME, our risk of contributing to detrimental 2018, 55% of the Board were women and 45% were men. There has been balanced freedom of association and the impact on labour rights is very low. However, we firmly believe that excellent labour gender representation on the Supervisory Board since 2012, making Publicis practices are fundamental for attracting, developing and retaining talented people Groupe SA one of the first groups to apply gender parity to its Board. effective recognition of the right in a competitive field. We regularly review and update as required our Employee • We are an equal opportunities employer with regards to both our employees and to collective bargaining. Handbook, which covers staff benefits, our Human Resources policies and recruitment processes. procedures including grievance mechanisms and Health and Safety. All employees • All permanent staff have access to a range of wellbeing services including private are free to join a union if they wish. health insurance, dental cover, discounted gym membership and more • All permanent staff have access to an Employee Assistance Programme which can Principle 4: A culture in which all staff are treated fairly and each individual’s merits are offer a range of services including bereavement counselling, online resources and The elimination of all forms of forced promoted equally is not just a good business practice or a regulatory requirement articles on health, family, money and work matters and compulsory labour. – it is also essential to a happy and productive workforce. The Publicis Groupe frames • The company also provides a pension scheme according to UK legislation. its culture of inclusion through its slogan of Viva la difference– which embodies • All permanent staff have access to engaging activities and cultural events. respect, celebration and encouragement of human diversity. We are an equal • Several employees have taken up opportunities to participate in a number of opportunity employer so of course there are no exceptions to this mantra; we live initiatives including: Principle 5: the difference every day, all employees at all levels. We strongly support instruments – Egalité – a Publicis-wide employee network for lesbian, gay, bisexual and The effective abolition of child labour. that promote global labour standards such as the ILO Core Conventions. Please see transgender (LGBT) professionals and allies. Salterbaxter has continued to page 30 for more information on our equal opportunities policy. support the network and grow awareness in induction sessions and promoting events, with employees participating to the annual pride parades organized by As part of the MSL Group we also adhere to the MSL Equal Opportunities Policy Egalité in London. Principle 6: which is set to avoid any type of discrimination at work, starting at recruitment. – Viva Women, an international network of women focused on supporting women On a broader level this fits in the Publicis’ Groupe business ethics policy called the The elimination of discrimination to succeed and lead. In 2018, once a month Viva Women organised an event for Janus Code. the representation of women in the workplace. For example, during the month in respect of employment and occupation. of March, on the occasion of International Women’s Day, a series of events Publicis Group has also received the highest scores on the Human Rights across Publicis agency brands were organised to celebrate women. In March, Campaign’s (HRC) 2018 Corporate Equality Index survey. Thanks to this July and November the agency also celebrated VivaMentor = VivaWomen! The achievement the company can adopt the designation of “best place to work for UK’s speed mentoring format that brings together senior and junior female LGBTQ equality”. talent for an evening of mentoring. In October the concept VivaSTEM was developed to launch a transition programme to attract and help facilitate For more information about Publicis Groupe’s approach and policies please see women into STEM roles/careers across Publicis Groupe. their latest Report: http://documents.publicisgroupe.com/resultats2019/ ddr-2018-en.pdf More information on our social indicators can be found in ‘Performance update: social” in this report. 23 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section two Environment Principles Our approach and actions Principle 7: Approach Actions Businesses should support Since the business was founded more than 20 years ago, we have been working • Having conducted an operational review in line with ISO 14001 in 2012 we are a precautionary approach to to elevate awareness and communication on environmental issues. Our aware of most significant environmental impacts. Up until our move into a day-to-day work involves helping businesses address and communicate the shared Publicis-managed building in March 2016 we were able to measure environmental challenges. major challenges facing society in the short, mid and long term. them and set targets accordingly. However, the management of the facilities and procurement is no longer directly controlled by Salterbaxter and this has As an office-based professional services business, our own impact on the impacted on what we can control, influence and measure. environment is relatively minimal. Our greatest impact is through our influence. Principle 8: However, we encourage more environmentally responsible behaviours as a way • On page 16 in ‘Performance update: environmental you can read more about Undertake initiatives to of spreading positive change and recognise our responsibility to do what we can. our alignment with Publicis Groupe’s systems. promote greater environmental responsibility. The Groupe’s motto for environmental policy is ‘Consume less & better’ which •E  nvironmental challenges closer to home with regard to our own operational has been developed around the EU’s 2030 strategy (https://ec.europa.eu/ environmental footprint will also continue to be front of mind, and best practice europeaid/policies/european-development-policy/2030-agenda-sustainablebehaviour will be encouraged through the sharing of information and the development_en) and thus defines specific objectives. The four priority focus provision of the right tools, eg. non-recycling bins and programming printers to Principle 9: areas are: provide duplex printing. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally •R  educing employee transport and its impact through the introduction of •L  ast year we worked towards minimising our environmental impact of print friendly technologies. teleconference and conference call systems. specifications for clients and in-house marketing material. We will be moving towards digital formats of our Directions publications in the future. •R  educing energy consumption and improving energy efficiency (by seeking to limit the impact relating to electricity, heating and air conditioning). •W  e use our positive influence to help our printing suppliers improve their environmental credentials. • Reducing consumption of natural and raw materials (mainly paper and water). •O  ur in-house printing uses FSC-certified paper for colour prints and • Recycling and organised (non-hazardous) waste management systems. having recently moved to new shared facilities we are seeking to influence the central procurement purchasing of only recycled, FSC or PEFC-certified paper as the standard. • We recycle as much office waste as possible, from printer toners to IT equipment. •W  e also encourage positive sustainable behaviour through everyday business processes including providing recycling bins, isolating a single non-recycling bin to one area of the office only, and upgrading printers to provide duplex printing. 24 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section two Anti-corruption Principles Our approach and actions Principle 10: Approach Actions In 2018 our anti-corruption policy was updated to include annual checks against • Our employee Handbook, included in the Publicis’ Groupe Janus code Businesses should work against bribery and corruption for every employee. At Salterbaxter we are committed of conduct, details our policy and procedure on receiving gifts, and only corruption in all its forms, including to operating ethically and against all forms of corruption at all times. Publicis permits us to accept gifts of no substantial financial value. extortion and bribery. Groupe also set up a centralized body, Re:Sources, to provide support for financial and administrative services. •O  ur client hospitality is restricted to very occasional end-of-project celebration meals, when the team on both sides are thanked for their hard work. Publicis Groupe’s Code of Conduct, known as Janus, addresses the issues of gifts, conflicts of interest and inappropriate or unethical relationships, either • In 2016, we implemented Publicis Groupe’s Anti-bribery and corruption policy with clients or suppliers, competition and unfair practices. Janus is shared with and all staff were asked to declare any conflicts of interest and sign this. This all staff in inductions. The Groupe’s legal experts play an important role in terms has now been incorporated into our induction process. of awareness and the application of laws and regulations concerning corruption. Based in the shared services centres (Re:Sources) and functionally under the Groupe’s Legal Department, these legal experts keep an eye on laws and regulations dealing with corruption. They ensure agencies are made aware of the issues, work on prevention and lay down compliance procedures adapted to local markets. The aim is to maintain strict standards that comply with current applicable regulations. Progress has been made in developing new training programmes to facilitate improvement. We share all information that is shared at a Groupe level to the rest of our teams when appropriate – this is the top-down approach that we have adopted. 25 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 Policies section three 26 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section three Anti-slavery and human trafficking policy The following UK policy and to implementing and enforcing effective systems and controls to ensure modern slavery is not Responsibility for the Policy The Groupe’s UK Compliance Officer has primary and on anti-slavery and human taking place anywhere in its business or in any day-to-day responsibility for implementing this policy, trafficking has been drafted of its supply chains. monitoring its use and effectiveness, dealing with any queries about it, and auditing internal control systems in order to comply with the Salterbaxter is committed to ensuring there and procedures to ensure they are effective in is transparency in its business and approach to countering modern slavery and human trafficking. Modern Slavery Act 2015 tackling modern slavery throughout its supply chains, Management at all levels are responsible for ensuring (the ‘Act’). It extends to all consistent with its disclosure obligations under the those reporting to them understand and comply with Act. Salterbaxter expects the same high standards this policy and are given adequate and regular of our business dealings and from all of its contractors, freelancers, suppliers and training on it and the issue of modern slavery in transactions in all countries other business partners. As part of its contracting supply chains. processes, Salterbaxter includes specific prohibitions around the world in which against the use of forced, compulsory or Suppliers we do business. trafficked labour, or anyone held in slavery or Suppliers of Salterbaxter are required to comply with servitude, whether adults or children, and it expects the supplier code of conduct (the ‘Code’) provided to that its suppliers will hold their own suppliers to the them. The Code sets out minimum behaviours, Policy Statement same high standards. This policy applies to all persons standards and practices Salterbaxter expects to see Modern slavery is a crime and a violation of working for Salterbaxter or on our behalf in any from its suppliers to ensure compliance with the Act. fundamental human rights. It takes various forms capacity, including employees at all levels, directors, Salterbaxter expects all who seek to have a business such as slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory officers, Salterbaxter workers, seconded workers, relationship with Salterbaxter or any member of labour and human trafficking, all of which have in volunteers, interns, agents, contractors, freelancers, the Publicis Groupe (the ‘Groupe’) to familiarise common the deprivation of a person’s liberty by external consultants, third-party representatives and themselves with the Code and act in a way that another in order to exploit them for personal or business partners (‘Salterbaxter Staff’). is consistent with it. commercial gain. This policy does not form part of any employee’s The Groupe has a zero-tolerance approach to modern contract of employment and may be amended at slavery and is committed to acting ethically and with any time. integrity in all its business dealings and relationships 27 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section three Anti-slavery and human trafficking policy (continued) Staff (b) Behaviour (f) Appearance All Salterbaxter Staff must ensure that they read, Victims of slavery and/or human trafficking may be Victims of slavery and/or human trafficking may understand and comply with this policy. unfamiliar with the local language or may act as if they suffer injuries that appear to be the result of an assault, are instructed by someone else. They may show fear or the result of the application of control measures. The prevention, detection and reporting of modern or anxiety and be distrustful of authorities. slavery in any part of Salterbaxter’s business or supply For a full list of potential indicators please visit chains is the responsibility of all Salterbaxter Staff. (c) Working conditions http://www.gla.gov.uk/who-we-are/modern-slavery/ Salterbaxter Staff are required to avoid any activity Victims of slavery and/or human trafficking may who-we-are-modern-slavery-spot-the-signs/ that might lead to, or suggest, a breach of this policy. have no contract or be unable to negotiate working conditions. They may be forced to work under If you believe or suspect that modern slavery, human You must notify your manager or Salterbaxter’s certain conditions or work excessively long hours trafficking and/or a breach of this policy has occurred compliance officer as soon as possible if you believe over long periods. They may lack basic training or or may occur you must notify your line manager or or suspect that a conflict with this policy has occurred, professional licences. Salterbaxter’s compliance officer or report it in or may occur in the future. accordance with our Whistleblowing Policy as soon (d) Accommodation as possible. You are encouraged to raise concerns about any issue Victims of slavery and/or human trafficking may not or suspicion of slavery and/or human trafficking in any know their home or work address. They may live in If you are unsure about whether a particular act, the parts of Salterbaxter’s business or supply chains of any poor or substandard accommodation, or have no treatment of workers more generally, or their working supplier at the earliest possible stage. In order to help choice where they live or who they live with. conditions within any tier of Salterbaxter’s supply chains identify modern slavery, there are a number of constitutes any of the various forms of modern slavery, indicators that you should be aware of. Not all the (e) Finances raise it with your line manager or Salterbaxter’s indicators will apply in every case, and some may not Victims of slavery and/or human trafficking may receive compliance officer. be immediately apparent. The indicators include, but little or no payment, or have no access to their earnings. are not limited to: They may be disciplined through punishment or fines. Salterbaxter encourages openness and will support They may be forced to open bank accounts or forced anyone who raises genuine concerns in good faith (a) Restricted freedom to sign documents to receive social security benefits, under this policy. It is also committed to ensuring that Victims of slavery and/or human trafficking may not credit agreements or loan agreements. no one suffers any detrimental treatment as a result be in control of their passports or other travel or identity of reporting in good faith their suspicion that modern documents. They may have false identity documents slavery of whatever form is or may be taking place or are unable to move freely. in any part of Salterbaxter’s business or in any of its supply chains. 28 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section three Anti-slavery and human trafficking policy (continued) Detrimental treatment includes dismissal, disciplinary Breaches of this policy action, threats or other unfavourable treatment Any employee who breaches this policy will face connected with raising a concern. If you believe that disciplinary action, which could result in dismissal you have suffered any such treatment, you should for misconduct or gross misconduct. inform HR immediately. If the matter is not remedied, and you are an employee, you should raise it formally Subject to the relevant contractual terms, Salterbaxter using the Grievance Procedure, which can be found in may terminate its relationship with other individuals our Employee Handbook. and organisations working on its behalf if they breach this policy. Communication and awareness of this policy Training on this policy, and on the risks Salterbaxter faces from modern slavery in its supply chains will be provided as necessary. Salterbaxter’s zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery must be communicated to all suppliers, contractors and business partners at the outset of our business relationship with them and reinforced as appropriate thereafter. 29 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section three Data privacy In late 2017, an initiative was GDPR programme The programme was rolled out centrally and led by The IT department in each region remains responsible for ensuring that the systems and infrastructure are launched to prepare Publicis the legal team in conjunction with the Global Security in place to secure data and all Personal Information. agencies in the UK in readiness Office, beginning with a data audit and creation of a Personal Data Register, followed by training for the The Groupe have a top-down approach to managing data privacy policies throughout all agencies. for the EU General Data DPS. The DPS are responsible for identifying risks, These policies are then shared with agencies and taking remedial actions as required, staff training the implementation of the appropriate procedures Protection Regulation (GDPR), and ensuring compliance with GDPR regulation. are then managed by the DPS at agency level and effective as of 25 May 2018. any issues are referred back to the legal team or Salterbaxter are committed to protecting data privacy Global Security Office, as required. Salterbaxter assigned two staff responsibly, in compliance with client requirements to take the role of Data Privacy and any applicable data privacy laws worldwide. Stewards (DPS). The Groupe Data Privacy Policies have been developed to ensure the following: –T he Personal information that is collected and used is done so in accordance with GDPR regulation. –T he Personal information we hold on behalf of clients is properly protected so we can help clients comply with their own obligations under the law. –R equests from individuals for access to their own personal information are adequately managed. –R equests from third parties for access to personal information are adequately managed. 30 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section three Equal opportunities policy At Salterbaxter we value Our approach In issuing this policy we have three main objectives: All employees are made aware of our equal opportunities policy and, if necessary, undergo diversity and we make every • First, to encourage employees to take an active any training and development activities to raise effort to ensure that there is no role against all forms of bullying, harassment and discrimination; their awareness of equality issues. discrimination or harassment • Second, to deter employees from participating in Salterbaxter is also working to identify priorities and bullying, harassment or discriminatory behaviour; create action plans around recruitment practices, of employees, job applicants, • Third, to demonstrate to all employees that they flexible working, family friendly workplace and diverse clients, contractors or visitors can rely upon our support in cases of bullying, company culture through its Culture Hack activities. harassment or discrimination at work. on the grounds of colour, race, In 2018 there were no breaches of this policy. nationality, religion or belief, We are committed to a working environment that offers equal treatment and equal opportunities for ethnic origin, disability, age, all its employees, so that every employee is able gender, marital status, sexual to progress to their true potential. Even after employment has ended, we are committed to orientation, parental ensuring that discrimination does not occur. responsibilities, part-time or This policy applies to all aspects of our working fixed-term status. practices and therefore applies to the recruitment and selection of employees, terms and conditions of employment, training, salary, work allocation, promotion, disciplinary and grievance procedures. Our people managers are given training on best practice recruitment processes and other management skills to reinforce anti-discriminatory behaviour. 31 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section three Health and Safety policy We want our employees to Our approach The Company will provide and maintain a healthy •T  he provision of such information, instructions, training and supervision as is necessary to ensure be as safe as possible in our and safe working environment with the objective the health and safety at work of its employees and working environment that’s why of minimising the number of health and safety related instances. other persons. • Providing access to Mental Health Ambassadors we require all employees to who are trained to assist employees in seeking The Company will pay particular attention to: help for mental issues. follow these guidelines at all • Maintaining the workplace in a safe condition times. While the Company will and providing adequate facilities and arrangements The Company may take disciplinary action against for welfare at work. any employee who disregards health and safety rules take all reasonable steps to • Providing information on first aiders, fire exits, and procedures, or who fails to perform their duties ensure the health and safety of evacuation procedures and meeting points in the under health and safety legislation. Depending on the event of an emergency. seriousness of the offence, it may amount to potential its employees, health and safety • Providing training for first aiders and fire marshals gross misconduct rendering the employee liable to at work is also the responsibility to support staff in the event of emergency summary dismissal. • Giving access to staff to an Employee Assistance of employees themselves. Programme which includes helplines for In 2018 there were no breaches of this policy. bereavement counselling and probate helplines It is the duty of all employees as well as online resources for family, health and money issues to take reasonable care of their • Provision of a First Aid room so that staff who are own and other people’s health, taken ill at work have some privacy and a place to get some rest. safety and welfare. Employees • Access to taxi services if working after 9pm to should report any situation ensure safe passage home from the workplace. • The provision and maintenance of equipment that may pose a serious or that is safe. imminent threat to the wellbeing of themselves or of any other person. 32 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 section three Environmental Procurement policy Our approach Print procurement policy We are committed to managing and reducing the Where we have the buying decision, we aim to company’s environmental impacts. The biggest place our print with suppliers who are managing impact we have on the environment is through their environmental impacts in a progressive and our supply chain and how we place work with transparent way. printers on behalf of our clients. Our print and paper policies can be read here. This process is managed through a key suppliers list. Paper policy Where we do not have the final buying decision All paper specified for our major projects must we will always advise clients to follow our guidelines. adhere to the following as a minimum: ISO 14001 is a key part of our criteria and although • Be ECF (elemental chlorine free) or TCF we understand the limitations of this system, we (total chlorine free). still feel it is a useful assurance process by which we • Any virgin pulp must be sourced from sustainably an assess a printer’s commitment to environmental managed forests. management. • The mills which produce the paper should have ISO 14001 accreditation. We may also consider other suppliers if their activities are transparent enough for us to assess without the We further aim to specify a percentage of those jobs ISO programme. from our ‘Top 10’ list of enhanced environmental paper stocks. All these papers are FSC accredited OR recycled with a minimum of 20% post-consumer waste. We are also looking into carbon neutral papers. Contact Sue Francis Business Development Lead UK +44 (0)20 7229 5720 sue.francis@salterbaxter.com 82 Baker Street London W1U 6AE www.salterbaxter.com
