PROGRESS REPORT GLOBAL COMPACT COP – Communication on Progress 2018 st st (1 of January 2018 to 31 December 2018) November 2019 PROGRESS REPORT GLOBAL COMPACT COP – Communication on Progress 2018 st st (1 of January 2018 to 31 December 2018) November 2019 1 Table of contents 1. DECLARATION OF COMMITMENT 3 2. GRUPO VISABEIRA 5 3. COMMITMENT TOWARDS THE COMMUNITY 10 3.1 PEOPLE 11 3.2 QUALITY, ENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY 14 3.3 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 16 3.4 COMMUNICATION 19 4. THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF GLOBAL COMPACT 23 4.1 HUMAN RIGHTS 23 4.2 LABOUR PRACTICES 25 4.3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 28 4.4 ANTI-CORRUPTION 31 2 1. DECLARATION OF COMMITMENT In the year 2018 crucial steps of our internationalization strategy were taken, which remains a key pillar in the orientation of the Grupo. We met important goals through business consolidation in countries where we are present and, at the same time, with strong growth and expansion in more countries in Europe, which is admittedly management’s priority. In 2018, we invested in strengthening the foundations for sustainable growth on into the next decade. We thus fully take on our commitment: Being an economic group of large multinational expansion, looking to be the leader in the industries and markets in which it operates, and differentiating ourselves through innovative concepts and integrated solutions that create added value for customers. This is our commitment as well as our internal design as an organization such that, in this 2018 period, we are proud to have consolidated globally and to have greatly reinforced in our transnational dimension. At a time when we are about to complete four decades of activity, the past ten years are a good mirror of the success of our strategy and our cutting edge, reflecting the dynamic growth of activity and significant expansion of the geographic area of the core business of Grupo Visabeira. In terms of staffing, we crossed the threshold of 11,000 employees in 2018, showing an average annual growth of around 10% in the period 2008-2018. Today, more than 57% of our employees are abroad, where they are the main ambassadors of the company and work together in complete coordination with the control center, located in the headquarters, forming a unique team focused on results. It is their skills, abilities and dedication that is the main asset of Visabeira. I am proud to reiterate that the strong commitment to internationalization has been well demonstrated in this exercise, when we achieved a 68% share of turnover in foreign markets, a significant historic peak, corresponding to an average growth in the last decade of 4 percentage points per year. This international expansion has been greatly boosted by growth in Europe, where we moved from 18 to 391 million euro in just ten years, driving an impressive growth in our business volume by 22 times in the European economies of our neighbours. These results stem from rigorous management and a policy guided by ambitious objectives, always oriented towards creating value in a sustainable and socially responsible way. Commitment to quality and satisfaction of all shareholders, are part of the ADN of the organization and of the daily ambition of the whole team. 3 In this context, we are pleased to express our gratitude to clients and shareholders, partners and suppliers, employees and all entities with whom we interact. Special thanks to all who contributed to our success, which is mutual, sharing the pride of jointly being able to state: mission accomplished! Our vision for the future passes through an increasingly strong and global Group, with its products and services recognized and appreciated to the four corners of the world. We reiterate our conviction that the results achieved are enduring stimulators for us to be more resilient and motivated and to remain focused on doing more and better. Thanks to an accuracy, effort and transparent character, the Grupo Visabeira continues to focus its efforts towards a performance in line with the development of a fairer, integral and innovative society, focusing on people and based on values. Moreover, its commitment is towards supporting, disclosing and following the Millennium Purposes, respecting and promoting the human rights of all citizens, decreasing social inequalities and environmental imbalances of the regions where it develops its business activity. As an active participant, we reinforce our commitment towards continuing to use the Global Compact and its principles as part of the strategy, culture and daily operations of our company, focusing all efforts to disclosure publicly this commitment to our shareholders, with whom we will continue to walk the future paths, based on the competitive advantages of our brand, people’s abilities and partnerships which we have been strengthening or broadening. We will continue to support accountability and information transparency, and therefore commit ourselves to continue to report annually on progress made, outlining our efforts to implement the 10 principles in line with the Global Compact's COP policy. Sincerely, Fernando Campos Nunes Chairman of the Board of Directors 4 2. GRUPO VISABEIRA 5 6 7 8 9 3. COMMITMENT TOWARDS THE COMMUNITY Our commitment towards Sustainability Economics . Growth . Profit . Cost Saving Social Economic Aspects: Environmental Economic Aspects: . Energy efficiency . Business ethics . Renewable fuels . Fair trade . Worker´s benefits . Green technology SUSTAINABILITY Environment Society . Natural resource use . Standard of living . Pollution prevention . Education . Bio-diversity . Jobs . Equal opportunity Social Environmental Aspects: . Conservation policies . Environmental justice . Global stewardship 10 3.1 People Grupo Visabeira has guided its human resources policy, emphasising its employees’ capacity and orientation for a continuous improvement of productivity and quality of service/product. This policy is the base of the fundamental principles of its position, the virtuous triangle that comprises the quality of services and products, the geographic expansion of activities and the dynamics and rigour of performance. The greatest challenge for the entire organisation is having attractive and successful career paths in keeping with individual and collective results. In this respect, people, their skills, their professional growth and their abilities, flexibility, mobility and adaptability are key pieces, which come together around rigour and high standards as an individual and organisational attitude. It represents an important challenge for the entire organization, the geographic dispersion which characterizes the Grupo, effective knowledge management, optimized team management and efficient sharing of the company’s strategy and values. Therefore, it is the Grupo’s mission to promote good practices, to articulate them with the management of people’s personal and professional expectations, and strategic alignment with the performance quality and goals achievement. Grupo Visabeira is a reference employer, recognised in the market for its capacity to train technicians and to manage careers, promoting multi-sectorial opportunities for the career development of each of its employees. Within this framework, the company's posture is specially geared towards a permanent continuous improvement of productivity and customer satisfaction. The cornerstone of this performance is the permanent focus on our Employees’ qualifications, their professional growth and continuous development of their skills. Grupo Visabeira, with its characteristic multi-activity and multi-continental company identity, values and enhances partnerships with educational institutions, universities, vocational schools and all the academic organizations with which it articulates and maximizes the promotion of the best conditions of success for young graduates, designing the best frameworks for their successful integration into professional life. st In 2018, the number of employees working for the Grupo Visabeira grew from 10,073 in 2017 to 11,327 on 31 December 2018. Sustained growth of its personnel, in line with the Grupo's expansion, in a path of full development that has characterized the company's performance over the last years, and which is shown, with segmentation by sub holdings, in the following table: PEOPLE 2018 2017 2016 2015 Visabeira Global 6,517 5,285 4,945 4,932 Visabeira Indústria 2,654 2,611 2,444 2,442 Visabeira Turismo, Imobiliária e Serviços 2,156 2,177 2,285 2,278 TOTAL 11,327 10,073 9,674 9,652 11 Vocational Training In the era of the knowledge economy where information is treated as essential raw material for economic activities, training takes on an ever more prevalent role. With this context of growing globalisation of markets and outsourcing of production work, it is necessary to provide companies with tools that allow for increasing competitiveness. Thus, improved employee productivity is increasingly relevant, making it easy to understand that professionals performing with more training or experience are essential for companies to reach their goals. As Peter Drucker said one day, “the challenge is to make ordinary people do extraordinary things”. Currently, it is evident that the professional training paradigm in Portugal is changing and is beginning to be seen as an important means of developing, not only of personnel but of companies. In Grupo Visabeira, training is not faced by its companies as a mere legal obligation but rather as a valuable investment. By investing in the development of their own skills areas or in the skills of their employees, our companies set themselves on the route to success through significant improvement in performance. The training entity Grupo Visabeira, SA, treats the companies of the Grupo and their own service providers as privileged clients, as the training is custom tailored to the needs of each company. In this way, it acts in diverse areas of education and training, of which some of the following should be highlighted: Foreign languages and literatures; Management and administration; organisation/company framework; IT in the eye of the user; Electricity and energy; Telecommunications, electronics and automation; Civil construction and civil engineering; Hotel and restaurant industry; Technology for environmental protection; Health and safety at work. With these goals in mind, whether for promoting innovative training projects of sustainable quality and value which efficiently contribute to maximizing human potential or whether through the unmistakeable strategy of raising service and quality standards for our products, 2018 was a year mostly for reinforcing training dedicated to the diverse areas of companies of Grupo Visabeira. These trainings were carried out in several locations of Continental Portugal and the Islands, with the vast majority concentrated in the Training Academy in Viseu, on top of the support of all trainings carried out in countries in which the Grupo operates. Out of the set of achievements accomplished in 2018, highlight goes to 370 training actions, involving 3,118 trainees, mostly held at the Training Academy in Viseu. In this context, certifications were attributed to 99% of participants, segmented by the various areas of training provided by Grupo Visabeira, as shown in the following graphic: 12 For 2019, in accordance with growth in Grupo Visabeira’s internationalisation in the area of telecommunications in the European market, a further increase in the number of training courses to be given is predicted, which will respond to the need for getting technicians qualified in these new markets. 13 3.2 Quality, Environment and Safety The evolution in the management of organizations has led to a new culture that encompasses not only the quality of products and/or services offered, but also environmental issues, health and safety in the workplace, and even social and ethical issues. In the present context, the responsibility of the organisations is not limited to creating wealth, protecting the environment and reducing the risks associated with their activities, areas where legal and management requirements are increasing. It is the growing assumption of their social responsibility. In this sense, in Grupo Vista Alegre, management relies on a set of procedures, standards and practices, capable of using natural resources in an environmentally responsible manner, avoiding irreversible impacts. This new concept entails a concern with the use of clean technologies, minimisation of waste and the sustainable management of natural resources. Also within the scope of Occupational Health and Safety, its focus on certification for the companies' main Management Systems, combined with various actions to prevent accidents and with the continuous commitment training employees, allowed optimising working conditions and professional performance, which significantly improved indices in these areas. In other words, in order to have quality and excellence in its products/services and companies it is important to continuously improve the Quality, Safety and Environment Management Systems. So, in 2018, a set of activities stand out within the scope of continuous improvement in the areas of quality, environment and safety, summarised below: ! The company continued to monitor the Flora (zooplankton) and the water quality in the Aguieira anchorage area, in order to assess the impact of the harbour activities in the zooplankton community of the dam; ! Continuous monitoring of good hygiene and food safety practices, in compliance with a control and audit programme that included, among other actions, over 250 microbiological analyses at the various units of Visabeira Turismo; ! Continuous monitoring of the implementation of best practices in the areas of quality, environment and safety, namely through audits and inspections, with special emphasis on Visabeira Global areas; Approximately 500 visits and/or inspections were held, involving around 2000 employees; In line with its strategic guidelines mentioned previously, Grupo Visabeira, as an active member of the United Nations Global Compact, prepared its fifth Communication on Progress (COP) report, restating once again its commitment to further promoting the Global Compact and its principles as an important part of the company's strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. 14 Management Systems Grupo Visabeira defines the Environment, Quality and Security as permanent and priority goals. Proper management of the three components within the company consolidates this policy to ensure the greatest degree of satisfaction of its shareholders. With its Environmental, Quality and Safety Policy, promoted among its main shareholders, Grupo Visabeira is committed to take the necessary measures to: ♦ Comply with the law applicable to the companies’ activity, the customers’ requirements and the regulation regarding the services provided; ♦ Comply with environmental, quality and safety procedures by the company in order to prevent pollution, technical failures, accidents and occupational diseases; ♦ Promote continuous improvement of the environment, quality and safety management system in order to meet the shareholders expectations; ♦ Establish and periodically review the environmental, quality and security goals; ♦ Plan prevention and risk assessment as well as the respective preventive measures, by integrating all levels and for all the company's activities; ♦ Train, inform and engage all employees in the management and development of the environment, quality and safety management system; ♦ Prevent and minimise environmental accidents; ♦ Ensure the protection of all employees, services providers as well as third parties, who directly or indirectly may be affected by our activities; ♦ Identify and minimize the risks for the safety and health of the employees, the installations and the work place; ♦ Promote the communication and cooperation of the interested parties; ♦ Promote and enforce this Policy by the Services providers. In regards to implementing and certifying management systems, 2018 was a year of transition to new quality (ISO 9001:2015) and environmental norms (ISO 14001:2015) and by Constructel Denmark being certified in the three areas (Quality ISO 9001), Environment (ISO 14001) and Safety (OHSAS 18001). For 2019, the focus on management systems will be focused on the transition to the new regulatory safety standard (ISO 45001:2018). 15 3.3 Social Responsibility Grupo Visabeira, the holding that brings together a hundred companies in Portugal and abroad, continues to pay attention to its Social Responsibility Policy in 2018, with proactive attitudes on behalf of the company and the communities it is a part of. From health and culture to education, sports, solidarity, arts and crafts, the actions are aimed at providing the best conditions for carrying out initiatives and events on an individual and collective level. One of the interventions with the tightest bond to the community ) in every aspect is connected to support from the Fundação Visabeira [Visabeira Foundation], which among its other goals, is in charge of managing two units targeting aspects related to day-care and pre-primary at Infantinhos da Quinta do Bosque and at Infantinhos da Vilabeira. Internally speaking, Grupo Visabeira continued with several actions aimed at the well-being of its employees in 2018. As one example to highlight, discounts granted at its hotel and restaurant units, business, services, and also on products, facilitated in this way greater ease in tourism, going to restaurants and accessing sports and well-being as well as purchasing goods of a wide variety. It was, likewise, a continued practice to sponsor social events for its thousands of employees. It is within this spectrum that the summer gatherings before summer holidays and the numerous dinners and lunches for Christmas and the New Year are held in Portugal, in Mozambique and in the majority of the other countries where Grupo Visabeira has companies. With its humanistic mission, Grupo Visabeira concentrates much of its Social Responsibility policy direct on institutions acting directly in the community, some of which are aimed at a sector with special needs, as is the case with people with disabilities. It is in this case that the APPACDM – Associação de Pais e Amigos do Cidadão Deficiente Mental de Viseu [Parents’ and Friends’ Association of Citizens with Mental Disabilities of Viseu] and the Centro de Apoio Alzheimer de Viseu [Alzeheimer’s Support Centre of Viseu] stand out. On “world days”, Grupo Visabeira, through Palácio do Gelo Shopping, opened its doors to health care institutions such as CUF Viseu and the Red Cross, allowing for screening of diabetes, eye health, cardiorespiratory illnesses, among others. At the same time, visitors could take away advice from specialists who pointed out the best practices for leading healthier lifestyles, including information on eating habits. Other institutions and entities in the Viseu Region, where the registered office of Grupo Visabeira is located, benefited from support granted in the most varied of ways. Some examples would be the Casa de Pessoal [Employee House] of the S. Teotónio Hospital [Hospital Centre Tondela-Viseu]; The Regimento de Infantaria de Viseu [Infantry Regiment of Viseu]; The Volunteer Fire-fighters of Viseu; The Polytechnic Institute of Viseu and its higher learning institutions; the Universidade Católica Portuguesa [Portuguese Catholic University], The Associação das Cavalhadas de Vildemoinhos [Horseback Riding Association of Vildemoinhos], UNICEF, and the AIRV – Associação Empresarial da Região de Viseu [Business Association of the Viseu Region], among many others. During Christmastime, the shopping centre hosted visits from area students coming from public and private schools as well as users of day centres for the elderly and nursing homes in the Viseu region and other cities in the country, to participate in activities in the festive programme of the season. For needy children and young adults of the Brotherhood of Santo António de Viseu, who are regularly brought to have lunch in a restaurant the shopping centre, the Palácio do Gelo Shopping provides the experience of skating on an ice rink which is part of the facilities. 16 In regards to culture, institutions such as the Grão Vasco National Museum and the Viriato Theatre, two leading attractions in the region and in the country, were the target of funding from Grupo Visabeira, as was the case with the Mozart Choir of Viseu. In regards to sports, Grupo Visabeira continued with support to two leading institutions in the Viseu region: Académico de Viseu Football Club, in the Second League and the Sports Club of Tondela, a team that vies in the First League, the main rank of Portuguese football. Support has also been given to the Sporting Clube da Vista Alegre which, besides having a senior team that competes in the Football Association of Aveiro, also plays the fundamental role of training young people, with teams in varying ranks that compete in matches of that association. Furthermore, karate has been a successful venture at the heart of the club in Ílhavo, with matches held at the national level. Throughout 2018 Grupo Visabeira once again granted special conditions for activities of organisations, clubs and football, handball, cycling and racing teams, among others, who used facilities at companies of the holding. Another reference for swimming competition teams, for ForLife schools and for the Príncipe Perfeito Sports Complex, which get hundreds of young athletes into action and count on widespread support from the company. In regards to Golf, a sport which exist in the Viseu Region thanks to Grupo Visabeira, owner of the golf course and an academy whose mission is to train children and young adults, support given should be pointed out as it allows members and the Viseu Golf Club to take part in competitions and other activities. A “Fanzone” was set up in the Palácio do Gelo Shopping during the Football World Cup in Russia, as a giant screen was set up to provide thousands of fans to watch competition matches in a setting of high sport enthusiasm. With a view to provided employment to a young population, particularly to future university graduates, Grupo Visabeira participated in dozens of actions at Universities, Polytechnic Institutes and other educational institutions, sharing the types of existing job openings in its companies and what are the best career paths for young people to follow. In this context as well, the Palácio do Gelo Shopping held a Job Fair which Grupo Visabeira was present at, while at the same time regional institutions and companies were invited to represent themselves, so as to increase the breadth of job positions that are available to the general public. It should also be pointed out that a protocol was signed between Grupo Visabeira and Vista Alegre, on one hand, and the University of Aveiro, on the other, in which joint participation will be promoted for technological research and development projects. Internships within the companies of Grupo Visabeira and Vista Alegre are offered to University of Aveiro students, besides also granting scholarships to children of company employees for pursuing higher education. Support for hundreds of year tradition should also be taken into account, such as the Festival of Our Lady of Penha de França, the patron saint of Vista Alegre, a festival which is included in the Intangible Cultural Heritage Inventory, a cultural, economic and recreational event which attests to the authentic representation of the workers’ community of the Vista Alegre Neighbourhood. On the external level, continuous collaboration with Health4Moz should be highlighted. This Portuguese NGO has maintained humanitarian missions in Mozambique for years, promoting mother and child health as well as relevant training for doctors and health care technicians in some provinces of the country. 17 Likewise the Cardiothoracic Surgical Centre at the University of Coimbra Healthcare Centre was supported by Grupo Visabeira on a mission carried out in Mozambique in close conjunction with the Heart Institute. This humanitarian mission aimed at providing necessary surgical intervention to Mozambican children, allowing the Portuguese team to be housed in the hotel units of Montebelo Hotels & Resorts, as had been done for those part of the mission Health4Moz. Also in Mozambique, TVCabo supported the Camões Institute Library in Maputo by making internet available through a partnership agreement signed with the Portuguese Cultural Centre in the Mozambican capital. Once again, the operator created conditions for patrons of that educational and cultural institution to access the technology world. th The TVCabo operator has also collaborated with sports institutions to sponsor numerous activities, such as for example, the African Sailing Championship and the 10 International Golfinhos Sprint Tournament, a swimming meet which took place in Maputo. Besides this, the company sponsors the African Basketball Championship for girls under 18 and sponsored the playoffs for the Basketball World Championship. In Angola, TVCabo participated in a project called “Arborizar Angola” (Reforesting Angola), in conjunction with a local IT company, resulting in 100 trees being planted in the Municipality of Talatona. Also worthy of notes is that Grupo Visabeira, through some of its companies, collaborated in organising many events and sports matches on a national and international level handing out prizes and trophies. The “Millennium Estoril Open” in tennis and the “56.º Open de Portugal” in golf are two examples of this. 18 3.4 Communication In an era in which communication is taking on an ever greater role in society, Grupo Visabeira did not remain indifferent to that need in 2018. That being the case, right on down the line a policy was accepted of publicizing initiatives that the companies and the holding units set up over the course of the year. Initiatives and actions of the most varied of origins caught the attention and stirred up interest of the Media (television, radio, newspapers and magazines), as well as that of countless bloggers and influencers, given that digital communication has taken on a prominent role in the present day. It should also be high lightened that practically on a daily basis, year round, the name of Grupo Visabeira or its companies appear in the media, in both traditional and social media. Such a stream of media has been useful for sharing public opinion, thus generating an increase in visibility and reputation of the companies and their brands, whether in telecommunications, industry, tourism, real estate or services. In institutional terms, the interviews that the CEO of Grupo Visabeira gave to media should be emphasised, such as in the newspaper Expresso, the magazine Exame, radio station Antena 1 and the newspaper Jornal de Négocios. Attention raised by publishing operating results by Grupo Visabeira should also be noted, as they generated a flow of news by national and regional news agencies. The area of telecommunications, the core area of do Grupo Visabeira, was also in the spotlight, for example, with Constructel’s acquisition of the British company M.J.Quinn, a company doing business in the United Kingdom and which came to be part of worldwide Grupo Visabeira in 2018. Nevertheless, the construction of 3,500 kilometres of fibre optic network in India and business in Italy also merit substantial attention. The long-standing company Vista Alegre, which since 2009 come to be part of the worldwide business Grupo Visabeira, was the generator of several hundred news items in 2018. In 2018, Vista Alegre was distinguished by the European Commission with the RegioStars award in the category “Public Choice”. RegioStars is the award that the European Commission’s bestows on the best projects for cohesion policy in the European Union, focussing on innovative projects with good practices for regional development. This award, due to its range, generated dozens of news items in the major national and regional media outlets, with some television channels in particular highlighting this triumph. One good example was RTP 1 which reported live on the program “Portugal em Direto” (“Portugal Live”) right from the Vista Alegre factor in Ílhavo. Besides this conquest of a European award, the launch of numerous new pieces also aroused news reporter interest. The link between brands such as Christian Lacroix Maison, Óscar de la Renta and Pineda Covalin, among many others, with pieces arising through collaboration, was heavily publicised. 19 Also meriting widespread highlight were the business results of Vista Alegre due to performance in each of the quarters of 2018. With continued improvement in profit, media attention was focussed primarily on the management policies of the company and also on innovation and design, which were responsible for this success. As a matter of fact, the winning of more than three dozen design awards granted to Vista Alegre in the major world fairs in the sector was, without a doubt, one of the points of the greatest news impact. In 2018, international juries for the Good Design Awards (Chicago Athenaeum Museum of Architecture and Design), for the European Product Design Awards and for the German Design Award 2019 Winner (German Design Council) recognised Vista Alegre’s excellence in design. Few companies can pride themselves in receiving such noble and important distinctions. Furthermore, the fact that Vista Alegre came to be held predominantly by Visabeira Indústria was widely announced. Introducing furniture into Vista Alegre’s portfolio, especially through the launch of the cabinet “Once Upon a Time”, in partnership with Boca do Lobo, also awoke a great deal of interest from the media. Another company that has been in the spotlight throughout the year has been Fábrica de Faianças Bordallo Pinheiro. The launch of some pieces from the iconic brand founded by Raphael Bordallo Pinheiro contributed to promotion by the media. Just to give examples, what stands out was the unveiling of the piece “Banana Prata da Madeira”, by the designer Nini Andrade Silva, which took place in Funchal and the new edition of the collection “Sardinha by Bordallo”, in collaboration with Festas de Lisboa, which was a pretext for an event on board a vessel on the Tagus River attended by dozens of journalists. In regards to Bordallo Pinheiro, reference to the visit that the newspaper Público paid to the factory in Caldas da Rainha, brought about extensive reporting as well as the feature given by the radio station Antena 1 on expansion of the factory. Yet another topic that arose interest in numerous national news outlets was the news item from the English newspaper “The Guardian” published in regards to the interest that English Millennials have in terms of Bordallo Pinheiro collections, which are more and more in “style”. In the branch of Tourism, one of the areas with the greatest impact on the end user was the gourmet “Queijo Serra da Estrela à chef”, which took place in the Parador Casa da Ínsua, focused on promoting this product. There was great impact emphasis, especially because the backdrop was the “resurging” of the areas after the grave fires of 2017, which devastated large areas of shepherding in the region. The shooting of the film “Olga Drummond” by the director Diogo Infante, in the Parador Casa da Ínsua, including great names of the national art scene, was one of the events of the year with greatest media coverage for Montebelo Hotels & Resorts units. Another initiative that was very much in the media was the tenth anniversary of Palácio do Gelo Shopping, particularly the “Palácio do Gelo Fashion Show”, a traditional fashion show which marked this even and which drew in thousands of people, in a party joining together fashion and music. Yet another happening related to Palácio do Gelo Shopping, was the news of several opening of new stores throughout the year, which became part of one of the largest shopping centres in the country, as well as Christmas programming, which started in December of 2017 and carried on through January of 2018. 20 The party “Let´s Dance”, considered the biggest party of the summary, was held in the old discotheque The Day After in Viseu, calling widespread media coverage, not only because th of the programme itself, but also due to the fact that it took place in the place that in the 90’s of the 20 century had been one of the main places for night-time entertainment on a national level. In another area, Montebelo Aguieira Lake Resort & Spa earned extensive publicity due to the continued presence of thousands of canoe athletes who carry out practice and training in what is considered to be one of the main centres of that type all over the world. The countless activities of the gym ForLife, the largest sports and wellness club in the country, located in the Palácio do Gelo Shopping and the multiple national competitions at Montebelo Golfe, one of which was the example of the Expresso BPI Golf Cup, contributing to vast coverage and publicity by the media, showing activity companies and units of Grupo Visabeira were generating, in Portugal and abroad. Generally speaking, one can also point out that we were news on several TV channels and programmes by RTP, SIC and TVI, on CMTV, Porto Canal, SportTV, Centro TV and Viseu Now. In the newspapers, we highlight Expresso, Público, Jornal de Notícias, Diário de Notícias, Correio da Manhã, Negócios, Destak, Notícias ao Minuto, ECO, Sapo, Jornal Económico, Jornal i, Dinheiro Vivo, Diários de Viseu, Aveiro, Leiria and Coimbra, Jornal Diário As Beiras, Jornal Via Rápida, Jornal do Centro, Jornal da Beira, among dozens of other regional and local titles. On radio stations, we highlight Antena 1, TSF, Comercial, Renascença, Rádio Jornal do Centro, Rádio Clube do Interior, Rádio Tom Dela, among many others on the local and regional scale. Also the magazines Nova Gente, Caras, Lux, Sábado, Exame, TVGuia, Telenovelas, among others, covered news and happenings in Grupo Visabeira. We would also like to note the numerous blogs that also contributed to widespread media diffusion, whether through posts, or through instastories. In summary, over the course of 2018, we can account for the diffusion of nearly 200 hundred Press Communications, which generated publication of approximately 4,000 news items related to activity of Grupo Visabeira, of its sub holdings, its companies and of its various units. In summary, over the course of 2018, we can account for the diffusion of nearly 200 hundred Press Communications, which generated publication of approximately 4,000 news items related to activity of Grupo Visabeira, of its sub holdings, its companies and of its various units. 21 INTERNAL COMMUNICATION Newsletter Grupo Visabeira kept the newsletter My-Visabeira active in 2018, one of the most prominent means of internal publicity, distributing it digitally to employees in service in the country and overseas. The digital publication presents in news items the main happenings surrounding the activity of the entities of the holding company. The newsletter has a paper edition with the summary of the main news of the month. Intranet The MyVisabeira Intranet is yet another communication area, direct with thousands of employees as access is restricted internally. In it, news, the newsletter, employee benefits and protocols are published, as well as internal programmes and information related to performance, with the main indicators in terms of Grupo Visabeira management. 22 4. THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF GLOBAL COMPACT 4.1 Human Rights The term human rights is an abbreviated and comprehensive way of mentioning the fundamental rights of the individual. Without those rights people can no longer exist or develop. Human rights are international principles which serve to protect, guarantee and respect the human being. They should ensure people the right to live a dignified life, i.e. with access to freedom, work, land, health, housing, education, among other things. At Grupo Visabeira, respect for human rights is a fundamental practice, which translates in everyday life into the adoption of the rights and freedoms in the Portuguese Constitution and in the countries where it develops its activities. Accepting these principles by all those who cooperate with Grupo Visabeira has been fundamental to ensure the conformity with the standards in force, thus allowing to maintain the company’s image and to establish solid and long-lasting partnerships with its shareholders. PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our Commitment towards the Human Rights: ♦ Grupo Visabeira does not tolerate any form of abuse of human rights in the business activities developed by its companies; ♦ Grupo Visabeira ensures that it does not participate, it does not facilitate nor benefit from human rights violations committed by any entity; ♦ Grupo Visabeira does not supply goods or services to any entity which may use them to carry out human rights violation; ♦ Grupo Visabeira ensures that none of its commercial partners commit or are complicit in human rights violation. ♦ Grupo Visabeira cooperates with civil society organisations and supports initiatives that aim to improve social conditions initiatives that aim to improve social conditions and provides support for society and the members of the communities where the Group’s companies are located. 23 Our contribution during 2018: Over the years, Grupo Visabeira has been incorporating the Social Responsibility aspect in all of its business activities, intervening directly and indirectly with the community. Its constant goal is to support and associate with hubs that foster culture, leisure, education, sports, health and wellness. In this regard, Grupo Visabeira and its sub-holdings in Portugal and abroad maintained a proactive and consistent attitude towards the society and its community, implementing this goal in several actions and initiatives: ♦ With the scope of the project “Viseu Jovem pela Igualdade” [“Young Viseu for Equality”], and celebrating the “International Day for Elimination of Violence Against Women” ForLife gym, from Grupo Visabeira, brought special attention to the topic. It invited a martial arts champion that interacted with members and shared lessons on how woman can and should defend themselves in situations in which they feel in danger; th ♦ The 6 gala event “Viver a Vida” [“Live Life”], which sets out first and foremost to stimulate and support birth rates in the interior of the country. Promoted by the Jornal Correio da Manhã and by CMTV, this initiative has relied on collaboration with the holding company since it was first held; ♦ Further worthy of highlight is how the Palácio do Gelo Shopping allowed use of space by various local and national institutions for fund-raising and solidarity actions that were properly authorized by the Ministry of the Internal Administration; ♦ Grupo Visabeira, through Montebelo Hotels & Resorts, maintains its connection with the humanitarian missions that have been, for several years now, carried out by Portuguese NGO Health4Moz in Mozambique, in the field of training doctors and other health technicians in some of country’s provinces. ♦ Also em Mozambique , TVCabo offered and installed unlimited high-speed internet and hotspot in the CCFM-Centro Cultural Franco-Moçambican [French-Mozambican Cultural Centre] and in the facilities for the Associação do Livro Aberto [Open Book Association]. On World Children’s Day, in conjunction with the Associação do Livro Aberto [Open Book Association], TVCabo sponsored an afternoon snack in its facilities and taught about the world of telecommunications in an entertaining way. ♦ In Angola, TVCabo, in partnership with the Projeto Criança Desprotegida [Children-at-risk Project], where it sponsored an afternoon snack for more than 800 children. The action took place in the LAR KUZOLA [Kuzola Home], an institution where children with special needs are taken in, coming from some paediatric hospitals in the city of Luanda, abandoned children or children with disabilities. ♦ In the UK, MJ Quinn are committed to support local and national charities and the excellent work they do. MJ Quinn recognises her responsibility to help those less fortunate and staff have been incredibly generous when asked to participate in fund-raising activities, not only financially (over than £2.500 raised in 2018), but also through donations of clothes, food and Christmas and Easter gifts which were shared with local families in need. Here are just a few examples: In September staff at MJ Quinn took part in Macmillan Cancer Support’s – ‘Biggest Coffee Morning’ raising a grand total of £289; In August staff at MJ Quinn took part in a dress down day raising £121 for Willowbrook Hospice, a local hospice that provides care and support to adults with life limiting diseases; In June, staff at our Head Office hosted a football themed world cup event raising a massive £336 to be donated to local Ronald McDonald House; Staff at MJ Quinn dressed down and ‘Marched for Men’ in support of Prostate Cancer UK raising a huge £322 to support research and treatment; The campaign (Wear your Xmas Jumper Day) in association with Juice FM helped raise vital funds (£500) for those people living with cancer in the Merseyside area. 24 4.2 Labour Practices Grupo Visabeira the greatest challenge for the entire organisation is having attractive and successful career paths in keeping with individual and collective results. In this respect, people, their skills, their professional growth and their abilities, flexibility, mobility and adaptability are key pieces, which come together around rigour and high standards as an individual and organisational attitude. Therefore, it is the Grupo’s mission to promote good practices, to articulate them with the management of people’s personal and professional expectations, and strategic alignment with the performance quality and goals achievement. Labour practices at Grupo Visabeira are in compliance with Portuguese legislation and with that of the countries in which it operates and are also based on the fundamental principles of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). As an employer, the Group is aware that it contributes to one of the company's goals more widely accepted, in particular the improvement of living standards through full employment, employment security and decent work. PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour PRINCIPLE 5: The effective abolition of child labour PRINCIPLE 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 25 Our Commitments to the Labour Practices: ♦ Grupo Visabeira recognizes the importance of social dialogue and appropriate collective bargaining structures. Thus, it is always respected and defended the right of workers to constitute or join organizations to promote their interests or to bargain collectively; ♦ At Grupo Visabeira safeguarding human rights is a fundamental practice. Thus, based on the laws of the countries in which it develops its activities, the Group recognizes and requires all its representatives the total repudiation of all forms of work undermining the fundamental human rights; ♦ Grupo Visabeira promotes health and safety in workplace, by providing safe and healthy workplace conditions, and enforcing the relevant legislation on occupational health; ♦ Grupo Visabeira do not discriminate against anyone on the basis of their gender, race, religion or any other characteristics or differences; ♦ Grupo Visabeira respects in full respect the fundamental rights at work identified by the International Labour Organization (ILO) (which is also included in the legislation) and it is not involved nor benefits from any resource of child labour; ♦ The Grupo also undertakes to report any situations it might come across, in order to promote global commitment to the effective abolition of child labour internationally; ♦ Grupo Visabeira positions itself as a plural and open entity, recognizing and actively respecting diversity, whatever its origin; ♦ Grupo Visabeira promotes lifelong learning, both inside and outside the company. 26 Our contribution during 2018: Grupo Visabeira continues to consider people as the key driver for success. In 2018 were developed several initiatives in the area of labour practices, among which we highlight the following: ♦ The company’s continuous focus on training, which involved in 2018 a total of 3118 employees, of which it is important to highlight occupational safety and health and firstcare, representing 63% and 5% of the trainees, respectively. This trend is expected to continue during 2019; ♦ In France, Constructel continues to base its growth strategy on recruiting young people and the unemployed, providing them with the necessary training, which allows them to enter or return to the labour market. The recruitment of these employees has been achieved through establishing partnerships with various institutions, namely Pôle Emploi , Mission Locale and Conseil Régional”; ♦ In the Grupo Visabeira, the reconciliation of family life with professional life has been a growing concern, since the absence of the employee should not represent an obstacle to the evolution of his/her professional career. In this sense, at Constructel, meetings are being implemented before and after the employee's absence period in order to organize the work (working time, task organization, replacement during the absence period), identify training needs upon return and preparation for return to work; ♦ In Denmark, Constructel ApS implemented a safety and health management system at work, obtaining its certification according to OHSAS 18001 in September 2018. Also Constructel France initiated the implementation of occupational health and safety management systems to obtain a certification up to 2020. The implementation of this system aims to promote the improvement of safety conditions at work through the effective management of risks in the workplace; ♦ In the industries, namely Cerutil, Bordallo Pinheiro, Vista Alegre Atlantis and MOB, the implementation of the Kaizen methodology has allowed greater involvement of employees within the company's procedures. This methodology allows, in addition to productivity gains, to improve employee well-being, since it allows for improving their place of work; ♦ With a view to strengthening team spirit and consolidating interpersonal relationships, Grupo Visabeira has promoted various initiatives for its employees, such as summer meetings before holidays, and traditional Christmas dinners, which involve several thousand employees; ♦ At the level of the promotion of equal opportunities, Fénix programme continues to be the internal tool for voluntary applications of employee and/or in consensus with the organisation. This is a structured program whose main purpose is to provide temporary or lasting professional experiences, properly framed and predictably advantageous for both parties, in order to render their performance more effective and efficient. 27 4.3 Environmental Protection Environmental protection is currently one of the main management challenges and it is influenced by three interconnected factors: environmental law, ethics and education. Each of these factors develops its role influencing environmental decisions at a national level and the environmental values and behaviours at a personal level. In order for the environmental protection to become a reality, it is important that societies may. Assuming this challenge, Grupo Visabeira continues strongly committed to the proactive decrease of the environmental impact that follows from its activities, namely by promoting a future where ecology acquires the necessary relevance, in order to benefit from better resources, new opportunities and a social environment that is generally more positive. Thus, the responsible use of natural resources, which is a common practice within the Grupo Visabeira, increasingly imposes itself as a must for the organization. We thus take up the dual responsibility of staying focused on contributing towards preserving and improving the environment, while also providing products and services that customers can value and recognize as being the result of decisive actions towards environmental enhancement. The minimisation of environmental impacts and the involvement of the main stakeholders, has been instrumental in promoting the spreading of a growing environmental responsibility within the Group. PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges PRINCIPLE 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 28 Our Commitment to Environmental Protection: ♦ Implement the best environmental practices, promoting eco-efficient management which minimizes environmental impacts arising from the activity of the Grupo’s units and uses natural resources rationally; ♦ Encourage customers and the wider community to adopt sustainable lifestyles and correct environmental practices; ♦ Comply with environmental legislation applicable to the company’s activity, the customers’ requirements and the regulation regarding the services provided; ♦ Comply with environmental procedures, established by the company in order to prevent all forms of environmental pollution; ♦ Grupo Visabeira is committed to preventing and minimizing the environmental accidents that may result from its companies’ activities; ♦ We are committed as well to train, inform and engage all employees in the management and development of Grupo Visabeira environmental management system; ♦ Grupo Visabeira also seeks to develop and adopt sustainable technologies, best suited to its companies’ activities. 29 Our contribution during 2018: The minimization of environmental impacts and the involvement of key shareholders is the predominant factor in the promotion of increased environmental responsibility in the Grupo Visabeira's business universe. In 2018, several measures to minimize and mitigate environmental impacts were implemented and reinforced, of which we highlight the following: ♦ In Angola, TVCabo participated in a project called “Arborizar Angola” [Reforesting Angola], in conjunction with a local IT company, resulting in 100 trees being planted in the Municipality of Talatona. ♦ Constructel France has an ongoing renovation project of its vehicles equipped with lifting system, which consists in the use of electrical systems instead of the fossil fuel system. This project, started in 2014, has allowed a significant reduction in fuel consumption, which will continue in 2019; ♦ At Vista Alegre Atlantis, the reuse and recycling of the vast majority of waste generated by the production activity was reinforced, reincorporating them into current paste formulations and other uses. The use of water treated in WWTP was also reinforced, storing it for use for other purposes, including cleaning and sanitation; ♦ The Geolocation system in the vehicles of the Grupo’s various companies has been allowing the optimization of technicians' journeys by different daily interventions, allowing to know in real time who is closest to urgent interventions. This system represents an important step towards companies’ sustainability, as it monitors fuel consumption and mileage, making it possible to continuously improve eco-driving procedures adopted by drivers, with obvious gains both regarding the economic and especially the environmental aspects; ♦ Optimization of Energy Rationalization Plans in largest fleet vehicles available of the Grupo Visabeira’s companies, including Viatel, Visabeira, PDT and Edivisa; ♦ Collaboration with CERVAS Center for Wildlife Ecology, Recovery and Surveillance which released and returned to nature two birds that in captivity recovered from injuries sustained. These actions, which were joined by dozens of guests, took place at Montebelo Aguieira Lake Resort & Spa, in Mortágua, one of the Grupo Visabeira’s hotels; ♦ In Denmark, Constructel ApS implemented an environmental management system and obtained certification according to ISO 14001 in September 2018. Constructel France also began to implement an environmental management system, with a view to its certification by 2020. The implementation of this system aims to promote the improvement of safety conditions at work through the effective management of risks in the workplace; ♦ In the tourism area, the monitoring of Flora (zooplankton) and the water quality in the Aguieira anchorage area, which allowed to assess the impact of the harbour activities in the zooplankton community of the dam over the years; 30 4.4 Anti-Corruption One of the Grupo’s overriding guidelines is to comply with all internal and external laws, rules and regulations, involving all employees in the priority of execution and dissemination of their practices, in view of their commitment to the fulfilment of personal and company objectives. Grupo Visabeira is also oriented so that its actions are guided by ethics and the awareness of all in order to prevent activities and behaviour that may damage or cause risks or damage to their image. The Grupo expects its employees to act with honesty, transparency and integrity and repudiates their involvement in irregular or fraudulent acts. The Grupo expects its employees to act with honesty, transparency and integrity and repudiates their involvement in irregular or fraudulent acts. Assuming legal compliance, respect for others, for the environment and for the society, as a way to leverage success, is the practice that should guide the daily lives of each of us. PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 31 Our Anti-Corruption Commitments: ♦ Act with professionalism, responsibility and accuracy, ensuring a conduct that continually safeguards the interests of the Grupo; ♦ Take a responsible and balanced approach and promote a conscious and respectful conduct towards others and oneself under any circumstances; ♦ Never agree to any form of harassment or behaviour that violates the dignity of employees or third parties; ♦ The company and its employees are committed to conducting business in a legal, ethical and professional manner. This is the behaviour adopted while conducting business and before anti-corruption laws, reinforcing a proactive anti-corruption attitude in all its contexts, including bribery, embezzlement, extortion or other unlawful forms in its relationships with third parties; ♦ Grupo Visabeira ensures its own and its companies' full independence from public institutions, party organizations and related entities, without prejudice to commercial relations regarding products and services’ sale; ♦ Grupo Visabeira will not allow any corrupt practices by its representatives; ♦ Grupo Visabeira's policy is to do business only with reputable, honest and qualified third parties. Our contribution during 2018: In its performance, the Grupo Visabeira assumes creativity, innovation, competitiveness, dynamics and ambition as its fundamental values. These values, associated with the Visabeira brand, underlie its positioning and guide the performance of all employees of the organization. The mission of the entire team is to continuously improve and innovate the products and services that make up its global portfolio. Aiming at achieving these purposes, in 2018, the company provided its employees with the Grupo Visabeira Code of Conduct. This document aims at gathering the main principles and rules that underline the internal and external relations of the different business units, companies and other Grupo’s bodies, their employees, officers and partners. 32
