UN Global Compact I Mott MacDonald UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2019 Our original letter of commitment, 2018 “ As a participant in the UN Global Compact, we have embedded its 10 principles into Reaffirming our commitment, 2019 our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations, and are engaged in collaborative projects to advance progress towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Actions Click here to explore our policies, Through our commitment to making a positive contribution to the welfare of the procedures and activities in each of the communities, environment and marketplace in which we operate, Mott MacDonald four issues covered by the 10 UNGC demonstrates its commitment to the 10 principles. This embraces ethical values, principles – human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption community responsibilities, social impacts, sustainability, protection of the environment, prudent use of natural resources, economic advancement and fair employment. Outcomes The SDGs provide a very useful framework within which to plan, deliver and Click here to see our sustainability operate the organisations and the infrastructure in our industry. In Mott MacDonald targets and key performance we are doing exactly this for ourselves. They provide an opportunity to sense indicators for our projects, people, business and community check holistically contributions we are making to society and ensure that we are working towards common goals; a shared purpose across the industry.” Mike Haigh Executive chair, Mott MacDonald UN Global Compact I Mott MacDonald Human rights Find out more: Businesses Our commitment to the provision of a fair and equitable working environment observes Equality, should support the core rights contained in the International diversity and and respect the Labour Organization (ILO) conventions, the inclusion page protection of International Declaration of Human Rights and EDI policy internationally the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. proclaimed We promote processes of sustainable infrastructure Ethics policy human rights. development that safeguard and improve the rights, wellbeing and livelihoods of local Slavery and affected populations and workers through our human trafficking Make sure that social safeguards services – both as an integral statement component of our multidisciplinary consultancy they are not work and through specialist consultancy Safeguarding complicit in human assignments. Our customers include private statement rights abuses. lenders, international finance institutions, project and policy developers, local communities, civil society, partners, suppliers, governments, regulatory bodies Social care and other stakeholders. For our private sector consultancy work, we assist our clients to align their projects with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Social research Human Rights and have a dedicated team of social scientists with a diverse range of social and human rights safeguards and impact assessment experience. This team provides customers with a thorough understanding of human rights issues and regulations and works to tailor their projects to meet regulatory and lender social safeguard standards. UN Global Compact I Mott MacDonald Find out more: Businesses We are committed to promoting ethical behaviour employee representation, such as joint consultative should uphold in our own operations by complying with the committees to discuss work-related issues. Health, Slavery and law and respecting the local customs and safety and wellbeing are priorities wherever human trafficking the freedom of cultures of all countries where we work. We we work. In our social due diligence work on statement association and comply with equal opportunities legislation and infrastructure projects we have an opportunity to the effective aim to promote diversity and fair employment influence and advocate good international industry Advance policies within the framework of local culture practice for recruitment, health screening, overtime employee recognition of the and laws. We seek the same commitment from pay, child labour and other issues considered network right to collective our partners – including clients, contractors, labour risks for the specific project location. bargaining. suppliers – to meeting the principles of national Ethics policy legislation and associated ILO regulations. Internally we seek a culture of mutual respect among all employees, with equal opportunities Health and Elimination of all Our clients receive advice on how to best promoting fair employment, considering local safety policy meet national and international best practice culture and laws. Staff Councils are held each forms of forced standards, such as those embodied in the quarter with the purpose of improving working Social and compulsory Equator Principles and the International Finance lives for staff. We’re taking active steps to responsibility labour. Corporation (IFC) performance standards on prevent discrimination of all kinds and ensure Labour policy environmental and social sustainability. We use comparable pay for comparable work. In the our experience in labour market analysis, training UK, our equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) How to build socially inclusive Effective abolition needs assessment and issues management employee network is evolving to better meet to seek to involve social partners such as the needs of staff and the business. Unit and outcomes of child labour. trade unions and employers’ federations. office champions act as dedicated contact points for the network, working closely with the We believe in capacity building so local people central EDI team to drive forward action plans. Elimination of can work on projects that affect them and discrimination benefit from employment opportunities that We are committed to paying at least the minimum in respect of are created. In countries where labour unions wage to employees and expect our contractors, are not legalised, we advocate other forms of suppliers and business partners to do the same. employment and occupation. UN Global Compact I Mott MacDonald Find out more: Businesses We take our environmental responsibilities Measures to improve the efficiency of offices Environment should support very seriously and through our business around the world include reducing energy use by Environmental management system (BMS) seek to ensure upgrading lighting to LED systems, refurbishing policy a precautionary environmental and sustainability considerations HVAC systems and turning off equipment not in approach to are built into our projects at every stage. The use. In our Croydon UK head office these and Procurement environmental BMS requires that all projects are reviewed for other measures achieved energy savings of policy potentially adverse environmental effects. Our 33% between 2012 and 2015. Through internal challenges. divisions each have a project sustainability cocommunication channels and our sustainability Environment ordinator tasked with capturing and delivering forum we review and encourage ideas for further expertise sustainability opportunities, and minimising risks. energy saving. We also review the environmental Undertake and sustainability credentials of all utility Carbon initiatives to Our sustainable approach to business supports suppliers as contracts come up for renewal. management promote greater our use of the European Foundation for Quality environmental Management’s Excellence Model and drives As a global business some international travel Carbon Crunch our ISO 14001 accreditation. Almost half of our is necessary, but where practical employees responsibility. offices are now ISO 14001 accredited and we’re are encouraged to use videoor audioEnvironmental working on every office becoming certified. conferencing and we have invested in upgrading and social due our communications systems. Staff are also diligence Encourage the Our activities are governed by a formal encouraged to travel by rail travel whenever development sustainability policy and sustainability principles possible. Our UK car allowances and mileage are embedded in our corporate values. In rates have been frozen over the past 10 years. and diffusion of practical terms, this means ensuring projects are environmentally carried be carried out in accordance with the We believe the biggest contribution we can friendly Equator Principles and the International Finance make to tackling climate change is by helping technologies. Corporation’s Policy and Performance Standards our clients to develop sustainable projects on Environmental and Social Sustainability. and programmes. We share best practice, innovations and technical capability to reduce We have adopted a positive, proactive approach to GHG emissions and we aim to employ our Carbon minimising our environment impacts. Our Carbon Portal modelling tool to minimise the embedded Action Plan 2016-2021 outlines commitments and operational carbon of our solutions, while to reduce operational emissions by 25% per minimising costs for our clients wherever possible. capita over the five-year period. Our annual Mott MacDonald co-authored both the UK carbon footprint declined from 3.48tCO2e government’s Infrastructure Carbon Review and per FTE in 2012 to 2.29 in 2018. Between PAS 2080 – designed to specifically address the 2016 and 2018 we achieved a 13% decrease, management of carbon in infrastructure and we keeping us on track to meet the 25% target. were the first consultancy to be 2080 certified. UN Global Compact I Mott MacDonald Anti-corruption Find out more: Businesses We stand squarely against corruption in all its forms and operate a strict ethics Ethics policy should work policy and code of business conduct. statement against corruption in all its forms, Our ethics policy is updated to mirror changes in Ethics homepage including extortion legislation and the stance of governments and business partners. Employees must complete Expolink and bribery. e-learning modules that support our policies. whistleblowing Our goal is continuous improvement and we system are focusing on improving anti-corruption monitoring and reporting. In the UK, we are active PRIDE Values members of the UK Anti-Corruption Forum. Our tax strategy In terms of taxation, our policy is to comply with all relevant domestic and international laws, rules and regulations. Management of our tax affairs is also consistent with our ethics policy and code of business conduct, which are built around fairness, openness, and honesty. The Group’s code of business conduct also sets out Mott MacDonald’s commitments to stakeholders and expected standards of behaviour. In serving the stakeholders of the Group, Mott MacDonald seeks to contribute positively to the economic and social wellbeing of the communities in which we do business. This extends to paying our fair share of tax in those communities on a timely basis. UN Global Compact I Mott MacDonald Open and transparent Integrated sustainability reporting requires We seek to promote a positive influence on Mott MacDonald is committed to transparency thinking beyond traditional financial reporting human rights, labour standards, environmental through its integrated reporting pages, boundaries to identify risks, opportunities practice and anti-corruption through: and outcomes that could substantially affect displaying commitments and progress towards our ability to create value over time. • The advice and services we driving sustainability across four areas: provide to our customers Corporate responsibility underpins the UNGC and we take our corporate duties to be a responsible • Our supply chain management Our Projects global citizen very seriously. With offices in Our People 50 countries and projects across another 100, we • Our business partnerships Our Business are working towards a global approach to social • Our involvement in industry bodies Our Community responsibility. We acknowledge countries have different priorities and we need to take these on • Our relationships with community organisations board as we work to share our knowledge to help advance understanding and encourage the take• Our learning and knowledge sharing up of good international industry practice (GIIP) systems to raise staff awareness of issues in the areas covered by the UNGC and SA 8000 – the international social accountability standard. Through our project work we advocate social Follow these links to explore further our and environmental approaches that not only commitment to sustainability: meet regulatory requirements but show GIIP How we are doing reporting in relation to the areas of the UNGC. Cambridge Education Support for the values enshrined by the UNGC International development services comes also from our education consultancy Cambridge Education, which promotes In their own words 1 global partnerships as an effective way of raising awareness of development issues In their own words 2 and changing attitudes, and from our health 12 Signposts to sustainability think-tank Mott MacDonald Health Institute, which works to inform debate and influence policy on international development.
