2015 1/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 United Nations Global Compact United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Communication on Progress 2017 United Nations Global Compact United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 1 // UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2010 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2009 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 2/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 3/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) was launched in 2000 to harness the power of collective action in the promotion of responsible corporate citizenship. The Compact is a framework for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. As the world’s largest global corporate citizenship initiative, the Global Compact is concerned with demonstrating and building the social legitimacy of business and markets. Marshalls plc became a signatory of the UNGC in January 2009 and a member of the UK Network later the same year. The Global Compact is a purely voluntary initiative with two objectives: 1 To mainstream the ten principles in business activities around the world; 2 To catalyse action in support of broader UN objectives, such as the Millennium Development Goals. The UNGC is not a regulatory instrument, but rather a voluntary initiative that relies on public accountability, transparency and disclosure to complement regulation and to provide a space for innovation and collective action. This is the Company’s tenth Communication on Progress and outlines how Marshalls is aligned with the ten principles and how, throughout 2019, the plc intends to develop its activities in support of the framework laid out by the UNGC. 4/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 5/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 UNGC Ten Principles Contents Human Rights Statement of Support for UNGC, Martyn Coffey............................................................................................ 06 Statement, Chris Harrop................................................................................................................................................. 07 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Foreword and Focus for 2019..................................................................................................................................... 08 Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Marshalls UNGC Signatory for ten years.............................................................................................................. 16 Scope of Operations......................................................................................................................................................... 18 Labour Achievement Indicators................................................................................................................................................. 20 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Marshalls Brand Manifesto............................................................................................................................................ 21 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Marshalls the Superbrand............................................................................................................................................. 22 Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Product Innovation........................................................................................................................................................... 24 Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Marshalls Contribution to Global Goals............................................................................................................... 28 and occupation. Modern Slavery Implementation............................................................................................................................. 32 Ethical Supply Chains...................................................................................................................................................... 50 Environment Human Rights....................................................................................................................................................................... 52 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Labour....................................................................................................................................................................................... 58 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Environment.......................................................................................................................................................................... 64 Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Anti-Corruption................................................................................................................................................................... 74 friendly technologies. Fair Tax....................................................................................................................................................................................... 76 Anti-Corruption Employee Engagement/Training & Development....................................................................................... 78 Health & Safety..................................................................................................................................................................... 79 Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Third Party Recognition and Awards..................................................................................................................... 80 COP Feedback...................................................................................................................................................................... 82 6/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 7/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Statement, Chris Harrop OBE Marshalls’ Group Marketing and Sustainability Director Although my tenure as Global Compact UK Chair ended over two years Martyn Coffey, Marshalls CEO ago I remained a Director of the UK Network until very recently. I am Driving Business Growth of the firm view that the UN Global Compact UK Network is extremely Through Sustainability important in doing just as Ms Kingo says, translating the SDGs into business action and innovation everywhere. By helping companies understand what sustainable business means in practice and engaging them in Network activity businesses are able to harness the knowledge and expertise of the UNGC, share knowledge and challenges openly with peers and across sectors, and turn this into action within their respective businesses. By creating a safe space the Network is actively Statement of Support for the UNGC accelerating understanding and action in support of the SDGs. Marshalls is engaged with the Network both in an advisory capacity, Martyn Coffey, Marshalls CEO through the active engagement of our business & human rights lead, and our participation in the Modern Slavery Working Group and the Diversity & Inclusion Working Group. The Global Compact UK Network Lise Kingo, CEO & Executive Director of the UN Global commitments that we made back in 2009. You’ll see for continues to deliver huge value to network members and I thank them Compact, has called for 2019 to be a ‘Year of Tipping yourself as you read our latest report that upholding these for their engaging programme throughout 2018. Points’. She reminded me, as I read her message to all commitments engages the efforts of all of our people signatories at the beginning of this year, that it was 20 years without exception; whether we’re working to ensure that I am pleased also to share with you the news that that at the end of ago that the late founder UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan we deliver on our environmental commitments; working 2018 I received an OBE for my services to modern slavery; although it first proposed the idea of a Global Compact between the to protect labour rights and improve standards for workers saddens me to think that in this day and age this would be the case. United Nations and the world’s businesses. It cannot be and their families around the globe; coming together to The 10th of December 2018 was the 70th anniversary of the Universal Chris Harrop OBE, Marshalls’ Group disputed that the universal principles of human and labour take action on human rights; personally engaging with Declaration of Human Rights and a stark reminder to me, in the light of Marketing and Sustainability rights, respect for the environment and anti-corruption the challenges of spotting and reporting the signs modern this honour, that although drafted in 1948 in the aftermath of World War Director, Global Compact UK proposed by Kofi Annan as basis of the Global Compact are slavery as we go about our business; working with suppliers II, the Universal Declaration remains as relevant today as ever before, Director, ETI Non-Executive Director as valuable and relevant today as they were back then. on the challenging issues of ethical sourcing; engaging presenting an ambitious vision for a world in which all human beings with the complexities of diversity & inclusion; supporting live in dignity and freedom. The fact that Marshalls has answered the At Marshalls too we had a special anniversary in January one another in our efforts to make a contribution to call of UNGC and has a principles-based approach regarding human 2019 as we marked our 10th year of engagement as a issues that we care about in our local, regional and global rights which ensures that is at the centre of our business strategy gives signatory of the UN Global Compact. I am proud that our communities; and in a plethora of other ways. I wish to me cause for optimism. I hope that other businesses engage and do organisation had the foresight and vigour to engage in say loud and clear that I am grateful for their unwavering the same. 2009 when traction for UNGC initiative was challenging. engagement, energised by their actions and extremely Since then the UNGC principles and framework have been proud of what they have each contributed and that our constant mentor and guide, challenging us to shape Marshalls has therefore been able to achieve. and develop our business with sustainability up-frontand-centre. It has without doubt, and continues to be, an As we move forward, three years into the SDGs, I’m invigorating and often frustrating journey as we navigate heartened to know that good progress is happening on our way to maintain our leadership position and to ensure many fronts as we all drive towards a more sustainable that sustainable choices are embedded in all areas of our way of life as envisioned in the 2030 Agenda, but I also “ For the UN Global Compact, our priority is to translate business and are quite simply just the way we do business. understand that there are huge gaps particularly on climate I resonate with Ms Kingo when she say, “In a topsy-turvy change and inequality — for women, young people and the SDGs into business action and innovation world, our Ten Principles can help restore our balance and for workers in the global supply chain. Marshalls remains everywhere. Our Local Networks in over eighty-five steady our nerves”. Marshalls can most certainly attest to committed to contributing to the SDGs, encouraging others countries are at the heart of this effort. Networks are that. to become UNGC signatories and to using our leverage and absolutely crucial to help local businesses shape this our immense collective energy to help ensure that this is agenda. Our Local Networks have shown us time and As we celebrate our 10th year UNGC anniversary I want to indeed a ‘Year of Tipping Points’. take a moment to thank our team in its entirety for their again that the solutions and innovations we need are continued commitment to the UNGC principles. I want to already out there. Change will not come as a result acknowledge that each and every one of them has played of meetings held at UN Headquarters alone, but as a a part in enabling Marshalls to uphold the important result of deliberate and tangible action on the ground.” Executive Director, Lise Kingo * https://www.unglobalcompact.org/news/4422-01-16-2019 8/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 9/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Foreword PUBLI CA VAILA BLE SPECIFIC BS EN ISO 14001 ATIO N9 9 FTSE4GOOD MEMBERSHIP GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE Regular readers of our COP’s will be very familiar with our sustainability model which incorporates our membership of the UNGC and FTSE4GOOD, I’m delighted to offer a warm welcome to all readers of this to be able to give more details on in our End Modern Slavery NATIO NS GLOBAL CO MP and our continued commitment to Integrated Management Systems. ITED AC UN T Marshalls’ 10th UNGC Communication on Progress Report. I can Report in June 2019. hardly believe that 10 years have flown by since we became a The three pillars of sustainability; economic, environmental and social UNGC signatory, and yet when I look at our journey over that We have initiated an exciting multi stakeholder supply chain and Environmental continue to provide the focus for our activity. Underpinned by the UNGC Water use time I can honestly say that we’ve made so much progress in community programme in Vietnam which sees the International CO2 and CO2e principles regarding the environment, labour, human rights and antiour thinking, our decision making and our actions as a result. Organisation for Migration as our partner. We remain active also corruption. Biodiversity Waste to Regular readers will know that I like share with you here, at in China, Turkey and Europe. landfill Legal Marshalls remains absolutely focused on being a successful and profitable the beginning of our report, some of the highlights of the Social Economic business whilst minimising our impact on the environment, looking after challenging work that we’ve undertaken in 2018. We welcome I’m pleased to report that this activity, and more, has enabled us Ethical sourcing Safety Total shareholder return the people and communities, striving to be innovative and to respond to Community feedback and comments from all of our stakeholders on our achieving BRE Ethical Labour Standard 6002 verification for the 1 BS 800 Customer responsibility EN market challenges and opportunities and to taking the lead in our sector. S1 service index ISO activities, so if you’re inspired to get in touch by anything you third year running. SA 90 E OH TIV SE 01 see here please see the feedback section towards the end of the Our purpose as a business is to ‘Create Better Spaces’ for all of our IA IT FT 4G IN OO G report; we’d be delighted to hear from you. I am pleased to say that during 2018 we have also committed DM R TI N customers. We do this ‘The Marshalls Way’ by ensuring that we live our EMB ER S HIP LR EPO to Science Based Targets. We will now report on our progress GLOBA shared values of leadership, excellence, trust and sustainability. These are Our activities has continued to be shaped by the business and annually in realtion to this in our COP report. You will also read, the values that our business is built on. human rights agenda; the publication of our third Modern later in the report, our progress regarding the UN CEO Water Slavery Disclosure Statement and its implementation Mandate. throughout UK business operations and our global supply chains, the publication of our second End Modern Slavery Martyn Coffey, our CEO, continues to champion Marshalls’ Report which details the depth and breadth of our efforts, the strategic approach to sustainability and made clear in his reinvigoration of our Ethical Trading Initiative 2020 Strategy statement of support he and the Board fully acknowledge the and our ongoing work make a contribute towards the Global importance of our UNGC engagement as we continue our Goals. journey as a sustainable business committed to contributing to the SDGs in a meaningful way. The Values Our Business is Built On I am particularly proud of our most splendid and growing army of Modern Slavery Ambassadors. They are strategically recruited I would like to reiterate Martyn’s sentiment here in that all or through our UK operations have proved to be an excellent asset my colleagues are empowered to harness Marshalls brand LEADERSHIP is not just about being a manager. SUSTAINABILITY means that we are committed as we continue to ensure that all of our employees know how to values and to do the right thing day-in-day-out. I have seen for It means that we should all set the standards that to doing the right thing for the long-term good of spot the signs of modern slavery and how to report it. They are myself that this is extremely powerful and liberating. Marshalls’ others aspire to, no matter what our role is within our business, for society and for the environment. supremely placed to ensure that we are in a position to leverage employees are all aware of the businesses commitment to the business. We should all take responsibility for This means that we must always do the right thing our UK operations in the fight against modern slavery. I look sustainability and what this means to them in terms of what our actions and try to set a good example every and consider the impact on our business and of forward to our next End Modern Slavery Report in the middle they do here at work. There is an every increasing sense that single day. our decisions and actions. of 2019 which will detail the growing number and work of our everyone, whatever their role, has an equally important part EXCELLENCE means that we must always strive Modern Slavery Ambassadors. of play in our efforts to live and breathe the UNGC principles, to be the best we can be. We must be ambitious nowhere more so that in our continued drive to eliminate and demand high performance from ourselves We continue to work on preventative measures with our antimodern slavery. as well as others. We must also be innovative and slavery partner, Hope for Justice, in the UK and are also exploring constantly seek to improve our performance. an innovative educational initiatives in India which we hope It’s essential that we always make good our commitments and have pride and passion in everything that we do. TRUST means that we are open, honest, fair and consistent. We must always follow through on our promises, respect others’ talents and treat each other fairly whilst always acting with integrity. 10 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 11 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Employees throughout the business continue to be actively involved: Abigail Brown Richard Capper, Tom Poole, David Jessop, Mike Plaster, David Morrell, Matthew Gibb, John Davis, Elaine Mitchel-Hill, Rory Kendrick, Mineral Products Energy HR Director Operations Manager Commercial Group Head of Group Environment Health, Safety & Business & Human Natural Stone Marketing Management Marshalls Register Marketing Sustainability & Water Manager Environmental Rights Lead. Sourcing Director. Manager Engineer Communications Director Manager Chris Frankland, Andrew Stalker, Richard Beale, Claire Blake, Paul Battison, Steve Swanwick, Louise Furness, Nicole Bennett, Chris Griffith, Viki Harris, Head of Head of Procurement Director Head of Domestic Head of Logistics Group Systems HR Director Product Manager SuDs and CBP Content & Social International Commercial Product Manager Commercial Paving. Manager. Media Manager Marketing/Export Marketing Management. Alexander ArcherRyan Darcy, James Eastwood, Angus Doherty, Todd, Marshalls, Driver Marshalls, Driver Environment Intern Digital Content Producer These employees work alongside those Our Business & Human Rights In this our 10th Communication on with special responsibilities including; Programme continues to develop at a Progress, we share with you once again Group Procurement Director, Richard pace and now includes modern slavery the relentless efforts that we have made Beal, Group Human Resources Director, threat assessments, human rights impact to uphold the UNGC principles during Louise Furness and Business & Human assessments, Children’s Rights & Business 2018 and our enduring commitment Rights Lead, Elaine Mitchel-Hill, Group Principles audits, UN Women Women’s to these principles as we move forward Head of Sustainability, David Morrell and Empowerment Principles gap analysis throughout 2019. Natural Stone Director, Rory Kendrick. benchmarking, business and human rights Yammer platform, a human rights Marshalls’ progress is monitored & modern slavery training programme thoroughly and on an ongoing basis and modern slavery risk mapping against both internal and external and country profiling. In addition we measures. As a matter of course continue to work closely with Indira Marshalls seeks verification from third Saxena regarding social issues in India party organisations which include and Sterling Smith of Just Solutions Ltd non-governmental organisations and on higher risk overseas supply chains. independent auditors; The Carbon Trust, BSI, Wild Life Trust, ETI, BITC & I am particularly delighted to confirm BRE. We also engage with third sector that Marshalls has once again retained organisations as ‘critical friends’ in order its Superbrand status for the ninth year that we get full and frank feedback on running. This remains a testament to a range of issues especially in relation the dedication and passion of everyone to our human rights programme within the business and a feat which we and our work on modern slavery and are all extremely proud. transparency in the supply chain. 12 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 13 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Focus for 2019 Deborah – use a couple of t POL images that I’ve sent i separate email. Business and Human Rights Marshalls published its third Modern Slavery Disclosure In early 2019 we are set to launch our compelling ‘Power of Logistics’ Statement in May 2018, as required following the introduction modern slavery initiative which will see our entire nationwide of the UK Government Modern Slavery Act. Many of you logistics team trained on how to spot the signs of modern slavery will be aware that this Act requires all businesses with a and how to report safely. Our drivers often deliver goods to turnover in excess of £36m to provide an annual Statement of construction sites early in the morning, or late in the day and are Disclosure detailing the steps taken during the previous year well placed to spot and report. Our fleet of vehicles will also have to help ensure that slavery and human trafficking is not taking the national modern slavery helpline on them. We are delighted place in its business operations or supply chains. Marshalls that the launch will be supported by West Yorkshire Police & continues to leads the field both in the UK and overseas in this Crime Commissioner and the Association of Police and Crime area, as you’ll read later in this report. Commissioners (APCC) Lead on Modern Slavery, Mark BurnsWilliamson. In the UK Marshalls remains active and engaged in the West Yorkshire Anti-Trafficking & Modern Slavery Network, Greater Manchester Business Network on Modern Slavery, UNGC Modern Slavery Working Group, the ETI Working Group on Modern Slavery and sits on the APPG for Modern Slavery & Sport, including Construction. We also remain engaged with UK government and are looking forward to contributing to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association delegation visit regarding modern slavery from a construction sector perspective. Our programme in Vietnam focusing upon Reducing Risks of Slavery & Trafficking in the Natural Stone Sector will get underway in early 2019. Lead by the International Organisation for Migration, the UN Migration Agency, this exciting multi-stakeholder programme will look at building capacity in supply chains and mitigating risks in rural communities. The cross-sectoral work in India that we have been engaged in through our membership of the International Labour Organisation Child Labour Platform is set to continue apace in 2019. We are increasingly finding that cross-sectoral collaboration is key to gaining traction in sourcing countries where a large percentage of produce remains within the country for the local market. We look forward to publishing our fourth disclosure statement in May 2019 and sharing full details regarding our progress against key performance indicators. Much progress has been made in delivering against our KPI commitments and our 2019 statement will see refreshed and renewed indicators. We are delighted to report that Marshalls has committed to the Our third ‘End Modern Slavery Report’ will be published midyear so that all can see the range and depth of our activity. Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi). As such throughout the coming year we will be working to establish and set our greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets. These will be consistent with the most ambitious aim of the Paris Agreement, to limit average global “For Marshalls, human rights is proving to be a platform for warming to 1.5°C by the end of the century compared to prebusiness innovation, galvanising collective action, moral industrial temperatures. fortitude, meaningful collaborations with new business partners and long term sustainability; making sure we’re a company that young people want to work for, investors want to invest in and governments want to partner with.” Martyn Coffey, CEO, Marshalls plc 14 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 15 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Children’s Rights & Business Principles Audit Progress on our third Children’s Rights & Business Principles Audit has been slowed due to our desire to link this work in with the work which we are now driving forward with the IOM and the ILO Child Labour Platform. We are now confident that this CRBP audit will be completed before the end of 2019. Together with the other stands of work this will help us to assess our progress and identify the priorities for the coming two years. Modern Slavery Ambassadors Marshalls now has seven strategically placed Modern Slavery Ambassadors throughout our UK operations. They have proved invaluable; sharing their knowledge of modern slavery in relation to their own areas of expertise, supporting colleagues and connecting with a wide range of external stakeholders. Throughout 2019 we are set to increase the number of Modern Slavery Ambassadors as we work to ensure that Marshalls is a toxic as possible to those organised criminals who seek to exploit vulnerable individuals and businesses. Please so enjoy reading this our 10th annual Communication on Progress, and to finding out how by being a sustainable business we seek to gain a competitive advantage for our business and make a net positive impact, all while playing our part to contribute to the realisation of the Global Sustainable Development Goals. Chris Harrop OBE Group Marketing and Sustainability Director Marshalls plc 16 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 17 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Marshalls becomes a UNGC signatory and a Global Compact UK Network member. Human Rights Policy Published. Fairstone India brought to market. Social auditor programme begun in India. First Modern Slavery statement published. ILO Child Labour Platform cross sectoral initiative begins. Marshalls acts as catalyst for the formation of the Ethical Stone Group Supplier education, dialogue and Second CRBP undertaken resulting in top 10 priorities. First End Modern Slavery Report & Sourcing Country Risk within ETI. collaboration event with UNGC UK. Mapping published. CRBP pilot process undertaken. UNICEF research published. First company to carbon label over 2000 Stone sector collaboration in India. Once of first to commit to GLAA Construction Industry Protocol. of its products. 3 year strategic partnership agreed Marshalls response to UNICEF research published. Development of Marshalls long term with UNICEF. Partnership with Hope for Justice. Grass roots worker and community human rights programme based on Marshalls Human Rights internal training programme programmes in India. Ruggie Framework. Marshalls’ brand manifesto published. lauched. MSA Ambassador programme launched. 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 Human Rights Impact Assessment Marshalls commits to CEO Water Living Wage accreditation achieved. WEPS Gap Analysis undertaken. CEO Water Mandate Reporting. Programme started. Mandate Product innovation – products to address Ethical Risk Index developed and launched. Committed to science-based environmental target. Communication on how Marshalls is Fairstone China launched. water/floods launched. contributing to the SDGs. UNGC UK MSWG. IOM multi-stakeholder Vietnam Programme agreed. Chris Harrop appointed Chair of UNGC Marshalls Stone Standard launched. Children’s Rights & Business Principles UK Network. First company to achieve BRE ELS verification. ILO cross sectoral programme engagement and (CRBP) pilot programme engagement. Sustainable development report – 2005 – development. Children’s Right Policy published. 2015 published. Marshalls becomes a member of the ILO Child Labour Platform. BITC SDG reporting forerunner. First CRBP audit undertaken. First company to achieve BES 6001 Responsible Sourcing verification. First business to engage with West Yorkshire Second End Modern Slavery Report. Anti-Trafficking Network. Fair Tax accreditation achieved. ETI Strategic Objectives agree – underpinning UNGC M-Way Supplier Code of Conduct published. principles. Future Spaces research launched. Marshalls UNGC Signatory for ten years 18 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 19 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 UK HQ and Manufacturing BELGIUM Manufacturing TURKEY Sourcing CHINA Quality & Ethical Compliance Office and Sourcing INDIA Sourcing VIETNAMSourcing NORTH AMERICA Office Scope of BRAZIL Sourcing EGYPT Sourcing Operations EUROPE Sourcing MIDDLE EASTOffice 20 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 21 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Marshalls Brand Manifesto Once this report is submitted to the UNGC and published online, it will be volunteered for peer-review by a randomly selected group of corporate members and observers of the Global Compact UK Network. Any suggested changes will be made and the report will be re-submitted, if required, to the UNGC following the peer review process. Marshalls has sought to extend stakeholder engagement in the COP process by inviting feedback from employees, customers, suppliers, partners, NGOs, third parties and peers to assess the company’s progress. Marshalls looks forward to receiving comments from its wide range of stakeholders. Please direct any feedback to Elaine Mitchel-Hill elaine.mitchel-hill@marshalls.co.uk Achievement Indicators Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 79% Reviewing Feedback Delivering Best Legal Compliance & Developing Our Practice Approach Collaborating & Sharing Best Throughout this and all other Marshalls Each indicator is broken down in percentage Communications on Progress you will find a terms, which allows any progress made to Practice self assessment indicator which represents be identified by all readers of this report with what Marshalls believes it is achieving in ease. It is also intended to make any year-onDelivering Best Practice relation to each of the principles. Marshalls will year comparisons clear, uncomplicated and strive to improve its achievements year-oninformative. Achieving Good Results year. Marshalls constantly monitors best practice Reviewing Feedback & Marshalls initially developed its own indicators in its sector, as well as in the field of corporate for its COP reporting rather than use an existing responsibility and sustainability reporting. Any Developing one, such as the Ethos Indicators and Global informative developments and advancements Reporting Initiative (GRI) methodology. in this area will be introduced into subsequent Piloting New Initiatives COP reports. Legal Compliance 22 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 23 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Marshalls Tenth Consecutive Year Marshalls is proud to have retained its For clarity it is worth stating that brands The Superbrand Superbrand status. Published annually since 1995, the Superbrands Annual documents some of the strongest consumer and business-to-business brands in Britain today. cannot apply or pay to be considered for Superbrand status. Only following a rigorous and independent selection process is the accolade awarded on an annual basis. The book establishes how Superbrands manage to achieve outstanding success. The 2018 Superbrand book provides insights into Marshalls’ branding strategy and business success. Further information can be found at www.superbrand.uk.com Superbrands UK Annual Vol.20 Marshalls Brand History 1890 Solomon Marshall starts to quarry in Southowram, Halifax, and in 1904 establishes S. Marshall and Sons Ltd in West Yorkshire. 1947 A second production site is opened, manufacturing lintels, steps and fence posts. In 1948 an engineering division is established. Marshalls is the UK’s leading manufacturer of hard landscaping products, and has been supplying superior natural stone and innovative concrete products to the construction, home 1964 Marshalls becomes a plc, with shares quoted on the London Stock Exchange. improvement and landscape markets since the 1890s. Marshalls strives to create products that improve landscapes and create better environments to develop happier and healthier communities. 1972 New product development sees the introduction of block paving and the famous ‘Beany Block’ that combines drain and kerb. Market works with a diverse commercial customer base, 10 universally accepted principles in the areas 1988 Brick manufacturer George Armitage A global leader in creating better spaces, including local authorities, commercial architects, of human rights, labour, the environment and & Sons is acquired, becoming Marshalls strives to improve environments for speciﬁers, contractors and house builders, anti-corruption. In 2018, Marshalls was again Marshalls Clay Products. everyone, from creating integrated landscapes by offering them unrivalled technical expertise, awarded The Fair Tax Mark in recognition that promote well-being and using fairly traded manufacturing capability and an enviable of the business’ commitment to transparent 2004 Marshalls acquires Woodhouse, stone, to providing products that alleviate ﬂood product range, including superior natural stone, tax processes along with being recognised expanding its product offering risks and creating innovative protective innovative concrete hard landscaping products, as a Living Wage Employer. The Carbon to include design-led street furniture, landscape furniture. Working in both the public water management solutions, rail products, Trust has reaccredited Marshalls three times. lighting and signage. sector as well as domestic and commercial landscape furniture and protection products, Since 2009, Marshalls has reduced its relative markets, Marshalls provides a complete external and natural stone cladding as well as facades. carbon footprint by almost 16% and has made 2011 Marshalls announces a European landscaping, interior design, paving and ﬂooring a commitment to reduce its carbon emissions venture, Marshalls NV. products service – from planning and engineering, by 3.1% per year until 2020. to guidance and delivery. Marshalls is committed 2012 Marshalls is an ofﬁcial supplier to producing new products that better any existing Recent Developments to the London 2012 Olympic Park. market offering, and to make them from the Marshalls is spearheading Future Spaces, In addition, an ofﬁce is opened best materials it can source. Over the years, a project set up to foresee how commercial, in Xiamen, China. Marshalls has continued to develop and expand public and domestic spaces might adapt and its products and services – whether working evolve over the next 10 years. The result 2014 Marshalls is accredited by the alongside architects, local authorities and Achievements of intensive research, Future Spaces aims Living Wage Foundation. contractors or providing homeowners, driveway Having been the ﬁrst organisation to achieve to predict how changing lifestyles, technology installers and garden designers with innovative veriﬁcation against BRE Global’s newly launched and economic conditions might dictate the look, domestic products. Ethical Labour Sourcing Standard (BES 6002) feel, colour, shape, textures and materials used 2017 Marshalls acquires precast concrete manufacturer, CPM. in 2017, Marshalls has again achieved veriﬁcation to create those spaces. Sustainability remains Product for the second year running. It continues at the heart of everything Marshalls does, Marshalls’ domestic customers range from garden to focus on being a successful and proﬁtable and the company continues to be at the forefront 2018 Marshalls is again awarded The Fair designers and professional landscapers to DIY business whilst minimising its impact on the of sustainable business. As the ﬁrst company Tax Mark. enthusiasts and driveway installers and specialises environment, looking after people and in its sector to belong to the Ethical Trading in helping to create beautiful and practical outdoor communities, striving to be innovative Initiative (ETI), Marshalls has unveiled its ETI spaces that families can enjoy for years to come. and to respond to market challenges and Strategic Plan 2018 – 2020. Objectives have been Designed to inspire, Marshalls’ extensive product opportunities as well as taking the lead developed to further embed and integrate ethical Disclosure Statement, as required following Promotion protection from terror attacks, Marshalls takes ranges combine quality, elegance and durability in its sector. Having remained a signatory trade into business activities and decision-making the introduction of the UK Government Marshalls’ digital strategy continues to increase a multi-layered, holistic approach to landscape in both traditional and cutting-edge designs, of the United Nations Global Compact since as well as seeking to improve conditions Modern Slavery Act 2015. Together with in momentum across its operations. The strategy protection products, ensuring that they are with products to suit every taste and style. In the its acceptance in 2009, Marshalls is committed for workers, their families and communities. anti-slavery partner, Hope for Justice, combines digital trading, digital marketing and attractively integrated into landscapes without public sector and commercial market, Marshalls to aligning operations and strategies with the Marshalls published its second Modern Slavery Marshalls has made good progress in preventative digital business and is focused on the customer compromising on a design’s aesthetic or affecting education work with employees, suppliers and experience. The strategy places the interests of pedestrian movement and interaction. those in and around overseas supply chains, stakeholders and the requirements of customers especially in Vietnam and India. In 2018, as its key priorities. Customers are able to use Brand Values Marshalls became a Patron Partner of CRASH, web and mobile applications to model their Marshalls’ shared values of Leadership, Excellence, sharing practical skills, building materials and requirements and allow for full digital access. Trust and Sustainability underpin the company donations to help homelessness charities A new commercial web platform was launched and are important to the continued success and hospices with their vital construction in 2018 and a new domestic platform will follow. of the business. Marshalls aims to be the projects. Marshalls also became the ﬁrst Marshalls’ strategic direction is ‘digital by default’, supplier of choice for every landscape architect, in the construction sector to join the Co-op’s which seeks to deﬁne digital as a core part of the contractor, installer and consumer, and for Bright Future programme, offering the opportunity company’s culture. Marshalls continues to lead the brand to remain synonymous with quality, of a paid work placement and a job for those the way in thought leadership, by highlighting innovation and superior customer service. who have been rescued from modern slavery the growing importance of Landscape Protection in the UK. products. In response to the need for better superbrands.uk.com marshalls.co.uk 24 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 25 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 “Achieving a positive relationship between counter-terrorism and the built environment will rest on our ability to find ways of bringing together those who design spaces with those who secure them and those who use them, to explore new urban forms which can deliver Product Innovation: UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT people-centred counter-terrorism.” Marshalls CounterCOMMUNICATION Terror Solutions ON PROGRESS 2013 Rachel Briggs The threat of terrorists targeting ‘security’ has become he justification effectively hiding in plain sight. crowded public places provides urban for measures that threaten the core planners and designers with a new and of urban social and political life from That’s a subtle, but vital observation: complex challenge. The need to create the physical barricading of space to that it’s really the people within safe spaces offers those responsible for the social barricading of democratic our urban landscapes that require their design and protection a difficult activity that rising levels of security protection, not merely the architecture compromise between maintaining in cities will reduce the public use of and the infrastructure. the open, liveable nature of the public public space”.* And we placed that at the heart of our realm and the necessity for security new approach to creating safer urban especially in those cities that have built And we’d agree: what societal purpose would a fortified public space serve if it spaces. global reputations on their aesthetic attraction. This dichotomy and our made the public feel more fearful and attempt to address the issue thus far less social? does raise a fundamental question As terrorists have re-thought their about how the inclusion of effective tactics, we considered it important to security will change the nature of the re-think the way in which cities protect urban spaces we share. themselves from the growing threat of In her study ‘Invisible Security: The vehicular attack. impact of counterterrorism on the * ‘Invisible Security: The impact of counterHow can security be more subtly built environment’ Rachel Briggs terrorism on the built environment’ integrated in the design of our public writes: “It has been argued that Rachel Briggs 2005 spaces? Unobtrusive, unthreatening 26 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 27 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Product Innovation: Surface Performance Technology SPT® covers all products that have something unique about them. • Engineered for performance Elements that provide a premium Surface, extraordinary Performance or • Distinctive colour options innovative Technology. • Premium textures • A wide variety of sizes • 20 year product guarantee available Our Commitment Marshalls is committed to providing high performance product solutions and uses exceptional expertise in hard landscaping to introduce advanced options. By choosing products with the SPT® stamp, you can have total confidence that you have chosen a high quality product. We have doubled the product guarantee on SPT® products up to 20 years for peace of mind. Product Innovation: Marshalls Renaissance Paving Designed to help promote longconstruction projects. WRAP has term economic and environmental been promoting and facilitating this Guide for product manufacturers benefits, Marshalls’ Renaissance Paving trend as one contribution to waste Calculating and declaring recycled content in construction products is a lightly textured paving solution reduction, reuse and recycling. The aim ‘Rules of Thumb’ guide created using 80% recycled content of the ‘Rules of Thumb’ guide is for the and non-virgin aggregates. calculation and declaration of recycled content in construction products. The product was developed according The guide has been developed for to the Waste & Resource Action WRAP by BRE in consultation with Programme (WRAP) ‘Rule of Thumb’ product manufacturers and their trade guidelines on recycled or recovered associations. materials in construction projects, making it an ideal choice if sustainable WRAP works in partnership to design is a consideration. Manufacture encourage and enable businesses of the paving makes efficient use and consumers to be more efficient of materials, reusing water resource in their use of materials and recycle sustainably. more things more often. This helps to minimise landfill, reduce Construction clients and planning carbon emissions and improve our authorities are increasingly setting environment. requirements to encourage greater http://www.wrap.org.uk/sites/files/wrap/ use of recovered materials within Rules_of_Thumb1.pdf 28 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 29 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Sustainable Development How Marshalls is Contributing to the Goals & How Marshalls is Sustainable Development Goals Contributing By being a UNGC signatory Marshalls is already contributing to the implementation of the SDGs. The UN Global Compact together with UN partners SDG8: Decent Work & Economic Growth – Focus on ILO Child Labour Platform hosts a number of global issue platforms many of which Marshalls is involved in; Engagement the CEO Water Mandate, the Women’s Empowerment Principles, Children’s Rights The Sustainable Development Goals are unique in that they call for action by all & Business Principles and Business for Peace. Marshalls continued active engagement countries, poor, rich and middle-income to promote prosperity while protecting the in the ILO Child Labour Platform regarding planet. They recognize that ending poverty must go hand-in-hand with strategies the ongoing issue of child labour in the that build economic growth and addresses a range of social needs including Indian sandstone sector and the root Living Wage, Elimination of Child Labour, Elimination and Prevention of cause of bonded labour. Since 2005 when education, health, social protection, and job opportunities, while tackling climate SDG1 Modern Slavery. our business engaged in shining a light change and environmental protection. Living Wage, Global Living Wage Alliance Benchmarking Engagement, ETI on these issues Marshalls has worked SDG2 tirelessly in various ways with a wide range Base Code Implementation. of actors – including IGOs, NGOs, state and local government – to get traction on SDG3 UK Employee Wellbeing Programme, Mind Charity of the Year Support. these issues which prevent decent work and economic growth. Marshalls has been Children’s Rights & Business Principles Top 10 Priorities Implementation, heavily involved in the ILO Child Labour SDG4 UN Women Women’s Empowerment Principles Engagement, Business in Platforms ongoing work in the area and the Community Business Class Engagement. remains absolutely committed. UN Women Women’s Empowerment Principles Engagement, Marshalls SDG5 Women ‘Step it Up’ Network. SDG 16: Focus on the Fair Tax Mark UN CEO Water Mandate, Priora Product Innovation, New Product Research SDG6 & Development Programme, Marshalls Operations Water Management The Fair Tax Mark is the label for good Programme. taxpayers. Wherever you see the Fair Tax Mark you can be sure that a company Marshalls use of solar power within its own business operations, product is open and transparent about its tax SDG7 innovation in embedding solar technology discretely into the fabric of affairs and seeks to pay the right amount structures and buildings. of corporation tax at the right time in the right place. It sets a new standards in Fair Tax Mark, Ethical & Sustainable Supplier Code of Conduct, Apprentice responsible tax practice. SDG8 Training Programme, Living Wage, UN Women Women’s Empowerment Principles Engagement. New Product Research & Development Programme, New Product SDG13: Climate Action – Focus on SDG9 Innovation such as; Solar Technology Embedded Products, Anti-Terrorist Science Based Targets Street Furniture, M-Live Technology Embedded Products. Marshalls commitment to the Science ETI Base Code Implementation, UN Women Women’s Empowerment Based Targets Initiative will ensure that Principles Engagement, Children’s Rights & Business Principles Top 10 we continue to innovate and play our SDG10 Priorities Implementation, Fair Tax Mark, Living Wage Accreditation, part to limit average global warming. Ethical & Sustainable Procurement Supplier Code of Conduct. Our engagement will enable us to set greenhouse gas emissions reduction Future Spaces Research, New Product Development, eg. M-Live, ETI Base SDG11 targets consistent with the most Code Implementation. ambitions aims of the Paris Agreement Ethical & Sustainable Procurement Supplier Code of Conduct, Fairstone, to limit average global warming to 1.5oC SDG12 by the end of the century comparted to Product Carbon Footprint, ETI Base Code Implementation. pre-industrial temperatures. Product Carbon Footprints, Marshalls Environmental KPIs, New Product SDG13 Research, Development & Innovation Programme. SDG 8: Focus on Modern Slavery Water quality improvement from permeable paving sub bases preventing SDG14 river pollution preventing sea pollution, ask Chris G Delivering against our Modern Slavery KPIs means that Marshalls is operating SDG15 FSC Policy, Product Innovation; Bioverse, Grassguard. beyond compliance on this fundamental issue. Our work extends to both our UK Fair Tax, Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy & Training, Modern Slavery Act SDG16 operations and overseas supply chains Implementation & Engagement. and involves active collaboration with Fairtax Accreditation, UNICEF Research, IPEC Engagement, UNGC, UN our peers and meaningful engagement SDG17 with UK and overseas governments. Women Women’s Empowerment Principles Engagement. 30 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 31 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 During 2018 Marshalls took part in BITC’s Forerunners Responsible Business Tracker process. Responsible Business Tracker®​Helping businesses to measure how responsible they are What is the Responsible Business Tracker®​? The Responsible Business Tracker®​is a measurement tool designed to enable a business to measure their performance as a responsible business. The Tracker is aligned with the Global Goals (the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals) that underpin the Business in the Community Responsible Business Map. The Tracker enables a business to navigate and contribute to the realisation of the goals by identifying the key issues that need to be addressed to ensure long-term financial value, enabling both society and the planet to thrive. Company Performance Assessments for Marshalls What areas of business does the Responsible Business Tracker®​cover? Strength 1 Marshalls demonstrates a strong approach to tackling modern slavery, well above compliance and audits. BITC was particularly impressed by the efforts to undertake undercover human The Tracker covers the whole responsible business agenda, aligns with the Global rights investigations in India and awareness raising activities in Vietnam, to prevent human Goals, caters for medium and large businesses in all sectors, and is suitable for both trafficking. listed and unlisted businesses. It offers not just a gap analysis but also benchmarking and recognition. Strength 2 Marshalls engages customers in environmental issues. Working with the Carbon Trust, the company undertook life cycle greenhouse gas emissions assessments of their products. The How often will the Responsible Business Tracker®​cycle run? online carbon calculator empowers customers to make purchasing decisions based on the The Tracker is a biennial tool. A biennial cycle enables organisations to focus and environmental impacts of goods and services. work on the feedback received from their Corporate Adviser in a timely fashion before embarking on the next cycle. Strength 3 Marshalls has a strategy for resource productivity and for healthy ecosystems (water, land management and biodiversity), underpinned by KPls and targets. Can my business participate in the Responsible Business Tracker®​? Business in the Community is now piloting the Responsible Business Tracker®​with 82 forerunner member companies from 26 sectors. Participating companies will trial the survey tool between September and December 2018. After completing the survey, they will receive practical tips and examples of good practice, as well as tailored advice and an action plan from a Business in the Community Corporate Adviser. The first public cycle will open in 2019. 32 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 33 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 End Modern Slavery: Time to Act My business experience over a lifetime has shown me that As UNGC signatories we subscribe to the view that there is no sharp line between the moral imperative and the businesses must take 5 steps to help eliminate slavery*; business one and sustainable business depends on a get commitment and resources; assess actual and sustainable world. Where modern slavery and child labour potential labour rights risks; identify corporate leverage, persist, decent work simply cannot exist. It undermines a responsibility and actions; remedy, mitigate and prevent sustainable future for all of us. harm to workers; and report, monitor, review and improve. I hope that you can see within this document that we’re Since our early human rights work in 2005 we know that working hard in all of these areas. forced labour, modern slavery and child labour are complex problems associated with poverty, governance failures Working to eradicate slavery and uphold human rights for and inequalities in the global labour market. Individual us is not about compliance or risk mitigation, but about businesses cannot simply go-it-alone to solve issues; we building strong and fair business strategies which help us know this from experience in trying to push out in our achieve our core mission of ‘Better Futures’, for everyone sector, shine a light on issues of child labour, and gain including our communities overseas and the victims and traction. Tackling these issues requires a massive survivors of modern slavery. international effort, involving governments, businesses, civil society organizations, trade unions and international For Marshalls, human rights is proving to be a platform for bodies. business innovation, galvanising collective action, moral fortitude, meaningful collaborations with new business All businesses everywhere, regardless of size or sector have partners and long term sustainability; making sure we’re a responsibility to respect human rights, as recognised by a company that young people want to work for, investors the UN Guiding Principles on Business & Human Rights. We want to invest in and governments want to partner with. believe this, we know this and we are working in a plethora of ways throughout our business operations and supply Martyn Coffey, Marshalls CEO chains to do all that we can, and more. * https://www.unglobalcompact.org/docs/publications/ Its_Time_To_Act.pdf 34 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 35 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 25M people are estimated to be in forced labour. According to the ILO, 16 million of these women and men work in the private economy.1 End Modern Slavery: Giving Workers Voice, Choice & Remedy Modern slavery, including forced labour and child One of the central pillars to all of our work to 152M children are estimated to be victims of child labour. Almost half of them — 73 million — are in hazardous work. $150BN labour, are more prevalent in some countries and uphold human rights and eradicate modern slavery economic sectors, but absolutely none are immune remains the implementation of the ETI Base Code(b) to these abuses. Our own modern slavery risk throughout our business operations and supply mapping and country profiling analysis(a) confirms chains worldwide. Through this work we seek estimated to be made per year in illegal that the risks exist everywhere but just to a greater to give workers a choice, a voice and access to profits from forced labour.2 or lesser extent based on various drivers, such remedy. Marshalls has just redefined its ETI Strategic as the rule of law, labour rights, gender equality, Plan 2018 – 2020 objectives. These have been government efforts to combat trafficking, the developed to support, strengthen and maximise protection of children from exploitation, access to our existing business & human rights programme 77% banking, and education, health and standards of and the commitments made in our Modern living. Slavery Statement(c). They honour our continued commitment to ETI Base Code implementation, The statistics look daunting; 25M people estimated take inspiration from the ETI’s Human Rights to be in forced labour, 152M children estimated Due Diligence Framework, and will ultimately of companies believe there is a high to be victims of child labour – 73M of these in further embed and integrate ethical trade into our likelihood of modern slavery occurring hazardous work, $150BN estimated to be made business activities and decision making, and seek in their supply chains, according to in illegal profits from forced labour. Add to this to improve conditions for workers, their family one survey.3 the 77% of companies who believe there is a and communities. It will also enable us to further high likelihood of modern slavery occurring in identify risks in relation to modern slavery and to their supply chain and you have a challenge of develop existing and new ways in which we can gargantuan proportions. It can be bewildering for address both remediation and offer additional businesses and difficult to know where appropriate support to vulnerable individuals and to start. the communities most affected. Chris Harrop OBE, Group Marketing and Sustainability Director, Marshalls plc (a) Marshalls Country Profiling: Modern Slavery Risk https://www.marshalls.co.uk/documents/presentations/modern%20 1 Global Estimates of Modern Slavery: Forced Laour and Forced Marriage, Alliance 8.7, 2017 slavery%20country%20profiling%202018.pdf 2 Profits and Poverty: The Economics of Forced Labour, ILO, 2014 (b) ETI Base Code: https://ethicaltrade.org/sites/default/files/shared_resources/base_code_poster_1_english.pdf 3 Corporate Leadership on Modern Slavery, The Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) and Hult International Business School, 2016 (c) Marshalls 2018 Modern Slavery Statement: https://www.marshalls.co.uk/documents/policies/modern-slavery-and-antihuman-trafficking-policy.pdf 36 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 37 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 End Modern Slavery: Disrupt and Dismantle Business has a stark choice. It can act with I have heard reference in the last 12 months to the immediacy to disrupt and dismantle the criminal ‘corporate witness’ who pretty much knows modern organisation exploiting and abusing vulnerable slavery is in its operations and supply chains but individuals – men, women and children whether thinks that if it doesn’t know for sure that it can’t be in forced labour, domestic servitude, being held accountable; the ‘corporate perpetrator’ who sexually exploited or a combination of these and actively reaps the benefits from modern day slaves more besides – or it can stand by and see its own having decided that they will deal with ‘issues’ as operations and existing commercial landscape they occur in fire-fighting mode; and finally the disrupted and dismantled before its eyes by ‘corporate victim’, the organisation that is doing criminals whose ingenuity, adaptability, disregard its utmost to combat modern slavery but is still, and cruelty knows no bounds. They do not have despite its best efforts, infiltrated by modern slavery. to get ‘sign off’ from boards, develop complex I know for sure into which camp Marshalls falls. strategies or sit in endless meetings before making the most of opportunities. They simply take them The extent of modern slavery in the UK shows little and in the process disrupt and dismantle your sign of stopping or slowing, but why would it when operations. it is so attractive to traffickers to exploit people here. Although modern slavery is considered to be more According to a very recent report by the Chartered prevalent in poorer nations, advanced economies Institute of Building, Construction & the Modern provide lucrative incentives for traffickers. In Africa, Slavery Act: Tackling Exploitation in the UK*, many the ILO estimates that a trafficked person may within the construction sector have done little or generate US$3,900 in profits. In the Asia Pacific nothing in response to the Modern Slavery Act. I region, the annual profit per victim is $5,000. But in honestly have to wonder why. Many bemoan the wealthier nations such as the UK, each victim could short comings of the Act saying it doesn’t have generate $34,800 a year.* It remains lucrative and teeth. We’ll have to wait and see. But why wait prevalent and will do so until many, including the for the Act to bear its teeth? Why not just do the private sector act. right thing? For us the Modern Slavery Act has proved a massively powerful platform and driver So, the construction sector, and business at large, for engaging and empowering people throughout must choose. Disrupt and dismantle, or take a seat our business operations, for starting new and and watch your business operations be disrupted challenging conversations with our suppliers, and dismantled. helping us to identify a new and fresh range of partners with which to collaborate, providing the Elaine Mitchel-Hill, Business & Human Rights push to have difficult conversations about complex Lead, Marshalls plc issues with key stakeholders, and also to improve further our own business thinking in response. It has added huge value to our business & human rights programme and in terms of added value it has also delivered commercial advantage. * CIOB Construction & the Modern Slavery Act: Tackling Exploitation in the UK https://www.ciob.org/sites/default/files/CIOB%20Report%20on%20UK%20Construction%20and%20the%20Modern%20 Slavery%20Act_0.pdf 38 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 39 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 KEY GLAA: Gangmasters Labour Abuse Authority MS: Modern Slavery ABC: Anti-Bribery & Corruption BRE: British Research Establishment BHRL: Business & Human Rights Lead ELS: Ethical Labour Standard CLP: Child Labour Platform UNGC: United Nations Global Compact WYATN: West Yorkshire Anti-Trafficking Network May 2016 1st MSA Statement published. End Modern Slavery: Connects with local Crime Commissioner & local law Implementation Timeline enforcement. November 2016 October 2016 September 2016 August 2016 July 2016 June 2016 BRE ELS 6002 audit takes place. Developed pilot education Face-to-face meeting with key Joined UNGC UK Modern Development of internal Launch of MS internal awareness MS risk mapping and awareness programme with our temporary customers to share approach to Slavery Working Group. protocols regarding MS in UK campaign. raising supply chain overseas labour provider; delivered Jan/ MS and discuss collaborations. business operations. Internal field visits. Co-host Indian Mch/Jn 2017. online MS training launched. Sandstone Stewardship event, Delhi, India. December 2016 January 2017 February 2017 March 2017 April 2017 May 2017 Development of M-Way Global partnership with Hope for Appointment of Business & Ethical auditing & modern Development of supply chain 2nd MSA Statement Published. Supplier/Employee Code of Justice announced. Field visits to Human Rights Intern. GLAA slavery risk assessment visit to modern slavery risk mapping M-Way Supplier Code of Conduct Conduct. Vietnam; meetings with British training at Derby University India with anti-slavery partner process. M-Way Employees published externally. Launch of Embassy & NGO’s. Intensive for Business & Human Rights and independent auditor. Code of Conduct published Marshalls independent IT platform; training for procurement team. Lead; Investigating Modern Invited to join the West Yorkshire internally. MS and ABC training for all Training and appointment of Slavery. Marshalls becomes first Anti-Trafficking & Modern suppliers. 1st MS Ambassador. Training organisation worldwide to be Slavery Network. Development and appointment of 2nd MS BRE Ethical Labour Standard of Business & Human Rights Ambassador. MS Ambassador 6002 Accredited. Yammer Platform internally. delivers MS training to Marshalls Registered Installers. November 2017 October 2017 September 2017 August 2017 July 2017 June 2017 BHRL & anti-slavery partner Marshalls one of first to commit WYATN quarterly meeting. 3rd Filming with Supply Chain Publication of Marshalls first MS Publication of Marshalls first End visit to Vietnam supply chain to GLAA Construction Industry MSA Ambassador Appointed: School to share ethical & MS Risk Mapping Country Profiling. Modern Slavery Report. & meetings with multiProtocol. IPEC CPL meeting Commercial. journey. Launch of Ethical Risk Index. stakeholders. Shortlisted for Geneva. Thomson Reuters Foundation Stop Slavery Award. December 2017 January 2018 February 2018 March 2018 April 2018 May 2018 BHRL & anti-slavery partner Belgian business operations Marshalls achieves BRE ILO IPEC Child Labour Platform Development of Power of Changing the Narrative for Ethical visit to Indian supply chain briefed on MS by BHR Lead & Ethical Labour Standard 6002 meeting in Paris; development Logistics initiative. ETI Strategic Specification Event with Baroness & meeting with multiGroup Procurement Director. Accreditation for the second year of collaborative initiative with Report Objectives 2018 – 2020 Young. 3rd MSA Statement Published. stakeholders. Presentation with anti-slavery running. global brands. confirmed. 4th & 5th MSA Ambassador: HR partner to UNGC MS Working & Logistics Appointed. Marshalls Group to share progress & becomes Bright Future Business challenges. Partner. MS risk mapping undertaken and shared transparently. 40 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 41 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 End Modern Slavery: Focus on the UK Undercover Human Rights Observations & Investigations Activity For the past 6 months Marshalls has been working with its anti-slavery partner Hope for Justice and the NGO’s network of contacts in India to undertake detailed undercover human rights observations and investigations. Only two people within Marshalls knew of this activity which has allowed it to be carried out completely undercover. This activity focused upon both Marshalls’ own supply chain and the wider sector in both Kota and the surrounding quarrying areas. The findings and recommendation from this report will be forthcoming in the autumn and will inform Marshalls’ programme of activity in India moving forward. Chris Harrop, Group Marketing Director, says, “It’s important to be smart and utilise a wide range of approaches to monitor both supply chain activity and to understand the detail of the entire sector more broadly. Whilst ethical audits, human rights impact assessments, modern slavery risk assessments & walking the supply chain regularly all form part of our monitoring activity, this undercover human rights observation and investigation brings another important dimension to our understanding.” Business & Human Rights Lead, Elaine Mitchel-Hill, added, “Our planned modern slavery training programme for our suppliers in India is of key importance in terms of grass roots activity. This will be complemented at a strategic level by our engagement in an initiative by ILO IPEC Child Labour Platform, together with a number of global brands, to drive change more widely in terms of modern slavery. It’s important for us to be working at all levels to play our part in driving the necessary change.” End Modern Slavery: Focus on India * CIOB Construction & the Modern Slavery Act: Tackling Exploitation in the UK https://www.ciob.org/sites/default/files/CIOB%20Report%20on%20UK%20Construction%20and%20 the%20Modern%20Slavery%20Act_0.pdf Changing the Narrative for Ethical Specification in Construction Mike Plaster is Commercial Product Manager at Marshalls. He is also one of Marshalls strategically recruited Modern Slavery Ambassadors: Commercial. It was Mike, together with Abigale Brown, Marketing Manager: Minerals Products, who developed and facilitated an important event together with ‘Future Constructor & Architect Magazine’ to kick-start a new conversation in the construction sector. Mike says, “The driver was to raise key questions which aren’t yet being asked in relation to modern slavery and the specifying and procuring of construction materials. We aimed to start a wider discussion about the future of ethical specification and procurement in construction and to engage specifiers, architects, procurement specialists and others to better understand their own impact on modern slavery within the sector, and their influence and responsibility.” The UK construction sector displays a raft of highly undesirable factors which increase the risk of exploitation of people throughout supply chains; both in the UK and overseas. With major contractor profit margins below 1%, SME’s making up 99% of the industry, multiple tiers where money is withheld at each level, low cost tendering, late payment and abuse of retentions, the highest insolvency rates of any industry and ethical players priced out of the market*, this is the backdrop against which todays construction specifiers and procurement specialists make their decisions. So, the question was posed, how do you weigh and measure all of the information that you have before making your decisions? Decisions which reverberate throughout the full length of the sectors supply chains. 42 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 43 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Meanwhile, Hope for Justice, has continued its drive to make the necessary connection in order to be given the license to operate in Vietnam. This will allow Marshalls to develop in conjunction with Hope for Justice a restoration and remediation programme for any victims of forced labour, modern slavery and human trafficking identified as a result of the programme. Neil Wain, International Programme Director, commented, “It’s absolutely right that we develop an appropriate and high quality remediation pathway for any victims identified either during the multi-stakeholder programme or the community outreach work. Marshalls’ victim-focused approach has meant that both the programmes and remediation & support for victims has had to be developed simultaneously. This is most definitely the right approach as this is not just about mitigating risk, but about restoring lives and communities.” “With a growing labour force and expanding export-oriented economy, Viet Nam is experiencing increasing rates of labour mobility from rural to urban centres, to industrial centres and abroad. Migrant workers always strive for better futures but also remain a group that is highly vulnerable to modern slavery. Addressing the roots causes of modern slavery for migrant workers and other vulnerable groups can be very challenging for a single actor. IOM, the UN migration agency, therefore places strong emphasis on bringing the right actors together and working in close partnerships to tackle this issue. “It is clear to IOM, that businesses have emerged as a key driver for the elimination of modern slavery. Once genuinely committed, business has the ability of creating sustainable solutions within their own operations and supply chains, but can also show leadership to inspire other stakeholders to take similar action. Marshalls initiative in Vietnam involving communities, End Modern Slavery: government, local organizations, and international partners to counter human trafficking risks in rural communities can form such an example. We believe Focus on Vietnam that IOM’s Corporate Responsibility in Eliminating Slavery and Trafficking (CREST) Programme aligns well with Marshalls objectives and we stand ready to provide our close support to this important initiative.” Rural Community Awareness Raising programme: Preventing Human David Knight, Chief of Mission for Viet Nam Regional Coordinator for Vietnam, Trafficking Cambodia and Lao PDR Business & Human Rights Lead, Elaine Mitchel-Hill, says, “Work has continued by our anti-slavery partner, Hope for Justice, on the delivery of preventative human trafficking and modern slavery information to communities in Vietnam. There are a number of strong drivers for us to do this. Firstly and quite simply preventing the exploitation, abuse and heart ache of vulnerable individuals who are very often coerced into thinking they are leaving Vietnam for a better life in the UK. We are also working in support of the Anti-Slavery Commissioners Office * to stem the flow of those trafficked to the UK from Vietnam through preventative measures. This kind of community engagement also helps us to manage medium term risks for our business – should people be trafficked out of the rural areas where stone is quarried, this leaves a vacuum into which others could potential be trafficked thereby increasing the likelihood of victims of trafficking and forced labour being in supply chains. We will look to extend this activity into 2019.” Multi-Stakeholder Collaboration Marshalls has continued its dialogue with a range of stakeholders in Vietnam including the British Embassy, Vietnamese Chamber of Commerce & Industry and the International Office for Migration Vietnam with a view to beginning a multi-stakeholder collaboration in the second half of 2018. This programme will seek to engage Marshalls’ suppliers in Vietnam in a pilot programme addressing modern slavery through the lens of forced labour. Once trialled and tested the programme can then be rolled out to the wider stone sector. * CIOB Construction & the Modern Slavery Act: Tackling Exploitation in the UK https://www.ciob.org/sites/default/files/CIOB%20Report%20on%20UK%20Construction%20and%20the%20Modern%20 Slavery%20Act_0.pdf 44 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 45 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 End Modern Slavery: The Power of Logistics Building on the success of the creating awareness and understanding of modern slavery with Marshalls Installer Register, a UK-wide register of Marshalls certified patio and drive way installers, the organisation is nearing the point where it will launch a UK-wide modern slavery initiative driven by its logistics team and newly appointed Modern Slavery Ambassador: Logistics. The programme will build upon the modern slavery training of the 20+ logistics team managers, and their direct reports. Paul Battison, Head of Fleet and Logistics, says, “We will soon have an entire army of logistics personnel across the country who know how to spot the signs of modern slavery and how to report it safely. They will be powerful eyes and ears not only in our own business operations but also when making deliveries to merchants and construction sites across the UK.” Dave Jessop, Marshalls Register Manager & Modern Slavery Ambassador: Installer, commented, “Empowering our logistics operation to engage in the fight against modern slavery is absolutely the right thing to do. We have been able to pass on 6 pieces of intelligence to local law enforcement, the GLAA and our anti-slavery partner as a result of raising awareness with our installers. I can say with certainty that once people know what to look for and what to do it’s a very clear and unequivocal choice for them.” 46 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 47 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 End Modern Slavery: Bright Future – Offering Employment to Survivors of Modern Slavery. As this report goes to publication, Marshalls Paul Gerrard, Policy and Campaigns Director at has announced its engagement with the Cothe Co-op says, “Marshalls has set the standard in op’s Bright Future programme which offers the so many ways about what a responsible business opportunity of a paid work placement and a job should do when it comes to addressing slavery. for those who have been rescued from modern The Co-op are, therefore, delighted that Marshalls slavery in the UK. Marshalls is the first in the have chosen to commit to being a Bright construction sector to join Bright Future and is Future Business Partner and offer employment announcing its support and becoming a Bright opportunities to victims of modern slavery Future Business Partner. through the National Matching System. We’re looking forward to working with them to change The Co-op launched this job creation programme the lives of some of the most vulnerable in our in April 2017 which was developed in partnership society” with anti-slavery charity City Hearts. Bright Future is a new approach, and is a UK first in terms of Elaine Mitchel-Hill, Business & Human Rights Lead major businesses offering work placements to at Marshalls says, “Survivors of modern slavery survivors of modern slavery. have been through terrible ordeals and we want to make sure that as a business we can assist With the support of City Hearts, a northern-based them in a positive way. With 50+ sites across charity dedicated to supporting modern slavery the UK Marshalls is in a great position to assist. victims, the Co-op is creating a national matching Bright Future makes sense for the survivor, for system that will enable other companies to work communities and for our business.” with other local charities to create jobs for victims of modern slavery and human trafficking. As a Bright Future Business Partners, Marshalls will provide survivors with a four-week paid work placement leading to a non-competitive interview. If this is successful and there is a position available, the candidate will be offered a job within the business. 48 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 49 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 End Modern Slavery: Modern Slavery Ambassador Profiles Dave Jessop  Raising and maintaining awareness of modern slavery with Marshalls UK-wide approved installers Marshalls Register Manager register. Modern Slavery Ambassador: Installers  Liaising with Marshalls’ anti-slavery partner/local law enforcement regarding intelligence provided.  Delivering training sessions from a private sector perspective for West Yorkshire Police force on End Modern Slavery: Business & Modern Slavery Act Implementation. Karen Preiss  Working with Marshalls’ temporary labour provider Committing to the GLAA Construction Protocol on modern slavery training programme. Category Manager Indirect Purchases  Keeping the procurement team updated regarding Modern Slavery Ambassador: developments in terms of modern slavery and Procurement sustainable procurement. Marshalls became a signatory of the GLAA Dr Shamir Ghumra, Director for the Centre for Construction Protocol in October 2017. This Sustainable Products, BRE, and co-chair of the Protocol is a commitment to work in partnership Modern Slavery in Construction Coalition, said: to protect vulnerable and exploited workers, “We welcome the GLAA protocol which we hope Mike Plaster  Raising awareness of modern slavery with agreement to the sharing of information to help will ultimately work towards the eradication in our specifiers, contractors, architects and others in the stop or prevent exploitation and a pledge to raise industry of this most heinous of crimes.” Commercial Product Manager UK construction sector. awareness of slavery through supply chains within Modern Slavery Ambassador: Marshalls, and other signatories, have all agreed Commercial the construction sector. to raise awareness within supply chains to help Martyn Coffey, Marshalls CEO, commented, to prevent and protect workers from exploitation “We are working hard and smart to make sure or abuse and take necessary steps to ensure that that Marshalls’ business operations and supply exploitation and abuse of workers is recognised Kirsty Simpson  Keeping HR colleagues informed and updated on chains worldwide are as toxic as possible to the and addressed with appropriate safeguards put modern slavery trends, data and issues. organised criminals who seek to exploit vulnerable in place to ensure that exploitative practice is not Group Human Resources Advisor  Facilitating Marshalls’ engagement in Bright Future individuals and corporations. I welcome the GLAA repeated. Modern Slavery Ambassador: Human job placement initiative for victims of modern Construction Protocol and its call for industry Resources slavery. collaboration.” Paul Broadbent, chief executive of the GLAA, What We Have Agre at the time said: “There are huge profits to be ed Paul Battison  Facilitating the training of the logistics team within made for those unscrupulous enough to exploit Marshalls UK operations. people and trade them as commodities. The 1. All parties will, where help stop or prevent possible, share inform ation that will Head of Logistics  Facilitating the delivery of the ‘Power of Logistics’ the exploitation or signing of this protocol is a significant moment 2. All information will and in accordance be treated sensitively abuse of workers. and Modern Slavery Ambassador: Logistics modern slavery programme. with legislation. appropriately in our commitment to eradicate modern slavery 3. Suppliers and contr actors suppliers to make availa will encourage their respective and labour exploitation in the UK. It sends out which may indicate ble to the GLAA any that labour exploitation information has occurred. 4. The GLAA will provid a message that legitimate businesses are not contractors when conta e appropriate advic cted. e to suppliers and 5. The GLAA recog prepared to sit back and allow themselves to be nises and respects relationships betwe providers and looks en contractors, suppl the contractual iers to the contracting partie and labour infiltrated those who abuse and exploit vulnerable James Eastwood their arrangements  Raising awareness of modern slavery issues with prom s to ensure that employment law, such ote compliance with UK that GLAA enforceme contractual enforceme nt and nt are in step. workers. The GLAA is the enemy of illegitimate 6. All parties will work supply chain to help together to raise aware ness within the colleagues at the sharp end. to prevent and prote working practices and criminality, and a friend exploitation or abuse 7. All parties agree . ct workers from Marshalls, Driver  Keeping logistics colleagues informed and updated to take the necessary to legitimate businesses targeted by those who exploitation and abuse safeguards put in place of steps to ensure that operation is recognised workers identified by a GLAA and addressed with the appropriate on Marshalls Power of Logistics initiative. commit exploitation.” to ensure that explo is not repeated. 8. All parties will work itative practice  Practical delivery of Power of Logistics initiative. together to promote achievements of the the benefits and Proto at the appropriate times col through external engagement . 9. All parties will communicate on a interests of an effect regular basis in the ive Protocol agreement. Ryan Darcy  Raising awareness of modern slavery issues with colleagues at the sharp end. 10 Marshalls, Driver  Keeping logistics colleagues informed and updated on Marshalls Power of Logistics initiative.  Practical delivery of Power of Logistics initiative. 50 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 51 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 United Kingdom 0 (Low Scoring): 1 (High Scoring) Access to Banking 1.00 0.80 Rule of Law and Education, Health, and Resilience to Corruption 0.60 Standard of Living 0.40 0.20 0.00 Protection of Children Labour Rights Modern Slavery Risk Mapping & from Exploitation Country Profiling Government Efforts to combat Human Trafficing Gender Equality We’ve undertaken, and published online, extensive modern slavery risk mapping for all of our existing sourcing countries. This process is also part of our due diligence when we consider new suppliers and sourcing countries. We analyse this modern Vietnam UK slavery risk mapping information alongside our internal data; we 00 (Low Scoring): 1 (High Scoring) have developed a comprehensive commodities risk index which (Lower Risk):1 (Higher Risk) included goods for resales, indirect goods & raw materials. This 0.19 enables us to clearly identify areas of risk and set clear priorities. Access to Banking 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 1.00 0.80 Rule of Law and Education, Health, and https://www.marshalls.co.uk/documents/reports/ Resilience to Corruption 0.60 Standard of Living modern-slavery-country-profiling-2018.pdf 0.40 0.20 0.00 Protection of Children Labour Rights from Exploitation Government Efforts to combat Countries Above 0.4 Risk Rating Human Trafficing Gender Equality Access to Banking Turkey Rule of Law and Education, Health, and Brazil India Vietnam Resilience to Corruption Standard of Living 00 (Low (Lower Scoring): Risk):1 (Higher Scoring) 1 (High Risk) China 0.5 India 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 Access 0.4 to0.5Banking 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 Protection of Children 1.00 Labour Rights Vietnam from Exploitation 0.80 Rule of Law and Education, Health, and Egypt Resilience to Corruption 0.60 Standard of Living Government Efforts 0.40 to combat Pakistan 0.20 Human Trafficing Gender Equality 0.00 Protection of Children Labour Rights from Exploitation Government Efforts to combat Human Trafficing Gender Equality 52 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 53 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Human Rights Marshalls’ Human Rights Policy Marshalls supports human rights consistent with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In conducting its business activities across the globe Marshalls respects these rights Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & and seeks to uphold, preserve and promote them. Initiatives Results Sharing Best 87% Practice Marshalls works diligently in all respects to support and uphold the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The organisation has a dedicated human rights programme including; human rights due diligence procurement process, ongoing human rights impact assessments, country specific human rights monitoring, social auditing, Reviewing Feedback Delivering Best independent supply chain auditing, employee and supplier training programme, internal & Developing Our Legal Compliance Approach Practice human rights awareness programme, Children’s Rights and Business Principles auditing, Women’s Empowerment Principles implementation and human rights monitoring and reporting. Marshalls is committed to working to eliminate modern slavery and makes an annual Modern Slavery & Human Trafficking Disclosure Statement as required by law. “All businesses everywhere, regardless of size or sector have a responsibility to As part of this process our Human Rights Policy is reviewed on an annual basis. respect human rights, as recognised by the UN Guiding Principles on Business & Human Rights. We believe this, we know this and we are working in a plethora of Marshalls works to ensure that its presence cultivates fair and sustainable relationships. ways throughout our business operations and supply chains to do all that we can, Marshalls respects and values the dignity, well being and rights of employees, their families and more.” and the wider community. The Company actively works and collaborates with employees, elected employee representatives, communities, non-governmental and other appropriate Martyn Coffey, CEO Marshalls. stakeholders to uphold and promote these rights. Where human rights are under threat Marshalls works to uphold local laws, promote international standards and strives to have international standards upheld by the appropriate Governments, Institutions and Agencies. In order to deliver on our mission of ‘creating better spaces’ we are empowered from a human rights perspective to seek out where we might be unintentionally doing harm and to work hard to put this right, but also to go beyond and to look at how by doing better we can create a net positive impact; so, not Marshalls embraces opportunities to promote a broader understanding of human rights just mitigate and remediate, but aim to make a positive contribution. While this aspirational goal is very values working within its sphere of influence. much work in progress it guides and shapes our approach to modern slavery demanding that we drive for creative and collaborative solutions. Different solutions call for different thinking & different action and this Marshalls actively seeks to collaborate with appropriate organisations to promote respect can be uncomfortable and create turbulence; a necessary by-product of change. for human rights in a manner which is consistent with the role of business. Our focus for the next twelve months will very much be on looking at our high risk supply chains overseas January 2017 and working with our anti-slavery partner, procurement and human resources teams, and others, to ensure that where we find slavery we are well placed to offer support and remediation to victims which is above all appropriate for the situation, but which also seeks to be part of any longer term solution. Here in the UK, we aim to increase preventative and educational work in collaboration with the UN, Hope for “Marshalls has a strong and innovative human rights programme. Justice, law enforcement agencies, local anti-slavery networks, customers, suppliers, employees, Modern Doing the right thing is part of the DNA of this organisation. Our Slavery Ambassadors and partners. We will continue to draw on data from within our operations to help public commitment to UNGC principles make our choices very drill down further, alongside the country risk mapping that we have undertaken. clear to us. Our entire team is engaged and motivated. They know human rights are everyone’s business.” Elaine Mitchel-Hill, Marshalls Business & Human Rights Lead. 54 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 55 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Fairstone Principles IPEC We know through our comprehensive auditing and risk mapping processes that we face different Marshalls remains an active member of IPEC ILO Child Labour Platform and as challenges in different countries. Our country profiling allows us to put emphasis in the right place, such continues its efforts to eradicate child labour in the sandstone sector in India. engage with our supply chains on a journey of continuous improvement and to engage with our The CLP’s aims are to identify the obstacles to the implementation of the ILO own and other governments to push for greater change when our own leverage just isn’t enough. Conventions in supply chains and surrounding communities, identify practical ways These Fairstone Principles are part of how we do business and help to ensure that workers, their of overcoming these obstacles, and catalyse collective action. rights, family and community remain at the heart of our supply chain endeavours. Marshalls is currently engaged in IPEC CLP multi-stakeholder programme in India, together with other big global brands from different sectors who source heavily from the country, and will be able to report back on this later in 2018/19. Chris Harrop said “In addition we are undertaking our third Children’s Rights & Business Principles framework audit to re-assess the impact of our business and supply chain Marshalls Fairstone operations on children and to assess this in relation to modern slavery.” Principles Children’s Rights & Business Principles During 2019 we will complete our third Children’s Rights and Business Principles Audit. This Marshalls had been shining a light on ethical issues, including labour rights, workers health & will allows us to refresh our top 10 CRBP priorities and to plan our work in this area accordingly. safety and children’s rights, since 2005. We were the first to bring our India Fairstone product to We are also ensuring that the links between other programmes already underway with the ILO market in 2009 where we worked hard to drive improvements not only in our supply chain but Child Labour Platform and the IOM Vietnam Programme are feeding into this process. across the sandstone sector as a whole. Since then we’ve found that the principles upon which Fairstone was founded are sound, more relevant that ever and apply to all of our natural stone supply chains. We’ve therefore developed Marshalls Fairstone Principles which we apply across all of our natural stone supply chains. We know through our comprehensive auditing and risk mapping processes that we face different challenges in different countries. Our country profiling allows us to put emphasis in the right place, engage with our supply chains on a journey of continuous improvement and to engage with our own and other governments to push for greater change when our own leverage just isn’t enough. These Fairstone Principles are part of how we do business and help to ensure that workers, their rights, family and community remain at the heart of our supply chain endeavours. Implementation of Implementation of the ETI Base Code Modern Slavery We work to uphold the Commitments ETI Base Code in all of its forms. We work to deliver on the promises we make within our Modern Slavery Statement. Rigorous Human Rights Children’s Rights & Due Diligence Business Principles We put children and families at We are thorough in our human rights the heart of our brand and our due diligence and make good business business; wherever they are decisions based on this. in the world. 56 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 57 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Human Rights: Targets ACHIEVEMENTS 2018 TARGETS 2019 Work to deliver the new 2020 ETI strategy Work to deliver the new 2020 ETI strategy thereby upholding the ETI Basecode thereby upholding the ETI Basecode throughout our operations throughout our operations Further improve and develop the reporting Further improve and develop the reporting process for social auditors and any associated process for social auditors and any associated corrective action plans. corrective action plans. Further develop our human rights Further develop our human rights monitoring and evaluation programme in monitoring and evaluation programme in conjunction with our anti-slavery partner, conjunction with our anti-slavery partner, Hope for Justice. Hope for Justice. Devlopment of our ethical auditing and Devlopment of our ethical auditing and Modern Slavery Risk Assessment processes Modern Slavery Risk Assessment processes and procedures and procedures Further work on the process of embedding Further work on the process of embedding human rights within the organisation; human rights within the organisation; working closely with human resources working closely with human resources and procurement teams; modern slavery and procurement teams; modern slavery ambassadors and delivering the appropriate ambassadors and delivering the appropriate internal training regarding human rights & internal training regarding human rights & business, especially in relation to modern business, especially in relation to modern slavery. slavery. Complete our CRBP Audit and revise as appropriate our CRBP top ten priorities Complete our CRBP Audit and revise as Continue to implement our CRBP top 10 appropriate our CRBP top ten priorities priorities. Continue to implement our CRBP top 10 Deliver our fourth Modern Slavery Act priorities. Disclosure Statement and continue to work with ‘critical friends’ to further develop our Deliver our third Modern Slavery Act KPIs. Disclosure Statement and continue to work with ‘critical friends’ to further develop our Delivery of the IOM Vietnam programme KPIs. 58 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 59 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 There are four objectives which Marshalls will seek to deliver between 2018 and 2020: Labour ONE TWO Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Develop and embed internal processes Collaborate with suppliers, agents, ILO, Practice 76% and procedures which allow Marshalls to IPEC, anti-slavery partners, the Anti-Slavery effectively assess actual and potential human Commissioners Office, governments and rights risks and the effectiveness of ETI other actors to identify, prevent and mitigate Base Code implementation in its business human rights abuses in Marshalls own Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best operations and global supply chain. business operations and supply chains, and in Legal Compliance Approach Practice the wider construction sector. Marshalls’ ETI Strategic Plan 2018 – 2020 now firmly sits within the broader context of the organisations’ commitments as a UNGC signatory and within the businesses overall THREE FOUR marketing strategy. As such our new ETI strategic commitments and the progress made each year will be documented here within Marshalls annual UNGC Communication of Develop and implement a forced labour/ Develop and implement human rights Progress Report. In addition we will also report back to the ETI via the online strategic modern slavery identification and monitoring, reviewing and reporting reporting platform. remediation processes in Marshalls UK processes; report transparently on all efforts business operations, and in supply chains in to respects human rights and prevent forced Objectives have been developed to support, strengthen and maximise Marshalls existing India, Vietnam & Europe. labour/modern slavery and utilise to inform business decision making, due diligence business & human rights programme and the commitments made in the organisations processes and improve conditions for Modern Slavery Disclosure Statement. They honour Marshalls’ commitment to ETI Base workers. Code implementation, take inspiration from the ETI’s Human Rights Due Diligence Framework, and will ultimately further embed and integrate ethical trade into business activities and decision making, and seek to improve conditions for workers, their families and communities. Human Rights Due Diligence Framework Human rights due diligence is the action taken by a company to both identify and Human Rights Due Diligence Framework act upon actual and potential risks for workers in its operations, supply chains and Implementing the the services it uses. WORKERS AT GREATEST RISK ETI BASE CODE OF HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES ETI Base Code Moving forward Marshalls will use the ETI’s approach to human rights due diligence Human rights due diligence Implementing the ETI Base Code across all of our global supply The ETI Base Code covers the major areas of human rights risk which is based on multi-stakeholder engagement and processes that include: must include a focus on the most vulnerable workers, these include: chain operations is managed and overseen by our Head of for workers in global supply chains: • Assessment of actual and potential human rights risks Sustainability, David Morrell and Natural Stone Director, Rory CHILDREN WOMEN MIGR ANT Kendrick. Working closely with our in-country social auditors, • Mitigation of risk and remediation for workers impacted by human rights WORKERS INTERNAL AND our independent auditors, Business & Human Rights Lead, Employment is freely chosen* Freedom of association and the right to collective Working conditions violations CROSS BORDER Elaine Mitchel-Hill and our Head of Procurement, Richard Beale, are safe and hygienic bargaining are respected* • Identification of corporate leverage and responsibility, decision-making and the organisation works hard to ensure that customer demands SEASONAL CONTRACT do not impact negatively upon workers. actions needed WORKERS SUCH AS AND Child labour shall not be used* Living wages are paid Working hours are AGRICULTURAL AGENCY not excessive* • Monitoring, review, reporting and continuous improvement WORKERS WORKERS MARGINALISED ETI’s experience has demonstrated that this is the most effective form of due GROUPS DOMESTIC WORKERS SUBJECT TO No discrimination is practised* Regular employment is provided No harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed diligence and the most likely way to bring about lasting change. DISCRIMINATORY LAWS AND TREATMENT *Internationally agreed core human rights. All UN member states, whether have ratified the relevant ILO conventions, or not they are obliged to meet these labour standards. See also Annex 3: Sector-specific risks. 6 See also Annex 3: Sector-specific risks. 7 60 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 61 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Human Rights Due Diligence Framework Human Rights Due Diligence Framework ETI HUMAN RIGHTS DUE Key steps that companies should take to prevent, manage and mitigate human rights abuses in DILIGENCE FRAMEWORK their own operations and supply chains. • Review country risks • Review HR systems, • Assess scale and scope of • Review supplier capacity * https://www.ethicaltrade.org/resources/ corporate responsibility, to manage labour risks • Map supply chains and services and prioritise contracting and recruitment including direct and • Review policies and human-rights-due-diligence-framework • Assess workers’ ability indirect labour rights procedures to enable • Identify risks to workers to access rights to impacts workers to access their by sector, nature of work, type of freedom of association • Assess leverage with right to organise and worker, employment and collective bargaining suppliers, agents and bargain collectively relationships and labour market dynamics • Rank risks by severity and degree of 01. 02. contractors • Review sourcing • Identify opportunities for collaborative action • Identify direct and indirect causes and responsibility • Analyse the data, Assess actual Identify strategies and purchasing practices • Review corporate decision-making and impacts identify next actions and process and potential leverage, • Establish benchmarks and rules for monitoring accountability, policies and systems human responsibility improvements or termination with to manage risks rights risks and actions suppliers • Track mitigation and • Analyse evidence, learn • Take immediate steps to • Provide training and remediation actions • Review decisionlessons, prioritise next actions and long-term 04. 03. mitigate human rights abuses capacity building on worker-management making, responsibility and accountability prevention • Communicate internally Monitor, Mitigate • Provide remediation for workers (avoiding further communication and negotiation (especially at senior levels) and with business partners on human review, risk and harm) • Identify and act on • Engage / collaborate with others (eg other • Review information sources and systems rights due diligence • Report publicly on steps report and remediate changes to working practices companies, trades unions, government – ensure evidence is taken to respect human improve workers • Enable workers to access agencies, NGOs, experts, Labour: credible, verifiable and rights and prevent their right to freedom of multi-stakeholder relevant modern slavery association and collective initiatives) • Build partnerships and bargaining • Establish / revise collaborative action grievance and remediation systems Living Wage What are the benefits? Good for Business 75% of employees reported increases in Labour: An independent study examining the work quality as a result of receiving the Living Wage. business benefits of implementing a Living Wage Living Wage policy in London found that more than 80% of employers believe 50% of employees felt that the Living Wage had made them more willing to that the Living Wage had enhanced the implement changes in their working 1/ 2/ 3/ quality of the work of their staff, while absenteeism had fallen by approximately practices; enabled them to require fewer concessions to effect change; Marshalls was awarded the ACCREDITATION INTELLIGENCE INFLUENCE 25%. and made them more likely to adopt Living Wage Employers Offers accreditation to employers Provides advice and support to Provides a forum for leading Two thirds of employers reported a changes more quickly. that pay the Living Wage, or those employers and service providers employers and service providers Accreditation in 2014. This committed to an agreed timetable implementing the Living Wage to publicly back the Living Wage. significant impact on recruitment and is only available in the UK. In of implementation, by awarding including best practice guides; Work with Principal Partners retention within their organisation. 70% Good for Society the Living Wage Employer Mark. case studies from leading who bring financial and strategic of employers felt that the Living Wage The Living Wage campaign was India, Marshalls works with employers; model procurement support to our work. The had increased consumer awareness of launched in 2001 by parents in East NGOs and others to calculate Offers a Service Provider frameworks and access to Foundations coordinates Living their organisation’s commitment to be London, who were frustrated that Recognition Scheme for third specialist legal and HR advice. We Wage Week each November, a a living wage which is paid an ethical employer. working two minimum wage jobs left party contractors who pay their coordinate the announcement of UK wide celebration of the Living no time for family life. to those working in its supply own staff the Living Wage and the new Living Wage rates each Wage. Following the adoption of the Living always offer a Living Wage option November. chain there. when submitting tenders. Wage PwC found turnover of contractors The causes of poverty are complex and fell from 4% to 1%. in order to improve lives, there should be a package of solutions across policy Good for Families areas. The Living Wage can be part of The Living Wage affords people the the solution. What is it? opportunity to provide for themselves and their families. • An hourly rate set independently and updated annually • Paying the Living Wage is good for business, good for the individual and good for society • The Living Wage is calculated according to the basic cost of living in the UK • The Living Wage Employer Mark and Service Provider “ 75% of employees reported • The current UK Living Wage is £9.00 an hour Recognition Scheme provide an ethical badge for increases in work quality as a “ 50% of employees felt that the Living Wage responsible pay result of receiving the had made them more willing to implement • The current London Living Wage is £10.55 an hour Living Wage.” changes in their working practices” • Employers choose to pay the Living Wage on a voluntary basis • The Living Wage enjoys cross party support, with public backing from the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition 62 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 63 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Labour: Targets ACHIEVEMENTS 2018 TARGETS 2019 Maintain accreditation to IMS. Maintain accreditation to IMS. Maintain accreditation to BRE ELS 6002. Maintain accreditation to BRE ELS 6002. Maintain a programme of auditing against Maintain a programme of auditing against the ETI Base Code the ETI Base Code Work to further improve the social auditor Work to further improve the social auditor reporting process; and any associated correct reporting process; and any associated correct action plan processes and procedures. action plan processes and procedures. Work with the procurement and human Work with the procurement and human resources team to further develop systems resources team to further develop systems and procedures which help to ensure that and procedures which help to ensure that no modern slavery takes place within our no modern slavery takes place within our operations. operations. Maintain Living Wage accreditation. Maintain Living Wage accreditation. Work with ILO IPEC Child Labour Platform to Work with ILO IPEC Child Labour Platform to contribute further to the eradication of child contribute further to the eradication of child labour. labour. Work to deliver the new 2020 ETI strategy Work to deliver the new 2020 ETI strategy thereby upholding the ETI Basecode thereby upholding the ETI Basecode throughout our operations throughout our operations 64 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 65 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Environment Environmental Policy – Key Features Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Target – To operate within the relevant legal frameworks and comply with appropriate Initiatives Results Sharing Best 80% Practice legislation. • The Group has a commitment to achieving the highest standards of environmental performance, preventing pollution and minimising the impact of its operations. • All operations should meet or exceed the requirements of legislation and applicable best practice. Reviewing Feedback Where no legislation exists, best practice will remain an integral part of Marshalls’ business strategy. Delivering Best & Developing Our Practice • The Group is committed to considering the environmental impacts associated with its products Legal Compliance Approach throughout their life cycle. • Policy is supported by monitoring and measuring environmental performance using appropriate external guidelines wherever practicable. Operating sites have assessed the environmental aspects of their activities, and objectives and targets aimed at improving the overall environmental impact of those activities have been set. These are reviewed on at least an annual basis. Due to Marshalls’ status the environmental key performance Marshalls’ environmental targets relate to strategic plans which are • Marshalls will continue to raise environmental awareness within the Group through the development indicators will be published alongside the annual report in April. driven by board executives and implemented by a large internal and training of its employees and will communicate openly and consult with customers, suppliers and This will be available online in due course. resource. Systems, which represent a significant investment, are in place throughout the business and allow the real time monitoring other stakeholders on relevant environmental matters. At the heart of Marshalls’ sustainable business model, shown of energy consumption and how this relates to carbon reduction • Marshalls strives to protect and enhance biodiversity and natural habitats within its landholdings earlier in this report, is an approach which combines key business issues and KPIs with third party verification, legislation and industry measures. where possible. The Group also recognises the need for sympathetic restoration and after-use of standards including ISO14001 for environmental management. Marshalls’ Environment & Climate Change Policy documents the quarry and other operational sites. related key performance indicators. • Marshalls considers the character of the local environment and the concerns of the local community Key environmental targets and drivers for our business are determined by legislative requirement and also the Company’s and other stakeholders in relation to its activities. commitment to sustainability, cost efficiency and shareholder value. Environmental Policy Statement Energy and Climate Change Policy Statement Marshalls understands the potential impacts of our operations, products and services. The Group is committed to achieving the highest standards of environmental performance to protect the environment and prevent pollution from our operation and to identify, understand and minimise The use of energy is vital in the supply and manufacture of our products and represents a our significant environmental impacts where appropriate. We operate to an established significant proportion of our operating costs. Volatile energy costs for us and in our supply environmental management system (“EMS”) to ensure that all our operations meet or exceed the chain, growing concerns over the security of supply and climate change mean that the requirements of legislation and applicable best practice as an integral part of our business importance of controlling our energy use has never been so high. This policy document is strategy. consistent with our sustainability strategy and supports our vision by helping us to operate our business, as market leaders, in a sustainable and responsible manner. Marshalls is committed to monitoring, measuring and reporting of our environmental performance, Sustainability is one of Marshallsʼ four key core values, balancing our environmental, social and using appropriate external guidelines wherever practicable. The Group assesses the economic impacts. In essence, achieving our goal of sustainability involves judging the longenvironmental aspects, impacts, risks and opportunities of its activities setting appropriate term merits of our business against this triple bottom line. objectives and targets. Marshalls recognises that sound energy management is vital to the future of our business and This policy applies to all Marshalls businesses and requires Marshalls to: it must be fully integrated into our management and operational procedures so that it is an everyday part of what we all do. Marshallsʼ commits to ensuring that appropriate energy • Determine, understand and implement relevant environmental legislation to fulfil our legal management systems, are developed, maintained, and that sufficient resources are made compliance obligations. available to achieve the objectives of this policy in a sustainable manner also that they are in • Develop adaptation and mitigation strategies against internal and external factors which line with continual improvement principles. All UK operations are certified under BS EN 50001. could have adverse impacts on the environment or the Group. This policy applies to all Marshallsʼ businesses and requires Marshalls to: • Set Group wide objectives and targets appropriate to the nature and scale of our activities. • Track, understand and implement all relevant legislation and other requirements related • Maintain and continually improve the EMS across the Group improving awareness and to energy use, consumption and efficiency. training in relation to environmental protection and performance. • Continually improve environmental performance by monitoring and measuring • Set group wide KPIʼs and targets, appropriate to the nature and scale of our operations, improvement initiatives particularly in relation to water resources through recycling, for energy efficiency and emission reduction. Ensure all fuels are effectively monitored, capture and discharge and waste generated and that sent to landfill. measured and analysed to target energy efficiency opportunities. • To protect and enhance the natural environment both within our landholdings and the • Conduct energy reviews to identify opportunities for efficiency improvements and wider corridor where possible. implement appropriate action plans. . • To recognise the need for sympathetic restoration and after-use of quarry and other operational sites and consider the character of the local environment and the concerns of • Ensure energy efficiency is designed into capital projects that have a significant impact the local community and other stakeholders when planning such matters. on energy consumption. • To consider the environmental impacts associated with our products throughout their life • Ensure contractors and suppliers that have a significant impact on energy support cycle by efficient resource use. Marshalls energy performance improvement. Ensure Marshallsʼ staff are trained and • Consider, engage and communicate with all interested parties appropriately. aware of their responsibilities in relation to energy efficiency. • Review the Groupʼs targets and Policy annually against business objectives and commitments given to industry initiatives and wider stakeholders. • Develop on-site generation or direct connections to renewable power where financially and operationally viable. In conjunction with this policy there is a framework of supporting policies relevant to achieving • Develop resilience strategies for climate change and fossil fuel depletion. Group Sustainability objectives. • Report progress in relation to this policy to internal and external stakeholders. Signed by: This policy, will be reviewed annually as part of the management review process. Signed by: Martyn Coffey, Chief Executive April 2018 Martyn Coffey, Chief Executive April 2018 66 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 67 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Environment: Commitment to Science Based Targets We are delighted to report that Marshalls has committed to the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi). As such throughout the coming year we will be working to establish and set our greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets. These will be consistent with the most ambitious aim of the Paris Agreement, to limit average global warming to 1.5°C by the end of the century compared to pre-industrial temperatures. We have made commitments to achieve the highest standards of environmental performance, preventing pollution and minimising the impact of its operations. Our aim is to operate within the relevant legal frameworks and meet, or exceed, appropriate legislation and applicable best practice. During 2018 we have redefined our Sustainability Policies to align with our business strategy. Marshalls has clear environmental, energy and climate change policies and a sustainable business plan with set KPIs. Marshalls is committed to reducing the energy and carbon impact of the business and is in line with the UK Government targets for 2020 and 2050. 2019 priorities • To target 95 per cent of Group production to be manufactured at sites operating an integrated management system in accordance with Publicly Available Specification 99:2006 (“PAS 99”); and • To fully integrate the acquisitions of CPM and Edenhall into the Group’s Science Based Targets initiative environmental systems and procedures. Future goals announces major updates following • Continue to reduce the energy and carbon impact of the business and remain within UK Government targets; IPCC Special Report on 1.5°C • Progress commitment to our Science Based Target Initiative (“SBTi”); • Reduce the use of water from mains and licensed boreholes to 0.05m3 per tonne of production; and Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) will introduce major new updates to enable companies to set greenhouse gas emissions reduction • Reduce by 3 per cent the total waste to landfill per tonne of production. targets consistent with the most ambitious aim of the Paris Agreement, to limit average global warming to 1.5°C by the end of the century compared to pre-industrial temperatures. New technical resources and an updated set of target validation criteria will be available to companies in April 2019, and will reflect the latest science from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC) Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5°C, published in October 2018. The SBTi will also release new resources enabling companies to set targets aligned with a well-below 2°C pathway, which under the SBTi’s new criteria will become the minimum level of ambition accepted by the initiative. The IPCC report warned of severe consequences of a failure to prevent global warming exceeding 1.5°C, and presented a number of new emissions scenarios that would keep temperatures within the thresholds laid out in the Paris Agreement. Experts from the SBTi, in consultation with a Scientific Advisory Group consisting of leading climate scientists from around the world, are using the new scenarios to model emissions reduction pathways that can be applied by companies to align their strategies with the latest science. 68 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 69 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 our own research to encourage our customers We support the Calderdale Watermark Fund, a to adopt more sustainable water practises, and charity set up to support flood victims in the area. we regularly lobby DEFRA and other government agencies to impress the importance of good water Transparency management. Most importantly, we’re honest and open about We sit on the BiTC Water Taskforce, sharing the ways we can affect the global water situation. best practise with other stakeholders including We know that the products we manufacture aren’t water companies, engineers, landscapers and the only way to sustainably drain our landscapes, government bodies. and that on their own they’re not going to stop flooding. We know that the work we do to educate We sit on the CIRIA Council to better understand our overseas suppliers isn’t going to eradicate poor SuDS and wider water management issues. We health completely. But we fully accept everything contribute to CIRIA’s SuSDrain committee to we do is part of the solution, and we will continue promote best SuDS practise to share our strategies, successes and challenges in Community Engagement the hope that, together, we can be fully prepared for the water crises of the future. We strive to make a positive impact on the communities in which our operational sites are Summary based. We have improved sanitation and provided Of course, most of these steps make sound clean drinking water for everyone who works CEO Water Mandate at our Natural Stone suppliers in India; we have created forest classrooms with living water features business sense; many of these measures reduce costs and help us to maintain the sound business model we’ve developed over more than 100 years. From Martyn Coffey, Marshalls CEO for a school near our Eaglescliffe plant in the North However, as the global water crisis continues, we’re East of England. When Hebden Bridge flooded, increasingly conscious of the importance of this just 15 miles down the road from our head office vital resource, and aware that its scarcity could in West Yorkshire, we took the UK’s leading flood We are facing a global water crisis. 2.6 billion people Direct Operations & Supply Chain have a very dramatic and very real impact on our consultant Mary Dhonau to the town to help (or 42% of the world population) lack access to For example, in our production operations, we set ability to take our business confidently through the the residents understand how to cope in the basic sanitation. [other global stats]. More locally, ourselves a target to reduce the mains water used next 100 years. After all, as David Brower famously aftermath. in the UK, we lurch annually from drought-induced in the production of our concrete products to less pointed out, there’s no business to be done on hosepipe bans to devastating floods caused by We actively support Slow the Flow Calderdale, a dead planet. We still have plenty of work to do than 0.05m3 per tonne. This was achieved in 2012 a local group of engineers, landscapers and increasingly heavy downpours. At any given time it through a combination of shrewd engineering and to, but we believe that by taking the right steps, seems that we either have too much water, or not enthusiasts who are committed to reducing flood the better landscapes we create now can make a by ensuring that all of our concrete manufacturing risk in the Calder Valley. In addition to supporting enough. The causes of these problems are complex, sites harvest and recycle rainwater. In addition, better world for us all to live in for generations to but the solutions are frequently simple. their events and helping them to win awards, come. any water left over following processing is filtered; the Marshalls marketing team spent a couple of the solids are passed back into the manufacturing days working on their Natural Flood Management At Marshalls, we are fully aware of the water crisis, process while the water is treated to ensure it systems on a local National Trust site. and we understand how our business can affect it stays in balance with the watercourse it is carefully in two distinct ways: released into. • Firstly, in the way our sites and operations (and those of our suppliers and partners all over the But have gone beyond our manufacturing world) impact the water situation in their local processes to ensure that our colleagues are aware area of the water challenge at all levels within the • Secondly, in the way that the products we business. For example, via our procurement process, develop, manufacture and sell can further affect any capital expenditure of more than £1,000 the water situation in the landscapes in which requires an energy, waste and water assessment. they’re installed Quite simply, if a purchase isn’t water efficient, it doesn’t go ahead. We work with our suppliers to The CEO Water Mandate is a global initiative ensure that they follow a similar approach, and developed with the United Nations Global encourage them to share their goals and challenges Compact. It is a voluntary code which aims to focus in this area. companies all over the world on the problems of water scarcity and sanitation. It unites businesses Collective Action & Public Policy under the common goal of taking meaningful, bold But we know we can’t achieve what we need steps to address the water challenge. to on our own. We work with a wide variety Marshalls has joined the CEO Water Mandate and of stakeholders to debate the complex issues is committed to reducing any negative impact its surrounding water, and to establish solutions which sites, products or operations may have on water are beneficial to all parties. Marshalls is represented scarcity or sanitation. We already employ a wide on a wide range of groups and committees range of measures to use less, harvest more and including BiTC, the Flood Protection Association recycle what water we do use – but we also strive and Interpave, who all work either exclusively or to find new ways to improve our performance and in part to drive water issues onto the agenda of share our understanding with everyone we come businesses and local government. We undertake into contact with. 70 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 71 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Water Target – reduce use of water from mains and licensed boreholes to 0.05m3 per tonne of production. Marshalls understands the future value water is employed on both of these sites and of water and is a signatory to the United harvesting is undertaken at Sittingbourne Carbon Nations Global Compact CEO Water further reducing the burden on licensed Mandate. The business has demonstrated water extraction in these areas. The Group a commitment to water harvesting and does not abstract water in “serious stress” Target – to reduce our absolute CO2e consumption in line with UK Government targets (34 per cent by recycling on numerous sites and utilises areas. 2020 and 80 per cent by 2050 from a 1990 baseline). quarry water where appropriate in its operations. Marshalls has consents in place, issued by Marshalls’ Energy and Climate Change Policy approved Group total emissions. It considered that there has the relevant regulatory bodies, to discharge by the Board during the year confirms the Group’s been no material change to this situation Theand thusparticularly recognises the Group trade effluent. Previous investment in water commitment to reducing the Energy and Carbon continues to exclude these from this report. impacts and risk to the business in areas of harvesting and recycling of its process impact of its business activities. The current reduction “water stress”. Working to the Government’s water helps to reduce the overall discharge is in line with the 2020 and 2050 targets. Marshalls does not report its scope 3 emissions 2013 classification, developed by the volumes of trade effluent by enabling re-use separately however these are included Environment in the Agency and Natural Resource in its products. Carbon The Group complied with its legal obligation in the Government’s Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy ‘cradle to grave’ product carbon footprints certified to PAS2050 by the Carbon Trust Wales, two sites within the Group (Sandy ~ Anglian and Water and Sittingbourne ~ Southern The chart below illustrates the Group’s water available on the Marshalls website. water) are located in areas of “serious stress”. performance between 2008 and 2016 Efficiency Scheme (“CRC”) by submitting its Annual Report and surrender of Carbon allowances for the As is practiced across the Group, recycling of Target – to reduce our absolute CO2e consumption in line period April 2014 to March 2015 within the time limit The business energy and carbon KPIs are aligned to with UK Government targets (34 per cent byimposed 2020byand 80 the legislation. The Group is certified to Mandatory Carbon Reporting and CRC through the the Carbon Trust Standard and is re-certified up to measurement of energy at both absolute and relative Main and licensed water used per tonne of production output per cent by 2050 from a 1990 baseline). December 2016 demonstrating ongoing commitment intensity levels and the business remains committed to to carbon reductions. reducing energy use on both these measures. m3 water used per production tonne Marshalls’ Energy and Climate Change Policy approved by the Board during the year confirms the Group’s Marshalls has a mandatory duty The Group’s approach to the Energy Savings commitment to reducing the Energy and Carbon impact to report its annual Greenhouse Opportunity Scheme (“ESOS”) legislation was to 0.067 of its business activities. The current reduction is in line define its energy management in compliance with 0.063 Gas Emissions (“GHG”) under with the 2020 and 2050 targets. the international standard for energy management the Companies Act 2006 0.055 ISO50001, gaining certification in November 2015. 0.052 The Group complied with its legal obligation in the (Strategic and Directors’ Reports) 0.048 0.049 0.050 0.046 Government’s Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Regulations 2013 and the Large 0.043 The Group continues to report voluntarily to the 0.041 Efficiency Scheme (“CRC”) by submitting its Annual and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts Carbon Disclosure Project (“CDP”). It received a 98B Report and surrender of Carbon allowances for the and Reports) Regulations 2008. Marshalls uses the period April 2014 to March 2015 within the time limit rating for its 2015 report which includes a wider GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting imposed by the legislation. The Group is certified to the TheStandard chart below illustrates the Group’s absolute CO e carbon management performance over time and also (revised edition) and the latest Defra 2 Carbon Trust Standard and is re-certified up to December emissions in tonnes, including transport activities, between provides an insight for shareholders regarding the published CO2e conversion factors to measure 2016 demonstrating ongoing commitment to carbon 2008 and 2016. Group’s energy, carbon and climate change impact reductions. its GHG emissions. management programme. The Group reported 53,846 0 The Group reports its scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions for tonnes of CO2e for the year 2014 (2013: 55,996 tonnes). 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 This data includes scope 1 and 2 emissions as defined Absolute CO2e emissionitsfrom UK operation and only CO2 emissions for Marshalls UK operation in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (“GHG Protocol”) NV, its Belgium business. In previous years, the Group however the emission factors for CDP differ from those 80 has conducted audits of its UK fugitive emissions and 73.3 71.1 68.9 66.8 64.8 62.9 61.2 59.5 57.9 56.4 found these to be less than half of one per cent of the of Mandatory Carbon Reporting. 70 25.6 21.3 20.5 18.7 60 16.2 kCO2e Tonnes 14.0 16.4 14.3 50 16.8 11.9 22.1 22.3 22.6 21.0 40 21.4 22.4 23.3 20.1 20.8 20.2 30 25.4 24.3 20 23.4 23.1 22.1 Scope 1 non transport 19.9 18.5 18.0 17.8 16.0 Scope 1 transport 10 Scope 2 0 2050 Target 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 72 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 73 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Transport Target – to meet the challenge of reducing emissions whilst Environment: Targets striving to maintain and improve upon customer service. Marshalls operates its own fleet of Large Goods During the last three years the Group has invested in Vehicles (“LGV”) to service the majority of its a new and increased fleet of 173 mechanical offload ACHIEVEMENTS 2018 TARGETS 2019 deliveries to customers. As a consequence diesel LGVs. This investment was partially justified by the fuel usage has a significant business impact on the fuel efficiency that might be achieved with the latest Group’s GHG emissions reporting. fuel efficient vehicles, these being a mix of Euro V and Reduce our absolute CO2 consumption in Develop Science Based Targets Euro VI compliant engines; initial results indicate an The Group is a voluntary member of the Freight improvement in fuel usage of nearly 13 per cent on line with UK Government targets (34 per Transport Association led Logistic Carbon Reduction like for like vehicles. cent by 2020 and 80 per cent by 2050 from a Scheme (“LCRS”) which has a collective commitment 1990 baseline). to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions by eight Marshalls undertakes one-on-one driver training for Reduce our absolute CO2 consumption in per cent by 2015 (compared to 2010 levels). This its LGV fleet drivers, which has the added advantage line with UK Government targets (34 per initiative also demonstrates our commitment to of gaining a broader understanding of the problems cent by 2020 and 80 per cent by 2050 from a recording, reporting and reducing carbon emissions being faced by the drivers, allowing management to Reduce use of water from mains and 1990 baseline). while sharing best practice with like minded address the issues. It is planned to double the resource licensed boreholes to 0.05m3 per tonne of companies. on this agenda in 2016. production by 2015. The Group uses rail for stock movement to reduce Reduce use of water from mains and carbon emissions and will continue to look at different licensed boreholes to 0.05m3 per tonne of modes of transport whenever practicable. production by 2015. Implement biodiversity plans at selected The Group includes energy efficient cars on its car sites. choice including hybrid and electric which together with personal taxation impacts has resulted in a average emission of 116 carbon dioxide grams per Implement biodiversity plans at selected kilometre from its car fleet, a reduction from 120 in Reduce by 3% the total waste-to-landfill per sites. the last 12 months. An in-house automated report production output per annum on 3 year is available to all company car drivers to review their rolling average. achieved efficiency (miles per gallon). Reduce by 3% the total waste-to-landfill per Reduce by 2% per tonne of production production output per annum on 3 year output per annum over a 3 year cycle to a rolling average. level where pack and product safety is not compromised. Reduce by 2% per tonne of production output per annum over a 3 year cycle to a level where pack and product safety is not compromised. Meet the challenge of reducing emissions Meet the challenge of reducing emissions whilst striving to maintain and improve whilst striving to maintain and improve upon customer service. upon customer service. 74 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 75 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption: Targets Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best 75% Practice ACHIEVEMENTS 2018 TARGETS 2019 Reviewing Feedback Communicate Marshalls sustainability Communicate Marshalls sustainability & Developing Our Delivering Best strategy which has anti-corruption measures Legal Compliance Practice strategy which has anti-corruption measures Approach woven throughout. woven throughout. Publish and communicate our Supplier Publish and communicate our Supplier Code The UK Bribery Act 2010 came into force on 1st July 2011. It Code of Conduct giving clear anti-corruption of Conduct giving clear anti-corruption and There has been ongoing focus amends and reforms UK criminal law and provides a modern legal and anti-bribery information using the new anti-bribery information using the new ITby the UNGC UK Network on IT-based platform. based platform. framework to combat bribery in the UK and internationally. Anti-Corruption with a number of events and speakers attending education events open to UK Network members. Marshalls takes The Bribery Act creates the following advantage of these opportunities Ensure that this guidance is made publicly Ensure that this guidance is made publicly with a range of individuals from available for all stakeholders. available for all stakeholders. offences: within the organisation attending and reporting back. 1# 2# The UNGC tenth principle commits signatories not only to Continue to undertake a series of faceContinue to undertake a series of faceACTIVE BRIBERY: ACTIVE BRIBERY: actively avoid bribery, extortion and other forms of corruption but to-face briefing and workshops with key suppliers. to-face briefing and workshops with key suppliers. promising or giving Passive bribery: agreeing to develop policies and concrete programmes to address corruption a financial or other to receive or accepting and related risks. advantage. a financial or other Continue to communicate Marshalls AntiContinue to communicate Marshalls Antiadvantage. Marshalls understands that bribery Bribery policy internally. Bribery policy internally. is not a victimless crime and that it discourages developmentally effective trade and siphons off 3# 4# funds away from projects designed to help the most disadvantaged. Continue to communicate Marshalls AntiContinue to communicate Marshalls AntiBribery policy internally. Bribery policy internally. ACTIVE BRIBERY: ACTIVE BRIBERY: It tarnishes reputations, drains corporate motivation and distorts competition. Bribery of foreign public The failure of commercial Continue to review and develop anti-bribery Continue to review and develop anti-bribery officials. organisations to prevent Marshalls’ procurement processes and procedures. processes and procedures. bribery by an associated policy can be viewed at: person (corporate offence). www.marshalls.co.uk/ sustainability Read the full policy here: https://www.marshalls.co.uk/documents/policies/antibriberycode.pdf 76 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 77 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Proud to be Fair Tax Accredited and Pay Our Fair Share of Tax The Fair Tax Mark is the label for good taxpayers. Wherever you see the Fair Tax Mark you can be sure that a company is open and transparent about its tax affairs and seeks to pay the right amount of corporation tax at the right time in the right place. It sets a new standards in responsible tax practice. Marshalls’ CEO, Martyn Coffey, said, “In recent years, we’ve seen multinational corporations that have chosen to use tax havens and artificial structures to avoid paying millions in tax. The results of this are inflated profits, the destruction of a level playing field which erodes fair competition as well as a depleted public purse. But not all businesses seek to avoid paying the tax that they owe, and as a responsible business Marshalls is proud to make it known that it pays its fair share of tax.” According to an estimation of the UK’s tax gap, around £12 billion is lost to the public purse each year via corporate tax avoidance. This is more than the entire Home Office budget and half of the UK’s housing and environment budget. (1) Chris Harrop, Marshalls Group Marketing Director, responsible for sustainability, added, “Recent research has shown that 1 in 4 consumers want to boycott tax dodgers. It’s time to make clear which businesses people can trust and to help them spend their money where it counts.” Fair Tax Mark commented, “We welcome Marshalls engagement and eagerness to speak out about this issue. A fair and transparent tax system is at the heart of any society. A fair tax system is essential to a vibrant mixed economy that works for the benefit of all who live in a country. It is also crucial to a healthy, functioning democracy. ‘Fair’ is a subjective term that is open to a wide range of interpretations. In our opinion when it comes to corporation tax ‘fair tax’ means that a business seeks to pay the right amount of tax, but no more, in the right place at the right time and can be held to account on its tax behaviour by the public based on the information it publishes.” Coffey, concluded by saying, “Marshalls has been a United Nations Global Compact signatory since 2009 and as such has made public commitments regarding human rights, labour environment and anti-corruption. The organisation is clear that adhering to the Fair Tax Mark criteria is all part-and-parcel of being a sustainable and responsible business.” 78 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 79 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Health & Safety Marshalls is committed to meeting the highest safety standards for all its employees, reinforcing and developing its safety processes, and developing a competent workforce with a view to achieving long-term improvement gains. This remains a key priority for the business. In 2017, the Executive Board agreed a formal 5-year health and safety strategy with set objectives. The achievement of annual health and safety improvement targets is directly linked to the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior management, as explained in the Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 72. The headline target for 2018 was to maintain days lost resulting from workplace incidents at a figure no higher than the 2015 actual result. The actual results achieved were: • 61 per cent reduction in days lost resulting from all accidents frequency rate; • 46 per cent reduction in all incidents frequency rate; Employee engagement and development • 56 per cent reduction in lost time incidents (“LTIs”) frequency rate; and • 5 per cent reduction in incidents reportable to the HSE under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations (“RIDDOR”). Our ambition is to recruit and retain the very best We are focused on building a stronger work people with a wide range of talents, skills and environment. Succession management is helping us The primary target for 2019 will be to achieve an accident rate for the year no higher than the 2015 experiences. We have a commitment to investing identify individuals who can be developed to take on actual result. in employee development, progression and career bigger or more challenging roles as well as identifying success. We aim to operate without discrimination and where we need to build new capabilities to meet our Accident frequency and severity rates (per 1 million hours worked) to embrace diversity so that every employee should strategic goals. feel respected for their contribution. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 As a business, we are committed to investing in All accidents 65.6 59.1 48.8 49.2 43.4 26.4 With the advent of a refreshed People Strategy our employees. The corporate intranet contains the emphasis is on planning for more change in the area of Marshalls Learning Zone, which is accessible to all All lost time accidents 12.2 7.2 5.1 5.6 4.1 2.2 employee engagement. We continue with our longcolleagues, and provides an easy route for learning All RIDDORs 3.6 3.3 1.6 2.3 1.4 1.7 standing commitment of hosting annual roadshows to be accessed on general skills and capabilities. We All days lost 114.6 80.7 45.8 38.0 24.6 18.2 at every site with the objective of meeting as many of continually refresh and add to the learning curriculum. Average UK headcount 2,055 2,132 2,237 2,253 2,307 2,640 our employees as possible face to face. This provides We also continue to run 3 leadership development the Directors and senior management team with an programmes aimed at the development of our unparalleled opportunity to explain to our employees emerging and more established leaders. We work with In 2018 the business successfully gained ISO 45001 accreditation across the UK businesses, being how the business is performing, how our strategy is 3 strategic partners, University of Salford, Ashridge the first in the building products industry to achieve this standard. Other achievements are listed working, and what the priorities and objectives are. Business School and Cranfield School of Management, below. We maintained our regular feedback channels and, to ensure we access best practice and external • Integration of the recently acquired CPM business into the Marshalls health and safety in 2018, enlisted the support and assistance of an perspectives. management system. external strategic partner to help us form a detailed Apprenticeships give employees on-the-job skills and • 100 per cent of all first line supervisors attended and passed the Marshalls health, safety and engagement plan for 2019. This will focus on training and help us secure a talent pipeline. We have environmental stage 2 training course. employee communications, engaging leaders and staff developed our Apprenticeship Programmes in the last wellbeing. We continue to be a Living Wage employer 12 months. During the year, we have also increased • Introduced a Mental Health Awareness strategy; this included the training of key individuals in underpinning continued commitment to fairness and the number of employees who are now working the business to become Mental Health First Aiders to support our employees. integrity towards our employees. We have maintained towards an apprenticeship qualification to 70. We • Introduced and fully implemented across the business the SHE development tool. our focus on supporting charitable events across the remain committed to growing these schemes as well In 2019 the main health and safety initiatives will include: business and our work with MIND will have raised an as building other methods of increasing our talent overall total of £200,000 over the last 2 years. pipelines and improving the diversity of our operation. • a programme whereby all senior managers within the business will complete the Marshalls health, safety and environmental stage 3 training programme; The Company’s Sharesave employee share scheme (in We continue to maintain strong community which over40 per cent of colleagues invested) delivered connections, particularly in locations near our offices • 65 per cent of all non-supervisory employees will attend and successfully pass the Marshalls significant benefit to employees exercising their and factories, and we continue to develop closer health, safety and environmental stage 1 training programme; options on maturity in December 2018. The Company relations with local schools and colleges in order to • the integration of PD Edenhall into the Marshalls health and safety management system and also operates a Share Purchase Plan to encourage encourage young people into the industry as well as culture; and employee participation in the Company’s success. the business. • the development and implementation of a new digitalintegrated management system. These initiatives will enhance the already high standard the Company demands in health and safety and take it to a completely new level. 80 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 81 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Third Party Recognition & Awards BRE Global Ethical Labour Sourcing Standard Verification for Marketing and Digital Team End 2018 on a High the Second Year Running As the year ends, the Marketing Team have picked up some in the Marketing Technology (MarTech) space, demonstrating Marshalls was pleased to announce in March that having Slavery Act puts the onus on businesses to demonstrate industry awards and accolades against some very stiff how they are creating value for their businesses. Entries came been the first organisation to achieve verification against BRE exactly how they are taking positive action to eliminate competition. from across the world including Europe and the US. Global’s newly launched Ethical Labour Sourcing Standard modern slavery within their operations and global supply (BES 6002) in 2017, it achieved verification for the second year chains; none more so than within the construction sector. ELS Chris Harrop, Group Marketing and Sustainability Director, won Marco had this to say about the shortlisting, “To reach the top running. verification provides organisations with a framework to verify the award for B2B Marketer of the year at the International 10 is fantastic and a testament to the work that the Digital their systems and processes in relation to the Modern Slavery B2B Marketing awards. The B2B Marketing Awards is widely Team, have been doing over the last two years. I am proud of Chris Harrop, Marshalls Marketing Director, responsible for Act and continuously improve their ethical labour sourcing regarded as the most competitive and prestigious in the B2B the things we have delivered and to have this recognised by sustainability, says “It is becoming commercially critical to have practices. Marshalls continues to lead the field in terms of marketing industry. This year saw 500 submissions from 13 a panel of marketing industry leaders is brilliant! Thanks go to independent third party verification regarding ethical labour ethical labour standards.” countries across Europe. Remarking on Chris’ entry, the judges’ everyone who has worked on the recent digital projects.” in business operations and supply chains. Marshalls is aheadsaid that he has, “turned the brand into a leader in its sector, of-the-wave and achieving verification for the second year The ELS standard was developed throughout 2016 with a with a strong focus on ethics, raising awareness of climate running and it is extremely satisfying, especially as the Ethical wide stakeholder group including clients, manufacturers, change and championing innovation.” Labour Sourcing Standard process allows us to chart our NGOs and contractors. The 150 strong stakeholder group progress from one year to the next; we can clearly see what helped to shape and scope the ELS standard to ensure that it Commenting on his win, Chris said, “This award is really about we’ve achieved, set our course in terms of future actions and would be relevant and drive positive change within industry. the hard work and effort that the whole of the marketing team bind this into our wider human rights programme.” The verification approach will allow organisations to develop put in to ensure Marshalls are always front of mind. Without their ethical labour sourcing practices in a manner which is each and every one of them this simply wouldn’t have been He added, “This independent, third-party verification risk based and relevant to them. The ELS will support those possible.” distinguishes our products and services from those of our who wish to demonstrate continual improvement. ‘competitors’, some of whom still continue to make spurious To add this this success, Marco Maccio, Head of Digital and unsubstantiated claims about the ethics of their global Marshalls Business & Human Rights Lead, Elaine MitchelMarketing, was also shortlisted in the top 10 for The Drum’s supply chains. Our valued customers, suppliers, shareholders, Hill, added, “This independent verification regarding ethical MarTech Heroes Award. The Drum, a world-leading publisher employees and partners can continue to be rightly confident labour standards is an extremely important aspect in and media platform covering Marketing and Advertising, about our ongoing commitment to ethical labour sourcing terms of delivering against our Modern Slavery Statement created the award this year to recognise the very best talent standards and our day-to-day actions on the ground dealing commitments.” with the complexities.” Dr Shamir Ghumra, BRE’s Director of Sustainable Products, presented the ELS verification certificate to Chris Harrop, and commented, “It is gratifying to see Marshalls achieving verification for the second year and to know that the ELS is adding great value to the organisations overall programme regarding ethical sourcing. The requirements of the Modern 82 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 83 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Auditing Ongoing Stakeholder Consultation In the past, Marshalls has worked with generally Marshalls would like to thank all of its stakeholders recognised auditors for its work in India. Whilst working who had input into this ninth UNGC Communication in India however, Marshalls found it really needed to on Progress, namely Marshalls’ employees, customers, work with auditors with specialist knowledge of trade suppliers, partners and NGOs. unions and ILO (International Labour Organisation) standards. The auditing process for Marshalls is not just about hitting the baseline and doing the minimum, it’s about going the extra mile and ensuring the process is as thorough and rigorous as possible. Marshalls’ 2018 COP Feedback Survey supply chain strategy follows the ETI Base Code, which As a valued stakeholder Marshalls would very much is based on the International Labour Organisation’s appreciate your feedback and comments on its 2016 Conventions. In embedding the Base Code in the Communication on Progress (COP.) You may be aware supply chain Marshalls has implemented processes to that Marshalls became a signatory of the UNGC in ensure compliance and improvement. January 2009. Our commitment to the UNGC requires that we submit an annual COP to the UN office in New Marshalls employs full time social auditors in both India York. This and all other COPs can be found in at and China. Working on the ground alongside quarry & factory owners, managers, workers, unions and nonwww.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability/ governmental organisations, the auditor ensures all publications areas of the ETI Base Code are upheld. Our 2009 COP received a ‘notable’ status from the Marshalls works with Stirling Smith, an expert in supply UNGC, an acknowledgement made to only a small chain auditing, to develop and extend the SAA8000 percentage of signatories. We will make this 2017 COP’s standard and the ETI Base Code. The company relies available for UNGC UK Network peer review again this upon the hard core of convinced companies to engage year. We are particularly keen to gain frank feedback stakeholders and professionals together in an agreed from a range of our stakeholders as we further engage programme. in a drive for corporate sustainability leadership Audits are carried out at least annually, by a two-person throughout 2016 and beyond. team over two days. A qualified Marshalls assessor goes to India and China five to six times a year to audit If you wish to take part in our COP feedback informally. If non-compliance is found, an action plan survey please email: is agreed to ensure rectification takes place and this is followed up by an external audit. elaine.mitchel-hill@marshalls.co.uk Accreditation Marshalls only works with reputable and reliable suppliers in terms of accreditation. 84 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 For more information on Marshalls, visit www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability Landscape House, Premier Way, Lowfields Business Park, DMD_40844 Elland HX5 9HT Tel: 01422 312000 www.marshalls.co.uk ©COPYRIGHT MARSHALLS APRIL 2018
