READER’S GUIDE NAVIGATION BAR The navigation bar shows the chapter you are currently reading. You can navigate between chapters using the link available for each one. TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOSSARY GRI INDICATORS On the footer of each page, you will find a link Global Report Initiative indicators (GRI) are included on to the table of contents and a link to the glossary the footnote of the pages addressing the respective (which contains additional information subjects. on concepts and/or acronyms). 2 NATURE OF THE REPORT This Integrated Report contains financial and non-financial information about the Brisa Group and was prepared according to IIRC – International Integrated Reporting Council guidelines. It includes information on the strategy, management and performance of the company’s main business areas. FRAMEWORK EXTERNAL VERIFICATION This Integrated Report contains financial and non-financial information Financial Statements were audited by an external entity (PricewaterhouseCoopers relating to Brisa Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A. (“Brisa”), concerning 2018. & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda.), according to the Brisa operates in an increasingly sustainable global economy, where alignment Audit Report included at the end of this Report. The sustainability information with new reporting trends for both financial and non-financial information is very reported (whether resulting from measurements, calculations or estimates) important. From a sustainable value creation perspective, the company must was subject to verification by the same external entity, in accordance with combine long-term strategy and return with social justice and environmental the Independent Assurance Report, which is also available at the end of this protection. Accordingly, the report is addressed to all stakeholders, in line with document. the best international practices. The report also evaluates the intrinsic risks of the business and shows how STAKEHOLDERS Brisa addresses the different capitals (financial, human, intellectual, social and This Integrated Report seeks to inform all stakeholders (employees, investors natural) according to the guidelines proposed by the International Integrated and shareholders, sector associations, clients, suppliers, debtholders, media, Reporting Council (IIRC). However, since Brisa’s culture is based on the values of ​​ sustainable development related entities, local communities, among others) Ethics, Excellence, Innovation and People, with important economic and social about Brisa’s business and performance. benefits for the activities and communities it serves, the company has chosen to redefine the names of the capitals under analysis in this Report, reflecting, in The information disclosed herein shows Brisa’s commitment to the continuous each approach, its own corporate culture. Hence, the financial, human, intellectual, implementation of measures that foster value creation and its goal of being social and natural capitals will be addressed as ‘Business’, ‘People’, ‘Innovation’, not only a manager of road infrastructures but also a provider of new mobility ‘Communities’ and ‘Environment’. solutions. The Report further comprises information on the Company’s Governance, Financial Statements and performance of the key sustainability dimensions. The Individual and Consolidated Financial Statements included herein were prepared according to the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted CONTACTS by the European Union. Non-financial data was prepared according to the Global Any doubt or question should be addressed to: Reporting Initiative GRI Standards. IR@brisa.pt or contato@brisa.pt. 3 STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE In compliance with legal and statutory provisions, the Board of Directors hereby submits the individual and consolidated financial statements and integrated report relating to 2018, for the shareholders’ consideration, in the firm belief that, to the best of its knowledge, the information contained there in was prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting standards, providing a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities, the financial situation of the issuer and of the companies included in the consolidation, and that the integrated report contains a faithful account of the information required. 4 MANAGEMENT REPORT “Provide efficient mobility for people” is Brisa’s mission since its foundation, when it started connecting the Portuguese by building and operating the main road axes in the country. Digitalisation, collaborative businesses, new behaviours and Brisa is a mobility operator with strong operating which translates into the optimized way it manages climate change mark our experience both at a national and international level, operations and maintenance, supported by a constant time, where mobility and and with a solid base in motorway management and of technological and process innovation. efficiency concepts gain in the operation of an ecosystem of mobility services a new dimension and under the brand name Via Verde. The focus on efficiency is also the prime mover of demand new challenges. Brisa’s ability to adapt and transform its business in Efficiency is the key word that defines Brisa’s culture, line with a constantly changing market. 7 1.1 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Brisa has risen to the challenges of 2018: we capitalised on the sustained growth in traffic, reinforcing our financial robustness and improving the operational efficiency of our businesses; we made significant progress with the development of our ecosystem of mobility services; and we took further steps forward in the fields of the environment and people. VASCO DE MELLO Chairman of the Board of Directors The final assessment of the year under review is outstanding, in both financial Net profit in 2018 was €M 158, a figure that shows significant growth over the and business terms, but also because it was a year of sound progress towards previous year, excluding of the extraordinary impact of NWP disposal. the implementation of our strategic vision. BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL SOUNDNESS Motorways management is a central pillar of Brisa’s business and in 2018 we Brisa’s operating income grew by 10% to €M 747, underpinned by increasing carried on with the implementation of the new management model at Brisa Gestão traffic and toll revenues. The company invested €M 57 (+2% than in 2017) in the de Infraestruturas. Concurrently, with the aim of improving service levels for maintenance and improvement of motorways, securing the high comfort and motorway users in service areas, we renegotiated our service area contracts with safety standards that distinguish Brisa´s network. fuel distributors and expanded the activity of Brisa Áreas de Serviço, which now operates Colibri stores in five service areas, transforming the standard followed in Operating cash flow generation (EBITDA-CAPEX) improved by 10% over 2017, this field and opening new prospects in terms of business and customer service. totalling €M 497. Financial expenses fell by €M 16, as a result of lower interest rates and a reduction in debt. In the financial arena, the highlight was Brisa Concessão In the field of mobility services, the Via Verde brand continued to grow, both in its Rodoviária, the Group’s major asset, which had its ratings upgraded, by Fitch, to payment services activity, with a considerable growth of the Via Verde Estacionar Awith Stable Outlook and by Moody’s to Baa2 with Stable Outlook. 9 service, available in 11 cities, as well as in the progress of the Via Verde eco-system with new offers, namely Via Verde Planner – in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto -, and Via Verde Transportes, both with a focus on seamlessness as a part of users’ experience of public transportation, a transport mode with growing importance in the context of increasing intermodality in cities and particularly in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area. Improving client experience and service levels was also a priority in the year under review, to be consolidated further in 2019 with the merger of Via Verde Serviços and Via Verde Contact. The first million downloads of the Via Verde app was a relevant milestone in our customer relationship strategy, and an evidence of the dynamics generated by our new systems. ENVIRONMENTAL AND PEOPLE’S PROGRESS An adequate management of the business environmental impacts is an integral part of Brisa’s vision. Accordingly, we work continuously to achieve eco-efficiency in processes and businesses and improve key environmental indicators, seeking solutions to mitigate and offset environmental impacts. In 2018 Brisa launched ‘Clima 2.0’ project, focused on an integrated response to the challenges of climate change and carbon neutrality, which resulted in the identification of various operating projects that will be implemented in 2019. At the same time, Brisa participated in national and international initiatives in this field, such as the Transport Decarbonisation Alliance, which Brisa joined in 2018. As the headcount of the group expanded, it is important to highlight the progress made to reconciliate the professional, personal and family life of our employees, namely with the implementation of the +Vida programme and efr certification as a family-responsible company. The positive trend recorded in the past few years continued in 2018 and we must preserve the focus, dedication and commitment shown by our teams. Brisa is indeed a great team, which delivers what it is asked to do. We are following the path that we set, based on a clearly defined strategy and with the best people. In 2019, we will keep on course to build the future. 10 1.2 BRISA PROFILE 11 Brisa Auto-Estradas de Portugal is a holding company with a portfolio made up of a large number of assets divided into 6 business segments. These business segments were defined according to the management’s vision and their positioning within the company’s strategy, taking into account size and materiality. BRISA’S SIMPLIFIED ORGANISATION CHART BY BUSINESS SEGMENT Brisa Other Motorway Support Services to Vehicle Product Other Businesses Concession Concessions the Concessions Inspections Technology (including mobility services) 70% 50% 100% 74% 81.21% 100% Brisa Concessão Concessão Atlântico (AEA) Brisa O&M Controlauto (CTA) Brisa Inovação e Tecnologia (BIT)* Via Verde Serviços (VVS) Rodoviária (BCR) (Operação e Manutenção) 47.5% 70% 100% Concessão Litoral Centro Brisa Gestão BNV Mobility (BNV) de Infraestruturas (BGI) * BIT’s social denomination was changed in (Brisal) March 2019 to AtoBe Mobility Technology, S.A. 99.92% 51% 36% Concessão Douro Litoral Brisa Áreas Transport Infrastructure (AEDL) de Serviço (BAS) Investment Company (TIIC) 36.85% 60% Subconcessão Autoestradas Via Verde Portugal (VVP) do Baixo Tejo (AEBT) 15% 100% Subconcessão Litoral Oeste (AELO) Via Verde Contact (VVC) 100% M Call Organisation chart as of 31 December 2018 12 1.3 KEY FIGURES SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE 1 628 km A(Fitch) and 1 124Km: Under concession to BCR 504 Km: Other concessions total Baa2 (Moody’s) 7.9% network BCR’s rating Treasury shares 2,0% Other 2 579 €M 57 % Employees Capital expenditure 40.6% Tagus Holdings 30.4% S.àr.l. José de Mello 1.2 Million €M 554 Investimentos SGPS, SA vehicle inspections EBITDA 3.8 Million 4 Million 19.1% Via Verde On-Board Units interactions with the Arcus European Infrastructure Fund contact centre NOTE: Tagus Holdings S.àr.l. is 55% held by José de Mello Investimentos SGPS, SA and 45% held by Arcus European Infrastructure Fund. 12 Million km travelled and monitored by road assistance vehicles 13 BUSINESS PEOPLE INNOVATION COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT Operating Number Investment in Accident Rate Electricity Consumption Income of Employees Research & Development (Road Safety) 139.6 10 GJ 3 €M 747 2 579 €M 2.5 32.8% 2016: 147.5 103 GJ | 2017: 143.8 103 GJ 2016: €M 648 | 2017: €M 679 2016: 2 345 | 2017: 2 435 2016: €M 1.2 | 2017: €M 1.7 2016: 32.3% | 2017: 29.8% (change resulting from methodological review) (Change resulting from methodological review) (Change resulting from methodological review) Donations and Fuel Consumption EBITDA Number of Public Service 90.2 10 GJ 3 €M 554 Training Hours €M 0.8 2016: 88.2 103 GJ | 2017: 86.4 103 GJ 2016: €M 484 | 2017: €M 506 54 656 2016: €M 0.7 | 2017: €M 0.7 2016: 52 291 | 2017: 53 577 Water Consumption EBITDA Margin Number of Employees 138.5 10 m 3 3 74.2% Number of Involved in 2016: 82.0 103 m3 | 2017: 122.0 103 m3 2016: 74.8% | 2017: 74.5% Occupational Accidents Volunteer Projects 97 159 GHG Emissions (Total MB) Net Financial 2016: 91 | 2017: 111 2016: 128 | 2017: 133 19.4 10 tCO e 3 2 Debt 2016: 18.9 103 tCO2e | 2017: 22.5 103 tCO2e €M 1 740 (change deriving from methodological review) 2016: €M 2 041 | 2017: €M 1 904 Waste 2 282 t Net Financial Debt / EBITDA 2016: 1 188 t | 2017: 782 t 3.1x 2016: 4.2x | 2017: 3.8x 14 1.4 VALUES AND MISSION For more than 40 years, Brisa has been leading the BRISA’S MISSION Provide domestic market with its model of road infrastructure being operating nationally and internationally as one of the main companies in the sector. This experience has enabled the development of a culture efficient focused on promoting mobility and accessibility, based on the values of Ethics, Excellence, Innovation and People, mobility for people. with major economic and social benefits for the activities and communities it serves. VALUES ON WHICH BRISA’S CULTURE IS BASED Ethics Excellence Innovation People 15 1.5 HIGHLIGHTS AND EVENTS OF THE YEAR JAN’ Fitch upgraded BCR’s long-term APR’ JUN’ rating to ‘BBB+’ from ‘BBB’, with ‘Stable’ Outlook. BCR extended the maturity of a committed credit BCR redeemed line and reduced its nominal amount from €M 75 a €M 300 bond. to €M 50. Via Verde Portugal launched the parking service Via Verde Estacionar in Cascais. FEB’ BCR released its 2017 results. MAY’ Traffic grew 6.8%. Via Verde Serviços launched the Via Verde A-to-Be and Globalvia, Planner in Lisbon, an app which allows won a contract for new toll solutions in the Pocahontas Parkway Concession in the USA. planning and booking trips with different transport, price and timetable options. JUL’ BCR carried out information tests on travelling times on A1. BCR released its 1st half 2018 results. Traffic grew 4.1%. Brisa distributed €0.145 per share relating to 2017 earnings. 16 DEC’ OCT’ Fitch upgraded BCR’s long-term rating from AUG’ ‘BBB+’ to ‘A-’ with ‘Stable’ Outlook. Moody’s upgraded BCR’s long-term rating from ‘Baa3’ Via Verde Serviços launched Via Verde Empresas, a new service of to ‘Baa2’ with ‘Stable’ Outlook. the Via Verde Ecosystem focused on offering companies greater Via Verde Portugal launched Brisa/BCR implemented the European project AUTOC-ITS autonomy and ease in the management of their processes. the parking service Via Verde Estacionar Connectivity Tests and Autonomous Vehicles on Motorways. Brisa Áreas de Serviço inaugurated a new Colibri restaurant service in Almada Via Verde Serviços launched the Via Verde Planner in Porto. in the Leiria and Almodôvar service areas. Brisa organized the “Mobility on the Move” event, Brisa distributed free reserves in the amount of € 0.136 per share. a conference on mobility, in partnership with ISCTE School. Brisa carried out the Christmas and New Year Road Safety Campaign. Controlauto and Iteuve completed their merger process. SEP’ Brisa joined the EDWARD project (European Day Without a Road Death), through an APCAP initiative. Variable message signs were displayed on the motorways, NOV’ with messages such as: “Do not use a mobile phone while driving. Have a nice trip!” and “European Day Without a Road Death. Give your contribution”. Brisa carried out a full-scale exercise organised jointly with ANPC and GNR entitled “T-Rex Drill”. Brisa volunteers participated in the Volunteer Day of José de Mello Group. The purpose of this exercise was to test safety plans and Brisa and Via Verde Portugal participated in the “Lisbon Mobi Summit”, procedures in Brisa network tunnels, as well as the communication a mobility-related event, with Brisa/Via Verde speakers increasing brand between different civil protection agencies in the response to awareness of Via Verde services. emergencies. Brisa joined the “Transport Decarbonisation Alliance”. Via Verde Portugal and A-to-Be attended the “WebSummit”. Brisa organised the “Brisa Student Drive Camp” in Viseu. 17 1.6 AWARDS AND EXTERNAL RECOGNITION BRISA INTEGRATED REPORT AWARD OF FAMILY-RESPONSIBLE COMPANY AWARDED BY APCE CERTIFICATION Brisa was certified as a “Family-Responsible Company”, following Brisa’s “2016 Integrated Report” was once again recognised, this time by an external audit. This certification is an important milestone in APCE – Associação Portuguesa de Comunicação de Empresa, with Great the development of the “Brisa +Vida (efr)” programme and aims to Award ’18, which distinguishes excellence in corporate communication strengthen the Group’s performance in promoting better conditions in the best sustainability report category. for its employees to balance professional, private and family life. BRISA AND VIA VERDE WIN PARTICIPATION IN “WORLD SUMMIT AWARD” MARKETEER PRIZE (WSA) Brisa’s project “Via Verde Mobility Ecosystem” was recognized by the World Summit Awards in the Smart Settlements & Urbanization Via Verde and Brisa were awarded the “Corporate Brand of the Year” Prize given category as one of the best digital content solutions in the world. by Marketeer magazine. This prize is based on the votes of the magazine’s The World Summit Awards are an United Nations initiative that readers and the Council of Founders of Marketeer. covers 182 countries and is endorsed by UNESCO and the Sustainable Development Goals with the purpose of using digital solutions to promote social inclusion. BRISA WAS RANKED FIRST IN BRISA WINS SILVER IN THE MEDIA AND “ROAD COMPANIES | EUROPE | PRIVATE ENTITY” BY GRESB ADVERTISING (M&P) PRIZES Brisa and the DriveNow brand, was awarded two second places in the Media and Advertising awards, in the “Car and Mobility” and “Innovation” categories. The first category distinguishes the best GRESB is the sustainability research benchmark agency at global level in the mobility projects or the ones developed for the car/transport sector real assets sector infrastructures and real estate. whereas the second recognises the most innovative products and/ or services. The M&P awards main objective is to recognise the best works, projects and actions in the communication and public relations areas. 18 2.1 MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT ECONOMIC ACTIVITY EVOLUTION OF GDP • The macroeconomic environment in Portugal continued to evolve positively AND PRIVATE CONSUMPTION IN PORTUGAL throughout 2018, despite a slowdown in activity in the second half of the year. PERCENTAGE (%) Indicators with the most relevant effect on Brisa’s activity (i.e. GDP, Private Consumption and Inflation) continued to evolve positively. 3.0% 2.8% 2.5% 2.5% 2.4% GDP 2.3% 2.1% IN 2018 2.0% 2.3% 2.7% 1.9% After GDP growth over 2% in 2017 and 2018, Bank of Portugal estimates a 1.7% 2.1% 1.9% growth for the Portuguese economy in 2019 and 2020. 1.5% 1.8% 1.7% 1.7% 1.0% 0.5% PRIVATE CONSUMPTION 2.5% IN 2018 0.0% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (f) 2020 (f) Private Consumption is expected to increase in 2019, backed by the rise in employment and nominal wages. In the following years its growth rate is GDP PRIVATE CONSUMPTION expected to slowdown, in line with the real disposable income. Bank of Portugal Source: Bank of Portugal projections estimates that Private Consumption will increase by 2.7% and 1.9% in the next two years. FINANCIAL MARKETS Financial markets experienced a high degree of uncertainty in 2018. Brexit and growing trade tensions between the US and China, political instability in Italy and the reduction of monetary stimulus, all had a negative impact on investor INFLATION sentiment, bringing down the overall value of riskier assets. 1.2% IN 2018 The gradual reduction of labor market resources experienced in recent years Brisa does not have listed securities. However, Brisa Concessão Rodoviária (BCR) should continue, reflecting the maturity of the economic cycle. This trend has is one of the largest bond issuers in Portugal. Despite BCR’s rating upgrades been translating into positive wage evolution, which should increase in 2020. from both Fitch and Moody’s, its risk premium increased (the spread of the 2025 The Bank of Portugal estimates that HICP will stand at 0.8% and 1.2% in 2019 bond widened 47 basis points during the year, moving from 0.68% to 1.16%), and 2020, respectively. reflecting the abovementioned instability in financial markets. 20 FUEL PRICES AT THE PUMP Fuel prices in Portugal are strongly influenced by the price of Brent crude, which In Portugal, the annual average fuel price at the pump continued to increase in is expected to increase slightly in 2019, according to available sources. 2018, although at slower pace than in 2017. However, the expected rise in the final price of fuel at the pump is likely to be Notwithstanding, the sales volume of fuel rose by nearly 1.0%, underpinned by partially mitigated, since taxes on fuel products in Portugal do not vary diesel sales. significantly and the weight of which is relevant in the formation of the final price. GASOLINE THE CAR MARKET The number of cars sold in Portugal in 2018 totalled approximately 273,000 • Annual average pump price: +5.4% (€ 1.58 in 2018) vehicles, an increase of 2.6% compared to 2017. • Tons sold: -0.5% These figures evidence a trend towards stabilisation in the growth pace of car sales in relation to previous years (growth of 7.7% in 2017 and of 15.8% in 2016). DIESEL • Annual average pump price: +8.2% (€1.34 in 2018) • Tons sold: +1.3% MONTHLY EVOLUTION OF PORTUGUESE PUMP PRICES, CUMULATIVE MONTHLY EVOLUTION OF (2017-2018) NEW CAR SALES IN PORTUGAL, (2017-2018) EURO (€) PERCENTAGE (%) 1.7€ 40.0% 1.6€ 30.0% 1.5€ 20.0% 1.4€ 10.0% 2.7% 1.3€ 2.6% 0.0% -1.6% 1.2€ 1.1€ -10.0% 1.0€ -20.0% 0.9€ J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC 2017 2018 GASOLINE DIESEL LIGHT VEHICLES HEAVY VEHICLES TOTAL VEHICLES Source: DGEG, Direção Geral de Energia e Geologia Source: ACAP, Associação Automóvel de Portugal 21 2.2 BUSINESS MODEL MARKET BACKGROUND AND STRATEGIC IMPLICATIONS: MAIN TRENDS Connectivity between Electrified and infrastructure and vehicles autonomous Change of mobility dynamic vehicles with the decoupling of vehicle owner and user Cyber security Use of data as competitive advantage Omnichannel Society and consumption touchpoints digitalization Demographic development Focus on the client and urban growth and multimodality Regulation and Increase of In-vehicle green policies technology 22 VISION AND STRATEGIC PILLARS Brisa is focused on maximizing its assets value creation, whilst developing new business opportunities, as a technology and mobility services provider. While seeking to reach its goals, Brisa is continuing focussed on social and environmental responsibility. Focus on the Operating Financial Corporate client Performance Management Responsibility Maximising client satisfaction, Maximise value creation through Efficient, prudent and disciplined Strengthen the relationship with increasing touch points with operational efficiency and financial management all stakeholders in a structured clients, through greater integration, disciplined management of and systematic way (whether efficiency and the use of digital tools capital expenditure (CAPEX) Ensure appropriate financial internal or external) capacity to suit financing and Adopt the most advanced investment needs Continue to implement an and efficient technologies to integrated strategy to operations and decision making improve social and environmental responsibility standards People Digital Data Stakeholders’ Transformation Analytics management (Grantor, Public Authorities, Partners, Investors) 23 BUSINESS SEGMENTS Brisa’s business model as a portfolio manager is based on an integrated approach of its 6 business segments. Although each segment has its own model, requiring different types and quantum of capital employed, together they promote the sustainable growth of the Brisa Group. Brisa Other Motorway Support services to Concession Concessions Concessions • BCR is Brisa’s major concession. This • The business segment “Other • This business segment company holds the concession for Motorway Concessions” comprises encompasses all entities of the 12 motorways, totalling 1 124 km Brisa’s stakes in the share capital Group providing support services of 5 Portuguese road concessions, to the concessions. These services totalling 504 km are focused on the client and on the operation and maintenance of concessioned network Vehicle Product Other Businesses Inspections Technology (including mobility services) • This business segment is • This business segment • This business segment is represented by the Group’s encompasses Brisa’s participation represented by the Group’s company responsible for the in the development of innovative company responsible for providing development and marketing projects for new mobility solutions vehicle inspection services of technological solutions for the efficient management of infrastructures and mobility 24 VIA VERDE ECOSYSTEM Brisa is developing an extensive ecosystem of mobility services, under the umbrella of its Viva Verde brand, in response to the growing demand of its clients. This ecosystem humanizes the infrastructure, accompanying clients throughout their journey from the decision regarding the transportation mode to the satisfaction and safety of the trip. Brisa intends to continue developing relevant partnerships to strengthen the supply of products and services to its clients. MOBILITY APPS WEBSITE ELECTRONIC PAYMENT OF ROAD TOLLS, CAR PARKING, FUEL ASSISTANCE AND DRIVE-INS FREE WI-FI STORES IN SERVICES AND STORES CAR AND RIDE CONTACT SHARING CENTRE LOYALTY SERVICE AND PROGRAMME RESTAURANT AREAS 25 VALUE CREATION Based on its business model, Brisa intends to create value for all its stakeholders at financial, human, technological, social and environmental levels. CAPITAL INPUT BUSINESS MODEL VALUE CREATED BUSINESS SEGMENTS €M 57 €M 1 740 €M 339 €M 497 €M 89 €M 155 Capital Financing Liquidity EBITDA CAPEX Corporate Rating A(Fitch) Expenditure (Net financial debt) Income Tax Baa2 (Moody’s) Business (CAPEX) Brisa Concession Other Motorway Support services Shareholder Remuneration • 1 124 km of Concessions to concessions concession network • Holdings in 5 concessions • 6 service companies • 12 motorways • 504 km of concessioned • 18 operational centres • 50% market share (1) network • 12 million km traveled by road assistance vehicles 2 579 23.2 hours • 3.8 million Via Verde OBUs efr Employees Average number of training • 14 service areas (5 under the Colibri concept) 95 % 0.5% Family-Responsible hours per employee Employees Absenteeism Company Certification 352 evaluated Rate People New hires Vehicle Product Other businesses Inspections technology (including mobility services) €M 2.5 3 • 46 inspection centres • 1.2 million vehicle inspections • 5 business segments • 3 lines of innovative 5 2 Investment in R&D Research labs New innovation 150 and technological products • New mobility solutions Patents (2) • 10 contracts in the USA • Travel & Advantages 3 projects 20 €k 440 Collaboration with various research centres and 2 in Europe Programme Start-ups with Registered Scientific papers published (3) Innovation From European funds and universities direct mentoring licenses FOCUS ON THE CLIENT 159 Employees in -1.6% 95.3% €M 0.8 1 volunteer projects 6.5 minutes Severe injury Local Suppliers Donations and Public Service Road Safety Observatory 1.5 Million 3.8 4 Million -23.6% Average response time (4) accident rate Communities • Transactions via digital channel • Overall average • Call Centre interactions Road accident death rate client satisfaction (5) 3 2 282 t 210 730 300 Via Verde -42% Labs for conformity tests Total waste • New Hotline Ecosystem • Average response time in stores (compared to 2017) -13.8% 54% -2.9% of materials, (at a significantly lower GHG emissions Waste Electricity consumption construction 139.6 103 GJ 19.4 103 tCO2e cost or even nil) (Scopes 1 and 2) recovered (compared to 2017) Environment elements, noise and water Electricity GHG emissions (compared to 2017) consumption (Scopes 1 and 2) 1) Km travelled APCAP 2017 data 4) Average time from the moment the assistance call is received at the OCC to the moment road assistance arrives at the scene. 2) 1 registered patent and 1 international patent pending approval 5) Figures on a scale of 1 to 4 based on satisfaction surveys 3) Since 2002 26 2.3 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS 1. Internal, comprising top management, backed by a representative sample of MATERIALITY ANALYSIS managers and senior staff; In 2018, with the support of an independent entity, Brisa undertook the revision 2. External, seeking to build a representative sample of stakeholders amongst the of its materiality analysis, using a methodology in line with the guidelines and public administration, the banking sector, clients, regulatory authorities, grantor, directives of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the framework <IR> of the suppliers, the financial market, partners, insurance companies, local communities, International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). media and employees. This review allowed the validation of economic, social, environmental and This stakeholders’ analysis regarding sustainability had the following goals: governance issues which impact on the Group’s activities, based on the company’s top management and stakeholders’ visions, thereby ensuring the integration Understand the perception of the stakeholders regarding Brisa’s vision of both the internal and external perspectives. on economic, social and environmental responsibilities; The internal analysis covered the following points: Establish the importance given by stakeholders to the 34 sustainability subjects identified during the first phase and respective perception of Review of the current situation of stakeholder engagement, focused on Brisa’s performance; subjects deemed relevant; Assess the importance of Brisa’s contribution to the UN Sustainable Integration of the relevant standards and regulations concerning Development Goals (SDG) and the most relevant goals deemed by the nonfinancial information; stakeholders; Benchmarking of national and international peer companies in the Identify improvement opportunities in Brisa’s performance and reporting infrastructure and operation sector; on sustainability information. Identification of additional relevant subjects based on reputation studies, In overall terms, results show that Brisa is perceived by its stakeholders as an media & social media relations and brand value. organisation with a clear sense of its responsabilities with regard to the three dimensions of sustainability economic, environmental and social. The response This process has allowed Brisa to confirm the structure of its strategic stakeholders rate of external stakeholders stood at 48%. matrix and single out the key issues which impact the Group’s performance. For Brisa this stakeholders’ analysis is an important information management tool. In a second phase, with the support of an independent entity, Brisa made The results obtained allow not only to establish the expectations and concerns of a mapping of stakeholders and a sustainability analysis involving two groups: its stakeholders, but also to determine both the relevant subjects to address in the annual report and a set of improvement opportunities regarding the Group’s strategy and activity. 27 SUBJECTS WITH MEDIUM AND HIGH MATERIALITY As a result of this analysis, the material subjects underlying the definition of the strategic areas for sustainability initiative actions are: The materiality matrix obtained from this exercise reveals the position of the material subjects according to the importance assigned by both internal and external stakeholders. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE MATERIALITY MATRIX BRISA 100% CLIENT SATISFACTION IMPORTANCE OF THE SUBJECT TO STAKEHOLDERS (OVERALL) Lorem ipsum Business and Road Safety Sustainability strategy SERVICE EFFICIENCY Quality of services provided Ethics, anti-corruption practices and anti-competitive behaviour Client satisfaction Economic performance and operational efficiency TRANSPARENCY IN MANAGEMENT PRACTICES Innovation in products Climate and servicess Changes Risk Management 90% Decarbonisation of transport and Sustainable Mobility INNOVATION IN PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Occupational Health and Safety ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY AND ACTION Relationship with Development stakeholders and training of human capital Resilience to RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS natural disasters Active traffic Governance Model management (including governance and sustainability) Human Rights 80% 80% 90% 100% PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND LABOUR PRACTICES BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY IMPORTANCE OF THE SUBJECT TO INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS MEDIUM MATERIALITY HIGH MATERIALITY RISK MANAGEMENT 28 MANAGEMENT APPROACH Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) MATERIAL TOPICS MANAGEMENT APPROACH (DMA) MATCH WITH SDG’S MATERIAL TOPICS MANAGEMENT APPROACH (DMA) MATCH WITH SDG’S ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Brisa considers operational efficiency and ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY AND ACTION Mitigating and offsetting the economic performance to be one of the environmental impacts of the Value Creation Eco-efficiency (Energy/ Emissions/ cornerstones of its management. The business and developing solutions Water/ Waste/ Biodiversity) Operational efficiency Company promotes good management that address the current challenges practices in all dimensions of its business and Decarbonisation of transportation and mobility of sustainable mobility and climate continuously seeks to improve efficiency. change are an integral part of Response to climate change Brisa’s strategic vision for all its business Infrastructure resilience segments. CLIENT SATISFACTION Management and client satisfaction are focal points of Brisa’s strategy, in line with Infrastructure maintenance/improvement the business model. For this reason we RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS Brisa values the relationship with Impact of traffic jams monitor client satisfaction and stakeholders (local communities, NGOs, continuously seek to improve our road Development of collaborative projects Responsible communication and etc.) in every phase of its activity and and mobility related products and Dialogue with stakeholders seeks to foster its positive social marketing services. effects. Hiring of local suppliers/ Hiring of local resources/Impact of SERVICE EFFICIENCY Brisa strives to improve service efficiency, the business on local communities investing in innovation and in the quality Infrastructure resilience Sustainable Mobility of its service, in road safety, Active Traffic Management in mobility active management and in energy efficiency. Road safety PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Brisa values people, by promoting a series Quality of Services AND LABOUR PRACTICES of practices addressed to its employees, such as training and career development, Training integration programmes, balance between TRANSPARENCY IN MANAGEMENT Brisa promotes transparency in Health and Safety work and private life, workplace health and PRACTICES management practices aligned with its safety prevention. Diversity and Equal Opportunity ethics, based on the best corporate Ethics governance practices, social values and Balance between working life and Model of corporate governance the Law. family and personal life Anti-corruption practices Employability Anti-competitive behaviour BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY Brisa integrates the financial and nonClient privacy STRATEGY financial dimensions in its business strategy, aiming at creating economic, INNOVATION IN PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Brisa pushes for the development of its Integration of financial and nonenvironmental and social value. The focus business according to the most demanding financial dimensions of its work is to provide efficient mobility to Meeting client needs with innovative innovation standards technological, people. solutions, acting in dimensions such as the services, processes, amongst others business model, products, processes, as a critical factor of success in a systems or client service. constantly changing market and factor of RISK MANAGEMENT The aim of risk management is to ensure the differentiation vis-a-vis its competitors. sustained growth of the businesses and to Integration of digitalisation, collaborative Integrated risk management protect Brisa’s value, through an integrated models and behavioural changes management of strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks. 29 Goal 9 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure focus on targets of building resilient infrastructure, promoting inclusive and sustainable industrialization and fostering innovation. In line with its ongoing commitment to sustainable development, Brisa recognises the importance and potential of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which Portugal has subscribed to on September 25, 2015. Today, Goal 11 this relevance is also backed by the results of the above-mentioned materiality Sustainable cities and communities focus on targets of accessible analysis and mapping of stakeholders undertaken in 2018, which provided further and sustainable transport systems, protection of the cultural and insight into the application of the Sustainable Development Goals and more environmental heritage, mitigating environmental impact of cities specifically, the relationship with Brisa’s strategy and activity. and solid national and regional development planning. In addition to the internal feedback on the SDGs, the information gathered with external stakeholders is significant, namely the importance they place in the SDGs in general (76% of them deemed the SDGs to be important) and their expectation Goal 12 regarding Brisa’s role in the achievement of the SDGs (97.1% of stakeholders who Responsible Consumption and Production focus on targets of value the SDGs believe that Brisa will contribute to their achievement). promoting sustainable corporate practices, promoting universal understanding of sustainable lifestyles, reducing waste generation. Thus, as a result of this exercise combined with an internal revision of the applications of the SDGs and respective goals for the business, combined with the infrastructures and mobility sector – namely via Brisa’s Goal 13 participation in the activities and projects of the international organisations Climate action focus on the target of integration of measures of which it is a member – Brisa increased from 8 to 9 the number of Sustainable for climate change. Development Goals which it considers to have greater affinity with its core business. Goal 15 Life on Land focus on the target of biodiversity and natural Goal 3 habitats’ protection.. Good Health and Well-Being focus on reducing injured and fatalities on motorways. Goal 17 Goal 7 Partnerships for the goals focus on the target of sharing Affordable and Clean Energy focus on doubling energy efficiency knowledge for access to science, technology and innovation. improvement. Goal 8 Decent work and economic growth focus on targets of SDGs 3, 7, 9, 11, 12, sustainable economic growth, in diversification, innovation and 13, 15 and 17 were kept, evolution towards economic productivity, job creation and business SDG 8 was added. creation, improvement in resource efficiency in consumption and production, promotion of decent working conditions and hygiene and occupational health and safety. 30 the International Labour Organization on the Fundamental Principles and Rights DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS at Work, and the Rio Declaration, on environment and development. Brisa signed the United Nations Global Compact on 8 October 2007, thus reinforcing Stakeholders have legitimate expectations, which define Brisa’s material issues. its public commitment towards sustainable development. The membership Identifying critical topics and building a positive relationship with all stakeholders enhances the integration of sustainable development values into Brisa’s value chain. requires increasingly sensitive scrutiny mechanisms. United Nations Global Compact Principles • REFERENCE ORGANIZATIONS 1. Support and Respect the protection of human rights (p. 162-165) The most important stakeholders were identified based on two criteria: the stakeholder’s impact on Brisa and Brisa’s impact on the stakeholder. 2. Prevent human rights abuses (p. 162-163) The comprehensive identification of the expectations of each stakeholder and 3. Support freedom of association at work (p. 98) respective response are articulated with the above-mentioned materiality analysis 4. Abolish forced labour (p. 164-165) Brisa is an active member of and collated in line with APS AA1000 Standard. various organizations, 5. Abolish child labour (p. 10, 11, 155) Brisa is an active member of various organizations, including sector associations including sector associations and renamed entities associated with sustainable development. 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation (p. 15, 116-136, 160-162) and renamed entities 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges (p. 14, 26-38, 109-114) associated with sustainable Brisa takes part in the managing bodies or decision-making structures of some of development these organisations (marked with: ) 8. Promote environmental responsibility (p. 14, 26, 109-114) 9. Encourage technologies that do not harm the environment (p. 82-84, 109, 110) • UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT This corporate citizenship initiative launched by the United Nations in 2000 involves 10. Combat corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery (p. 28, 29, 133-136, 165-166) stakeholders and is based on universally accepted principles the Declaration of 31 Forms of Scrutiny (PHASE 1) Expectations (PHASE 2) Response (PHASE 3) Material Subjects • Active management of the Concession Contract Compliance with the Concession • Creation of events/activities/queries Compliance with the Concession • Prior, formal and informal meetings Contract • Strict compliance with the Concession Contract Contract Definition of criteria to improve provided services Optimisation of technical solutions • Development of specific studies REGULATOR • Employee website and Quality and • Job stability • People management processes, for example: • Talent Management Environment website • Prospects of professional progress Performance management; • Health and Safety • Irregularities Disclosure Channel and Ethical • Working conditions Careers • Corporate Culture Ombudsman • Balance between professional, family Compensation • Professional development and • Regular meetings of the Workers’ Commission and personal life Training labour practices • Follow-up of management systems Communication channels • Balance between professional, work • Training Assessment Questionnaire (See channels mentioned in column and personal life EMPLOYEES • Internal Quality Audit Satisfaction “Forms of Scrutiny”) Questionnaire Active Improvement Opportunities System • Active management and follow-up of • Compliance with the Concession Contract • Negotiation process, with impact on the • Compliance with the contractual obligations Concession Contract Concession Contract • Permanent contact • Contract management • Ethics and Transparency • Creation of events/activities/queries • Drafting of reports STATE • Proposals of the trade unions and Fulfilment of contracts and protocol • Analysis of the proposals, suggestions and • Ecosystem of innovation negotiating process in force complaints • Certification • Regular meetings (monthly or quarterly) Creation of opportunities and active • Collective bargaining agreement (ACT) • Ethics and Transparency • Parity commissions (when necessary) collaboration in the initiatives developed Model of network innovation Management of Works Contract • Development of long-term joint ventures Partnership protocols with universities and research entities SOCIAL Support to the production of scientific PARTNERS literature production 32 Forms of Scrutiny (PHASE 1) Expectations (PHASE 2) Response (PHASE 3) Material Subjects • Brisa’s website, email, telephone number • Transparent and accurate information • Regular information through available channels Economic performance • Integrated Report (financial and nonEthics and Transparency financial information) Eco-efficiency and Brisa website, email, telephone number Operational Management • Meetings and specific events, such as the General Meeting Client satisfaction SHAREHOLDERS • Customer satisfaction assessment study • Comfort, safety and fluidity of traffic At operational level: • Road safety Follow-up of the assessment of customer satisfaction Quality of the infrastructure and • New road safety equipment, systems and procedures • Active Traffic Management with road assistance service, information number, provided service, perception of Management of road pavement and related structures • Customer Service assistance and services at the Via Verde stores received value Road patrolling and assistance services Mystery client in widening works, service areas and Accessible and transparent contact In terms of the information provided: Via Verde stores Complaint management system Assessment of food quality and hygiene in service • Multichannel information on traffic in motorways (Via Verde service channels, website, app, radio, areas press releases, leaflets,...) Client surveys Via Verde stores, Service Areas and Available client support channels: websites, hotlines, information kiosks CLIENTS Via Verde stores Assistance and information number, hotline to Complaints management system Via Verde clients Assistance and information to the hearing-impaired community via sms • Internet websites • Via Verde Eco-system • Via Verde app • Public consultation process, for environmental impact • Contribution towards local development • Contribution towards local development • Involvement of assessments • Mobility and accessibility solutions • Mobility and accessibility solutions stakeholders • Dedicated channel for communication with the Media • Drafting of reports Posiive external perception Employees’ contribution LOCAL COMMUNITIES • Implementation of annual surveys • Transparency and quality of the • Transparency and quality of the information • Ethics and Transparency • Journalists perception study information • Eco-efficiency and • Quarterly monitoring and assessment of news Operational Management • Monitoring of the impact of specific events • Client Service Annual reputation survey PUBLIC OPINION 33 2.4 RISK MANAGEMENT 2.4.1 DESCRIPTION OF THE IDENTIFICATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS The aim of Risk Management is to ensure the sustained growth of the businesses and to protect Brisa’s value, using the best practices and enabling the capitalisation of inhouse knowledge, which contributes to the achievement of the strategic goals set forth at Group level. G N Brisa is exposed to 4 different categories of risks: MO NI • Strategic goals TO • Planning & Budget RI • Strategic Risks • Action Plans RISKS • Operational Risks IDENTIFICATION • Financial Risks • Compliance Risks The Risk Management Policy is established at Group level, involving directly REPORT the managing bodies of the various companies of the Brisa Group, as well as all remaining corporate structures. ASSESSMENT: • Causes As a cornerstone of the Company’s Governance, Risk Management is present • Consequences in Brisa’s culture and management processes. Employees are responsible • Controls for mitigating risk factors, minimizing their impact and probability and identifying, whenever possible, opportunities for improvement and/or return. RISK APPROACH: • Accept The Group’s integrated risk management framework is based on internationally • Avoid ON recognised methodologies such as COSO (Committee of Sponsorship • Reduce ASSESSMENT: AT Organizations of the Treadway Commission) and ISO (International Organisation • Share • Underlying Risk I for Standardisation) 31000 Risk Management, which is developed as follows: • Residual Risk C I UN M M C O 34 In addition to ensuring the convergence of risk management with strategic planning, the implemented The Internal Audit, in addition to supporting the implementation of the process enables updating on a regular and systematic basis the identification and assessment of risk management system, makes a continuous assessment of established the main risks. procedures, in order to ensure that the risk management system remains aligned with the strategic goals defined by the Board of Directors. Additionally, it allows to determine any control and/or mitigation measures which, in the current context of new business trends evolution from efficient infrastructures management to development The Supervisory Board is responsible for controlling the risk management policy of new mobility solutions -, are particularly important in supporting the management from the and system, in conjunction with the Board of Directors, promoting an annual strategic perspective of sustained development of the entire company. assessment of the system and proposing the necessary measures to improve it. The following chart summarises the role of the different players: Amongst the measures already implemented in 2018 the following are worth noting: 2 nd N SE LI N E E • Update of Probability and Impact, as risk assessment INE OF D 1s L OF support measures; t DE F E N S E EF 1 BUSINESS SUPERVISION 2 UNITS • Integration of risks managed and assessed by the Corporate Centre in the respective Business Units; • Identify and assess the • Define and implement policies, business areas’ risks processes and procedures • Implement the risk • Ensure the alignment of management process risk management with • Define and implement strategic goals 3 internal controls • Monitor the adequacy and • Define/Identify changes effectiveness of the risk • Performance of assurance audits by the Internal in risk appetite 3 management process and Audit Department on the responses to risk ERVISÃO AUDIT rd appointed by Management; internal control system LINE OF D E FE E NS • E-learning training to promote a risk culture within the Group. • Perform independent assessments • Identify improvement opportunities • Report to top management 35 2.4.2 IDENTIFICATION OF RISKS (RISK MATRIX) STRATEGIC/BUSINESS OPERATIONAL Risk associated with the definition and Risk associated with operational implementation of the strategy and timely Sustainability management stemming from activities responsiveness to internal and external events Fraud/Corruption likely to have significant impact likely to significantly influence the group’s Reputation on ongoing business. Road Safety competitive position. Political and Regulatory Traffic Occupational Health and Safety Mobility Infrastructure Asset Management Partnerships Management Technological evolution Talent Management Competition Informations Systems Security Financing contracts Funding and liquidity Legal/Contractual Interest rate Tax Environment Personal Data protection € Counterparty Concession Contract FINANCIAL COMPLIANCE Risk associated with the financial management Risk associated with compliance with the of the Group, namely liquidity, interest rate, law, regulations, internal procedures foreign exchange rate or credit risk or contracts. of main counterparties in possible financial transactions. 36 2.4.3 BRISA’S RESPONSE TO IDENTIFIED RISKS STRATEGIC RISKS Risk Treatment/Response to Risk • Traffic budget based on macro-economic studies from external entities Traffic • Performance of sensitivity scenarios/analysis • Road network intervention/maintenance planning • Average Daily Traffic periodic monitoring • Monitoring of the regulatory evolution process Political and Regulatory • International trends benchmarking • Management and interaction with major stakeholders (IMT and Governmental bodies) • Active presence at sector associations (APCAP and ASECAP) and institutional organizations (WBCSD, BCSD, ITF, CIP) • Alignment with market’s best practices Technological Evolution • Partnership policy with universities and companies • Investment in new solutions • Permanent interaction with R&D financing bodies (Portuguese and EC) • Proof of concept • Compliance with ESG (Environmental, Social & Governance) criteria Sustainability • GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) report revision • TDA (Transport Decarbonization Alliance) signature • Implementation of the multidisciplinary project Climate 2.0 • Family Responsible Company OPERATIONAL RISKS Risk Treatment/Response to Risk • Motorway patrolling by the National Guard and road assistance Road Safety • Participation in road accident prevention campaigns • Continuous investment in maintenance and preservation of the road infrastructure • Road Safety Observatory • Implementation of an asset management life cycle system Infrastructure Asset Management • Adoption of processes and tools to monitor and control the assets’ performance • Specialized internal structure Occupational Health and Safety • Occupational safety and health procedures associated with hazardous activities • Continuous personnel training and development • Safety audits 37 FINANCIAL RISKS Risk Treatment/Response to Risk • Adjustment of the fixed/floating rate mix to market conditions and/or contractual Interest rate requirements of each company • Entering into instruments to manage interest rate risk • Sensitivity trend analysis on interest rates’ evolution • Ensure a smooth debt amortisation profile Funding and liquidity • Extend the average maturity of debt to make it more consistent with the long-term assets • Highly liquid financial products Short-term Investment of treasury surpluses: • Investment policy for proper application of cash surpluses, which determines Counterparty the maximum exposure per financial instrument and bank counterparty Clients: • Control of the clients current account and credit claims • Recording of impairment for debt due within one year COMPLIANCE RISKS Risk Treatment/Response to risk • Incorporation of environmental objectives in the company’s strategy Environment • Environmental Policy • Compliance with environmental sustainability criteria • Focus on continuous improvement and sustainable performance of the business • Environmental audits and environmental KPIs monitoring • Environmentally certified companies (ISO 140001) • Compliance with contractual requirements Concession Contract • Implementation and monitoring of the Quality Control Plan (QCP) • Implementation of the Maintenance and Operation Manual (MOM) • Monitoring of compliance with information duties • Tax consultancy Tax • Continuous training in tax regulations • Continuous updating of software with tax impact/responsabilities • Internal specialised structure 38 3.1 BRISA CONCESSION (BCR) The relevance and size which Brisa Concessão BCR was created following Brisa’s corporate re-organization. Its corporate object is the construction, maintenance and operation of motorways and respective service Rodoviária (BCR) holds within the Brisa areas and the planning and development of social infrastructure, pursuant to Group, along with its contractual and financial a concession contract. The length of the network subject to concession is 1 124 km, structure justify its segregation into an and it is 70% held by Brisa. independent business segment. 1 124 km MOTORWAY CONCESSION NETWORK 50% MARKET SHARE (TRAVELLED KM, APCAP 2017) 40 BRISA CONCESSÃO RODOVIÁRIA’S PROFILE BCR’s concession totals 1 124 km, comprising 12 motorways including the future access to the New Lisbon Airport. The network subject to concession is almost entirely built. BCR currently operates 11 motorways, covering a total length of 1 100.2 km, of which 1 014.1 km are tolled. The network will be fully completed following the construction of access to the New Lisbon Airport, which is currently on hold. The network runs from North to South and East to West. It includes the country’s main road axes, such as the coastal corridor or the Lisbon-Madrid link. It further includes important circular roads around the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Oporto. According to the Concession Contract concluded with the Portuguese Government, the concession will end in December 2035. A3 BCR’s long term strategy is based on the combined and sustainable development A4 of its three value creation drivers: • IMPROVEMENT OF OPERATIONAL MARGIN BCR’S CONCESSION BY MOTORWAY OPORTO With focus on clients and the community, the range of services aims to improve IN OPERATION TOLL TOLLED responses to increasing client demands. Infrastructure and equipment maintenance LENGTH (KM) FREE and conservation are increasingly integrated to optimize these activities and A14 prevent any unavailability, while using resources as efficiently as possible. A1 Auto-estrada do Norte 17.4 279.1 Hence, the country benefits from a high quality and comprehensive motorway COIMBRA A2 Auto-estrada do Sul 9.6 225.2 network, the use of which provides relevant economic and environmental benefits. A3 Auto-estrada Porto Valença 11.5 101.3 A1 A4 Auto-estrada Porto Amarante 3.0 48.3 • FINANCIAL EFFICIENCY BACKED BY A PROACTIVE AND CONSERVATIVE MANAGEMENT A5 Auto-estrada da Costa do Estoril 8.1 16.9 A continuous search for the best funding alternatives combined with increasing A6 Auto-estrada Marateca Elvas 19.1 138.8 A10 A13 funds generated by operating activities will continue to provide for increasing cash A9 A6 A9 Circular Regional Externa de Lisboa 0.0 34.4 flow generation. BCR wants to maintain a prudent distribution policy, complying A10 Auto-estrada Bucelas Carregado IC3 0.0 39.8 with the financial ratios set forth in the Common Terms Agreement (CTA). LISBON A12 Auto-estrada Setúbal Montijo 4.3 24.8 A5 ÉVORA A13 Auto-estrada Almeirim Marateca 0.0 78.7 • EFFICIENCY IN THE MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL EXPENDITURE A12 A14 Auto-estrada Figueira da Foz Coimbra (Norte) 13.1 26.8 In addition to maintenance and conservation activities, BCR will continue to channel a relevant part of its generated cash flows to the renewal of equipment (collection, Total 86.1 1 014.1 information, safety, communications, environmental improvement, among others) A2 and road infrastructures (pavements, viaducts, signing, communications). Moreover, investment has been channelled into the renovation of some service areas under the “Colibri” concept and into the widening (2x4 lanes) and renovation of the tunnels on the A4 Águas Santas (A4/A3) – Ermesinde sub-stretch. Alongside increasing operating efficiency and effectiveness, these investments will allow FARO the development of new solutions to meet its clients’ needs. BCR 41 TRAFFIC EVOLUTION An analysis of traffic evolution by type of vehicle shows that heavy vehicle traffic was stronger than light vehicle’s (respectively +8.0% and +4.0%), in line with the In 2018 the macroeconomic environment allowed for a continued traffic growth in positive economic momentum in Portugal. every motorway of BCR’s concession. Average Daily Traffic (ADT) in the concession totalled 20 693 vehicles, growing 4.3% YoY. This performance was mainly driven by organic growth, as calendar effect only contributed marginally to traffic increase. BREADKOWN OF THE ANNUAL TRAFFIC CHANGE PERCENTAGE (%) ‘17 ‘18 Traffic (v.km) 6,8% 4,3% 6.8% 4.3% BREAKDOWN OF EFFECTS: Organic Growth 7.3% 4.1% Calendar effect -0.5% 0.1% Other 0.0% 0.1% ADT 19 847 20 693 Like-for-like 7.1% 4.3% All motorways of BCR’s concession continued to post positive growth figures, between 2.8% on the A5 and 10.4% on the A10. COVENANTS AND RATING In addition to its contractual and financial structure, which grants creditors high level of protection, BCR has kept a prudent and conservative financial management. CHANGE IN ANNUAL TRAFFIC The four covenants in the form of financial ratios (namely Net Senior Debt/ PER MOTORWAY (V.KM) EBITDA, Historic ICR, Forward Looking ICR and CLCR) to which BCR is subject PERCENTAGE (%) (under a Common Terms Agreement) stood within established thresholds as of 31 December 2018. 10.4% In January 2018 Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”) revised upwards the long-term rating of 9.8% BCR to ‘BBB+’ from ‘BBB’, with Stable Outlook. In December Fitch revised again BCR’s rating, this time to ‘A-‘ from ‘BBB+’, with Stable Outlook maintained. In October Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) also revised upwards BCR’s 6.1% rating from ‘Baa3’ to ‘Baa2’. The Outlook is Stable. 5.1% 5.0% 5.2% 5.2% 4.3% Both rating agencies rate BCR above the rating of the Portuguese Republic. 3.8% 3.7% 3.5% 2.8% AFitch rating Baa2 Moody’s rating A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A6 A9 A10 A12 A13 A14 BCR 42 FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESS SEGMENT In 2018 this segment’s Operating Income totalled €M 616.2 (+8.0% compared with Cash generation, measured by EBITDA – CAPEX totalled €M 438.3, growing by 2017), benefiting from an increase in the network’s traffic (+4.3%) and from a rise in 10% compared to the same period of the previous year profit following the renegotiations of service areas contracts. The increase of 3.6% in Operating Expenses was due to extraordinary effects occurred in 2018, such as the management of protected lanes under the National Forest Fire Protection CONDENSED PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT System and costs with major repairs carried out beyond the scope of IFRIC 12. EURO MILLION (€M) ‘17 ‘18 Change Operating Profit increased by 9.3%, to €M 482, reflecting the growth in activity and the efforts to control costs made over the last few years, which allowed for Operating Income 570.7 616.2 8.0% an increase of EBITDA margin by 0.9 p.p. to 78.2%. Operating costs 129.6 134.2 3.6% EBITDA 441.1 482.0 9.3% Financial Result improved significantly compared to the same period of the previous year, mainly as a result of the repayment of the €M 300 bond in April EBITDA Margin 77.3% 78.2% 0.9 pp 2018 (coupon of 6.875%). Amortization and Provisions 172.4 174.5 1.2% EBIT 268.7 307.4 14.4% Net Profit attributable to equity holders totalled €M 119.1, which was based on EBIT Margin e Provisões Amortizações 47.1% 49.9% 2.8 pp a Profit before Tax of €M 243.1 and on a €M 73.9 Income Tax. Financial Result EBIT -81.0 -64.3% -20.6% Capital Expenditure (CAPEX) totalled €M 43.7, directed specifically to the EBT 187.7 243.1 29.6% improvement of service levels, in terms of safety and comfort of the ones Income tax for the year 50.4 73.9 46.6% traveling in motorways. It is noteworthy the capital expenditure in road pavement Non-controlling interests 41.2 50.1 21.7% renovation and works in engineering structures, tunnels and slopes totalling €M 14.7 and €M 10, respectively. Net Profit 96.1 119.1 24.0% CAPEX 42.7 43.7 2.4% EBITDA CAPEX 398.4 438.3 10.0% Note: figures above reflect the impact of this business segment on Brisa Group consolidated accounts, including respective intragroup eliminations from the consolidation process. BUSINESS SEGMENT OUTLOOK BCR should continue to focus its strategy on its three value creation drivers: • Operating performance, driven by increased operating income and strict cost improvement in operating margin, financial efficiency and capital expenditure control, should lead to a sustained cash flow generation (measured by EBITDAmanagement efficiency: CAPEX). • In 2019 BCR should continue to benefit from the recovery in demand levels • BCR will maintain a careful financial management, based on a strong liquidity started in the last few years. Toll revenues are expected to grow above 3%, position and gradual reduction of its leverage. fuelled by traffic recovery through organic growth. • Operating costs should evolve in line with inflation, remaining below the expected increase in revenues. 43 3.2 OTHER MOTORWAY CONCESSIONS The Other Motorway Concessions business AEA, AEBT, Brisal and AEDL concessions were consolidated according to the equity method (as described in note 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial segment comprises all concessions held by statements). Brisa under a project finance agreement. Sub-concession AELO is valued at cost, after the deduction of estimated impairment losses (as described in Note 15 of the said Notes). Concessão Atlântico (AEA) Brisa holding: 50% MATOSINHOS A41 GONDOMAR A43 OPORTO ESPINHO Subconcessão A32 Auto-Estradas do Baixo Tejo (AEBT) MIRA Brisa holding: 36.85% A17 MARINHA Subconcessão GRANDE do Litoral Oeste A8 LEIRIA (AELO) 504 km BATALHA CALDAS Brisa holding: 15% A15 TOMAR DA RAINHA SANTARÉM TOTAL NETWORK OF OTHER MOTORWAY Concessão LISBON ALMADA CONCESSIONS Litoral Centro (Brisal) Brisa holding: 70% ALCOCHETE 5 IC21 IC3 BARREIRO MONTIJO IC20 Concessão A33 AEA CONCESSIONS Douro Litoral (AEDL) AEBT AELO Brisa holding: 99.92% Brisal AEDL 44 AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC EVOLUTION (ADT) CONCESSÃO TOTAL KM • Total of 170 km BRISA HOLDING • Brisa holds 50% of the concession. ATLÂNTICO (AEA) (144 km tolled and 26 km toll-free) CONCESSION PERIOD MOTORWAYS 16 674 • This concession was awarded in 1998 for 15 810 • A8 (Lisboa / Leiria) LOCATION a period of 30 years (ending in 2028) • A15 (Caldas da Rainha / Santarém) • West region of Portugal +5.5% 2017 2018 AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC EVOLUTION (ADT) SUBCONCESSÃO Operation and Maintenance: • A33 – Coina / Montijo (IP1) BRISA HOLDING • Brisa holds 36.85% of the sub-concession. 28 794 AUTO-ESTRADAS DO • IC3 – Montijo (IP1) / Alcochete 27 449 BAIXO TEJO (AEBT) • IC20 – Via Rápida da Caparica CONCESSION PERIOD • IC21 – Via Rápida do Barreiro • The Sub-concession was awarded in 2009 for MOTORWAYS a period of 30 years Construction and Operation of: TOTAL KM • Total of 60.2 km (in operation) +4.9% • A33 – Palhais / Coina • A33 – Casas Velhas Palhais (including link LOCATION to Trafaria and link to Funchalinho) • South of the Tagus region 2017 2018 AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC SUBCONCESSÃO The Sub-concession further comprises two roads serving urban areas: BRISA HOLDING • Brisa holds 15% of the concession. EVOLUTION (ADT) DO LITORAL OESTE • Variante da Nazaré (AELO) • Via de Penetração em Leiria (VPL) CONCESSION PERIOD • The Sub-concession was awarded in 2009 for MOTORWAYS TOTAL KM a period of 30 years (until 2039) • A19 (S. Jorge da Batalha / Leiria) • Total of 102 km • East extreme of A8 (Leiria Sul / Leiria 6 289 6 590 Nascente) LOCATION • Leiria, Batalha, Nazaré and Tomar +4.8% • IC9 (Nazaré / Tomar) 2017 2018 45 AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC EVOLUTION (ADT) CONCESSÃO TOTAL KM • Total of 92.7 km BRISA HOLDING • Brisa holds 70% of the concession. LITORAL CENTRO (BRISAL) LOCATION CONCESSION PERIOD • Together with Atlântico and • Variable term (22 to 30 years) MOTORWAYS Costa de Prata Concessions, • A17 (Lanço Marinha-Grande / Mira) this concession forms a second 7 098 6 598 motorway link, connecting the cities of Lisbon and Oporto. +7.6% 2017 2018 AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC EVOLUTION (ADT) CONCESSÃO TOTAL KM • Total of 79 km (73.3 km tolled and 6 km BRISA HOLDING • Brisa holds 99.92% of the concession. DOURO LITORAL (AEDL) toll free, according to O&M contract for the stretch of the A41) CONCESSION PERIOD MOTORWAYS • This concession was awarded in 2007 for • A43 (Gondomar / Aguiar de Sousa (IC24)) LOCATION a period of 27 years (ending in 2034). 8 110 8 984 • A41 (Espinho (IC1) / Nó da Ermida (IC25)) • The network crosses and complements • A32 (Oliveira de Azeméis / IP1 (S. Lourenço) existing motorways, of which are +10.8% highlighted the A1 (Auto-Estrada do Norte), A3 (Auto-estrada Porto/ Valença) and A4 (Auto-estrada 2017 2018 Porto-Amarante) motorways. 46 FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESS SEGMENT BUSINESS SEGMENT OUTLOOK The Other Motorway Concessions business segment complements Brisa Concessão Regarding this business segment, Brisa will continue to work on a series of Rodoviária’s core business. initiatives to secure a solid and healthy relationship with all stakeholders. Although the operation model and Brisa’s level of intervention in each of these Moreover, it will continue to optimise the operational management of the concessions may differ, they are comprised in Brisa’s core business and have infrastructures. reached a maturity phase. The value generated stems from the current activity, operating efficiencies, improvements in the network and in the service provided. 47 3.3 SUPPORT SERVICES TO CONCESSIONS The Support Services to Concessions This segment includes road infrastructure operation and maintenance services, road assistance and road side repair, specialised engineering services and maintenance business segment comprises the Group’s engineering, service areas’ management, electronic collection management and companies which provide services to road client service support. concessions and other companies outside the Brisa Group 18 OPERATIONAL CENTRES 12 Million KM TRAVELLED AND MONITORED BY ROAD ASSISTANCE VEHICLES 3.8 Million VIA VERDE ON-BOARD UNITS 48 SUPPORT SERVICES TO CONCESSIONS Brisa O&M (Operação e Manutenção) Brisa O&M (Operação e Manutenção) Brisa O&M teams work 24h/365d/year to secure the best safety conditions, high service levels and a comfortable driving experience to clients. provides specialized operation, maintenance and monitoring services to motorway The quality and continuous training of teams, the search for the most recent technologies and its implementation, as well as, the constant review of the concessionaires and to other infrastructures processes are central in the development of Brisa O&M’s activity. Brisa O&M operation covers nearly 1 600 km of road infrastructure which are included in the following concessions and sub-concessions: • Brisa Concessão Rodoviária (BCR) In 2018 Brisa O&M travelled and monitored 12 391 907 kms • Concessão Douro Litoral (AEDL) • Concessão Litoral Centro (Brisal) • Subconcessão Auto-Estradas do Baixo Tejo (AEBT) totalling 127 631 operations, in coordination with • Subconcessão do Litoral Oeste (AELO) the OCC (Operational Coordination Centre) • Concessão Atlântico (AEA) exclusively road assistance services are provided. 49 BRISA O&M IS ACTIVE IN 3 MAJOR AREAS: 1. 2. 3. TRAFFIC TOLL MAINTENANCE* MANAGEMENT COLLECTION (CIVIL WORKS, ELECTRICAL AND ELETRONIC) Brisa O&M holds the certification of its quality management system since 2010 Initially according to NP EN ISO 9001:2008 and since 2017 according to NP EN ISO 9001:2015 within the scope of the “Traffic Control, Infrastructure Monitoring and Conservation and Road Maintenance and Assistance”. SUPPORT SERVICES TO CONCESSIONS * All road maintenance and repair and respective monitoring is fully provided by BGI – Brisa Gestão de Infraestruturas, a Brisa Group company. 50 1. TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT The Operational Coordination Centre (OCC) coordinates all means required for an active traffic management: The Control and Traffic Management System covers five key areas, namely: • 18 Operational Centres; • Equipment network and sub-systems for data collection; • Covers the whole motorway network; • Communications network; • Uses a state-of-the-art IT platform; • Road Information System • Promotes the coordination of services at national level; • Client information Systems; • Maximizes the level and quality of each rendered service by minimizing • Monitoring and maintenance of equipment and systems. the response time; Brisa O&M aims to improve comfort and mobility, which are important drivers • Raises the level of benchmark service and client satisfaction. of regional and social development, capable of bringing significant positive impacts in the regions served by Brisa networks. OPERATION AND OPERATIONAL COORDINATION CENTRE (OCC) To provide assistance and to ensure the safety and comfort to the motorways’ clients where it operates, Brisa O&M offers a wide range of services: SOS AND PROTECTION CLIENT ASSISTANCE SURVEILLANCE AND PATROLLING Emergency signing and Help and delivery of different Checking of road conditions and traffic SUPPORT beaconing, cleaning, types of information, road fluidity clearance and triggering side assistance, including SERVICES of rescue means breakdown assistance TO CONCESSIONS (electrical/mechanical, fuel, oil, water and air) 51 OPERATION AND OPERATIONAL CLIENT COORDINATION CENTRE (OCC) SATISFACTION NUMBER OF OCCURRENCES ‘17 ‘18 Change ‘18 CLIENTS CLIENT SATISFACTION (OVERALL) Hotline calls 123 035 144 108 17.1% Result (1 to 4) 3.8 ROAD ASSISTANCE (EVENTS IN THE NETWORK) CLIENT SATISFACTION (HOTLINE) SOS and Protection 60 399 60 851 0.7% Result (1 to 4) 3.8 Assistance 9 631 9 013 -6.4% AVERAGE RESPONSE TIME * Works 23 059 24 699 7.1% Result (Minutes) 6.5 * Average time from the moment the assistance call is received at the OCC to the moment assistance arrives at the scene Brisa O&M carries out client satisfaction surveys on a regular basis, in order to implement measures to improve service levels. In 2018 the overall average of client satisfaction in each of the services reviewed was 3.8, which in a scale of 1 to 4 is a very positive outcome. Furthermore, the average time from the moment OCC OPERATION ORIGIN OF the assistance call is received at the OCC to the moment assistance arrives at RECORDED EVENT the scene was 6.5 minutes in 2018. PERCENTAGE (%) 11% Hotline 4% SOS station % 5% GNR/PSP (police) 0% 64% 112 Brisa O&M means 15% Telematics SUPPORT SERVICES TO CONCESSIONS 1% Other 52 2. TOLL COLLECTION TRAFFIC CONTROL AND REVENUES Brisa O&M is responsible for the toll collection in the 122 toll plazas from the Assessing traffic and revenues generated by the various concessions is a daily concessionaires it operates in. task aimed at providing information to the concessionaires, ensuring the integrity of the data received and ccontinuously improving toll collection effectiveness. Payment systems play a crucial role in client service efficiency and quality. Three payment systems are currently available: automatic (Via Verde), toll booth Throughout 2018 the number of transactions recorded on the motorway networks operator and semi-automatic (e-toll equipment, remotely assisted if required), operated by Brisa O&M totalled 229 million, growing by 4.2% over the previous providing easier and increased comfort in the payment process. year. The breakdown of transactions was as follows: TRANSACTIONS PER SYSTEM TYPE PERCENTAGE (%) 12% Semi-automatic Manual Lane 10% % Manual Lane with toll booth operator 78% Via Verde SUPPORT SERVICES TO CONCESSIONS The weight of the Verde payment system reached 78.1%, which compares with 76.2% in 2017. 53 SUPPORT SERVICES TO CONCESSIONS BRISA GESTÃO DE INFRAESTRUTURAS (BGI) Brisa Gestão de Infraestruturas (BGI) BGI was equipped with the necessary resources and means to exercise its operation effectively. The organisation was designed taking into consideration the company’s provides specialised engineering services value chain, based on a relatively flat structure, privileging communication and and maintenance engineering the knowledge sharing between teams. Its management model is based on the following main areas: to motorway concessionaires and to other infrastructures INTEGRATED PLANNING BGI was created in 2017 following the merger through incorporation of two with the responsibility of defining a model of road companies of the Group (Brisa Engenharia e Gestão and Brisa Conservação intervention anchored on risk management, on the de Infraestruturas) and the transfer of two departments of Brisa Operação e development of multi disciplinary studies and projects Manutenção (monitoring and maintenance and equipment maintenance). and on stakeholders management BGI aims to be a reference road operator, recognized for its efficiency and integrated SPECIALISED ENGINEERING management. Its mission is the integrated and sustainable management of its in charge of planning, management systems clients’ road infrastructure, with the purpose of maximising the assets performance and execution of engineering projects throughout their life cycle, optimising their availability and cost, whilst ensuring compliance, safety and risk management. MAINTENANCE ENGINEERING in charge of management and supervision of works and infrastructure and equipment maintenance 54 On one hand, 2018 was devoted to the consolidation of the new teams and to • Implementation of General Environmental Monitoring Plans to ensure legal the development of specific skills. On the other hand, to deepen the concept of compliance with environmental criteria to which concessions and sub-concessions integrated asset management, which is critical given the size of the investments are legally subject; already made and the volume of investment required to ensure the compliance with the obligations attached to the concession contracts as well as the level of • Coordination of occupational safety and health during project and work phases. service quality provided by Brisa. It should be pointed out that there was no record of serious or fatal accidents and that the number of days lost in working accidents has fallen from 141 days to An Asset Management Project Group was thus set up, reporting directly to 100 days, notwithstanding the number of accidents having increased from 5 to 8; the Company’s Executive Committee, aimed at ensuring the continuity of the implementation of the Asset Management Project System (AMPS) at Brisa Group. • Maintenance and upkeep (civil works, electrical, electronic) of the road This working group has extended responsibilities, namely the coordination of infrastructure, namely in pavements, engineering structures, tunnels, drainage initiatives developed by the working teams, the follow-up and critical analysis of systems, safety equipment, vertical and horizontal signing, buildings, landscape, respective contents and objectives, and the knowledge sharing. The implementation lighting, telecommunications, toll and telematics systems. and operationalisation of this project is the major challenge for 2019. Services provided by BGI spread across 1 450 km of road infrastructure, forming Figures for some of the activities developed can be found in the following table: part of the following concessions and sub-concessions: • Brisa Concessão Rodoviária (BCR) MAIN ACTIVITIES • Concessão Litoral Centro (Brisal) CIVIL CONSTRUCTION AND ELECTRICAL • Concessão Douro Litoral (AEDL) MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES ‘17 ‘18 • Subconcessão Auto-Estradas do Baixo Tejo (AEBT) Sealing of cracks in pavements 84 722 m 67 184 m • Subconcessão do Litoral Oeste (AELO) Horizontal signing (repainting) 386 km / 352 km / 30 road junctions 48 road junctions 2018 HIGHLIGHTS: Replacement of vertical signs 905 signs / 2 256 signs / 608 panels 343 panels • Coordination of 80 studies and projects on the improvement of traffic conditions Repair of damaged pavement on the Brisa Group’s motorways and on projected widening works on A1, A3, 7 749 sq.m 10 477 sq.m (caused by car fires, oil spills) A4 and A5. Repair of expansion joints 1 254 m 1 336 m • Preparation and launching of 50 tenders for construction works, namely road ELECTRONIC MAINTENANCE pavement, engineering structures, noise barriers, slope stabilisation and ACTIVITIES reinforcement of vertical signing. SUPPORT • Regular monitoring of the road infrastructure, namely through the monitoring Electronic Intervenções maintenance de manutenção electrónica interventions 54 900 equip. 54 790 equip. SERVICES of pavements, of slopes and of containment structures and the inspection of TO CONCESSIONS engineering structures. Information gathered during the monitoring work helped Finally, it should be highlighted that BGI holds a certification for its integrated the planning of the road works and studies and projects; Quality and Environmental Management System according to EN ISO 9001:2015 and 14001:2015 and maintains accreditation for around 40 lab tests according to • Follow-up and supervision of around 70 work contracts; NP EN ISO 17025:2005. 55 SUPPORT SERVICES TO CONCESSIONS BRISA ÁREAS DE SERVIÇO (BAS) Brisa Áreas de Serviço (BAS) is responsible NEW BRAND COLIBRI VIA VERDE for the new brand Colibri Via Verde The renovation of service areas started in 2017 with the launching of the Colibri Via Verde concept and continued throughout 2018. There are now 5 service areas comprised in the Brisa services’ ecosystem. operating under the new concept. It is focused on the overall renovation of BAS is responsible for the management and development of the commercial service areas’ infrastructures and on the and restaurant activity, including the maintenance of common spaces of BCR’s service areas. Its strategy is focused on people and families and on providing a introduction of a wide range of innovative better offer to travel needs. products and services The new brand Colibri Via Verde stands for a new quality standard with renewed restaurant areas and with a wide range of supply of products. Indoor and outdoor BACKGROUND areas were amplified and made more comfortable, toilets and wash-up areas were improved, including changing facilities for children. Service areas are an integral part of motorway travel experience and a privileged As the needs of travellers differ, the new offer is encompassing, as it includes place of contact with the client. restaurants and shopping solutions for clients that opt for a longer stop and vending machines for those who chose a quick stop. In 2016 Brisa decided to have a greater involvement in the management of these service areas, in line with its strategy to get closer to its clients. For that purpose, Brisa, through a partnership with Areas (Elior Group) created Brisa Áreas de Serviço (BAS) and assumed a direct intervention in the business. 56 Following the launching of the Colibri Via Verde concept in 2017 in 3 service areas on the A2, A3 and A6, in 2018 the concept was extended to the Leiria service area on A1 and subsequently to the Almodovar service area. At the end of the year it was present in 5 service areas. The new restaurant areas are having a relevant impact, attracting more clients and improving client perception of quality service. Sales for the year doubled in relation to the previous year, totalling €M 8.7 thanks to the combination of different factors: macroeconomic framework, impact of renovation works and the inclusion of additional service areas in BAS. In the next two years further service areas will be renovated with the Colibri Via Verde concept, which is expected to be present in 18 service areas of BCR’s network. This expansion will be phased out and the restaurant brands and services will differ according to type of traffic, client profile and location of the service area in the respective motorway. This strategy is particularly visible in urban service areas, where the model to be developed will be different, more suited to commuter clients, who seek convenience and a quick stop. 2.6 M Clients in 2018 €M 8.7 Sales in 2018 SUPPORT 14 Service areas under management (including SERVICES 5 with the Colibri Via Verde Concept already TO CONCESSIONS implemented) 57 SUPPORT SERVICES TO CONCESSIONS VIA VERDE PORTUGAL (VVP) Via Verde Portugal is one of Brisa’s most emblematic companies, increasingly 3.8 Million Via Verde On-Board Units affirming itself, through its growth, as a global benchmark in the sector Via Verde Portugal, which is 60% held by Brisa, provides electronic toll collection systems and services in motorways and other road infrastructures. The service is 439 Million Via Verde transactions available in all toll collection systems in Portugal, covering an integrated network of over 3 000 km. The system is also available in car parks, Galp pump stations, McDonalds® restaurants, Atlantic Ferries, access control to historic neighbourhoods, “Farmadrive” 177 Car Parks equipped with Via Verde drug stores, street parking and public transports. 12 Cities with Via Verde street parking 58 VIA VERDE PORTUGAL SERVICES’ PORTFOLIO Galp Fuel Stations Via Verde Estacionar Car parks Payment of fuel using the Via Verde Payment of street parking using Payment of car parking On-Board Unit the Via Verde App using the Via Verde On-Board Unit Via Verde Drive Now Tolls Payment of the Drive Now service Toll payment using Via using the Via Verde App Verde On-Board Unit Historical Via Verde Transportes neighbourhoods Purchase of public transports’ tickets Entry in historical areas with or subscription, using the Via Verde App restricted access using Via Verde On-Board Unit SUPPORT SERVICES McDonald’s TO CONCESSIONS Payment of products in drive-thru restaurants using the Via Verde FarmaDrive On-Board Unit Payment of products in drive-thru Ferries pharmacies using Via Verde Payment of ferry crossings On-Board Unit using Via Verde On-Board Unit 59 CAR PARKS VVP and A-to-Be developed a business model for the implementation of Via Verde in car parks, aiming at attracting further car parks with lower or seasonal use, thus increasing the number of Via Verde member parks. The creation of this new business model resulted in a record number of car parks with this system. The average was 3.5x times higher than in previous years, i.e. 38 additional car parks, meaning that Via Verde clients can now use the service in 177 car parks throughout the country. With the development of new technologies the goal is to expand Via Verde services in more car parks through the introduction of a new model to open the gates with the app. This new development will also reduce establishment costs, allowing the expansion of the Via Verde service in this market. 177 Car parks with Via Verde (+38 compared to 2017) VIA VERDE ESTACIONAR The Via Verde Estacionar service is a mobile app that allows the payment street car parking. Although it was only launched in 2017, it is already available in 12 cities, namely Vila Real, Porto, Vila Nova de Gaia, Figueira da Foz, Amadora, Portimão, Bragança, Cascais, Oeiras, Tavira, and recently Loures and Almada. Improve, facilitate and simplify client experience is the aim of Via Verde Estacionar, as it releases users from the need to carry coins or making pre-payments, since it is based on the post-payment model of Via Verde. In addition to being simpler to use, the service enables relevant savings as only the parking time effectively used is charged. The app permits to extend parking time, or associate different cars to the same SUPPORT account, to pay for different parks at the same time and to locate vehicles. SERVICES TO CONCESSIONS 340 thousand 1.4 Million App downloads Transactions in 2018 (cumulative) (+162% compared to 2017) 60 VIA VERDE TRANSPORTES The Via Verde Transportes App was launched in 2017. This innovative and pioneer service allows the client to buy tickets or monthly subscriptions via smart phone and use the “pay as you go” concept, i.e. simply travel without worries about buying tickets or choosing the best fare, since the app calculates the best available fare for the journey concerned. The trial app was launched for Fertagus crossings, where various initiatives to encourage the use of the app were carried out throughout 2018. Via Verde is now working with other public transport operators, namely Carris, Transtejo and Scotturb, aiming to expand the service to major operators in the Lisbon metropolitan area as they adapt their systems to allow the use of electronic tickets. 20 thousand App dowloads (cumulative) FORMS OF SUBSCRIPTION AND PAYMENT METHODS In terms of payment methods, the company introduced direct debit payment in the last quarter of 2017 as a pilot project, which expanded throughout 2018 with Via Verde is adjusting its business model to enable subscriptions which better considerable success. This new payment method enables corporate clients to suits the profile of each client. It now has several subscription types of which is benefit from a simpler and more comfortable payment alternative, which focuses worthwhile to highlight: on improving and facilitating treasury management and also on offering benefits to operators. • Via Verde Livre for frequent users of Via Verde services. In April and May 2018 the company carried out a promotional campaign offering monthly fees and a In line with the previous year, in 2018 Via Verde launched a promotional lifetime guarantee of the On-Board Units. campaign “Lés-a-Lés”, directed to motorcyclists, offering new subscribers a 30% discount in tolls. • Via Verde Leve directed to occasional clients, which was the subject of an advertising campaign in July and August 2018, taking advantage of the holiday The promotion of existing services and creation of new ones resulted in an season and the incoming flow of emigrants travelling to the country for their increase in the number of Via Verde toll transactions processed in Portugal (+7.6%, holidays. totalling 418 million). SUPPORT SERVICES • Via Verde Mobile allows the use of all Via Verde mobility Apps, i.e. Via Verde Transportes and Via Verde Estacionar, directed to those who are not Via Verde TO CONCESSIONS clients. This subscription method was launched in 2018, it has no associated +350 thousand costs and does not require having a car to be a Via Verde Client. During 2018 new Via Verde subscriptions grew by 8.2% (totalling over New subscriptions to Via Verde (+8.2% compared to 2017) 350 000), having Via Verde Livre and Via Verde Leve accounted for 67% of total new subscriptions. 61 INTEROPERABILITY Road transport is currently the prime mean of transportation of both passengers and goods in the European Union, thus Via Verde Portugal has an important role as a propeller of vehicles’ with a foreign on-board unit traffic in Portugal. The number of issuers of foreign on-board units collaborating with Via Verde to offer cross border service to clients has been increasing since 2010. Names of such issuers using the interoperability system in Portugal include Ressa Europa, Pagatelia, Bip&Drive, Solred, Ingenico and Novagalicia. In 2018, the interoperability system originated over 7.2 million transactions in Portugal (+34% over the previous year). 7.2 Million Transactions (+34% over 2017) REVENUE RECOVERY AND PAYMENT WEBSITE The recovery of revenues under brand “Pagamento de Portagens” is a service provided by Via Verde Portugal to concessionaires BCR, Brisal, AEA, AEDL, AELO, AEBT, IP(A21) and Lusoponte, enabling clients to pay later any toll that was not paid at the moment of the toll crossing. The collection process will be completed by the Tax Authority in the event of non-payment. The Payment Website is an additional service of Via Verde Portugal enabling member concessionaires (BCR, Brisal, AEA, AEDL, AELO, AEBT, IP A21 , Lusoponte e Globalvia A23 – Beira Interior, Globalvia Portvias and Globalvia Transmontana), to recover and collect toll revenue. The website allows for online payment and the consultation of all the elements of the process available in a restricted client area. The main advantage is to contribute to the increased universalisation of the payment, with efficiency gains for adhering concessionaires and for the end user as well, by providing comprehensive access to all toll crossings made SUPPORT without paying. SERVICES TO CONCESSIONS 306 thousand Crossings paid through the Payment Portal (+9% over 2017) 62 SUPPORT SERVICES TO CONCESSIONS VIA VERDE CONTACT (VVC) In 2018 Via Verde Contact continued to In 2018, in order to meet client expectations and follow the best market practises, VVC: strengthen its role as an integrated service platform of support to clients for all the Established a new hotline (started from June): 210 730 300 This new hotline translated into a significant improvement in the client’s experience, as it ensures Brisa Group the same level of service of the previous hotline number “707 500 900”, though at a considerably lower cost, which is even free in most cases; CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE AND OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY The new hotline allows measuring the first contact resolution rate and the Increasing efficiency and improving client experience were the main focus of satisfaction regarding the service at the end of each call. These metrics will be VVC activity during the year, which translated into the implementation of various extended to remaining service channels, with the aim of identifying potential initiatives to simplify processes and reduce costs. The increase in the share of improvements and correcting any failure, ensuring closer proximity to the interactions on the digital channel is the result of this effort, since it accounts for clients’ needs; nearly half of the overall interactions with the client. The renovation process of the Via Verde stores started in 2017 and continued during This evolution is in line with the global trend of service digitalisation, and involves the year under review. In 2018 the company renovated its stores in Braga, Santa an increased perception of service quality by clients, while allowing for a significant Maria da Feira and Almada, thus improving working conditions of its employees decrease in costs. while providing better services to clients. 63 DIGITAL REMOTE CHANNELS FACE-TO-FACE CHANNEL (TELEPHONE AND IN WRITING) CHANNEL 947 795 611 148 2016 35% 2016 39% Incoming telephone calls 2016 26% In-store service (12 stores) 1 463 695 175 209 12 2017 39% 2017 37% 2017 24% Operations Claims processed in writing (letter, e-mail or 2018 46% 2018 33% form available on the website) 2018 21% Average waiting time (minutes) WEBSITE CLIENT RESPONSIVENESS FACE-TO-FACE SERVICE With the objectives of optimizing the quality and the The prompt response to client claims, with resolution Client service centres are spread across 12 Via Verde efficiency of the client service, an area exclusively during the first contact whenever possible, was Stores and 7 stations operating in partners’ stores and specifically dedicated to corporate clients was provided due to a qualified and multi disciplinary (in areas not reached by the network of VV stores) made available on the website in the last quarter of team and the use of CRM (Customer Relationship the year. Management) omni-channel. Although most of the visits concern post-sales service, the face-to-face channel also has a At the end of 2018 Via Verde had approximately These channels handle the following issues: commercial importance and accounts for 34% of 1.4 million online clients, i.e. 15% more than in 2017. subscriptions to the Via Verde service. Support to subscriptions The Via Verde website recorded approximately In 2018 VVC continued to optimize its face-to-face 23 thousand daily visits. The Via Verde app ended Contract changes service processes, which translated into the year with over 1 million downloads and a monthly Payments improvement of service quality and reduction of use rate of around 17%. average waiting time. Debts Clarifications and information VVC associated with Kaizen Institute under the SOCIAL NETWORKS continuous improvement subject in order to increase Corporate service teams’ commercial focus, to reduce the number of The Brisa Group, under the Via Verde brand, is Claims claims and also the average clients’ waiting time SUPPORT present in LinkedIn, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, (-42% compared to 2017). Pinterest and Youtube, making the most of what SERVICES these networks have to offer, interacting with clients This project alongside the reorganisation of TO CONCESSIONS in real time. the stores’ network, represented a landmark in face-to-face service, which translated in operational Client service through Facebook provided a efficiency and improvement in client experience. contact channel available 24 hours/day every day of the year. With a maximum response time of 15 minutes, clients can address any matter at any time and for free. 64 SUPPORT SERVICES TO CONCESSIONS M CALL M Call provides an increasingly wider range The expansion of services provided has gone hand in hand with technological developments, while following changes in people’s behavior. of contact services, with a high level of professionalism, based on remote 2018 was marked by significant investment in personnel training to improve quality service levels, increase productivity and operational efficiency levels, having multi-channel contact: proved quite successful as shown by performance indicators. – telephone, mobile apps, e-mail, SMS, chat, web and social networks M Call is growing as a reference company in the market, providing high quality call centre services, which is being used to increase client satisfaction, and their loyalty, allowing for productivity gains and business opportunities, based on a dynamic interaction through the multiple remote channels currently available and the multichannel remote assistance. 65 M CALL PROVIDES SERVICES THROUGH THE FOLLOWING CHANNELS: MAIN SERVICES PROVIDED BY M CALL: CALL SERVICES FOR ROAD ASSISTANCE AND INFORMATION ON BRISA NETWORK 24 Hours/day, 365 days/year, TELEPHONE MOBILE APPS provide a wide range of information to clients, such as: • Service in road emergency situations • Travel assistance • Traffic information • Routes and simulation of journeys SOCIAL • Toll rates and other detailed information on service and rest areas available NETWORKS EMAIL on Brisa’s network, including information to hearing-impaired clients (via SMS). VVP CLIENT HOTLINE • Prevention actions • Toll recovery and collection for VVP SHORT WEB MESSAGING • Outbound actions for information purposes and the updating of client information SERVICE (SMS) • Opinion surveys, client follow-up, support to promotional campaigns and satisfaction surveys. SCHEDULING OF VEHICLE INSPECTION SERVICES CHAT • Scheduling of services for Controlauto inspection centres • Outbound actions with the purpose of establishing commercial contacts to SUPPORT increase the number of appointments for inspection services. SERVICES TO CONCESSIONS 66 SERVICES PORTFOLIO In terms of social responsibility, M Call kept in 2018 the SMETA (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit) certification covering the 4 pillars – based on the Guide of In addition to serving Brisa companies (which account for 71% of its turnover), Best Practices of SMETA and ETI (Ethical Trading Initiative) base code, which M Call provided services to other clients (accounting for 29% of turnover) constitutes international acknowledgement in terms of compliance with labour, health and safety standards, business ethics and environmental commitment. SERVICES PROVIDED IN 2018 This certification is a world reference in the subject (the Audit Report in available NUMBER OF INTERACTIONS (MILLION) on Sedex database and can be accessed by any member, at international level), and is certainly a differentiation factor in the sector where M Call operates. It can be disclosed in commercial proposals. 2.5 2.2% 2.2% 2.0 1.5 1.1% 1.2% 1.0 0.8% 0.9% 0.5 0.0 INBOUND OUTBOUND OTHER SERVICES 2017 2018 The total number of calls handled by the contact centre in 2018 was over 4 million. In 2018 outbound calls grew by 16% and inbound calls rose by 4% in relation to 2017. Caption “Other Services” comprise processes relating to photo processing, social networks, emails, voice mail, IVR (Interactive Voice Response), internet orders, validation of online proposals, sms and back-office services. CERTIFICATIONS Quality is a crucial element in the development of the organisation, employees and services, based on the best management practices. The certification of SUPPORT M Call and its Teleoperators has strengthen the company’s commitment to the SERVICES continuous improvement of its services. TO CONCESSIONS In 2018 the company renewed the certification of several functions tele-operator, supervisor assistant and supervisor. All 59 employees proposed for certification were certified. A follow-up was made of the quality certification according to ISO 9001:2015 and adequacy to PCI-DSS standard (safety of electronic transactions paid by credit card). 67 FINANCIAL AND OPERATING PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESS SEGMENT In 2018 the Support Services to Concessions business segment contributed with CONDENSED PROFIT €M 223.7 (+13.6%) for Brisa Operating Income. AND LOSS STATEMENT Concern to maintain excellent road quality levels determined an increase in EURO MILLION (€M) ‘17 ‘18 Change Operating Expenses by 14.0%. The segment’s Net Profit reached €M 41.9, Operating income 196.8 223.7 13.6% increasing by 10.8% over 2017. Operating costs 135.6 154.7 14.0% Capital Expenditure rose by 9.2% over 2017, totalling nearly €M 5.5. EBITDA 61.2 69.0 12.7% EBITDA Margin 31.1% 30.8% -0.2 pp Amortization and Provisions 5.5 7.1 28.1% EBIT 55.7 61.9 11.2% EBIT Margin 28.3% 27.7% -0.6 pp Net Profit 37.8 41.9 10.8% Note: figures above reflect the impact of this business segment on Brisa Group consolidated accounts, including respective intragroup eliminations from the consolidation process. BUSINESS SEGMENT OUTLOOK Support Services to Concessions will continue to play a crucial role in Brisa’s • Via Verde Portugal will continue implementing the necessary initiatives to widen strategic positioning, focused on operational efficiency and on the client: its client base and thus achieve its goal of being the leading payment system in the mobility sector in Portugal. Moreover, it will continue to promote adhesion to • Brisa O&M has as additional challenge the constant search for more efficient electronic statements and other initiatives viewing to reduce processing costs. and effective solutions in operation and maintenance, in order to contain the increase in operating costs and, at the same time, ensure high levels of customer • V  ia Verde Contact will continue spurring the use of the digital channel, to give satisfaction; greater autonomy to clients and improve the rate of solved claims. • Brisa Gestão de Infraestruturas will remain focused on the integrated and The development of complementary services to existing ones, providing integrated sustainable management of its clients’ road infrastructure, with the purpose of mobility with added focus on the client, promoting the development of projects SUPPORT maximising the performance of assets throughout their life cycle, optimising their to enhance customer experience and operational efficiency are the key axes of SERVICES availability and cost, whilst ensuring compliance, safety and risk management; this business segment, cutting across all companies in the segment. TO CONCESSIONS • Brisa Áreas de Serviço will continue expanding its offer and improving the quality of its services, viewing to increase the value perceived by the client; 68 3.4 VEHICLE INSPECTIONS Controlauto is Brisa’s company operating This segment includes vehicle inspection services, including the study, in the vehicle inspection business management and operation of the vehicle’s technical control and any other directly related activities. Brisa has a 74% stake in Controlauto, which holds 40% of Controlauto Açores. 46 INSPECTION CENTRES 1.2 Million VEHICLE INSPECTIONS 69 CONTROLAUTO Controlauto operates in the vehicle inspection business, holding a network of 46 VISION inspection centres all over the country, in districts that account for approximately Controlauto intends to be the privileged partner in the vehicle inspection 90% of the market. According to the relevant authority (IMT), Controlauto’s market sector. It already is the benchmark in Portugal in terms of ethics, share of the car inspection business is 25%. sustainability, personnel development and innovation, with high levels of efficiency and value creation. The “Controlauto” brand celebrated 25 years in 2018 and had the highest awareness level within the sector, accounting for 82% of total notoriety. This being a price regulated market, in order to stand out from competitors and create value for the brand, the company must place the focus on the client. The optimisation of resources and efficiency are also key to value creation. MISSION To promote road safety and protect the environment, by carrying out technical vehicle inspections and raising drivers’ awareness. To provide the mandatory services under the law, following strict ethical principles, which must consist in a highly perceived value experience by the clients that trusted in Controlauto. 70 A vehicle inspection is for the most part a technical process with the main purpose being to ensure road safety. Controlauto has made significant efforts to enhance the way it communicates with its clients, thus improving perceived value. INSPECTION PROCESS AT CONTROLAUTO 8. Checking the condition of the vehicle 1. Vehicle identification Checking the vehicle’s general condition Ensure the vehicle’s compliance with legal requirements 7. Braking system 15 minutes 2. Mandatory equipments Ensure effective and balanced braking Ensure the safety of occupants and pedestrians 6. Suspension system 3. Gas emission inspection Ensure the vehicle’s stability Ensure perfect engine combustion (lower emissions and lower consumption) 5. Steering alignment 4. Lighting system and visibility Ensure the perfect alignment of wheels to prevent the wear and tear Ensure adequate visibility and identification of tires and reduce fuel consumption 71 KEY INDICATORS One of the key factors behind the decision for a specific inspection centre is the speed of the service provided. To this end, Controlauto has worked to provide the best client experience: in 2018 the Average Waiting Time was less than 15 minutes in 75% of the cases. Controlauto’s brand awareness are “Confidence” and “Technical Expertise”. So that clients can continue to experience this high service perception, Controlauto invested approximately 15 minutes per inspection process to ensure an adequate testing of vehicle’s safety conditions. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS • Controlauto and Iteuve Merger In 2018, Controlauto and Iteuve merged with the objective of simplifying the interaction with clients and offering a larger number of inspection centres throughout the country to the segment of clients with commercial agreements. The merger further permitted the creation of cost synergies at administrative and financial levels. • Implementation of EDIGCIA 8 Controlauto implemented a new management system for its inspection centres which is in line with the legal requirements on data protection. The system enabled a significant development in the way information is collected, processed and managed at Controlauto´s inspection centres. • Improvement in client experience In 2018 Controlauto continued to improve the usage conditions of its centres, improving client comfort and making the centres’ image consistent with the brand image (notwithstanding, all legal obligations concerning conditions at inspection centres were already met in 2016). 72 FINANCIAL AND OPERATING PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESS 2018 was characterized by an increase in competition, following the opening of CONDENSED PROFIT AND LOSS new inspection centres (Law no. 11/2011 of 26 April), resulting in a decrease of STATEMENT 2.6% in the number of services provided by Controlauto. This segment revenues totalled €M 31.3, falling by 2.5% over the previous year. It should be noted that EURO MILLION (€M) ‘17 ‘18 Change Operating Income for 2017 includes €M 0.2 from the sale of an inspection centre. Operating income 32.1 31.3 -2.5% Without this effect, Operating Income would have fallen by 1.7%. Operating costs 22.5 21.9 -2.8% EBITDA 9.6 9.4 -1.7% Notwithstanding, Controlauto reduced costs by 2.8%, which enabled the EBITDA Margin 29.9% 30.1% 0.2 pp improvement of the EBITDA margin by 0.2 p.p., to 30.1%. Controlauto introduced Amortization and Provisions 2.5 3.5 42.9% several improvements in its centres throughout the year, investing €M 1.2 (81% EBIT 7.1 5.9 -17.1% more than in 2017). This increase in capital expenditure had a significant impact on amortization and provisions, which grew by 43% over the previous year. Net EBIT Margin 22.2% 18.9% -3.3pp profit fell by 15.3% over 2017. Net Profit 3.9 3.3 -15.3% Note: figures above reflect the impact of this business segment on Brisa Group consolidated accounts, including respective intragroup eliminations from the consolidation process. BUSINESS SEGMENT OUTLOOK In the vehicle inspections segment, Controlauto seeks to strengthen its market • Evolution towards a more educational approach in line with clients’ expectations, leadership and stand as benchmark in the segment. based on the concept that vehicle inspection is crucial for road safety. Controlauto will continue to focus its attention on increasing client loyalty in the face of growing competition. Additionally, the expectation is for: • Increased competition, following Government authorisation for the opening of new inspection centres and the introduction of mandatory inspection for motorcycles above 249 cc. 73 3.5 PRODUCT TECHNOLOGY Brisa Inovação e Tecnologia (BIT), under the In the United States the company holds 100% of its US branch, which was created in 2015 and renamed in 2018 to A-to-Be USA LLC (formerly BIT Mobility Solutions brand A-to-Be®, is the Brisa Group’s company LLC). In March 2019 BIT completed the change of its social denomination to AtoBe responsible for the supply of mobility-related Mobility Technology, S.A., in line with its brand. technology solutions BRISA INOVAÇÃO E TECNOLOGIA (BIT) BIT, which is active in the Business to Business (B2B) segment under brand A-to-Be® and is 81% held by Brisa, is the business unit which develops and provides mobility-related technology solutions. Over the past few years, it was A-to-Be CONSOLIDATION OF STRONG NEW BRAND, WHICH responsible for the development and supply of critical systems in the mobility and ALLOWED TO GENERATE REVENUES FROM “READY” transport related sector in Europe (with particular emphasis in Portugal) and in the SOLUTIONS DIRECTED TO NEW AND EXTERNAL CLIENTS United States of America (US). € +99% IN CONSOLIDATED REVENUES (compared to 2017) 12 INTERNATIONAL CONTRACTS UNDER WAY IN US AND EUROPE 74 A-to-Be mission is to lead the market as a mobility experiences enabler for endThe portfolio of products, which was designed to serve 5 major client segments clients, providing the best technology solutions in intelligent transport systems. comprises the following: Its values are: • automatic, manual and electronic toll systems; • technological systems for payment and access to mobility services (car-based or mobile-based), ranging from car parks, gas stations, public transport, drive-thrus, among others; Excellence • traffic management systems. Committed to high quality standards to serve its Recognising mobility as a key technology vector and bearing in mind the stakeholders ongoing investment volume in this area at world level, A-to-Be adopted an internationalisation strategy, having submitted tender offers in the United States but also in Europe. In 2018 it had 10 contracts in operation in the United States and 2 in Europe, excluding Portugal. The company continues to be Brisa and Via Verde’s main technology provider, having expanded its payment technology to some Focus on the client drive-thru pharmacies in Portugal in 2018. Providing solutions that fully meet the needs and Recognising that today’s mobility is no longer restricted to cars and infrastructures requirements of the client but rather focused on people and their mobility needs, the company has been working in the design and development of products in association with clients and partners. The partnership entered with AECOM in 2018 helps to pave the way to new Innovation business opportunities and improves its capacity to deliver and integrate new Combining technological edge solutions. On the other hand, the joint work with Gartner and other world-class with the development of top technological agencies aims to strengthen the positioning of A-to-Be as a relevant mobility solutions and reliable market reference. Leadership Developing human capital its major asset towards sustainable growth Ethics Ensuring that the business arrangements entered meet the highest integrity standards in the work place 75 BUSINESS AREAS AND PRODUCT STRUCTURE A-to-Be’s offer is organised according to three lines of products, providing specific mobility applications in each of the 5 market segments in which it operates: A back-office geared towards mobility: Designed with the traveller’s experience in mind, this central system allows mobility operators to provide quality services in terms of operational and commercial management. Field connection: Wherever there is an interaction between the traveller and an infrastructure mobility operator, this solution ensures the integration of all services and necessary operators, with a view to a smooth and flowing experience. Traffic management: Conceived to solve traffic management in complex integrated infrastructure networks, it is active in telematic equipment and operational coordination centres. 76 APPLICATION OF A-to-Be’s OFFER TO MARKET SEGMENTS To road operators A-to-Be allows the management of traffic and integrated operations of both support equipment on the ground and the supply of toll This specific application results from the combination of A-to-Be’s 3 mobility solution systems. Likewise, the key concern of smart cities today is to serve citizens, lines, which serve all clients segments: it provides to mobility operators the means optimising infrastructures management, specifically in what concerns transport and tools to manage all supporting information regarding the operation, in order and mobility. For cities, A-to-Be offers solutions to implement active mobility to ensure optimal and efficient management of infrastructures, thus allowing to policies that promote sustainability, such as controlled access to sensitive areas improve the services provided to the end user. (reduced emission areas or historic neighbourhoods) and to adopt measures to reduce traffic jams (congestion pricing). To public transport operators A-to-Be provides technology solutions to improve the client’s mobility experience in different means of public transport. A-to-Be’s CLIENTS’ offer also covers personal transport either alone or shared, in the so-called SEGMENTS soft modes and in car parks, drive-thrus, pharmacies, gas stations and other related services. ROAD SMART OPERATORS CITIES PUBLIC UNDERGROUND TRANSPORT AND STREET PARKING GAS STATIONS, DRIVE-THRUS AMONG OTHERS 77 RESEARCH in field of private transport. Improvements were introduced in self-service toll solutions (A-T-P-M) for the US market, based on contactless technologies, amongst In the field of technological research, A-to-Be jointly with its scientific and others, with the purpose of increasing the product’s recognition in this market. technological partners, developed various research projects in the areas of computer vision, traffic shaping and management, mobility management and cooperative systems (V2X). In 2018 A-to-Be continued to prove how important ACTIVITY IN THE PORTUGUESE MARKET R&D is for its success, namely with the emphasis given to the brand Research In 2018 A-to-Be continued to be the provider of reinvestment in toll equipments for Be-ond in the media. concessions BCR, BRISAL, AEA and AEDL, and also for IP, Scutvias and Globalvia. In what concerns the centralized management of road operations, A-to-Be continued A-to-Be continued its commitment to funding programs, having submitted to supply A-to-Be ATLAS to Lusoponte, for the management of the two main various applications for European projects within the scope of the Horizon 2020 national bridges: Vasco da Gama and 25 de Abril. initiative. For instance, in December 2018 it started the 5G-MOBIX project for the implementation of cross-border tests based on 5G technology, including the As main technology provider of the Brisa Group, A-to-Be extended its commercial assessment of respective advantages within the scope of Cooperative, Connected support within Via Verde Portugal ecosystem, providing operational efficiency and Autonomous Mobility (CCAM). Additionally, included in the AUTOCITS project, services in 200 car parks, 300 fuel stations, 14 drive-thrus and in public transports A-to-Be was the technology partner for remote-controlled and autonomous and access to restricted city areas. Continuing to invest heavily on innovation, the vehicle tests carried out on A9-CREL, showing its capacity to offer advanced company developed pilot payment devices for car parks and car washing vendors solutions in this field. using a mobile application with local access mediator (L-A-M). In the field of product development, it is worth to highlight the investment in the Finally, A-to-Be started a usage-based insurance (UBI) project for Via Verde new releases of A-to-Be MoveBeyond™ — for delivery in the new contracts won Serviços, with the purpose of developing driving assessment tools viewing the in the US. Noteworthy is the technology support lines to the Via Verde ecosystem tailoring of supply. in Portugal, based on state-of-the-art solutions for a smooth man-machine interaction, comprising the L-A-M mediator, with prototypes of various services 78 ACTIVITY ON THE INTERNATIONAL MARKET In 2018 the European market continued to be a strategic reference for A-to-Be. As this is a very mature market, demand for mobility solutions and the implementation In the US market, demand for All-Electronic Tolling (AET) is still significant, given of new toll solutions continue to deserve attention and participation. To highlight a the ongoing investment effort in the modernisation of road concessions. A-to-Be contract entered into for the supply of video tolling to a major operator in Poland is part of this technology revolution with A-to-Be MoveBeyond™ and A-T-P-M. to be used in respective road concessions. The presence in European events through sponsorships (eg: MaaS Market, The Future of Transportation World This market is facing huge demand for mobility-related technology solutions, Congress) helped to identify this and other business opportunities. requiring an increase in resources to respond to business opportunities. Also because of this large demand the company strengthened its presence in events, standing out as platinum sponsor of IBTTA (International Bridge, Tunnel and Turnpike Association), attending events in the States of North Caroline, Oregon and Maryland. These actions and other initiatives resulted in contracts won in 6 US states: Washington, Illinois, Colorado, Virginia, South Carolina and California. A-TO-BE’S PRESENCE IN THE US Washington Illinois Virginia Colorado California South Carolina A-to-Be CONTRACTS STATES WITH ACTIVE TOLL SYSTEMS 79 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 was characterized by a strong increase in operating income (+99%) when CONDENSED PROFIT AND LOSS compared to 2017. This growth was possible thanks to the continuous dynamic STATEMENT and articulation between development, sales and delivery. EURO MILLION (€M) ‘17 ‘18 Change It is worth highlighting the sales associated to the A-T-P-M supply to the Illinois Operating income 12.6 25.0 99.1% State Toll Highway Authority (ISTHA) in the US, the supply of electronic tolling and 100.1% Operating costs 13.4 26.8 self-service equipment to Pocahontas Parkway concession, sale of a video tolling system to GTC in Poland and the A-to-Be Atlas™ contract won with Lusoponte. EBITDA -0.8 -1.7 EBITDA Margin -6.4% -6.9% -0.5 pp Financial stakeholders that recognised A-to-Be’s value creation potential have Amortization and Provisions 1.0 2.1 99.0% reasons to be confident when seeing the sustained growth figures posted and EBIT -1.8 -3.8 the business plan in place. EBIT Margin -14.7% -15.2% -0.5 pp Net Profit -0.5 -1.7 Note: figures above reflect the impact of this business segment on Brisa Group consolidated accounts, including respective intragroup eliminations from the consolidation process BUSINESS SEGMENT OUTLOOK A-to-Be aims at being a world player in the supply of mobility-related technology. In the short-term A-to-Be intends to supply a robust modular back-office solution, The launching of the A-to-Be brand in 2017 demonstrated the ambition to grow serving both infrastructure and mobility operators. and become an intelligent mobility technological enabler, integrating multiple operators in a single platform and promoting mobility growth on a large scale, both The next few years will continue to be of great dynamism and with very interesting in Europe and the United States. A-to-Be has been strengthening its capacities challenges. These challenges will be answered with the international team’s growth and improving client management processes, which allow revenue generation from and with an adequate products’ architecture, thus allowing a sustained growth. “ready-made” solutions for new and / or external clients, valuing and reinforcing core competencies of product development and innovation. 80 3.6 OTHER BUSINESSES Other Businesses segment comprises Brisa This segment includes Brisa Auto-Estradas, which centralises the provision of logistic and administrative services to all the Group’s companies. It further Auto-Estradas, mobility services providers and comprises Via Verde Serviços (VVS), a mobility service provider, which is still the stake in TIIC not material enough to represent a separate segment. Finally, this segment also includes the holdings in BNV Mobility (BNV) and in Transport Infrastructure Investment Company (TIIC). 180 thousand TRAVELS USING VIA VERDE CARSHARING DRIVENOW 81 OTHER BUSINESSES VIA VERDE SERVIÇOS (VVS) The mission of Via Verde Serviços (VVS) The creation of a relevant mobility ecosystem where VVS plays a crucial role came out of a vision based on new mobility trends: is to design, market and manage mobilityrelated products and services. VVS is also the Group’s company responsible for the FROM INFRASTRUCTURES TO MOBILITY development and availability of the Travel & Advantages programme TO FROM CARS MOBILITY-RELATED PRODUCTS AND SERVICES PEOPLE In 2018 Brisa’s effort on mobility continued to be strengthened by Via Verde Serviços (VVS), which has developed a range of differentiated projects geared TO towards growth and new business opportunities, where the client and respective FROM ON-BOARD UNITS APPS mobility needs are crucial to the design and structuring of a consistent and added value offer. The new mobility-related products and services use technological proprietary TO solutions of VVS which are jointly developed with several partners. FROM TRANSACTIONS BEHAVIOURS 82 VIA VERDE PLANNER VIA VERDE CARSHARING DRIVENOW In 2018 VVS launched Via Verde Planner, an online travel planning application Via Verde Carsharing is an affiliate of VVS in partnership with DriveNow covering different operators, allowing the client to select the right transport for (car sharing company of BMW, operating under a free floating system). The each journey. The app is currently available for journeys in Lisbon and Oporto purpose is to offer a flexible and sustainable mobility solution in the metropolitan and for cities’ connection (where served by CP trains or Rede Expresso buses), area of each city, using cars parked/distributed across specific urban areas. The integrating information on public transports and on alternative mobility operators, car can be used for as long as one wishes, then left within specified areas, and the such as car sharing, bike sharing or ride hailing. client will only pay for the driving time used. The price comprises fuel, insurance and parking (with or without parking meters). With the Via Verde Planner app the user can see the different routes linking point A (place of departure) to point B (place of arrival), and plan these routes DriveNow arrived in Portugal through Brisa in September 2017, placing Lisbon as for different times of the day. the 13th European city and the 1st Iberian city where DriveNow operates.Lisbon was also the first city where DriveNow had a 100% cardless operation, with all transactions being performed using a specific app, including the opening and closing the car. 23 000 2 It has a fleet of 211 vehicles (BMW and MINI) that can be used within an area spanning from Algés train station to Parque das Nações, 2ª Circular, Lumiar, the App downloads Cities Airport and Lagoas Park. 180 36 thousand Travels using Via Verde thousand DriveNow clients in Lisbon Carsharing DriveNow 83 VIA VERDE BOLEIAS TRAVEL & ADVANTAGES PROGRAMME Via Verde Boleias translates the investment in ridesharing, a mobility alternative Travel & Advantages (V&V) is a loyalty programme launched at the end of 2015, designed to meet an identified need, which promotes efficient car use based on with the purpose of boosting and encouraging the use of Via Verde services. It is an online travel sharing platform. a 100% digital programme enabling Via Verde to reward its loyal clients. Drivers publish available seats, route and price per seat on the website or app and In 2018 new partnerships were set up with the aim of boosting the value proposal passengers make the search for the journeys by filling in the date and starting/ for loyal Via Verde clients, including the following offers: destination points. • Cash-back offers providing discounts in tolls Via Verde Boleias can be used to make occasional journeys or on a daily basis, • Controlauto inspection services whether for short day-to-day journeys or long-distance travel. It also allows to • Discounts in Colibri Via Verde service areas create groups: public groups (eg. to organise trips to major events) or private • Free minutes in the DriveNow service groups (eg. to organise the ridesharing between employees of the same entity). These initiatives of crossed promotions with other Group partners revealed quite This service contributes to reduce the carbon footprint (each user can reduce by positive and will continue to be promoted and strengthened. up to 75% the carbon emissions from their journeys), reduce parking needs and associated expenses. Additionally, it strengthens a spirit and culture of sharing User satisfaction and recommendation levels attest for the advantages of the and promotes environmentally friendly behaviours, thus improving road safety. programme and the Travel & Advantages contributed to the good results of Via Verde’s social media tone, in which V&V weights approximately 60%. Under the protocols signed with several entities, it is worth highlighting the NOVA SBE carpool group, launched in September 2018 and that in 4 months counted with 444 members, 1 400 published trips and an average of 3 people per car. €M 2.7 5 Million 19 thousand Sales volume of partners stemming Content views of the V&V directly from the V&V programme programme on Via Verde website App downloads 7 686 4 Million Interactions with electronic 460 thousand Loyal clients to the V&V programme Published journeys communications and on social networks 84 OTHER BUSINESSES BNV MOBILITY BNV Mobility, located in Breda, the Netherlands, connection, allows the provision of services to drivers (via dashboard) so that they can make more rational and intelligent decisions, in addition to an integrated range derives from the partnership of Brisa (47.5%), of mobility related services (such as a tailored insurance) based on partnerships. Egis Projects (47.5%) and Sherlock Ventures The “Turnn” Plataform/app views to offer over-arching access to different (5%) mobility operators, based on mobility data, identify alternative means of transport and behaviours, encouraging sustainability. The platform is mainly directed to corporates seeking to improve the mobility of their employees. BNV MOBILITY BNV Mobility has been present in projects in the Dutch market, mainly in the areas of Management of Demand (with emphasis in projects viewing to reduce traffic in rush hours) and Innovation / Technology associated with Connected Vehicles. PROJECTS AND INITIATIVES Of particular note are the rush hour avoidance initiatives funded by the local government, with the purpose of significantly reducing traffic in rush hours. These projects comprise a scheme of incentives for drivers to adopt alternative habits, such as change the time of their journeys or use different transport means. The “myJini” platform, which uses a physical device (connected using an OBDII pinout and the vehicle’s electronics) with access to geolocation and internet 85 OTHER BUSINESSES TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT COMPANY (SCA) SICAR (‘TIIC’) TIIC is a Luxembourg-based Private Equity During 2018 TIIC distributed funds to shareholders, following the disposal of the stake held in ALBEA. At the end of the year, the amount distributed to shareholders Fund set up in 2008, with the purpose of accounted for 145% of the capital invested in TIIC, revealing a positive performance investing in transport infrastructures in the of the Fund, taking into account that it still holds three assets. European Union. It should be noted that during 2018, TIIC’s extension was approved for two more years than the originally planned term. Maturity of the fund is now in April 2021. PORTFOLIO’S FEATURES Since its inception in 2008, and in line with its initial strategy, TIIC invested in TIIC 2 (SCA) SICAR (‘TIIC 2’) 6 transport infrastructure projects (5 road concessions and 1 car park company) TIIC 2 is the second fund managed by TIIC’s management team. This fund invests in Portugal, Spain, France and Poland. in both transport infrastructures and social infrastructures in Europe. 2018 was marked by three major events: The divestment process that started at the end of 2016 is still ongoing. In May 2018 the fund sold the stake held in Albea S.A.S. (ALBEA), motorway concession • Completion of the fund-raising process, having achieved the goal initially set of the A150 in France. forth of obtaining investment commitments of €M 300; The management is currently committed to selling the three remaining assets in the portfolio, specifically: Subconcessão Auto-Estradas do Baixo Tejo (AEBT), Completion of the purchase process of the first asset included in the portfolio Subconcessão Litoral Oeste (AELO) and Spanish Autovía Gerediaga Elorrio. the Zaragoza Metro, via a stake of 16.8% in Traza S.A.; The Management expects to complete the disposal of these assets during 2019. Signature of the agreement for the purchase of 2 assets in Ireland, which should be completed during the current year. 86 BUSINESS SEGMENT OUTLOOK Mobility services will account for an increasing part of Brisa’s business. The • Invest in mobility-related projects, in line with Brisa Group’s investment policy, to company will continue investing in this field, seeking growth opportunities and ensure the existence of growth and value creation opportunities. Brisa is active value creation in new business models of this new era where innovation can in the definition and development of innovating business models responding to rapidly transform into the day-to-day life. the constantly evolving changes in the fundamentals of our daily lives. • Develop Traffic Demand projects, as well as projects based on providing integrated services to the end consumer. • Continue to develop and enhance and boosting existing and new mobility services, such as Via Verde Carsharing DriveNow, and Via Verde Boleias and Via Verde Planner, spurring the development of additional services, viewing an integrated offer in the mobility field. 87 4.1 BUSINESS Brisa’s operating performance in 2018 was supported by a favourable macroeconomic environment. Traffic on BCR network grew 4.3%, maintaining a positive evolution. TRAFFIC PERFORMANCE In 2018 traffic growth continued to evolve positively, being mainly supported by organic growth. EVOLUÇÃO TRAFFIC DO TRÁFEGO EVOLUTION ON BCRNA REDE NETWORK BCR PERCENTAGEM PERCENTAGE (%)(%) Organic Calendar and Average Daily Growth Other Effects Traffic 89 PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT Activity growth allowed for a Consolidated EBITDA of €M 553.7, up by 9.4% over the previous year. Brisa’s Operating Income increased by 9.9%, supported by the increase in toll revenues. Highlight for the positive evolution of revenues from Service Areas, which benefited Financial Result in 2017 were positively impacted by the capital gain from the from the renegotiation of contracts and from an increase in activity related to sale of the NorthWest Parkway concession in the US (+ €M 208). Withdrawing the re-branding under the Colibri concept of two additional areas (Leiria and this effect, financial results would have improved significantly, supported by the Almodôvar, which joined the already existing ones Alcácer, Vendas Novas and reduction of the interest paid, as a consequence of the decrease in both the Barcelos), improving customer experience. In the Product Technology segment, weighted average cost of debt and the amount of net debt (highlight for the sales from US continued to grow significantly. repayment of a €M 300 bond in BCR, which had a coupon of 6.875%). CONSOLIDATED OPERATING In 2018 Brisa’s Net Profit decreased, standing at €M 158, as operating activity only partially offset the extraordinary gains recorded in 2017 with the already INCOME EURO MILLION (€M) ‘17 ‘18 Change (%) mentioned sale of NorthWest Parkway concession. Operating income 679.3 746.5 9.9 CONDENSED PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT ‘18 Toll Revenues 557.0 592.4 6.4 Change Service Areas 8.1 17.1 112.7 EURO MILLION (€M) ‘17 (%) Services 96.9 102.1 5.3 Operating Income 679.3 746.5 9.9 Other Operating Income 17.3 34.8 101.6 Operating Costs 173.0 192.7 11.4 EBITDA 506.3 553.7 9.4 Despite the relevant investment made in mobility services (such as Via Verde EBITDA Margin 74.5% 74.2% -0.4pp Carsharing, Via Verde Connected Cars, Via Verde Planner or Via Verde Estacionar), Brisa remains focused on the optimisation and reduction of its Operating Costs. Amortization and Provisions 185.3 190.9 3.0 In 2018, the increase in expenses reflected the already mentioned investment EBIT 321.0 362.8 13.0 in mobility services, as well as the increasing activity in the Product Technology EBIT Margin e Provisões Amortizações 47.3% 48.6% 1.3pp segment (specially in the US) and in Brisa Áreas de Serviço. Financial Results EBIT 83.7 -62.6 EBT 404.7 300.3 -25.8 CONSOLIDATED OPERATING Income tax for the year 128.8 88.7 -31.1 COSTS EURO MILLION (€M) ‘17 ‘18 Change (%) Non-controlling interests Net Profit 45.2 230.8 53.6 158.0 18.6 -31.5 Operating Costs 173.0 192.7 11.4 Supplies and External Services 70.9 75.9 7.1 Personnel Costs 90.9 94.5 3.9 Other Operating Costs 11.2 22.4 99.4 90 CAPEX BALANCE SHEET During 2018, Brisa invested a total amount of €M 56.8 to improve service levels, Brisa’s total assets amounted to €M 3 034, falling by €M 304.7 as compared to particularly the safety and comfort of those travelling on its motorways, and in 31 December 2017. This decrease is mainly due to debt reduction, following the already technology and innovation to meet new mobility challenges. mentioned repayment of the BCR´s €M 300 bond. INVESTMENT CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET EURO MILLION (€M) ‘17 ‘18 Change EURO MILLION (€M) ‘17 ‘18 Change Brisa Concession 42.7 43.7 1.0 Assets Widening works 9.5 3.2 -6.3 Non-Current Assets 2 673.3 2 544.7 -128.5 Major Repairs 27.0 28.3 1.2 Intangible Assets 2 397.3 2 276.4 -120.9 Equipments 2.5 3.3 0.8 Tangible Assets 49.0 49.5 0.6 Other 3.6 8.9 5.3 Deferred tax Assets 78.1 84.2 6.1 Other Investments 13.1 13.1 0.0 Other 148.9 134.3 -14.6 Total Investment 55.8 56.8 1.0 Current Assets 665.4 489.6 -175.9 Cash and cash equivalent 519.4 338.4 -181.0 Other 146.0 151.2 5.2 CASH FLOW GENERATION (EBITDA – CAPEX) Total Assets 3 338.7 3 034.0 -304.7 In 2018, cash flow generation indicator (EBITDA – CAPEX) totalled €M 496.9 (compared with €M 450.4 in 2017), reflecting a very positive year in terms of operating activity. Equity and non controlling interests Equity 410.3 430.4 20.1 Non-controlling Interests 91.6 80.8 -10.8 FINANCIAL INDICATORS Total Equity and non-controlling Interests 501.9 511.2 9.3 Liabilities CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INDICATORS ‘17 ‘18 Non-Current Liabilities Medium and long-term debt 2 249.8 1 996.7 2 144.5 1 888.2 -105.3 -108.5 Financial indicators Other 253.1 256.3 3.2 Current Liabilities 587.0 378.3 -208.7 Net Financial Debt (€M) 1 903.6 1 739.8 3.1 Short-term Debt 426.4 190.0 -236.3 Net Financial Debt/EBITDA 3.8 Other 160.6 188.3 27.6 EBITDA/Interest expenses 7.5 11.0 Total Liabilities 2 836.8 2 522.8 -314.0 Shares Earnings per share (Euro cents) 0.4176 0.2858 Total Equity and Liabilities 3 338.7 3 034.0 -304.7 91 4.2 PEOPLE People are a core value of the Brisa Group as shown in its culture and practices. People management deserves Brisa’s greatest care. In 2018 the company reinforced itsmobility services, service areas and technological development teams, whilst the direct motorway management activities have stabilized. The year was characterized by the efforts made in people management, namely the conclusion of the certification process as “family responsible entity” and the participation in the NOVA SBE Inclusive Community Forum for the inclusion of people with disabilities. As planned, the company implemented the new performance management system of senior staff, which has significant impact on the organisation. The design and implementation of the system involved considerable training in a wide content range. Additionally, a Digital Acceleration Programme was created with Universidade Católica, which had two editions. The programme aims to facilitate Brisa’s digital transformation, providing the organisation with design thinking skills to help in the development of digital solutions centred on user experience. 2 579 Total Employees BREAKDOWN OF BRISA EMPLOYEES (BY GENDER, AGE GROUP AND BUSINESS SEGMENT) Breakdown of employees MEN WOMEN by region: >55 45-55 35-44 <35 Total >55 45-55 35-44 <35 Total Centre Region 546 Brisa Concession 2 2 1 5 4 1 5 Lisbon Region 1 089 Support Services to Concessions 209 623 315 56 1 203 91 223 229 92 635 Alentejo Region 388 Algarve Region 51 Vehicle Inspections 17 127 120 63 327 8 38 39 16 101 Northern Region 499 Product Technology 11 16 23 10 60 3 7 6 16 Corporate Centre and Other Businesses 18 39 52 20 129 11 43 27 17 98 United States of America 6 Total 256 807 510 150 1 724 110 307 306 132 855 92 In 2018 the company created the Brisa +Vida Programme, which comprises BRISA +VIDA BALANCE BETWEEN PROFESSIONAL, the work carried out and materialises the balance policy and the foundations PERSONAL AND FAMILY LIFE for its development. Throughout the year the information on Brisa +Vida (efr) programme was communicated to employees, and several new measures were The Brisa Group deems the appreciation of people, employment and family as disclosed and implemented, such as, those concerning urgent and pressing pillars of its activity, thus considers crucial that employees identify themselves assistance to ascending relatives or birthday half-day leave. The intranet page with the company’s values Ethics, Innovation, Excellence and People and that where all this information is disclosed was also refreshed. as a team, they feel accomplished for creating value for the organisation, for themselves and for the society. In October 2018 a survey satisfaction on the Brisa+Vida (efr) programme was carried out generating 1 352 replies (72% participation). The comparison of the With this in mind, in 2016 Brisa decided to initiate the efr certification (family results with the diagnosis made in 2016 draws a very positive line of the whole responsible company) created by Fundación MásFamilia. Over the last 2 years process. The awareness and satisfaction levels concerning the efr programme Brisa was focused on: evolved from 50% to 88% and 85%, respectively. Consolidating its strategy of balance between professional, personal and family life; Defining processes to listen, on a regular basis, to the employees’ opinion on several aspects that are important for the well-being and environment of the organisation; Training its people on how to promote the balance between professional, family and personal life. EVOLUTION OF THE FAMILY RESPONSIBLE COMPANY CERTIFICATION PROCESS LISTEN TRAIN COMMUNICATE 2016 2017 2018 Decision to implement the Specific training activities Publishing of Brisa’s efr model Plan of Measures Excellence Index Preparation of inquiries Ranked 4th (Amongst large companies to employees on +1 000 Employees) such measures 93 Are you aware of any practices promoted by the company to In 2018 the efr team and other members of the Human Resources and the balance professional, family and personal life? Audit and Quality Departments participated in a two-day training promoted by Fundación MásFamilia. Internal and external audits were performed at the end of the year, and the process culminated with the recognition by Fundación MásFamilia and ACEGE of the Group’s 100% 88.0% practices and consolidation work carried out over the last few years with Brisa 75% +Vida (efr) programme. The outcome was the certification of the Brisa Group 50.0% (10 companies) as a family responsible company. 45.0% 50% 4.0% This certification is only a step forward in this path, which strengthens the Group’s 22.0% 25% values and requires aligned and responsible attitudes and behaviours from 0.0% everyone. Brisa will keep on developing new measures and processes to ensure 0 reconciliation, and to guarantee that the Group’s sustainability its strengthened NA / NS / NR NO YES by happier employees and more competitive companies. DIAGNOSIS (2016) SATISFACTION INQUIRY (2018) What is your degree of satisfaction with the measures that the BRISA ATTENDS THE NOVA SBE INCLUSIVE COMMUNITY FORUM organisation provides to help employees to balance professional responsibilities with personal and family responsibilities? Brisa was actively involved in the promotion of the Inclusive Community Forum (ICF), an initiative from Nova School of Business and Economics dedicated to the life of people with disabilities. In its first year the ICF focused on the employment for people with disabilities subject. Brisa participated in this project from Day 1 and 100% was a member of the Council of Institutions, which held work meetings Inclusive 85.0% Talks where models to increase the effectiveness of the employment of people 75% with disabilities were developed. 43.0% 50% 37.0% At the same time, Brisa took part in the HR4Inclusion initiative, which gathered Human Resources consultants and companies willing to hire people with disabilities. 15.0% 25% The project consisted of bridging the gap between applicants and companies, 0.0% analysing the applicants’ profile and preparing them (as well as the entities that 0 accompany them) to enter work life. NA / NS / NR NEGATIVE POSITIVE DIAGNOSIS (2016) SATISFACTION INQUIRY (2018) Brisa considered this to have been a very enriching experience and the groundwork for an inclusion policy of disabled people. The results of the organisational climate survey (Excellence Index) introduced at the end of 2016 and 2018 show a positive evolution. In 2018, the question “I recognise the benefits (wage complements) offered by my organisation as very good” achieved 62.6% (14.1 percentage points above the benchmark). 1 463 Brisa employees out of a total of 2 362 employees (62%) participated in the 2018 Excellence Index. 94 Aware of the importance of the Performance Management Model as a strategic GREATER AUTONOMY OF TOP MANAGERS THROUGH implementation tool, Brisa has given continuity to a new performance management PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT model for its senior staff. The diagnosis phase was completed in 2017, and the design and implementation phases of the performance cycle were carried out Brisa Group’s management has grown increasingly more complex due to the in 2018. expansion of the business into the areas of Mobility, Technology and Service Areas. This aspect has given rise to different needs in people management, namely the need for greater leaders’ autonomy to manage their teams’ performance and follow their development, with sufficient flexibility to accommodate different needs. GUIDELINES OF THE NEW PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (PMS) ACCOUNTABILITY It engages managers and remaining employees with performance management processes. PMS GUIDELINES * PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM RESULTING DIFFERENTIATION It recognises and distinguishes those that most and better contribute to results, providing tools to manage diﬀerent performances. DEVELOPMENT AND CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT It promotes the personal development of employees, encouraging continuous improvement in performance, whilst focusing on how to keep on evolving. FLEXIBILITY SIMPLICITY AND TRANSPARENCY It allows the integration of the diﬀerent realities of the It is a light, appealing tool with clear rules and implications Group and its changing dynamics, stimulating quick to help the day-to-day of the management. adaptation to diﬀerent situations and contexts. 95 The new model is aligned with the best market practices and trends, taking as This new model provides greater autonomy to leaders to manage the performance starting point the separation of two processes and parallel cycles Performance of their employees, as they are able to decide and choose the components and and Development – and promoting greater autonomy and accountability amongst weighting of the system, select scale targets and decide on the distribution of the managers and employees throughout the whole process. assessments of their teams. On the other hand, it implies greater accountability when gauging the objectives and assessments of each team. The implementation of the new model required that all players assessors PROCESSES SEPARATION – PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT and assessees, including the senior staff, received in-room training on the new performance management model and practices. Everyone involved could thus become acquainted with the new model, reflect on the new performance PERFORMANCE management practices and work the new processes with each team in order to Efficient management tool to help managers define achieve the desired goals. the expectations of their employees, promoting the sharing of strategic business and organisational culture objectives • Short-term planning process SERVICE AREAS NEW PEOPLE AT BRISA through objectives • Reward of past performance In 2018 Brisa Áreas de Serviço continued to implement its strategic plan, taking • Focus on output on the management of restaurant spaces under the Colibri brand in two further • Measurable service areas, specifically Leiria (A1) and Almodôvar (A2). At the end of the year • Based on ratings Brisa Áreas de Serviço had 230 employees as against 88 in 2017. This is an entirely • Managers have a “discerning” role new universe within the Brisa Group, not only on account of the large number of employees but also because of the activities developed, which are new to Brisa. Given the importance of motorway users’ experience in service areas restaurants, the contact and the quality of the service provided are critical for client perception. Hence, Brisa Áreas de Serviço has an ambitious training plan for the next few years, focused on every aspect of client service. Following the investment in the DEVELOPMENT infrastructure, it will now invest in behavioural training to give consistency to the value offer proposed. The purpose is to help employees and respective managers to identify improvement areas and to define actions allowing their professional growth • Future potential • Develops skills, behaviours, decision-making ability • Plans future experiences • Focus on the process • Qualitative analysis • Managers have a coaching role 96 QUALIFYING TRAINING TRAINING Brisa continues to invest in its traditional partnerships, strengthening its links with prestigious Portuguese universities, such as Universidade Católica, Nova SBE, The company’s concern with the continuous development of its employees remains Instituto Superior Técnico, ISCTE, amongst others. The company has promoted a priority but it is also a strategic opportunity for the creation of added value and qualifying training, by enrolling employees in Advanced Courses, Post-graduations competitive edge both on the national and international markets. and MBA, namely the Advanced Management Programme for Managers PAGE (UCP) (in its 16th edition), the Corporate Finance Program (Nova SBE), the Executive From the training activity in 2018, the following areas are worth highlighting: Master in Management – Finance & Control (UCP), the LL.M. International Business Law (UCP), the General Data Protection Regulation Programme (UCP) and the PhD in transport Systems (IST). HOURS OF NUMBER OF TRAINING PARTICIPATIONS DIGITAL ACCELARATION PROGRAM (DAP) This programme focused on the skills’ development and on the use of new tools 2 356 OTHERS 804 for a more efficient and effective use of the resources involved in the design and implementation of new services and products of the Digital Era. Fifty-one 10 962 CORPORATE ALIGNMENT 2 649 employees attended the two editions of the programme at Universidade Católica Portuguesa. 9 277 BEHAVIOURAL 1 163 CERTIFICATE IN ASSET MANAGEMENT 7 923 TECHNICAL 962 Brisa certified 28 employees with the London Asset Management Academy. This certification allowed them to enrich concepts underlying to ISO 55000 6 928 MANAGEMENT AND FINANCE 326 and improve their contribution as catalysts for the company’s transformation. Subsequently, 31 further employees received training in “Introduction to the 7 244 INTEGRATION a) 85 Asset Management System”, since it is considered that efficient management is important to reduce costs and optimise resources. 5 535 INFORMATION SYSTEMS 603 4 251 SAFETY 859 GENERAL DATA PROTECTION REGULATIONS (RGPD) With the entry in effect of the law on data protection, a team of internal trainers (supported by external trainers in some cases) provided training to employees of the a) This area includes introduction process to the company, or to a new function, team, or project. Brisa Group (from different companies and business areas) to explain basic concepts of data protection, to facilitate the identification of situations applying to their respective area of activity, and to highlight the best data protection related practices. In 2018, 142 training actions and 3 276 training hours were provided in this subject. ARCCO PROJECT This project reflects the Brisa’s investment to connect employees from different 54 656 areas, to promote better communication and articulation of the different road assistance teams and of the Operational Coordination Centre (OCC) of Brisa Operação e Manutenção. Number training hours (vs 53 577 in 2017) 97 The programme comprised various steps, culminating in the exchange of roles The integration of occupational health and safety within the Brisa Group’s during a simulation on the A32 motorway, where employees of the OCC carried out companies has enabled not only an activity planning where these matters are road assistance drills (together with some OCC employees) and road assistance considered since the projects’ initial phase but also efficiency and effectiveness employees worked with OCC people in a field-OCC deployed specifically for the gains by jointly identifying and implementing the solutions. purpose. The initiative was highly valued by all participants, and involved many other teams, hierarchies and external entities (road police). Two editions of this The performance of road works without traffic interruption continues to draw programme were carried out in 2018 and two others are planned for 2019. particular attention, with the aim of improving processes and reducing associated risks. Road maintenance and assistance in the lanes and toll plazas are considered to be high risk activities by the international law on occupational health and safety, and the prevention of run-over accidents is one of the prime focus of Brisa’s action EMPLOYEES’ REPRESENTATIVES at any time. Brisa’s investment over the past few years has allowed to restrict lane crossing in toll plazas, the procedures implemented in road maintenance and road assistance activity combined with regular training have been a prime Eighty-six percent of Brisa Group’s employees are covered by collective concern of the Group. labour instruments: Collective Bargaining Agreement (ACT Brisa) and Motor Inspection Collective Convention. OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENT RATE The Collective Bargaining Agreement (ACT Brisa) is negotiated every year since 1989 and is presently subscribed by union forces belonging to the two largest NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS ‘17 ‘18 Portuguese trade unions (UGT and GCTP), covering personnel linked to motorway operation and maintenance and to mobility services. A successful negotiation of Number of fatal accidents 0 0 the Collective Bargaining Agreement has been achieved every year. Number of accidents 111 97 Frequency index 27.5 22.4 The Workers Committee plays an active role: follows the company’s activity and Severity index 1 009.4 900.9 meets with management teams on a regular basis. Social peace has been kept over the years and is strongly valued by all parties. In 2018 it is worth highlighting that the risk assessment of electronic operating While managing the different organisational development processes undertaken activities, comprised in Brisa Gestão de Infraestruturas, of client face-to-face over the last few years, it has always been possible to find grounds of common service activity (carried out by VVC) and vehicle inspection activities was revised. understanding and balance, thanks to the great sense of responsibility of all Visits were made on a regular basis to the different companies’ facilities, followed players, which have been contributing significantly to the Group’s sustainability. by corresponding reports. Finally, a joint plan developed by SIST and occupational medicine was developed OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH to ensure a better articulation between the two areas. The prevention of occupational hazards is a prime goal of the health and safety services within the Brisa Group. The Group has an Internal Health and Safety Service (SIST) since 2009, which is equipped with technical and relation skills to promote the development of an occupational safety and health culture, which has achieved positive results as far as the control of occupational risks is concerned. Throughout 2018 the SIST has implemented the necessary processes to assess the risk of each of Brisa’s specific activities, has monitored with particular emphasis occupational accidents, and has seeked to identify respective causes and circumstances in order to ensure the need for any adjustment to procedures. 98 4.3 INNOVATION Throughout its history, the Brisa Group has followed a consistent and structured approach to strengthen and protect its intellectual capital. Innovation is one of the cornerstones of Brisa’s code of values From the very first innovations to its processes which marked the beginning of Brisa’s operations in the 70s to the introduction of client-oriented technology and the latest mobility focused business models, Brisa always took great care in continuously improving its intangibility. Accordingly, it took great care in legally protecting its intellectual assets, so that they could generate value through differentiating competitive advantages (core skills). €M 2.5 R&D investment made by A-to-Be (+35% compared to 2017) 99 EUROPEAN INNOVATION PRODUCTS COLLABORATION WITH RESEARCH CENTRES AND UNIVERSITIES SCOOP @ F PART 2 Brisa works with the Portuguese academia in various research projects. This partnership aims to use the knowledge obtained from research and apply it to The prime goal of the SCOOP@F (Système Coopératif Pilote) is the development the field. By way of example, Brisa has the following partnerships: of Cooperative Intelligent Transport Systems in France. A-to-Be has joined the second phase of the project, with other partners comprising public entities, motorway operators, universities, research institutes, car manufacturers and TELECOMMUNICATIONS INSTITUTE OF AVEIRO UNIVERSITY telecommunication operators. The partnership entered with the Telecommunications Institute of Aveiro University aims to develop of vehicular communication solutions, namely vehicle to vehicle C-ROADS PORTUGAL (V2V) and vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I) solutions. Through this collaboration, The C-ROADS Portugal project started in November 2017, has a 4-year duration A-to-Be has been working on the development of hybrid in-board equipment that and is co-funded by Europe’s “Connecting Europe Facility” programme. The project can be installed in a vehicle or in a protected structure by the road, to implement intends to develop 5 macro pilots to expand the C-ITS across 1 000 km of road and test services to improve the road users’ safety. infrastructures, including 10 motorways and 7 urban roads in the Oporto, Lisbon and the Algarve regions. This team is headed by Professor Joaquim Ferreira and has provided support to the European projects in which A-to-Be is involved, namely SCOOP@F Part 2, C-ROADS Portugal and AUTO C-ITS. 5G-MOBIX The 5G-MOBIX, project financed by the 2020 Horizon programme, started in November 2018, and aims to validate the use of 5G technology in connected SYSTEMS AND ROBOTICS INSTITUTE OF COIMBRA UNIVERSITY cooperative mobility in autonomous vehicles. The team led by Professor Jorge Batista has been developing computer vision systems to collect information of the road and vehicle conditions. These systems enable the development of new services for clients, using common and easy to install hardware. INSTITUTO SUPERIOR DE ENGENHARIA DE LISBOA The team led by Professor Luís Osório is researching in the field of technology €k 440 applied to intelligent transport systems. In 2018 the research focused the evolution of MOBICS central platform, a software to manage communications using ITS-G5 equipment deployed on the road infrastructure and collect information from Of European funds received by A-to-Be connected vehicles travelling on the motorway network. The team also developed an exploratory project for the use of BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy) technology to locate vehicles in car parks. 100 INSTITUTO SUPERIOR TÉCNICO It is important to note that the Brisa Group continues committed to new technologies’ investigation. This trend was also visible in the the work developed with startups, The research team led by Professor Rosário Macário developed a project about with the highlight for a Blockchain pilot developed in partnership with US start-up the use of dynamic pricing for tolls, focused on road tariffs (in this case tolls) and Oaken Innovations. This pilot aimed to replicate Brisa’s infrastructure technology possible mechanisms to apply them. on a Blockchain based technology, to make the company “Blockchain Ready”. Additionally, Brisa is sponsoring a research project comprised within the scope of a PhD thesis in transport systems, under the leadership of Prof. Luís Picado Brisa won the second prize of Mobi Grand Challenge with this project and the Santos, which aims to assess its clients acceptance on autonomous vehicles’ ‘Feasibility’ award. Mobi Grand Challenge had the participation of 24 teams from technology and their intention of keep driving in motorways where autonomous 15 countries. driving is a reality. This project seeks to better assess how to integrate autonomous vehicles in a mixed traffic environment, and to outline a strategy to introduce 2018 results were as follows: such vehicles in traffic. COLLABORATION WITH START-UPS APPS 329 GROW MOBILITY START-UPS Grow Mobility is part of the José de Mello Group’s Grow project, which supports THOUROUGHLY ANALYSED 128 and mentors start-ups operating in the mobility field, leveraging on the Brisa, Via Verde, A-to-Be and Controlauto brands, with the ambition to achieve international scalability for the best ideas and the most innovative projects, whilst contributing START-UPS 31 to the development of the Portuguese Economy. WITH POTENTIAL INTEREST This value proposition is achieved through an “Acceleration Programme”, which is aligned with Brisa’s action in the Mobility and Technology areas and allows to manage the appointment of mentors, the performance of field tests and START-UPS investment, clearly focused towards results. 8 +90 WITH NO INTEREST In 2018 Grow Mobility kept an active role in international events (Get in the Ring, IN THE INITIAL PHASE Moneyconf, Slush, among others) but also in national events with international Brisa professionals relevance such as the Lisbon Investment Summit, Websummit, amongst others). START-UPS 26 directly involved in Grow Mobility and Additionally, Grow Mobility was involved in two start-up scouting programmes: SELECTED FOR PILOT PHASE related activities / POSSIBLE PILOT / MENTORING 13 Smart Open Lisboa Mobility (SOL Mobility), locally based, resulted from a partnership between Beta-i and the Lisbon Council, with the purpose of finding new mobility solutions for the city of Lisbon and respective accesses. Brisa Mentors This programme brought to 2 pilots with international start-ups (AI Park and MotionTag). 3 Start-ups with The other start-up scouting programme, focused on European start-ups with the purpose of addressing specific problems related to the Brisa Group. The winning start-up is called Heptasense which by a coincidence is Portuguese. direct mentoring Heptasense provides a computer vision solution (using Brisa CCTV network), which automatically detects any incident occurring on the network, prompting immediate action to protect users’ safety. 101 BRISA’S INNOVATIVE PROJECTS I2V COMMUNICATION Brisa, through A-to-Be, developed several initiatives around “cooperative intelligent transport systems (C-ITS)”. It developed an end-to-end framework, from hardware radio transmitters to backoffice PREDICTIVE MAINTENANCE software. These systems use Dedicated Short-Range Communications (DSRC) between vehicles and Predictive maintenance solution ( for heavy or semi-heavy between vehicles and the road infrastructure on 5.9 GHz frequency, standardized in Europe vehicles). The service provided by Stratio enables the fleet as ITS-G5. manager to control the mechanical condition of its vehicles in real time and project future repairs (based on anomalies presented). With this solution, the fleet manager can reduce repair periods and make preventive repairs to suppress such deficiencies to turn into bigger problems. AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES Autonomous and connected vehicles were tested in four different scenarios, having received information from the road infrastructure about simulated events: “Danger, vehicle stopped ahead”, “Ice on the road/heavy rain”, “Rock fall / large objects on the road” and “Lane available at toll plaza”. In each of the first three situations, the vehicles automatically reduced speed in the respective locations, as expected. In the toll plaza scenario, the autonomous vehicle changed lane to use the only automatic toll collection lane available. BLOCKCHAIN SOLUTION Brisa’s technological architecture simulation using a Blockchain GREEN SPACES EFFICIENCY (IRRIGATION) powered solution. The Blockchain system (+Smart Contracts) was The start-up Trigger Systems focuses on water-efficient irrigation systems, having developed by the start-up Oaken Innovations, and was replicated conceived a solution which combines the monitoring/automation and remote control by A-to-Be team. Brisa and Oaken teams worked on the definition of irrigation in a sole digital platform. of use cases to implement Blockchain, from a broader and more In addition to enabling the remote control of the entire irrigation infrastructure, it impacting perspective for Brisa. optimizes water use based on weather information and the exact location of the The facilitation of transaction processing in an interoperability terrain. situation was the practical case deemed as the most relevant. 102 4.4 COMMUNITY Brisa has a social development project, focused on community relationship and emphasis on road safety, quality of the service provided and social responsibility ROAD SAFETY The safety of each and every user of the Group’s infrastructures is a primary concern for Brisa, which sees to ensure it by an active traffic management, an adequate road maintenance, a continuous improvement of equipment, systems and procedures, and information campaigns to raise awareness to road safety rules amongst different segments of the population. Brisa’s performance related to road safety is continuously improving, as shown by the evolution of the accident rate, which is the prime indicator of road safey. Amongst the several actions carried out by Brisa under this subject, road improvement and pavement reinforcement works are particularly worth mentioning. These investments involve improvement of traffic conditions, larger number of lanes available in stretches subject to widening works, as well as installation and improvement of road signage. 103 ROAD ACCIDENT INDICATORS IN 2018 ROAD ACCIDENT RATE EVOLUTION 2008-2018 (BRISA CONCESSÃO RODOVIÁRIA NETWORK) ROAD ACCIDENT RATE + 10.1% MINOR INJURY ACCIDENT RATE + 2.8% 50.0 47.9 47.5 46.5 7.4% FATALITY RATE 44.0 45.0 23.6% FATAL ACCIDENT RATE 42.5 41.1 ACCIDENT INDEX + 1.8% 39.5 40.0 38.0 2.1% SEVERE INJURY RATE 39.2 37.5 1.6% SEVERE INJURY ACCIDENT RATE 35.0 32.2 32.8 29.8 9.0% SEVERITY INDEX 32.5 32.1 0.7% MINOR INJURY RATE 30.0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ROAD ACCIDENT RATE CHANGE OVER 2017 On BCR network, although in absolute terms the number of accidents increased The sustained decrease in the accident rate on BCR network over 2008-2018 translates the safety of the network. This performance, but also the peaks seen in the period particularly in 2010 and 2014 motivates in 2018 (+14.1%), as well as the accident rate (+10.1%) and the rate of accidents Brisa to continue to its work in this matter. with injured (+1.8%), severity indicators fell. As compared to the previous year, the number of accidents resulting in death fell by 23.6% and the accident rate with severe injury dropped by 1.6%. The absolute number of deaths decreased by 4.0% in 2017. MOTORWAY OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND IMPROVEMENT These indicators show that the increase in the number of accidents went in line Brisa’s work to ensure the continuous improvement in road safety comprises a with the growth in traffic on the concession network, which was not followed by number of investments and activities, amongst which the following were carried severe accident indicators. Notwithstanding, prevention measures implemented out in 2018: over the last few years and the quality of the infrastructure have translated in the downward trend in most accident indicators on BCR’s network. Brisa’s Operational Coordination Centre (OCC), which centralises the management of all operation and maintenance activities, including road and emergency assistance on the motorways; Coverage of the entire motorway network by the telematics and road safety system (iBrisa); Performance of road works: widening works; improvement in traffic conditions; renovation of road pavement; repair and replacement of gantries and semi-gantries; renovation of central reservations, engineering structures and road equipment; 104 Improvement of communication systems and information on traffic ROAD SAFETY CAMPAIGNS conditions by dedicated signage, media and digital communication channels (Via Verde app) and client service. ONLINE IN LIFE CAMPAIGN Brisa carries out two major road safety campaigns every year, during Summer and RESPONSE TO EMERGENCY SITUATIONS during the Christmas and New Year holiday season, addressed to its clients and the public in general. The communication and awareness raising to the risks and A proper response to emergency situations is crucial to reduce risks, mitigate best practices of road safety implemented by Brisa aims to reduce the accident AFH_BRISA_Seguranca_Cartaz_500x700.pdf 1 04/09/18 17:19 impacts and increase the chances of a successful emergency assistance. rate, by promoting a road safety culture in Portugal. For that purpose, Brisa has adopted control systems, technical solutions, In 2018 Brisa focused on the risks associated to the use of digital equipment, i.e. organisation and management solutions to respond to emergency situations, smartphones and tablets, when driving. This subject had already been approached protecting clients and any local community likely to be affected. This work is made in close cooperation and articulation with remaining relevant entities (ANPCNational Civil Protection Authority, GNRGuarda Nacional Republicana, PSP-Polícia MAIS RÁPIDO in previous years due to its perceived impact on road accidents. NO ACESSO The Offline in the car, Online in life campaign was disclosed through several de Segurança Pública, firemen and other). channels TV, radio, Brisa digital ecosystem, other digital channels and the ATM network. ÀS REDES SOCIAIS, Within this scope, in 2018 Brisa, jointly with ANPC and GNR, and the involvement of a number of other relevant entities, carried out a safety simulation drill (T-REX 2018), which aimed to test and improve response capacity in the event of fire accident in a tunnel. APPS E LIVE PHOTOS BRISA ROAD SAFETY OBSERVATORY Aiming to strengthen capacities and skills in road assistance work, in 2018 Brisa created the Road Safety Observatory, which is an advisory body with the mission of issuing road safety recommendations to be subsequently submitted to the approval of the Executive Committee of Brisa Auto-Estradas, helping in the definition of strategies and initiatives to reduce road accidents. The Road Safety Observatory’s has the representation of the different relevant Group’s areas, and has the following duties: To gather statistic information and data on the incidents occurred in the network operated by Brisa and to review them; To prepare studies and proposals allowing strategic decision-making aimed at increasing road safety and reducing the accident rate; To follow-up on the implementation of internal road safety plans. 105 “BRISA IN SCHOOLS” EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMME In 2005 Brisa took the initiative to create a road safety programme addressed to 6 to 10-year-old children, called “Brisa in Schools Educational Programme”, which includes the Road Safety First Programme. The Road Safety First programme aims to raise children awareness to road safety and is carried out in public and private primary schools, where basic notions of road safety are conveyed. The issues addressed comprise the use of car safety belts, baby seats, the importance of seeing and be seen (through the contact with the inside of a road assistance vehicle), the understanding of traffic road signs and rules (through the contact with traffic signs). The purpose of this programme is to stimulate the children’s interest and commitment to best practices in terms of road safety, based on a playful and educational experience, prepared in articulation with the school. In 2018 the Safety-First Programme covered 135 schools and 14 530 students. BRISA STUDENT DRIVE CAMP/YOUNG CAPITAL OF ROAD SAFETY The 2018 Brisa Student Drive Camp, now in its 5th year, was held in Viseu during the Young Capital of Road Safety meeting, which Brisa also sponsored. The project is based on a model developed by Fórum Estudante and was conceived as a leisure and learning event addressed to 14 to 24-year-old students of secondary and professional schools and of universities.. Over 5 days several actions took place all across town, with the support of different partners of the Young Capital of Road Safety initiative. The definition, planning and development of these activities resulted of a joint work of Fórum Estudante and Brisa. This year’s edition took place from the 5th to the 9th of September. 106 SERVICE QUALITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The assistance and relief service quality Brisa provides to its clients and motorways’ The country’s economic and social development is closely linked to the existence users (and by extension those of the mobility services) is crucial to the social and of transport infrastructures, benefiting both people and businesses. relationship value creation. This understanding of social responsibility geared towards results reflects the Brisa Operação e Manutenção, (through the OCC and its Road Assistance providers) company’s strong will to produce positive impacts on communities, through the are critical agents of social value creation. The same goes for Via Verde Contact, institutions with which it forged social partnerships. which plays a central role in Brisa’s relationship with its clients. With this collaborative model, Brisa does not intend to interfere in the management of the charitable organizations or NGOs with which it becomes involved. The results of some projects are intangible and hard to verify whereas in others Social and Relationship value creation the goals and results of Brisa’s social action are very clear. indicators (2018) In this framework, in its social responsibility actions, Brisa follows one of three support philosophies: Road Traveling and assistance: 1. Commit & Engage – Assumes a medium/long term partner relationship, 12 391 907 km through a structured and continued support, providing material and human resources, and building up the company’s involvement with the institutions and Travelled by road assistance vehicles surrounding community. 127 631 2. Act & Connect – Enables actions or projects with donations in cash or in kind, Road assistance operations on the network and from that moment on develops a relationship and a collaboration with the institution and community involved, with volunteers, management support or fresh donations. New Hotline: 3. Pay & Forget – One-offdonation in cash or in kind, without other involvement 210 730 300 with the institution or with the community involved. 6.5 minutes Average response time to an event (a) Service channels share: digital channel 46% a) Average time from the moment the assistance call is received at the OCC to the moment assistance arrives at the scene 107 In line with this conceptual framework, Brisa continues to develop a consistent During 2018 there were 159 employees of the Brisa Group (+24.2% than in 2017) activity in the social field, providing financial support to institutions, but mostly involved in this programme, which differs from others because volunteers put through a direct participation in social projects, and by providing field support in their knowhow and specific skills, giving life to functional profiles, thus adding to social solidarity institutions, within the scope of the José de Mello Group’s social value to the projects. Volunteer Service Programme. The volunteering program provides support to the following charitable organizations: In 2018, Brisa made donations to the community in the amount of € 711 thousand, Associação Coração Amarelo (Lisbon and Oporto), ATL da Galiza (Cascais), Centro which benefited 72 institutions across the country, standing as a reference of Comunitário da Paróquia de Carcavelos (Cascais), Obra do Frei Gil (Porto), Movimento citizenship action, strengthening its civic support to communities, and seeking de Defesa da Vida (Lisboa) and Associação Junior Achievement Portugal. to be part of the solution to situations of extreme poverty that still subsist in Portugal. Adding to the above, the company used €125 thousand in pro bono The work provided by Brisa volunteers in these organisations ranged from activities, totalling an investment of €837 thousand applied in the community. school support to home care to the elderly, legal aid, computer training given to unemployed people, administrative support, serving in social shops, psychological support with intervention teams, help in the management of social and cultural PARTICIPATION IN THE JOSÉ DE MELLO GROUP VOLUNTEER events and activities. PROGRAMME The José de Mello Group, with the support of Amélia de Mello Foundation, has implemented a volunteer programme crossing all its subsidiaries and directed to the 14 thousand employees of the Group. 108 4.5 ENVIRONMENT Throughout its already long history, Brisa has always sought to protect the environment from the impacts on ecosystems caused by the construction, maintenance and operation of motorways. Presently, Brisa’s agenda is aligned with today’s major challenges relating to energy, climate and mobility change The operation and maintenance of motorways, mobility services and remaining operational areas developed by Brisa business units and areas have impacts which the company has always sought to prevent, mitigate or offset, based on its Environmental Management System or any specific measure or project, whenever the need or any innovation opportunity arises. Brisa’s strategy and action as far as the Environment is concerned are in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and major environmental policy directives, namely as concerns the protection of biodiversity, mitigation of traffic related impacts, climate change and transport decarbonization. In relation to climate change and transport decarbonization issues, Brisa has sought to interpret with objectivity the challenges confronting the world today and to actively collaborate in the search for collaborative solutions, participating in national and international specialised forums. Accordingly, in 2018 Brisa participated in the preparatory works of the Road Map for Carbon Neutrality up to 2050, prepared by the Portuguese Government, pursuant to its obligations under the Paris Agreement. Brisa was invited to participate in workshops on “mobility and transports” at the beginning of 2018. 109 The Portuguese Government presented the Road Map in December 2018, which The main areas of intervention of the Climate 2.0 are as follows: included several technical annexes, amongst which one relating to the “mobility and transport” sector. In September 2018 Brisa joined the “Transport Decarbonisation Alliance”, Electricity a joint initiative of Portugal and France, which views to promote a partnership of 1. Buildings (Head-Office, Waste countries, cities and companies to reduce to zero mobility-related emissions of Operational Coordination 1. Resulting from Brisa Group activities Centre) carbon dioxide until 2050. Brisa believes that the future of our societies depends 2. Resulting from accidents on the collective capacity to find solutions to the challenges which the world is 2. Operational Centres facing in terms of energy and carbon dioxide emissions. 3. Motorway lighting 4. Toll plazas Still with regard to the subject of sustainable development and its environmental 5. Fleet electric vehicles dimension, Brisa continued the work developed in this field, as member of the WBCSD 6. DriveNow vehicles – World Business Council for Sustainable Development and ITF – International Transport Forum. HEAD-OFFICE OPERATIONAL In line with this vision and the work carried out in the last decade viewing the COORDINATION continuous improvement of its eco-efficiency, Brisa has put forward a project WASTE CENTRE focused on reducing the carbon footprint of the business and improve performance 1 1 WAREHOUSE in its response to present climate change challenges. OPERATIONAL 1 1 CENTRE 1 5 2 2 4 CLIMA 2.0 3 3 2 The Clima 2.0 project is the specific answer to the need identified by Brisa of 2 4 3 having a carbon strategy and a climate change strategy, comprising, in addition 6 to the carbon issue energy consumption, GHG emissions other issues, such as water and other resources consumption efficiency, circular economy, biodiversity and resilience. Clima 2.0 is a cross-cutting and systematic approach, which included the following tasks: 2 1 It identified key indicators to measure, control and manage the energy and carbon and water and waste dimensions; It created a new management tool based on a dashboard – called Brisa ASAP – As Sustainable As Possible which aggregates and centralises all Water environmental indicators, providing a cross-cutting vision of Brisa’s 1.Buildings (Head-Office, Operational Coordination Centre) Fuel environmental reality and respective action plan; 2. Operational Centres 1. Roadside Assistance vehicles It defined a short-term action plan for carbon, focused on the reduction Shower rooms 2. DriveNow of consumption and emissions and self-generation. Irrigation 3. Fleet vehicles 3. Cleaning of toll plazas 4. Generators (Operational Centres) 110 The first phase of the Clima 2.0 project addressed electricity and fuel consumption and associated emissions and the outlining of a short-term plan to reduce such ECO-EFFICIENCY INDICATOR consumptions. Amongst the various measures laid down, we point out the following: Replacement with LED lamps of all lamps on BCR network (expected ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION decrease in electricity consumption of 30%); Electricity consumption has kept a downward trend. The measures included in Installation of photovoltaic solar panels in 8 Operational Centres (expected the Energy Consumption Rationalisation Plan led to a decrease in consumption decrease in electricity consumption of 1% and elimination of emissions by 2.9% in 2018 over the previous year, thanks to a more efficient and smart with the adoption of renewable energy source); management of consumption and investment in more efficient equipment. Gradual electrification of the fleet (goal assumed by Brisa to reduce by 20% the emissions from its fleet within the 2013-2025 period). It is important to note that within the scope of Clima 2.0 project, we have defined a policy to recalculate the base-year, which allows to set absolute reduction In addition to the initial focus of the project, the company has now gathered goals, taking into account situations of business expansion. Taking into account all necessary data to carry out the special projects – known as Clima 2.X sub the growth of Brisa Áreas de Serviço, the base-year was recalculated based on projects -, viewing the implementation of identified measures to reduce carbon current consumptions, whilst previous years’ figures were restated. and energy consumptions and to meet the challenges in terms of water, waste and biodiversity. ELETCTRICITY CONSUMPTION CONSUMO DE ELETRICIDADE 10 3GJ 3 10 GJ 154.0 152.0 151.2 150.0 148.0 147.5 146.0 143.8 144.0 142.0 139.6 140.0 138.0 136.0 134.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 CONSUMPTION 111 FUEL CONSUMPTION GHG EMISSIONS In 2018 fuel consumption increased due to the higher number of Drive Now cars. Brisa GHG emissions result of the combination of electricity and fuel consumptions If it weren’t for this increase in (4,2 103 GJ), consumption would have fallen in multiplied by an emission factor which can cover 2 scopes: i.e.: relation to 2017 by 0.5%. Scope 1 emissions = fuel consumptions x emission factor (of respective This performance was possible thanks to optimised management of the number class of vehicle or generator) of cars, attention paid to engine capacity, better planning of operations and Scope 2 Emissions = electricity consumptions x emission factor behavioural changes. (associated with the production of such energy) Additionally, figures reported in previous years were restated following the adoption a calculation method which is closer to reality. The Scope 2 emission factor (electricity) may be of 2 types: Market-Based (MB) i.e., the emission factor associated with the renewable non-renewable mix of the electricity supplier to which Brisa buys electricity; Location-Based (LB) i.e., the emission factor associated with Portugal’s FUEL CONSUMO CONSUMPTION DE COMBUSTÍVEL renewable/non-renewable mix. 10 103 3GJ GJ In 2018 the total of these emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) fell by 13.5% over the 91.0 previous year. 90.2 90.0 89.5 However, there was an increase in Scope 1 emissions (6.6%) caused by higher 4.2 89.0 fuel consumption resulting from the expansion of the Drive Now fleet, which 88.2 was offset by a large decrease in Scope 2 emissions (20.9%), as a result of the 88.0 implementation of Brisa Energy Consumption Rationalisation Plan. 87.0 86.4 Note that emission factors were corrected in relation to previous years, as the 86.0 methodology was changed. 86.0 85.0 84.0 83.0 82.0 81.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 BRISA GROUP CONSUMPTION INCREASE IN DRIVENOW CONSUMPTION The combined decrease of fuel and electricity consumption, i.e. energy consumption, dropped by 0.2% in relation to 2017. 112 GHG EMISSIONS EMISSÕES DE GEEOF DESCOPE AND ÂMBITO11 E DE ÂMBITO 2 WATER CONSUMPTION (MARKET-BASED) CONSUMO DE ÁGUA SCOPE 2 (MARKET-BASED) 10 3m 3 3 3 106 teqCO2 eq 10 m 10 tCO 6 2 160.0 30.0 138.5 24.8 140.0 122.0 22.5 34.2 AMBIENTE 25.0 18.6 120.0 92.9 18.9 16.5 19.4 20.0 100.0 82.0 13.0 104.3 12.8 80.0 15.0 60.0 10.0 40.0 6.2 6.1 6.4 5.0 6.0 20.0 0.0 0.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS(MB) BRISA GROUP’S CONSUMPTION BRISA ÁREAS DE SERVIÇO CONSUMPTION INCREASE WASTE SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS 2018 was a year marked by exceptional events, which affected this indicator, namely: ‘18 10 tC02e 3 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 Various scrap removal processes were triggered in 2018 and were completed in 2018. (776 t) A2 Market Based GHG emissions (103 tC02e) 18.6 12.8 16.5 13.0 696 tons of rubble were found close to a viaduct on A17 A2 Location Based GHG emissions (10 tC02e) 3 11.9 11.2 13.9 11.2 Various plots of land with garage buildings were expropriated and the buildings had to be demolished and the rubble removed. (29 t) WATER CONSUMPTION Following a year of huge water consumption in 2017 due to the wild fires that ravaged the country, this indicator recorded a further increase in 2018. This rise in water consumption is explained by the addition of service areas to Brisa Áreas de Serviço’s operation (which account for an increase in water consumption by 34 196 m3). Excluding this effect, water consumption fell by 14.5%. 113 WASTE PRODUCTION CONSUMO DE ÁGUA BIODIVERSITY TONS (t) 103 m3 1500.0 In 2018 the managed area included in Rede Natura 2000 totalled 359,12 hectares. 2 282.0 The area is the same reported on in previous years (2009-2017), as there were no 1250.0 696.0 infrastructure / widening works crossing any areas of the Natura 2000 Network. 2000.0 The monitoring of fauna roadkill in 2018 carried out across Brisa’s motorway 1750.0 network has shown that in the sub-stretches that cross areas included in the Natura 2000 Network, there was no record of collisions with species 1500.0 listed as threatened in “Livro Vermelho dos Vertebrados de Portugal (2005)” 1 586.0 [The Red Book of Portuguese Vertebrates (2005)]. 1250.0 1 188.0 1000.0 In 2018, no project for landscape integration or recovery was carried out. In the 782.0 743.0 light of the data provided above, in 2018 the area of protected/restored habitats 750.0 totalled 3.7 ha. 500.0 250.0 0.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 WASTE OF BRISA GROUP WASTE LEFT BY THIRD PARTIES ON THE MOTORWAY AND REMOVED BY BRISA TOTAL WASTE PER TYPE AND METHOD OF DISPOSAL TONS (t) HAZARDOUS NON-HAZARDOUS RECOVERY LANDFILL 34 2 248 1 225 1 058 TOTAL 2 282 2 282 114 5.1 PART I INFORMATION ON SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE, ORGANIZATION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A. SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE I. II. CAPITAL STRUCTURE EQUITY HOLDINGS AND BONDS 1. BRISA is a public limited liability company with share capital of € 6 000 000 7. Holders of qualifying holdings in the Company’s capital stock, according (six million Euro), corresponding to 600 000 000 (six hundred million) nominal to the attendance list of the General Meeting held on December 5, 2018, are shares, with the nominal value of one cent per share, not listed in any regulated as follows: market. 2. There are no restrictions to the free transmission of shares corresponding HOLDER No. % % of shares share capital vote* to Brisa capital stock. José de Mello Investimentos, SGPS, S.A. 182 683 904 30.45% 33.06% 3. The number of treasury shares is 47 352 614, accounting for 7.89% of its Arcus European Infrastructure Fund GP LLP 114 557 795 19.09% 20.73% share capital. Tagus holding S.àr.l. 243 497 061 40.58% 44.06% 4. The Company did not enter into any agreement and there are no agreements *The number of treasury shares is 47 352 614 which would terminate or become effective in the event of change in the Company’s control. 8. The members of BRISA’s governing bodies do not hold shares nor bonds in 5. There are no defensive measures in force, namely any limits to the number the Company. of votes exercisable by any shareholder. 9. The managing board does not hold special powers, namely in what concerns 6. The company is not aware of any shareholder agreement that might restrict resolutions on capital increases. the transfer of Brisa securities or voting rights. 10. There are no relevant business relations between holders of qualifying Though not a listed company, shares and the Company. Brisa follows the governance code of the IPCG (Portuguese Corporate Governance Institute), to the extentse of its own specificities. 116 B. CORPORATE BODIES AND COMMITTEES I. 17. Under the terms set out in the articles of association, the Board of Directors GENERAL MEETING is composed of a minimum of ten and maximum of fourteen members, elected for a 3-year mandate. The current mandate is for the 2017-2019 period. a) Board of the General Meeting The Board of Directors is made up as follows: 11. The board of the general meeting elected for the year 2017-2018 term was composed of António Manuel de Carvalho Ferreira Vitorino, Chairman, Francisco de Sousa da Câmara, Vice-Chairman and Tiago Severim de Melo Alves dos Santos, Corporate Secretary. Meanwhile, following his appointment as United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Organization for BOARD OF DIRECTORS Migration, António Manuel de Carvalho Ferreira Vitorino resigned as Chairman of the General Meeting. b) Exercise of voting rights Chairman 12. There are no special classes of shares nor any statutory rules restricting • Vasco Maria Guimarães José de Mello* the exercising of voting rights by any shareholder, regardless of the number of shares the shareholder may hold. 13. There are no limits to the exercise of voting rights. Vice-Chairman • João Pedro Stilwell Rocha e Melo* 14. According to the articles of association, there are no resolutions requiring to be approved by majorities above those legally set forth. Members II. MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION • João Pedro Ribeiro de Azevedo Coutinho* • António José Lopes Nunes de Sousa* a) Composition • Daniel Alexandre Miguel Amaral* • Rui Alexandre Pires Diniz 15. The Corporate Governance model adopted by Brisa consists of board of • Michael Gregory Allen directors and supervisory board. • Luís Eduardo Brito Freixial de Goes • Graham Peter Wilson Marr 16. Under the terms provided in the Code of Commercial Companies (CSC), • Stuart David Gray the choice and election of the members of the corporate bodies are the strict responsibility of the General Meeting. * Executive Committee 117 According to a resolution of its In addition to the Executive Committee set up within the Board of Directors, there are no other committees with managing or supervisory powers. shareholders, Brisa’s governance model consists of a board of directors and a The Board of Directors consists of ten members, five of whom make up the Executive Committee. Under statutory terms, the Board of Directors meets at least supervisory board. once a month. The executive management of the company falls to the Executive Hence, executive and supervisory Committee. Pursuant to the governance model adopted at Brisa, the Chairman of the Board of Directors is also the Chairman of the Executive Committee. functions are clearly separated and The Executive Committee was invested with the broadest management powers, thus performed by distinct bodies. except for those which, for legal or statutory reasons, are reserved to the Board of Directors. Under these terms, the following duties fall to the Board of Directors: Within this framework, at board of directors’ level, the law sets out a rule of solidarity and mutual responsibility between all members, with no exception. (a) Co-option of Directors; However, notwithstanding the said rule of solidarity, the advantage of having management bodies composed of executive and non-members is clear. Non(b) Convening of General Meetings; executive directors, as they are not directly involved in daily management, will have a more comprehensive and less compromised view of day-to-day situations. They are in a privileged position to bring positive contributions to the outlining and (c) Preparation of annual reports and accounts; analysis of strategies and the follow-up of businesses, identifying any deficiency, or suggesting changes and improvements, or even alternative solutions. (d) Provision of surety bonds, personal or tangible securities or any other surety on the company’s behalf; In these terms, the Board of Directors makes a positive assessment of this corporate governance structure, as it considers that, in the light of the business developed by the company, its shareholder structure and experience, this is the most appropriate system to ensure an efficient and transparent governance, capable of creating value to all shareholders. 118 (e) Relocation of the head-office and capital increases; (taking into account relevant legal restrictions as well as existing restrictions, including those stemming from loans obtained with third parties); (f) Mergers, demergers and transformation of the company; (p) Changes to the articles of association or internal regulations relating to the (g) Approval of any Business Plan, including any amendment or revision thereof; corporate bodies of any of the Concession Companies, including split-offs, mergers, dissolution, subordination or group contracts, relating to or to be entered into (h) Approval of the annual budget, including any revision thereof; by any of these companies; (i) Entering of relevant contracts, assuming of liabilities, asset purchase or disposal, (q) Issuing of binding instructions under the terms of Article 503 of the Companies including holdings in other companies, where respective estimated value exceeds, Code or the exercising of any rights as shareholders, where relating to any of the on an individual basis, (i) € 100 000 000 (one hundred million Euro) if provided subjects comprised in the previous paragraphs; for in the annual budget or (ii) € 10 000 000 (ten million Euro), if not provided for in the annual budget; (r) Approval of early distribution of profit for the year. Non-executive directors may request any clarification they deem suitable and will have access to any information they may want, namely minutes and agendas of ( j) Loans, financing, bonds, debt securities, commercial paper and other forms the meetings of the Executive Committee, either individually or within the scope of of financing, including the issuing of sureties or stand-by sureties in amount any work developed jointly with other directors. Meetings of the Board of Directors exceeding, on an individual basis i) € 100 000 000 (one hundred million Euro) if are convened and prepared in advance, and the documentation relating to the provided for in the annual budget or (ii) € 10 000 000 (ten million Euro), if not subjects included on respective agenda will be distributed in advance, in order to provided for in the annual budget; ensure that all members of the Board of Directors can exercise their duties in an informed and independent way. During 2018 non-executive directors participated (k) Any of the subjects referred to in paragraphs (a) to (d) hereinabove relating actively in the meetings of the Board of Directors. to any of the Company’s subsidiaries; (l) Transactions (including any commitment to conclude such transactions) likely to result in the transfer or encumbrance of any shares held by the Company in any of its subsidiaries which, directly or indirectly, operates as concessionaire of the concession, the bases of which were approved by Decree-law 247-C/2008, of 30 December (or any subsequent amendment concerning at least the motorways specified therein) (the “Main Concession”); (m) Contracts, agreements or any transactions resulting, directly of indirectly, in the transfer or encumbrance of the Main Concession, including those resulting from internal reorganizations of the corporate group controlled by the Company; (n) Contracts, agreements or any transactions resulting, directly of indirectly, in a dilution of the Company’s financial holding in the Main Concession, including following the issuing of shares or other convertible securities into shares representing the share capital of the Company and/or any subsidiary of the Company, including Brisa – Concessão Rodoviária SGPS, S.A. and Brisa – Concessão Rodoviária, S.A. (or any other company that may directly or indirectly replace them in the development of the businesses comprised in the Main Concession) (the “Concession Companies”); (o) Release of funds to Brisa by any of the Concession Companies, whether via distributions or loans or via proposals of payment of such distributions or loans, whenever the amount to release accounts for less than 80% (eighty percent) of the funds available in the balance sheet of Brisa – Concessão Rodoviária, S.A. 119 18. The executive committee is composed of Vasco Maria Guimarães José de Mello, as Chairman, and João Pedro Stilwell Rocha e Melo, João Pedro Ribeiro de Azevedo Coutinho, António José Lopes Nunes de Sousa and Daniel Alexandre Miguel Amaral as members. Responsibilities within the Executive Committee are distributed as follows: AREAS UNDER THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Vasco de Mello Pedro Rocha e Melo João Azevedo Coutinho António Nunes de Sousa Daniel Amaral General Coordination CORPORATE CENTRE Marketing and Legal Department Financial Department Business Development Institutional Relations Department Department* Strategy & Planning Administrative Department Auditing, Organisation and Department Quality Department Human Resources Technologies & Systems Department Department BUSINESS UNITS Brisa Concessão Rodoviária, Via Verde Portugal, S.A. Subconcessão do Litoral Concessão Atlântico S.A. Oeste Via Verde Serviços, S.A. Transport Infrastructure Brisa O&M, S.A. Concessão Litoral Centro Investment Company Brisa Áreas de Serviço, S.A. Controlauto Controlo Técnico M Call, S.A. Concessão Douro Litoral Automóvel, S.A. BGI Brisa Gestão Via Verde Carsharing, S.A. Via Verde Contact, S.A. Subconcessão do Baixo Tejo de Infraestruturas, S.A. Via Verde Connected Cars, S.A. Brisa Inovação e Tecnologia, S.A.** A-to-Be USA LLC * Includes the Sustainability Area ** BIT’s social denomination was changed in March 2019 to AtoBe Mobility Technology, S.A. 120 19. Qualifications and other curricula information about the members of the board of directors are as follows: Education: • BRISA Concessão Rodoviária, S.A. Previous relevant professional activity: Education Graduated in Business Administration from • Brisa O&M, S.A. 1979 1980 Analyst at Banco Crefisul de Investimento Brasil the American College of Switzerland, 1978. Attended • BGI BRISA Gestão de Infraestruturas, S.A. 1980 1982 Advisor to the Board of Directors of União Industrial Têxtil e Química Citigroup’s Training Program in New York, from 1978 to • BRISA Roads Áreas de Serviço, S.A. 1982 1999 Member of the Board of Directors of União Industrial Têxtil e Química 1979. • BRISA Internacional, SGPS, S.A. 1982 1987 Member of the Board of Directors of sociedade Transitec-Lausanne • Via Oeste, SGPS, S.A. 1985 2002 Managing director of CUF Finance, S.A. Member of Brisa’s Board of Directors since 2000. • ASIRB Serviços Rodoviários, S.A. 1991 2000 Chairman of the Board of Directors of Banco Mello de Investimentos, S.A.. His current mandate is for the 2017-2019 period. Member of the Board: 1992 1999 Member of the Board of Directors of Sociedade Independente de Comunicação. • BCSD Conselho Empresarial 1992 1996 Member of the Board of Directors of Companhia de Seguros Império. Positions currently held: Vasco Maria Chairman of the Board of Directors and Executive para o Desenvolvimento Sustentável 1995 2000 Chairman of the Board of Directors of Banco Mello S.A.. Guimarães José Committee • José de Mello Capital, S.A. Chairman of the Board of Directors: • Fundação Amélia de Mello 1996 2000 1996 2004 Chairman of the Board of Directors of Companhia de Seguros Império. Vice-Chairman of José de Mello SGPS, S. A de Mello • Brisa Auto-estradas de Portugal, S.A. Chairman of the Board of the General Meeting: 2000 2007 Vice-Chairman of the High Council of Banco Comercial Português (2000-2007). Chairman 2000 2002 Member of the Board of Directors of ONI, SGPS. S.A. • COTEC Portugal Chairman of the Board of Directors: 2001 2004 Chairman of the Board of Directors of União Internacional Financeira, SGPS, S.A. • BRISA Concessão Rodoviária, SGPS, S.A. 2003 2007 Member of the Board of Directors of Abertis, Barcelona. 2005 2007 Member of the Supervisory Board of Bank Millennium Poland Education: • BRISA O&M, S.A. Former relevant professional activity: Graduated in Mechanical Engineering from Instituto • BGI BRISA Gestão de Infraestruturas, S.A. Director of Mello Valores Superior Técnico in 1985. • Via Oeste, SGPS, SA • Sociedade Financeira de Corretagem and Director-General of Banco Mello de Investimentos • ASIRB Serviços Rodoviários, S.A. 1997 2000 Chairman of the Executive Committee of Banco Mello de Investimentos, Director of Banco Post-graduation in Business Administration (MBA) • Brisa Internacional, SGPS, S.A. from Universidade Nova de Lisboa in collaboration with Mello, Director of Companhia de Seguros Império Wharton School, of the University of Pennsylvania in 1986. • BRISA Roads Áreas de Serviço, S.A. Vice-chairman of the Board International Capital Markets Course from Oxford Chairman of the Board of Directors • BCP Investimento University in 1991. • Via Verde Serviços, S.A. • Via Verde Carsharing, S.A. Completed the management training programme João Pedro “Leadership for Top Managers” – IMD International • Via Verde Connected Cars, S.A. • BRISA Áreas de Serviço, S.A. Stilwell Rocha in 2002. Member of the Board of Directors and e Melo Member of Brisa’s Board of Directors since 2002. His current mandate is for the 2017-2019 period. Executive Committee Vice-Chairman • José de Mello Capital, S.A. Positions currently held: Member of the Board Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors • Câmara de Comércio e Indústria Portuguesa • Brisa Auto Estradas de Portugal, S.A. • ACEGE Associação Cristã de Empresários Member of the Board of Directors e Gestores • Brisa Concessão Rodoviária, SGPS, S.A. Member of the Audit Board • Brisa Concessão Rodoviária, S.A. • Associação APOIAR 121 01 INTRODUÇÃO À BRISA 02 ENQUADRAMENTO ESTRATÉGICO 03 ANÁLISE POR SEGMENTO 04 DESEMPENHO DA BRISA 05 GOVERNANCE E REMUNERAÇÃO ANEXOS Education: • Brisa Concessão Rodoviária, S.A. Former relevant professional activity: Graduated in Business Administration from Universidade • Brisa O&M, SA 1982 Coopers & Lybrand Católica Portuguesa in 1982. • BGI BRISA Gestão de Infraestruturas, S.A. 1990 1997 Manager responsible for the Investment Banking Department of Deutsche Bank • BRISA Roads Áreas de Serviço, S.A. in Portugal, from 1990 to 1997. Completed Business Training Program “Leadership for Top • Brisa Internacional SGPS, S.A. 1997 1999 Chairman of the executive committee of Banco Mello de Investimentos, Managers”, from IMD International in 2002 and “Advanced • Via Oeste, SGPS, S.A. 2002 2007 Member of the Board of Directors of CCR Companhia de Concessões Rodoviárias, Management Program” from Harvard in 2013. • ASIRB Serviços Rodoviários, S.A. Brazil, and Chairman of the Board of Directors in 2008. • SICIT Sociedade de Investimento Member of Brisa’s Board of Directors since 1999. e Consultoria em Infraestruturas de His current mandate is for the 2017-2019 period. Transporte SA João Pedro Positions currently held: • José de Mello Capital, S.A. Ribeiro Azevedo Executive Member of the Board of Directors Chairman of the Board of Directors Coutinho • Brisa Auto Estradas de Portugal, S.A. • Mcall Serviços de Telecomunicações, S.A. Board Member • Via Verde Contact, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors • VIA VERDE PORTUGAL Gestão de Sistemas • Brisa Concessão Rodoviária, SGPS, S.A. Electrónicos de Cobrança, S.A. Education: • AELO Auto-Estradas do Litoral Oeste, S.A. Former relevant professional activity: Civil Engineering Degree from Instituto Superior Técnico • Via Oeste, SGPS, S.A. 1983 1999 Engineer with the Road Authority; Manager of Concession Operations from (IST), 1982. • Brisa Internacional, SGPS, S.A. 1996 to 1999 • BRISA Roads Áreas de Serviço, S.A. 1999 2002 Brisa Auto-Estradas de Portugal, SA, Technical General Manager. Post-graduation in Business Administration from • ASIRB Serviços Rodoviários, S.A. Universidade Católica Portuguesa, Lisbon, 1998. 2002 2004 Managing director of Brisa Engenharia e Gestão, SA. • APCAP Associação Portuguesa das 2004 2008 Director General of Brisa Participações e Empreendimentos, Ltda, member Member of Brisa’s Board of Directors since 2008. Sociedades Concessionárias de Autoof the Board of Directors of Companhia de Concessões Rodoviárias, S.A. His current mandate is for the 2017-2019 period. Estradas ou Pontes com Portagem (CCR) in Brazil, and chairman of the Board of Directors of CCR in 2005. Positions currently held: Chairman of the Board of Directors António José Executive Member of the Board of Directors • Controlauto Controlo Técnico Automóvel, S.A. Lopes Nunes • Brisa Auto Estradas de Portugal, S.A. de Sousa Member of the Board of Directors • Brisa Concessão Rodoviária, SGPS, S.A. Board Member • Brisa Concessão Rodoviária, S.A. • Brisa O&M, S.A. • BGI BRISA Gestão de Infraestruturas, S.A. • AEBT Auto-Estradas do Baixo Tejo, S.A. • AEDL Auto Estradas do Douro Litoral, S.A. 122 Education: • Brisa Internacional, SGPS, S.A. Former relevant professional activity: Business degree from ISEG. • BRISA Concessão Rodoviária, SGPS, S.A. 1996 Caixa Geral de Depósitos • BRISA Concessão Rodoviária, S.A. 2003 2008 Manager of CaixaBanco de Investimento, S.A. Member of Brisa’s Board of Directors since 2011. • Brisa O&M, S.A. 2007 2008 Executive Director of CREDIP – Instituição Financeira de Crédito, S.A. His current mandate is for the 2017-2019 period. • BRISA Roads Áreas de Serviço, S.A. 2008 2009 Member of the European Infrastructure Team of Babcock & Brown • BRISA International B.V. Positions currently held: Since 2009 Partner of Arcus Infrastructure Partners • ASIRB Serviços Rodoviários, S.A. Executive Member of the Board of Directors • BRISA International Investments B.V. • Brisa Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A Partner Daniel Alexandre Chairman of the Board of Directors • BRISAL Auto-Estradas do Litoral, S.A. • Arcus Infrastructure Partners LLP Miguel Amaral • Arcus ISH LLP • AEBT Auto-Estradas do BAIXO TEJO, S.A. Board Member • BRISA Inovação e Tecnologia, S.A. Manager • AEDL Auto Estradas do Douro Litoral, S.A. • Tagus Holdings S.à.r.L. Member of the Board of Directors Manager • BGI BRISA Gestão de Infraestruturas, S.A. • AEIF Apollo S.à.r.L. • Via Oeste, SGPS, S.A. • Maintranche, Unipessoal, Lda. Education: Positions currently held: Former relevant professional activity: Corporate Finance Evening Programme, London Member of the Board of Directors 1991 1999 Linklaters Business School. • BRISA Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A. 1999 2002 Executive Director at Goldman Sachs International • BRISA Concessão Rodoviária, S.A. 2003 2004 Investment Banking Director at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Bachelor of Laws (LLB) from King’s College, University • BRISA Concessão Rodoviária, SGPS, S.A. of London, England 2004 2007 Banking Merrill Lynch International, Director Partner 2007 2009 Babcock & Brown Limited, London, Senior Member of the Infrastructure Team Associate Member of King’s College London, England • Arcus ISH LLP Partner of Arcus Infrastructure Partners Since 2009 Member of Brisa’s Board of Directors since 2011. • Arcus Infrastructure Partners LLP His current mandate is for the 2017-2019 period. Manager Michael Gregory • AEIF Apollo S.à r.l. Allen • Tagus Holdings, S.à r.l. • Maintranche, Unipessoal, Lda. Board Member 123 Education: • Centro Gamma Knife Radiocirurgia, S.A. Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Centro Paroquial do Estoril Bachelor of Economics from Universidade Católica • Clínica CUF Belém S.A. • Hospimob, Investimentos Imobiliários, S.A. Portuguesa, 1996. • Hospital CUF Viseu, S.A. Director • Hospital CUF Santarém, S.A. • Fundação Manuel Violante Member of Brisa’s Board of Directors since 2010. • Escala Vila Franca Sociedade Gestora His current mandate is for the 2017-2019 period. do Estabelecimento, S.A. Board Member • Hospital CUF Cascais, S.A. • Inclusive Community Forum da Nova SBE Positions currently held: • Hospital CUF Torres Vedras, S.A. Board Member of Novamente Member of the Board of Directors • IMO HEALTH Investimentos Imobiliários, S.A • Associação de Apoio aos Traumatizados Crânio Encefálicos • Brisa Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A. Rui Alexandre • INFRA HEALTH Gestão de Infraestruturas, S.A • José de Mello Capital, S.A. • JMS Serviços de Logistica, ACE Member of the Council for Economic Affairs Pires Diniz • MGI CAPITAL, SGPS, S.A. • MGICAPITAL International Financing, SGPS, S.A. • Efacec Power Solutions, SGPS, S.A. • Diocese de Lisboa Board Member • Efacec do Brasil, Ltda • MGICAPITAL Sistema de Gestão, S.A. • Sesco Efacec , Sdn. Bhd. • MGIGP Gestão de Activos, S.A. • Hospital Cuf Coimbra, S.A. • José de Mello Saúde, S.A. • Simply Green S.A. Former relevant professional activity: • Escala Braga Sociedade Gestora do • Imo Health Investimentos Imobiliários, S.A. 1996 2010 Mckinsey & Company (Iberia Office) Estabelecimento, S.A. • Imo Health Cascais, Investimentos Imobiliários, S.A. 1996 2002 Consultant at Mckinsey & Company • Hospital CUF Infante Santo, S.A. • Imo Health Matosinhos, Investimentos Imobiliários, S.A. 2002 2008 Partner at McKinsey & Company • Hospital CUF Descobertas, S.A • Imo Health Belém, Investimentos Imobiliários, S.A. 2007 2010 Office Manager Mckinsey & Company Lisbon office • Hospital CUF Porto, S.A. • Imo Health Torres Vedras, Investimentos Imobiliários, S.A. 2008 2009 Partner and manager at McKinsey & Company • JMS Prestação de Serviços Administrativos e Operacionais, ACE Chairman of the Board of Directors He was responsible in Iberia for the Insurance and Health areas • JMS Prestação de Serviços de Saúde, ACE • Clínica CUF Alvalade S.A. and for the Banking, Insurance and Health teams in Portugal, • Loja Saúde CUF de Administração • Clínica Luís Alvares S.A. Spain, Brazil and Angola. • PPS II S.A. • Efacec Sistemas Espana, S.L.M. • PPS III S.A. Manager • ACADEMIA CUF, Sociedade Unipessoal Lda. • Cenes Centro de Reprocessamento de Dispositivos Médicos, Lda Education: • José de Mello – Investimentos, SGPS, S.A. Former relevant professional activity: Graduated in Law from Universidade Católica • Bondalti Capital, S.A. 1990 1993 Deloitte (Tax Department) Portuguesa, 1993. • TAGUS HOLDING S.à.r.l 1993 1995 Vieira de Almeida e Associados, law trainee • Tecnocapital, SGPS, S.A. 1995 2000 Vieira de Almeida e Associados, specialist in Corporate and Member of Brisa’s Board of Directors since 2012. • Sociedade Agrícola D. Diniz, S.A. His current mandate is for the 2017-2019 period. Financial Areas • ATM – Assistência Total em Manutenção, S.A. 2000 2004 Manager of the Legal Department of José de Mello SGPS Positions currently held: Chairman of the Board of Directors 2005 2012 Head Coordinator of the legal areas of José de Mello Group • MGI Capital, SGPS, S.A. Luis Eduardo Member of the Board of Directors • Brisa Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors As from April 2012 Executive Director of José de MelloSociedade Gestora Brito Freixial • BRISA Concessão Rodoviária, SGPS, S.A. • José de Mello Capital, S.A. de Participações Sociais, S.A. de Goes • José de Mello Saúde, S.A. • José de Mello Imobiliária, SGPS, S.A. Sole Director Board Member • IBOMÍLIA – Sociedade Imobiliária, S.A. • José de Mello Internacional 124 Education: Positions currently held: Former relevant professional activity: BSc (Hons)) in Chemistry, Durham University 1980. Member of the Board of Directors 1980 1996 Price Waterhouse (tax partner since 1992) • Brisa Auto -Estradas de Portugal, S.A. 1996 2006 Member (and subsequently responsible for) the leasing and shipping Official Auditor (Institute of Chartered Accountants in finance team of Babcock & Brown, London England & Wales) – 1983. 2006 2009 Senior member of European Infrastructure team, Babcock & Brown Limited, Member of Brisa’s Board of Directors since 2012. London His current mandate is for the 2017-2019 period. 2008 2015 Willow Topco Limited – Member of the Board of Directors 2009 2016 Arcus ISH LLP Partner 2009 2016 Partner and Chief Operating Officer (2009-2013) and Co-Managing Partner Graham Peter (2013-2016), Arcus Infrastructure Partners LLP Wilson Marr 2010 2015 Angel Trains Group Limited – Member of the Board of Directors 2012 2017 Forth Ports Limited Member of the Board of Directors Board Member Since 2009 Partner of Arcus Infrastructure Partners Education: Positions currently held: Former relevant professional activity: BS in Accounting from Glasgow University, 1995. Member of the Board of Directors 1993 1996 Deloitte Tax Consultant • Brisa AutoEstradas de Portugal, S.A. 1996 2002 Andersen, Senior Tax Consultant Member of the Institute of Chartered Tax Advisors and • AEIF Luxembourg Holdings Sarl 2002 2007 Sanmina-SCI, director of the European tax and treasury areas the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland. • AEIF 2 Luxembourg Holdings Sarl 2007 2009 Babcock & Brown Limited, member of the Tax Division Member of Brisa’s Board of Directors since 2015. Partner and CFO 2011 2016 Shere Group Ltd Member of the Board of Directors His current mandate is for the 2017-2019 period. • Arcus Infrastructure Partners LLP 2011 2018 Forth Ports Ltd Member of the Board of Directors Since 2009 Partner of Arcus Infrastructure Partners Stuart David Gray Board Member 125 20. Except for member António José Nunes Lopes de Sousa, who is senior In view of the above, remuneration should consist of a fixed amount that member of the staff, all remaining members of the Board of Directors are related will adequately remunerate, within the framework of respective to reference shareholders of the Company. competences and responsibilities, the effort developed by executive and non-executive members of the Board of Directors each year, and a variable amount payable to executive members that will reward, amongst 21. Organisational Chart shown in page: 12. other things, increasing efficiency and productivity and the creation of long term value for the Company and shareholders, and at the same time, b) Functioning align their interests with the company’s long term sustainability interests. This alignment will be ensured namely by calculating the variable amount 22. Not applicable, as provided in no. 34. based on the company’s financial and operational performance each year, the intrinsic quality of (recurrent and extraordinary) results posted, taking 23. During 2018, the Executive Board held 47 meetings and the Board of Directors into consideration the situation of equity markets, Brisa’s positioning in held 15 meetings; average attendance of members stood above 90%. the markets where it operates, its business outlook in the medium and long term. 24. A avaliação do desempenho dos membros da Comissão Executiva é realizada In addition to the above, the payment of the variable amount will also be pelo Conselho de Administração, pela Comissão de Vencimentos e pela Assembleia subject to the assessment of the performance goals set out each year, Geral. based on the following indicators: EBITDA, EBIT, NET PROFIT, ROE and ROA, taking into account the company’s evolution and the remuneration 25. In relation to the performance assessment of the executive board, the 2018 level practised by major national and international peer companies. general meeting approved the statement of the remuneration committee which determines that the variable remuneration payable exclusively to executive Other exceptional factors may be taken into account in the assessment members of the board of directors must aim at rewarding respective performance of the performance of the Executive Committee or any of its members. namely in what concerns “…The Remuneration Committee of Brisa Auto-Estradas Part of the variable remuneration will be paid following the closure de Portugal, S.A. (the “Company” or “Brisa”) hereby submits to the approval of the of each financial year and determination of respective results; the other General Meeting the following statement on the remuneration policy of respective significant part will be deferred for a period of three years, and its payment management and supervisory boards: will depend on the maintenance of Brisa’s positive performance throughout The members of the board of directors must perform their duties diligently such period, with a view to allow the maximisation of long term performance and judiciously, in the best interest of the company’s shareholders, and the pursuing of strategic and structural goals and disincentive excessive employees and remaining stakeholders. risk-taking. It is in the best interest of the company and its shareholders to create In what concerns the supervisory board, pursuant to provisions in adequate conditions and incentives to encourage a sound performance of art. 422-A and paragraph 1 of art. 399 of the Companies Code, the duties by members of the Board of Directors, in accordance with criteria remuneration of members of the Supervisory Board must consist of a fixed referred to above. amount, determined taking into account the complexity and responsibility of the functions performed, the normal practices and remuneration In this light, remuneration is a key management tool for framing and conditions for the performance of similar functions and the economic encouraging the performance of senior managers. situation of the company”. The definition and application of the criteria for fixing the remuneration of Directors entrusted upon the Remuneration Committee should thus be rational and consistent: it should take into account the level of remuneration currently practised in European peer companies, and, on the other hand, the degree of compliance with the strategic goals set forth for the company, the creation of value for shareholders and the economic situation. 126 26. The corporate offices of members of the Board of Directors are as described Tirso Olazábal Cavero has a degree in Business Administration. From 1988 to in pages: 121 to 125. 2002, he was executive director of Constância Editores S.A.. As from 2002 he became partner and director Olazábal & Artola, a consultancy company, and executive director and partner of Agoa Gestão de Resíduos S.A. and Ociomedia. c) Committees within the board of directors or supervisory board and From 2006 to 2016 he was member of the Board of Directors of Grupo Capital managing directors Group. Managing Partner in Portugal of Unomasdos since 2016. He has a degree in Finance from ISCEF and works as Certified Auditor since 1979. 27. The Board of Directors set up an Executive Committee composed of five members of the board of directors; respective regulation is available on the Company’s website. b) Functioning 34. As Brisa securities are not listed, the regulations of the corporate bodies 28. The Executive Committee is composed of Vasco Maria Guimarães José de are not available to the public. Mello, Chairman, João Pedro Stilwell Rocha e Melo, João Pedro Ribeiro de Azevedo Coutinho, António José Lopes Nunes de Sousa and Daniel Alexandre Miguel Amaral as members. 35. During 2018 the Supervisory Board met 7 times, attended by all its members. 29. Not applicable. There are no further committees in addition to the Executive 36. The offices performed by the members of the supervisory board are as described in point no. 33. Committee. III. SUPERVISION a) Structure 30. The Company’s supervisory body, according to the corporate governance model adopted is the Supervisory Board. 31. The Supervisory Board is made up as follows: • Chairman: Francisco Xavier Alves • Members: Tirso Olazábal Cavero e Dr. Joaquim Patrício da Silva • Alternate Member: Diogo da Gama Lobo Salema da Costa • External Auditor: Alves da Cunha, A. Dias & Associados, SROC nº 74, represented by José Duarte Assunção Dias ROC nº 513 • Alternate External Auditor: José Luís Areal Alves da Cunha, Revisor Oficial de Contas nº 585, with office at Rua Américo Durão, 6-8º Esqº, 1900 – 064 LISBOA 32. All members of the Supervisory Board are independent, as they do not hold nor act on behalf of holders of shares of the Company. 33. Francisco Xavier Alves is Bachelor of Finance from ISCEF and a certified official auditor. His professional experience includes the coordination of financial audits, corporate restructuring and consultancy in the management and organizational fields. 127 c) Powers and duties In what concerns this specific aspect, given the importance of the issues concerned and the need for absolute celerity, the hiring of PwC seemed the most adequate 37. The hiring of additional services to the External Auditor is subject to the in the light of its solid experience and technical know-how in the tax field, on par prior approval of the Supervisory Board. To this end, Brisa’s financial department with its deep knowledge of the issues concerned. Moreover, PwC services are issues an information note addressed to the chairman of the supervisory board carried out on an exclusive basis, and are developed by multi-disciplinary teams identifying the service concerned, the terms of the hiring and the reasons for including independent consultants and experts. The auditor’s familiarity threat such hiring. was clearly identified in the Sarbane s-Oxly Act as worthy of close attention, since the exercise over several years of external audit functions for the same company may lead to excessive familiarity between auditor and auditee likely to influence 38. Not applicable. There is no committee for financial matters. auditor’s free and independent analysis. This risk may be mitigated by limiting the number of years during which an IV. auditor may audit a company, in line with what happens with the supervisory STATUTORY AUDITOR board, which after being re-elected more than twice is no longer considered 39. The External Auditor is Alves da Cunha, A. Dias & Associados, SROC no. 74, independent, and may inclusively have to cease functions in such company, for represented by Dr. José Duarte Assunção Dias ROC no. 513. incompatibility reasons. 40. The Official Auditor performs its current functions since 2008. 47. Remuneration of the External Auditor: 41. The Official Auditor does not provide any other services to the Company. NATURE Amount (€) % Audit 306 100 80.5% V. Other reliability enhancing services 72 250 19.0% EXTERNAL AUDITOR Other than review or audit services 1 800 0.5% 42. The Company’s external auditor is Pricewaterhousecoopers & Associados, Total 380 150 SROC, S.A., registered with CMVM under no. 20161485, represented by Dr. Rui Jorge dos Anjos Duarte, ROC no. 1532. 43. The External Auditor and respective partner started functions during 2016. 44. Not applicable. Since Brisa has no listed securities, the appointment of the External Auditor is not bound by any legal obligation and the Company is not required to define any rotation policy for auditors. 45. The assessment of the External Auditor is performed by the Supervisory Board on an annual basis. 46. Every year the Supervisory Board receives the auditor’s independence statement, which describes the services provided by the latter and other entities belonging to the same network in Portugal and respective remuneration paid. Any identified threat to the auditor’s independence as well as respective safeguarding measures are assessed and discussed with the auditor. 128 C. INTERNAL ORGANISATION I. IV. ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION INVESTOR RELATIONS 48. Changes in the articles of association of the Company can only be introduced 56. Not applicable. Brisa does not have a formal investor relations structure as by the general meeting, as provided in the Companies Code. it does not have listed securities. 57. Not applicable. Brisa does not have a representative for relations with the II. market as it does not have listed securities. REPORTING OF IRREGULARITIES 49. On February 3, 2009, Brisa’s executive committee, upon the proposal of the 58. Not applicable due to the reasons explained above. sustainability and corporate governance committee, approved the creation of an internal irregularities reporting system as described in page 132. V. WEBSITE III. INTERNAL CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT RISKS 59. Brisa website address is www.brisa.pt 50. Brisa has an integrated risk management and control system in force, 60. Brisa is not a public company. However, corporate information as provided according to the internationally recognised COSO method (Committee of in article 171 of the CC is available on its website. Sponsorship Organizations of the Treadway Commission), as described in pages 34 and 35 (Risk). 61. The Company’s articles of association are available on the website. 51. Hierarchical and functional liaisons are as described in table hereinabove. 62. The name and identification of the members of governing bodies are available on the website. 52. Functional areas with risk control duties are as described in point no. 50. 63. The company’s reports and accounts are available on the website. 53. The main risks to which the company is exposed while developing its business are as described in pages 36 to 38. 64. Minutes of general meetings are published on the company’s website. Under the terms of its articles of association, the Company is not required to publish 54. The process of identification, assessment, follow up, control and management additional preparatory information for general meetings. However, documentation of risks is described in page 36. may be consulted by all shareholders at the company’s head office, during the 15 days prior to the date of the general meeting concerned. 55. As pointed out hereinabove, Brisa has an integrated risk management and control system, covering financial risks in particular, as described in page 38. 65. Not applicable. BRISA does not publish this type of information as it is not However, since it does not have listed securities, the Company is not subject to a listed company. the reporting requirements provided in no. 1 sub-paragraph m) of article 245-A of the Securities Code. 129 D. REMUNERATION I. 72. Brisa, as already mentioned, has implemented an integrated control system DECISION POWERS and risk management, covering in particular, risks of a financial nature, as per page 38. However, not being a Company with listed values, it is not subject to information 66. Determination of the remuneration of the members of governing bodies, disclosure obligations, as referred to in point (a) of (m) of paragraph 1 of art. 245 A as provided in the CSC, is the exclusive responsibility of the general shareholders of the Securities Code. meeting, which entrusted such powers upon a remuneration committee composed exclusively of independent members. Remuneration of the managerial staff and remaining employees is on the responsibility of the Board of Directors. 73. Not applicable, since remuneration does not include shares, bonds or options. 74. Not applicable, since remuneration does not include shares, bonds or options. II. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 75. Not applicable, since remuneration does not include shares, bonds or options. 67. The remuneration committee is composed of Luís Miguel Cortes Martins (Chairman) and members Pedro Norton de Matos and Jaime Amaral Anahory. All 76. Members of the board of directors are entitled to supplementary pension, members of the Remuneration Committee are independent from both the Board under the terms of a general meeting resolution dated March 28, 1989. of Directors or any consultant; no natural or legal person was engaged to assist the remuneration committee in the performance of its duties which provides or has provided services over the past three years to any structure subject to IV. the Board of Directors, to the Board of Directors of the company or having any DISCLOSURE OF REMUNERATION relation with a consultant. 77. Remuneration of the board of directors is as described below: 68. Pedro Norton the Matos, member of the remuneration committee has knowledge and experience in remuneration policy issues. • REMUNERATION OF EXECUTIVE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS (€) III. Fixed Variable Defined REMUNERATION STRUCTURE Remuneration Remuneration Bennefits Total 69. Brisa is not a public interest company, under the terms and for the purposes 1 825 143 1 915 500 272 471 4 013 114 of Law 26/2009, of 19 June. However, shareholders at the general meeting held on May 5, 2017 approved the statement submitted by this committee, as provided in page 126. • REMUNERATION OF NON-EXECUTIVE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS (€) 70. Information on the remuneration structure is provided in the statement Fixed Remuneration referred to in the preceding paragraph. 392 000 71. The remuneration of executive directors includes a significant variable component, which is paid only if pre-established performance criteria are met. 130 78. Members of the board of directors do not receive any type of compensation E. TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES for exercising functions in any associate or subsidiary of Brisa. I. CONTROL MECHANISMS AND PROCEDURES 79. Not applicable, there is no remuneration paid under a profit-sharing scheme. 89. Transactions with related parties above a relevant amount, specifically 80. Not applicable, there was no compensation paid. € 1 000 000, are subject to prior favourable opinion of the supervisory board. 81. Not applicable, BRISA is not a public interest company, under the terms and 90. During 2018 no transactions with related parties have occurred. for the purposes of Law 28/2009, of 19 June. 91. Whenever a transaction with related parties occurs involving an amount above 82. The chairman of the general meeting earns € 5 000 for his chairmanship in that provided in paragraph 89 hereinabove, the Corporate Secretary prepares each general meeting. In 2018 two general meetings were held. a memorandum addressed to the supervisory board, identifying the parties, the amounts involved and remaining terms of the transaction concerned to allow the supervisory board to issue its opinion thereon. V. ARRANGEMENTS IMPLYING PAYMENTS II. 83. Not applicable. It is not possible to restrict in advance a compensation which ELEMENTS CONCERNING TRANSACTIONS will be ultimately decided in court. 92. Reporting documentation, including this Integrated Report are available on 84. Not applicable, there are no termination agreements for unfair dismissal. the Company website. Information on business with related parties is available in the notes to the individual accounts in page 198 and to the consolidated accounts in page 245 of this Report. VI. STOCK OPTION PLANS 85. Not applicable. There are no stock option plans. 86. Not applicable due to the reasons explained above. 87. Not applicable due to the reasons explained in no. 85. 88. Not applicable due to the reasons explained in no. 85. 131 5.2 PART II CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSESSMENT 1. IDENTIFICATION OF THE ADOPTED GOVERNANCE CODE I.2.3. Does not comply. As it is not a public company, BRISA does not disclose the internal regulations of its corporate bodies in its website. Though not a listed company, Brisa follows the Governance Code of the IPCG (Portuguese Corporate Governance Institute), to the extent of its own specificities. I.2.4. Complies. The composition of the corporate bodies is available on the Given the lack of equivalence between the IPCG Code and the website and the number of meetings held throughout the year is included in the Annex to CMVM Regulation 4/2013, the structure of the chapter on Integrated Report, which is available on the website. Corporate Governance will follow the Governance Code of the IPCG. I.2.5. Complies. The Company has a policy and mechanism for the prevention 2. ANALYSIS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPONENTS and detection of irregularities, which was set up in 2009, upon the proposal of the ADOPTED Executive Committee, through which all employees can freely and conscientiously expose any situation configuring any wrongful intentional, reckless or negligent CHAPTER I. acts or omissions occurred within the scope of Brisa Group business activity, GENERAL PART in the areas of accounting, internal control, audit, fight against corruption and banking and financial crime, violation of ethical and legal nature occurring within the company. I.1. Investors Relation and Information This system embodies Brisa’s strong commitment to conducting its business I.1.1. Complies. Brisa has mechanisms and procedures to ensure, in a strict, in compliance with the law and the principles laid down in its Code of Ethics, complete and timely way the processing and disclosure of information to its contributing moreover to the early detection of any irregular situation. corporate bodies and shareholders. Under the terms of the regulations approved (available at www.brisa.pt) a list of dedicated addresses was created on the Intranet and the company’s site, allowing I.2. Diversity in the Composition and Functioning of the Corporate Bodies the disclosure of any irregularity, within absolute confidentiality, via e-mail, fax I.2.1. Does not comply. 15 The corporate governance model adopted by Brisa or mail. consists of board of directors and supervisory board. 16Under the terms provided in the Commercial Companies Code, the choice and election of the members of The processing of this information and conduct of respective proceedings are the the corporate bodies are the strict responsibility of the General Meeting, and the responsibility of an Ombudsman, presently Mr. José Joaquim Cortiço da Costa Company has no means to restrict this procedure. Braga, to whom all resources required to fulfil his duties are provided, namely access to any service, information and documentation he may deem suitable. No employee can be persecuted, intimidated, discriminated or harmed for having I.2.2. Complies. The Management and Supervisory Bodies have their own disclosed any irregularity, except in cases of lack of grounds or deceit in the regulations, they meet on a regular basis and their meetings are properly recorded information provided. in minutes. 132 No employee can be persecuted, intimidated, discriminated or harmed for having I.5. Transactions with Related Parties disclosed any irregularity, except in cases of lack of grounds or deceit in the information provided. I.5.1. Complies. Transactions with related parties above a relevant amount, specifically € 1 000 000, are subject to prior favourable opinion of the supervisory Proceedings and recommendations relating to situations which the Ombudsman board. During 2018 no transactions with related parties have occurreds. may deem serious or urgent will be promptly disclosed to the Board of Directors. According to the assessment made following the results of the inquiries deriving I.5.2. Complies. Whenever a transaction with related parties occurs involving an amount above that provided in paragraph 89 hereinabove, the Corporate Secretary from each case, taking into consideration the Ombudsman recommendations, will prepare a memorandum addressed to the supervisory board, identifying the the Board of Directors will decide on any change in methods or procedures it will parties, the amounts involved and remaining terms of the transaction concerned deem more suitable, notify the relevant authorities or take any other measures to allow the supervisory board to issue its opinion thereon. deemed adequate in each case. Following the appointment of the Ombudsman, Brisa carried out a wide training programme covering 2 387 Group employees, viewing to explain and clarify any CHAPTER II. doubts concerning the Ethics Code and its application and the operation of the SHAREHOLDERS AND GENERAL MEETING irregularities disclosure system. II.1. Complies. There are no special classes of shares nor any statutory rules Brisa has ongoing a wide training programme viewing to raise the awareness of restricting the exercising of voting rights by any shareholder, regardless of the employees to improve balance between work and family life and also to prevent number of shares the shareholder may hold. There are no limits to the exercise and combat sexual harassment at the workplace, in line with recent amendments of voting rights. to the Labour Code, within the legal framework of Community legislation. II.2. Complies. According to the articles of association, there are no resolutions I.3. Relations between Corporate Bodies requiring to be approved by majorities above those legally set forth. I.3.1. Complies. Members of the management and supervisory bodies, under the terms of respective regulations, have access to services as well as all information II.3. Complies. The exercise of voting rights by correspondence or electronic and documentation, so that they may perform their functions, without any means is duly safeguarded. limitation, within the limits of the applicable national law. II.4. Does not comply. The Company still does not hold adequate technical means I.3.2. Complies. Corporate bodies meet on a regular basis, as provided in respective to allow the participation in the General Meeting through telematic means in a regulations and in accordance with respective notices. Minutes of every meeting reliable and secure way. are duly drawn up. II.5. Complies. There are no defensive measures in force, namely any limits to I.4. Conflicts of Interest the number of votes exercisable by any shareholder. I.4.1. Complies. Members of governing bodies, under the terms of respective II.6. Complies. The Company did not enter into any agreement and there are no regulations and applicable law, must report any situation giving rise to conflicts agreements which would terminate or become effective in the event of change of interest. in the Company’s control. I.4.2. Complies. In situations of conflict of interest, the parties involved will not participate in the decision-making of respective bodies. 133 CHAPTER III. III.12. Complies. Within the scope of its duties, the Supervisory Board gives NON-EXECUTIVE MANAGEMNT AND SUPERVISION its view on the working plans, and the resources allocated to the internal control systems. III.1. Does not comply. Since Brisa is not a public company, and control is held CHAPTER IV. by two shareholders only, directors are not considered as independent as they EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT are related to controlling shareholders. III.2. Complies. Under the terms set out in the articles of association, the board IV.1. Complies. The Board of Directors’ Regulations set forth the scope of action of directors is composed of a minimum of ten and maximum of fourteen members, of directors and the exercise of functions in third companies. elected for a 3-year mandate. The ongoing mandate is for the 2017-2019 period. The Board is made up of 10 members, including five executive directors and five non-executive directors. IV.2. Complies. As mentioned above in III.6, matters such as the definition of corporate strategy or structure or decision-making concerning issues deemed strategic for the company on account of respective amount or risk, and respective III.3. Does not comply. The number of non-executive directors is not higher assessment of their compliance with are the responsibility of the board of directors. than the number of executive directors. IV.3. Complies. It falls to the Board of Directors to define the integrated risk III.4. Does not comply. For the reasons detailed in III.1, the Company does not management system and to see to its implementation. have independent directors within the meaning of this recommendation. III.5. Does not comply. For the reasons detailed in III.1, the Company does not IV.4. Complies. The supervisory body meets on a regular basis with the have independent directors within the meaning of this recommendation. managers responsible for internal audit, with a view to follow up and assess the implementation of the integrated risk management system. III.6. Complies. Matters such as the definition of corporate strategy or structure or decision-making concerning issues deemed strategic for the company on account CHAPTER V. of respective amount or risk, and respective assessment of their compliance with PERFORMANCE ASSESSEMENT, REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS are the responsibility of the board of directors. III.7. Not applicable within the framework of the corporate structure of Board V.1. Annual performance assessment of Directors and Supervisory Board. V.1.1. Complies. The Board of Directors assesses on an annual basis its performance in terms of compliance with the budget, the strategic plan and risk management, III.8. Complies. The Supervisory Board, under the terms legally set forth, follows based on pre-set indicators and goals. and assesses the Company’s risk policy and strategic lines on a regular basis. V.1.2. Complies. Within the scope of its functions, the Supervisory Board assesses III.9. Complies. The Company has a Remuneration Committee, elected at the the performance of the Board of Directors on an annual basis. General Meeting. V.2. Remuneration III.10. Complies. Brisa has an integrated risk management and control system in force, based on the internationally recognised COSO method (Committee of V.2.1. Complies. Remuneration of the management body is set forth by an Sponsorship Organizations of the Treadway Commission). independent committee elected by the General Meeting. III.11. Complies. As mentioned above, the Supervisory Board and the External V.2.2. Complies. Every year, the Remuneration Committee submits to the Auditor follow and assess the risk management policy and integrated system approval of the General Meeting a statement on the remuneration policy of the on a regular basis, proposing the changes they deem fit. management and supervisory bodies. 134 V.2.3. Does not comply. The annual statement of the Remuneration Committee V.4.3. Not applicable. does not contain additional elements to art. 2 of Law 28/2009 of 19 June. V.4.4. Not applicable. V.2.4. Complies. Members of the board of directors are entitled to supplementary pension, under the terms of a general meeting resolution dated March 28, 1989. CHAPTER VI. RISK MANAGEMENT V.2.5. Complies. As a rule, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is present at the Annual General Meetings. VI.1. Complies BRISA implemented an integrated risk management plan. V.2.6. Complies. The Remuneration Committee does not have any constraint or limitation to hire external services for the performance of its functions. VI.2. Complies. Idem. V.3. Remuneration of Directors VI.3. Complies. Idem. V.3.1. Complies. According to the criteria set forth by the Remuneration Committee (page 126), the variable remuneration is based on the measurement of the CHAPTER VII. Company’s sustained performance, not encouraging therefore any excessive FINANCIAL INFORMATION risk-taking. V.3.2. Complies. As shown in table of page 130, part of the variable remuneration VII.1. Financial Information is deferred over a period of three years. VII.1.1. Not applicable. Since it is not a public company, BRISA has no financial reporting requirements in between financial years. V.3.3. Not applicable. VII.2. Legal Audit and accounts review V.3.4. Not applicable; variable remuneration does not comprise any option or other financial instrument. VII.2.1. Complies. The internal regulation of the audit board safeguards these points. V.3.5. Complies. Non-executive directors are not entitled to variable remuneration. VII.2.2. Complies. The Supervisory body is the primary interlocutor of the V.3.6. Complies. The termination of functions before the end of respective term of statutory auditor. office does not determine the payment of any amount, except as provided by law. VII.2.3. Complies. In its annual report, the Audit Committee assesses the work V.4. Appointments performed by the Statutory Auditor. V.4.1. Complies. According to provisions in sub-paragraph a) of art. 289 of VII.2.4. Complies. The Statutory Auditor, within the scope of its legal requirements, the Commercial Companies Code, curricular information including professional verifies the application of the remuneration policies and systems relating to experience and education for the last five years relating to candidates to the corporate bodies in force. corporate bodies must be made available to shareholders. VII.2.5. Complies. The Statutory Auditor and the Audit Committee work in close V.4.2. Does not comply. Brisa considers that the adequate way to manage its cooperation with one another. managerial staff, including its senior staff, is through the Board of Directors, with the technical assistance of its human resources services, based on principles of transparency, equality and competence. 135 PROPOSAL FOR THE APPROPRIATION OF RESULTS Considering the Net Profit for the year 2018, in the amount of € 157 996 764,32 the Board of Directors proposes the following appropriation of results: • distribution by way of dividends of € 0.238 per share; • the remaining to free reserves São Domingos de Rana, 17 April 2019 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Vasco Maria Guimarães José de Mello Rui Alexandre Pires Diniz João Pedro Stilwell Rocha e Melo Michael Gregory Allen João Pedro Ribeiro de Azevedo Coutinho Luís Eduardo Brito Freixial de Goes António José Lopes Nunes de Sousa Graham Peter Wilson Marr Daniel Alexandre Miguel Amaral Stuart David Gray 136 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY GRI INDEX AND GRI INDICATORS EXTERNAL GRI INDICATOR LOCATION (PAGE) GCP SDG (1 AND 2) ASSURANCE Organisational Profile 102-1 Name of the organisation Nature of integrated report – p. 3 Limited 102-2 Primary brands, products and services 1.2 Brisa profile – p. 11-12 Limited 102-3 Location of Head-Office Back cover Limited 102-4 Location of operations 1.2 Brisa profile – p. 11-12 Limited 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form Nature of integrated report – p. 3 Limited 102-6 Markets served 1.2 Brisa profile – p. 11-12 Limited 102-7 Scale of the organisation 1.2 Brisa profile – p. 13-14 Limited 102-8 Total number of employees by employment contract GRI Indicators – p. 155 Principle 6 SDG 8 (2) Reasonable and gender 102-9 Organisation’s supply chain 1.2 Brisa profile – p. 11-12 Limited 102-10 Significant changes during the reporting period 1.1 Foreword from the Chairman – p. 9-10 Limited regarding the organisation’s size, structure, No significant changes were recorded.. ownership, or its supply chain 102-11 Adoption of the precautionary principle 2.4 Risk management – p. 34-38 Limited 102-12 External initiatives 2.3 Materiality analysis (Dialogue with stakeholders) – p. 31-33 Limited 102-13 List memberships of associations 2.3 Materiality analysis (Dialogue with stakeholders) – p. 31-33 Limited Strategy 102-14 Chairman of the Board of Directors’ Statement 1.1 Foreword from the Chairman – p. 9-10 Limited 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 2.1 Macroeconomic Environment – p. 20-21 Limited 2.2 Business Model – p. 22-26 2.4 Risk management – p. 34-38 3. Analysis per business segment (outlook of the business segment) – p. 40-86 1) Direct impact of Brisa 2) Indirect impact of Brisa GCP = Global Compact Principles 138 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY EXTERNAL GRI INDICATOR LOCATION (PAGE) GCP SDG (1 AND 2) ASSURANCE Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Organisation’s values, principles, standards and code 1.4 Values and mission – p. 15 Principle 10 SDG 16 (2) Limited of conduct 5. Governance – p. 116-136 102-17 Mechanisms for reporting concerns or seeking advice 5. Governance – p. 116-136 Principle 10 SDG 16 (2) Limited on ethical behaviour Governance 102-19 Delegation of authority 5.1 PART I Information on shareholder structure, Limited Organization and Corporate Governance – p.116-131 102-20 Degree of responsibility of the highest governance 5.1 PART I Information on shareholder structure, Limited body in environmental, economic and social topics Organization and Corporate Governance – p.116-131 102-23 Chairman of the Board of Directors 5.1 PART I Information on shareholder structure, SDG 16 (2) Limited Organization and Corporate Governance – p.116-131 102-24 Nomination and selection of the Chairman of the Board 5.1 PART I Information on shareholder structure, SDG 5 and 16 (2) Limited of Directors Organization and Corporate Governance – p.116-131 102-25 Conflicts of interest 5. Governance p.116-136 SDG 16 (2) Limited 102-26 Chairman of the Board of Directors’ role in the setting 5. Governance p.116-136 Limited up of goals, values and strategies 102-27 Collective knowledge of the Chairman of the Board of 5. Governance p.116-136 SDG 4 (2) Limited Directors 102-28 Assessment of the Chairman of the Board of Directors 5. Governance p.116-136 SDG 4 (2) Limited 102-29 Identify and manage environmental, economic and 5. Governance p.116-136 SDG 16 (2) Limited social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 5. Governance p.116-136 Limited 102-31 Revision of environmental, economic and social topics 5. Governance p.116-136 Limited 102-32 Chairman of the Board of Directors’ role in the 5. Governance p.116-136 Limited sustainability report 102-33 Reporting of main issues 5. Governance p.116-136 Limited 102-34 Nature and number of main issues 5. Governance p.116-136 Limited 1) Direct impact of Brisa 2) Indirect impact of Brisa GCP = Global Compact Principles 139 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY EXTERNAL GRI INDICATOR LOCATION (PAGE) GCP SDG (1 AND 2) ASSURANCE Governance 102-35 Remuneration policies 5.1 PART I Information on shareholder structure, Limited Organization and Corporate Governance – p.116-131 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 5.1 PART I Information on shareholder structure, Limited Organization and Corporate Governance – p.116-131 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvment in remuneration 5.1 PART I Information on shareholder structure, SDG 16 (2) Limited Organization and Corporate Governance – p.116-131 102-38 Annual compensation ratio 5.1 PART I Information on shareholder structure, Reasonable Organization and Corporate Governance – p.116-131 102-39 Percentage increase in total remuneration ratio 5.1 PART I Information on shareholder structure, Reasonable Organization and Corporate Governance – p.116-131 Involvement with Stakeholders 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 2.3 Materiality analysis (Dialogue with stakeholders) – p. 31-33 Limited 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements GRI Indicators – p. 155 Principle 3 SDG 8 (2) Reasonable 102-42 Identification and selection of stakeholders 2.3 Materiality analysis (Dialogue with stakeholders) – p. 31-33 Limited 102-43 Approach to stakeholders’ involvement 2.3 Materiality analysis (Dialogue with stakeholders) – p. 31-33 Limited 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27-28 Limited 2.3 Materiality analysis (Management Approach) – p. 29 2.3 Materiality analysis (Dialogue with stakeholders) – p. 31-33 Report Profile 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 1.2 Brisa profile – p. 11-12 Limited statements 102-46 Definition of the report content and the aspect Nature of integrated report – p. 3 Limited boundaries 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27-28 102-47 List of material issues 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 28 Limited 102-48 Reformulation of information Nature of integrated report – p. 3 Limited 102-49 Changes in the Report Nature of integrated report – p. 3 Limited 1) Direct impact of Brisa 2) Indirect impact of Brisa GCP = Global Compact Principles 140 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY EXTERNAL GRI INDICATOR LOCATION (PAGE) GCP SDG (1 AND 2) ASSURANCE Report Profile 102-50 Period of the Report Nature of integrated report – p. 3 Limited 102-51 Date of latest report Nature of integrated report – p. 3 Limited 102-52 Reporting cycle Nature of integrated report – p. 3 Limited 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Nature of integrated report – p. 3 Limited contents 102-54 Preparation of reports according to GRI Standards GRI Index – p. 138-148 (This table) Limited GRI indicators – p. 149-168 102-56 External Audit Nature of integrated report – p. 3 Limited Management Approach 103-1 Materiality Analysis 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27-33 Limited 103-2 Management approach 2.3 Materiality Analysis p. 27-33 Limited 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2.3 Materiality Analysis p. 27-33 Limited ECONOMIC INDICATORS Economic Performance Forms of management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed GRI indicators – p. 150 SDG 2, 5 and 8 (2) Reasonable SDG 7 and 9 (1) 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities GRI indicators – p. 150 Principle 7 SDG 13 (1) Limited due to climate change 201-3 Mandatory defined benefit plans and retirement plans GRI indicators – p. 150 Limited 201-4 Financial assistance received from Government GRI indicators – p. 150 Limited 1) Direct impact of Brisa 2) Indirect impact of Brisa GCP = Global Compact Principles 141 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY EXTERNAL GRI INDICATOR LOCATION (PAGE) GCP SDG (1 AND 2) ASSURANCE Market Presence Forms of Management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 202-1 Ratio of the entry level wage by gender at significant GRI Indicators – p. 150 Principle 6 SDG 1, 5 and 8 (2) Reasonable locations of operation to the minimum wage Scope: Companies of the Brisa Group (consolidated accounts) 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local GRI Indicators – p. 150 Principle 6 SDG 8 (2) Limited community Scope: Companies of the Brisa Group (consolidated accounts) Procurement Forms of Management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers GRI Indicators – p. 151 SDG 12 (1) Reasonable Scope: Companies of the Brisa Group (consolidated accounts) Anti-corruption Forms of Management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption GRI Indicators – p. 165 Principle 10 SDG 16 (2) Limited 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies GRI Indicators – p. 166 Principle 10 SDG 16 (2) Reasonable and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken GRI Indicators – p. 166 Principle 10 SDG 16 (2) Limited Anti-competitive behaviour Forms of Management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 206-1 Anti-competitive behaviours GRI Indicators – p. 166 Principle 10 SDG 16 (2) Reasonable 1) Direct impact of Brisa 2) Indirect impact of Brisa GCP = Global Compact Principles 142 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY EXTERNAL GRI INDICATOR LOCATION (PAGE) GCP SDG (1 AND 2) ASSURANCE ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Energy Forms of management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 4.5 Environment (Eco-Efficiency Indicator) – p. 111-112 Principles 7 SDG 7, 12 and 13 (1) Reasonable GRI Indicators – p. 151 and 8 SDG 8 (2) 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organisation GRI Indicators – p. 151 8 SDG 7, 12 and 13 (1) Reasonable SDG 8 (2) 302-3 Energy intensity 4.5 Environment (Eco-Efficiency Indicator) – p. 111-113 8 SDG 7, 12 and 13 (1) Reasonable GRI Indicators – p. 151 SDG 8 (2) 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 4.5 Environment (Eco-Efficiency Indicator) – p. 111-113 8 and 9 SDG 7, 12 and 13 (1) Reasonable GRI Indicators – p. 151 SDG 8 (2) 302-5 Reduction in energy requirements of products 4.5 Environment (Eco-Efficiency Indicator) – p. 111-113 8 and 9 SDG 7, 12 and 13 (1) Reasonable and services GRI Indicators – p. 151 SDG 8 (2) Water Forms of management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 303-1 Total water withdrawal by source 4.5 Environment (Eco-Efficiency Indicator) – p. 111-113 Principles 7 SDG 6 (2) Reasonable GRI Indicators – p. 151 and 8 303-3 Percentage and total volume of water recycled GRI Indicators – p. 151-152 Principle 8 SDG 6 and 8 (2) Limited and reused SDG 12 (1) Biodiversity Forms of management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 304-1 Sites in protected areas operational sites owned, GRI Indicators – p. 152 Principle 8 SDG 6 and 14 (2) Reasonable leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas SDG 15 (1) and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 1) Direct impact of Brisa 2) Indirect impact of Brisa GCP = Global Compact Principles 143 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY EXTERNAL GRI INDICATOR LOCATION (PAGE) GCP SDG (1 AND 2) ASSURANCE Biodiversity Forms of management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 304-2 Significant impacts of products and services on GRI Indicators – p. 152 Principle 8 SDG 6 and 8 (2) Reasonable biodiversity SDG 12 (1) 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 4.5 Environment (Eco-Efficiency Indicator) – p. 111-113 Principle 8 SDG 6 and 8 (2) Reasonable GRI Indicators – p. 153 SDG 12 (1) 304-4 Total number of IUCN Red List species and national GRI Indicators – p. 153 Principle 8 SDG 6 and 8 (2) Reasonable conservation list species with habitats in areas affected SDG 12 (1) by the operations of the organisation Emissions Forms of management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 4.5 Environment (Eco-Efficiency Indicator) – p. 111-113 Principles 7 and 8 SDG 3, 12, 13 and 15 (1) Reasonable GRI Indicators – p. 153 SDG 14 (2) 305-2 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 4.5 Environment (Eco-Efficiency Indicator) – p. 111-113 Principles 7 and 8 SDG 3, 12, 13 and 15 (1) Reasonable GRI Indicators – p. 154 SDG 14 (2) 305-3 Other GHG emissions (Scope 3) GHG GRI Indicators – p. 154 Principles 7 and 8 SDG 3, 12, 13 and 15 (1) Reasonable SDG 14 (2) 305-4 Emissions intensity GHG emission 4.5 Environment (Eco-Efficiency Indicator) – p. 112-113 Principle 8 SDG 14 (2) Reasonable GRI Indicators – p. 154 SDG 15 (1) 305-5 Reductions 4.5 Environment (Eco-Efficiency Indicator) – p. 112-113 Principles 8 and 9 SDG 13 and 15 (1) Limited GRI Indicators – p. 154 SDG 14 (2) 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances GRI Indicators – p. 154 Principles 7 and 8 SDG 3 and 12 (1) Limited 305-7 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions GRI Indicators – p. 154 Principles 7 and 8 SDG 3, 12 and 15 (1) Limited SDG 14 (2) 1) Direct impact of Brisa 2) Indirect impact of Brisa GCP = Global Compact Principles 144 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY EXTERNAL GRI INDICATOR LOCATION (PAGE) GCP SDG (1 AND 2) ASSURANCE Effluents and Waste Forms of management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 306-1 Total water discharge by quality and destination GRI Indicators – p. 154 Principle 8 SDG 3 and 12 (1) Limited SDG 6 and 14 (2) 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 4.5 Environment (Waste) – p. 111-113 Principle 8 SDG 3 and 12 (1) Reasonable GRI Indicators – p. 155 SDG 6 (2) Compliance Forms of management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations GRI Indicators – p. 155 Principle 8 SDG 16 (2) Reasonable Supplier Environmental Assessment Forms of management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 308-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using GRI Indicators – p. 155 Principle 8 Limited environmental criteria 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and GRI Indicators – p. 155 Principle 8 Limited actions taken LABOUR INDICATORS Employment Forms of management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 401-1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and GRI Indicators – p. 155-156 Principle 6 SDG 5 and 8 (2) Reasonable employee turnover 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not GRI Indicators – p. 156 SDG 8 (2) Limited provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave GRI Indicators – p. 156-157 Principle 6 SDG 5 and 8 (2) Limited 1) Direct impact of Brisa 2) Indirect impact of Brisa GCP = Global Compact Principles 145 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY EXTERNAL GRI INDICATOR LOCATION (PAGE) GCP SDG (1 AND 2) ASSURANCE Occupational Health and Safety Forms of management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 403-1 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal GRI Indicators – p. 157 SDG 8 (2) Limited joint management-worker health and safety committees 403-2 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, GRI Indicators – p. 157-158 SDG 3 (1) Reasonable lost days, and absenteeism and total number of SDG 8 (2) work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases GRI Indicators – p. 159 SDG 3 (1) Limited related to their occupation SDG 8 (2) 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements GRI Indicators – p. 159 SDG 8 (2) Limited with trade unions Training and Education Forms of management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee, by GRI Indicators – p. 160 Principle 6 SDG 4, 5 and 8 (2) Reasonable gender, and by employee category 404-2 Programs to enhance employees’ skills and programs to GRI Indicators – p. 160 SDG 8 (2) Limited support transition 404-3 Percentage of employees that receive, regularly, career GRI Indicators – p. 161 Principle 6 SDG 5 e 8 (2) Limited performance and development analysis Diversity and Equal Opportunity Forms of management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 405-1 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of GRI Indicators – p. 161 Principle 6 SDG 5 e 8 (2) Reasonable employees per employee category 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men GRI Indicators – p. 162 Principle 6 SDG 5, 8 and 10 (2) Reasonable 1) Direct impact of Brisa 2) Indirect impact of Brisa GCP = Global Compact Principles 146 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY EXTERNAL GRI INDICATOR LOCATION (PAGE) GCP SDG (1 AND 2) ASSURANCE SOCIETY INDICATORS Local Communities Forms of management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 413-1 Percentage of operations with implemented local GRI Indicators – p. 163 Principle 1 Limited community engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative GRI Indicators – p. 164-165 Principle 1 SDG 1 and 2 (2) Limited impacts on local communities HUMAN RIGHTS INDICATORS Supplier Human Rights Assessment Forms of management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using GRI Indicators – p. 162-163 Principle 6 Limited environmental criteria 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions GRI Indicators – p. 163 Principle 6 Limited taken PRODUCT RESPONSIBIILITY INDICATORS Customer Health and Safety Forms of management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 416-1 Assessment of impacts on health and safety relating to GRI Indicators – p. 166-167 Limited products and services 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and GRI Indicators – p. 168 SDG 16 (2) Limited voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 1) Direct impact of Brisa 2) Indirect impact of Brisa GCP = Global Compact Principles 147 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY EXTERNAL GRI INDICATOR LOCATION (PAGE) GCP SDG (1 AND 2) ASSURANCE Client Privacy Forms of management DMA 1.3 Key Indicators – p. 13; 2.2 Business Model – p. 22; 2.3 Materiality analysis – p. 27; 418-1 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of GRI Indicators – p. 168 SDG 16 (2) Limited customer privacy and losses of customer data 1) Direct impact of Brisa 2) Indirect impact of Brisa GCP = Global Compact Principles 148 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY INDICATORS GRI STRATEGIC Economic, human rights, society and COMPANIES FUEL ELECTRICITY WATER WASTE PRACTICES product responsibility indicators: BGI BRISA GESTÃO INFRAESTRUTURAS, S.A. x a) x x x Brisa Group companies included in the financial consolidation scope. BRISA AUTO-ESTRADAS DE PORTUGAL, S.A. x b) b) x x BRISA CONCESSÃO RODOVIÁRIA, S.A. x b) b) c) x Environmental indicators: Brisa Group companies with significant operation and for which the monitoring BRISA CONSERVAÇÃO DE INFRAESTRUTURAS, S.A. x b) b) x d) of these indicators is considered relevant. BRISA INOVAÇÃO E TECNOLOGIA, S.A. x x x x x x x x x x Labour indicators: BRISA O&M, S.A. Brisa Group companies with employees at 31 December. CONTROLAUTO CONTROLO TÉCNICO AUTOMÓVEL, S.A. x x x c) x ITEUVE PORTUGAL, SOCIEDADE UNIPESSOAL LDA. x x x c) x M CALL, S.A. x x x c) x VIA VERDE CARSHARING, S.A. x b) b) c) x VIA VERDE CONTACT, S.A. x b) b) x x VIA VERDE PORTUGAL x b) b) x x GESTÃO DE SISTEMAS ELETRÓNICOS DE COBRANÇA, S.A. VIA VERDE SERVIÇOS, S.A. x b) b) c) x BRISA ÁREAS DE SERVIÇO, S.A. x x x x e) a) No meter; building shared with non-Brisa Group companies b) Included in Brisa O&M/CO Carcavelos c) Monitoring centralised in BAE d) Merged into BGI e) Not considered by the HRD since BAS employees are managed by company Áreas 149 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY ECONOMIC INDICATORS 201-1 201-3 202-1 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED (€M) MANDATORY DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS AND RETIREMENT PLANS RATIO OF AVERAGE WAGE LEVEL BY GENDER AND COMPARED TO LOCAL MINIMUM WAGE OF LOCATION OF OPERATION ‘18 According to estimate as of 31 December 2018 of the value of the Pension Fund and respective liabilities, according to the Benefit Plan currently in At the end of 2018 the lowest wage paid in the Organisation was € 580. Direct Economic Value Generated 746.5 force at the company as provided Brisa’s Pension Fund Agreement in 2018, This remuneration applies to 1% of the population. the fund had A deficit of €1,922 thousand.. Direct Economic Value Distributed 282.5 Remuneration 94.5 The current value of projected liabilities is € 19,144 thousand. ‘17 ‘18 Dividends 2.0 Lowest wage at the organisation (euros) 557 580 Payments to the State * 94.9 BAE VVP BRISA O&M BIT BGI TOTAL National minimum wage (euros) 557 580 Investment in Local Communities 0.8 Ratio of the lowest wage in the organization Number of employees 1.00 1.00 Donations 0.7 229 156 1026 65 280 1 756 compared to the national minimum wage covered Public Service** 0.1 Lowest wage of the organisation’s most representative group (euros) 773 789 Operating costs 90.4 Total number of 230 178 1028 70 331 1 837 employees Economic Value Withheld 464 Population toll sector 26.7% 23.4% % of employees covered by Ratio of the lowest wage of the organisation’s * Includes income tax, payments to local municipalities and other taxes. 100% 88% 100% 93% 85% 96% most representative group 1.39 1.36 the pension fund ** A Brisa considers as Public Service all activities developed mainly for the benefit of society, the ultimate purpose of which are not commercial considerations, excluding donations. 201-4 201-2 FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RECEIVED FROM GOVERNMENT 202-2 FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS AND OTHER RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES PROPORTION OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT HIRED FROM THE DUE TO CLIMATE CHANGES No financial assistance was received from the Government in 2018. LOCAL COMMUNITY The answer to this indicator is found in Chapter 4.3 Innovation, on pages Brisa does not practise any type of discrimination when recruiting its workers 99-102 of this Report. and is prohibited, for legal reasons, from exercising any type of discrimination in the recruitment of new employees within national territory. At international level, no hiring was recorded. 150 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 204-1 302-2 303-1 PROPORTION OF SPENDING ON LOCAL SUPPLIERS ENERGY CONSUMPTION OUTSIDE THE ORGANISATION TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE Brisa does not practise any type of discrimination in the selection of its Brisa considers to be its responsibility only indirect energy consumption Water consumption increased in 2018 in relation to the previous year as suppliers; it consults the market and receives bids from both local and within the organisation, and not outside it. a result of the increase in service areas of Brisa Áreas de Serviço, which international suppliers. Brisa falls is subject to the public contracting regime, accounted for an increase in consumption by 34 196 m3. being thus required to launch tenders, in accordance with the Law. The increase in water consumption was this due to the widening of the In 2018 the percentage of local suppliers was 95.3%. 302-3 reporting scope; If we exclude service areas, water consumption dropped ENERGY INTENSITY by 14.5%. To determine energy intensity, Brisa used fuel and electricity consumption of ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS ‘18 the Group, and the consolidated kilometres of network for this sustainability report. Based on these facts, Brisa’s energy intensity in 2018 is 143.7 GJ SOURCE ‘17 per kilometre. Own water supply (m3) 76 301 302-1 70 530 ENERGY CONSUMPTION INSIDE THE ORGANISATION Public water supply (m3) 51 521 62 196 138 497 The answer to this indicator is found in Chapter 4.5 Environment, on pages 302-4 Total (m3) 122 050 REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION 111-112 of this Report. The following conversion factors were used for determining energy consumption: The answer to this indicator is found in Chapter 4.5 Environment, on page 112 of this Report. 303-3 WATER RECYCLED AND RE-USED Fuel As part of its site supervision activity, BGI conducts laboratory tests to CONVERSION FACTORS UNIT VALUE SOURCE 302-5 ensure the compliance of construction elements and materials. It has 3 REDUCTION IN ENERGY REQUIREMENTS OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES laboratories allocated to this end, specifically those at the Maia and Loures Density Diesel kg/l 0.8400 DGEG, Fuel products density sites and the mobile laboratory. (2000-2017). The answer to this indicator is found in Chapter 4.5 Environment, on pages Density Gasoline kg/l 0.7500 DGEG, Fuel products density 109-114 of this Report. The tests carried out by BGI aim to control the compliance of construction (2000-2017). elements and materials of the works it supervises. These tests are conducted on materials such as soils, aggregates, bituminous materials and concrete Lower Calorific Value GJ/t 42.6007 DGEG, Energetic Conversions (LCV) Diesel (1990-2017). to determine the characteristics of samples collected at the site. Lower Calorific Value GJ/t 43.9991 DGEG, Energetic Conversions The vast majority of these tests do not require water. In fact, waste-water (LCV) Gasoline (1990-2017). from the laboratory stems mainly from the washing of aggregates and of the equipment and material used in the tests. Electricity CONVERSION FACTORS UNIT VALUE SOURCE Eletricity kWh/GJ 0.0036 DGEG, Energetic Conversions (1990-2017). 151 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Amongst the equipment used in the laboratories, those identified as Summing Up 304-2 consumers of considerable volume of water were the solvent recovery MAIA: SIGNIFICANT DIRECT AND INDIRECT IMPACTS ON BIODIVERSITYE equipment, the water distiller and the rotary evaporator, which operate Bitumen recovered by the rotary evaporator with cooling systems. it was thus decided to develop a system to recirculate – 4 tests * 2h * 3l/min = 1.44 m3 Indicator 304-2 reports the occurrence of significant impacts on biodiversity in this water, by storing it and subsequent pumping it in a closed cycle, thus Water distiller protected areas or areas of high value for biodiversity, which are considered reducing water consumption to zero. – 1 x week 52 weeks * 8h * 4l/min = 99.84 m3 to be the areas identified in the Natura 2000 Network. This analysis was Solvent recovery divided into a Design and Works Phase and an Operating phase to facilitate The test carried out using the rotary evaporator at Maia lab, consists of – (604/4)=151 * 2h *3l/min = 54.36 m3 of water the explanation of procedures and the reasons behind them. the recovery of bitumen from bituminous mixtures. Each test involves the MOBILE LAB operation of the rotary evaporator for 2 hours. Based on an estimated Solvent recovery flow of 3 l/min, water consumption is reduced by 360 l per test carried out. PPROCEDURES DESIGN AND WORKS PHASES – (50/4)=12.5 * 2h *3l/min = 4.5 m3 of water An analysis of laboratory records shows that 4 tests were carried out in Impacts on biodiversity associated with the construction and operation of 2018 (lab’s internal records), from which we can conclude that recirculating LOURES LAB motorways are first evaluated during the Environmental Impact Assessment the water used to cool the rotary evaporator led to an annual saving of Solvent recovery process, during the implementation study and design phase, when different approximately 1,44 m3. – (69/4)=17.25 * 2h *3l/min = 6.21 m3 of water layouts and design projects are reviewed. Based on this analysis, measures are outlined to mitigate or offset expected impacts on biodiversity. At the Maia site, the solvent recovery equipment works (when there are It can be concluded that the recirculation of water used in the solvent recovery bitumen extraction samples) every 4 samples, for 2 hours each time, with an equipment, water distiller and rotary evaporator, during 2018, consumption During the works phase, environmental monitoring is performed, and estimated flow rate of 3 l/min. According to laboratory records, in 604 bitumen savings of around 166.35 m3 in 2018. the Environmental Management Plan and monitoring programmes are extraction tests were carried out during 2018; since the water comes from implemented, with the main purpose of ensuring a correct collection of the reuse system, we conclude that water savings reached 54,36 m3/year. information to assess the main impacts arising from this phase and ensure an adequate implementation of the project. Moreover, these practices allow The water distiller at the Maia laboratory operated about once a week, year 304-1 a timely identification of possible situations that may lead to the need for round. The estimated flow rate is 4l/min, operating 8h/day. Since the reused SITES IN PROTECTED AREAS OPERATIONAL SITES OWNED, LEASED, additional measures to mitigate or offset impacts. water comes from the reuse system, we conclude that water consumption MANAGED IN, OR ADJACENT TO, PROTECTED AREAS AND AREAS OF savings reached around 99,84 m3/year. HIGH BIODIVERSITY VALUE OUTSIDE PROTECTED AREAS PROCEDURES DESIGN AND WORKS PHASES There are no environmental impacts to report in 2018 as no work was done In the mobile laboratory, the solvent recovery equipment works (when there In relation to 2018, the managed area comprised within Rede Natura 2000 n areas inside the Natura 2000 Network. are bitumen extraction samples) every 4 samples, for 2 hours each time, totalled 3 591 221.11 m2, ou seja, 359.12 hectares. with an estimated flow rate of 3 l/min. According to laboratory records, in 50 bitumen extraction tests were carried out during 2018; since the water comes PROCEDURES OPERATING PHASE The area is the same reported on in previous years (2009-2017), as no from the reuse system, we conclude that water savings reached 4,5 m3/year. infrastructure / widening works crossing any areas of the Natura 2000 The entire motorway network under concession to Brisa is covered by an Network were carried out during 2018. animal collision monitoring system and all motorways built or undergoing In the Loures laboratory, the solvent recovery equipment works (when there widening works after the entry into force of Decree-Law no. 69/2000 of are bitumen extraction samples) every 4 samples, for 2 hours each time, As far as this indicator is concerned, it should be noted that the company 3 May (as amended by Decree-Law no. 151-B/2013 dated 31 October), with an estimated flow rate of 3 l/min. According to laboratory records, in has a leased area for the implementation of impact mitigation measures. are covered by General Environmental Monitoring Plans, viewing the 69 bitumen extraction tests were carried out during 2018; Since the reused This area located at Monte Pardieiro covers 10.000 sq.m. in the Castro Verde post-assessment of impacts. water comes from the reuse system, we conclude that water consumption Special Protection Area, with the aim of preserving the habitat of the Lesser savings reached around 6,21 m3/year. Kestrel. In the context of biodiversity, the main environmental impacts caused by the operation of motorways are fragmentation and alteration of habitats, the running over of fauna and increased human pressure. 152 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY RATIONALE OPERATING PHASE lease was entered with land owners of Monte do Pardieiro (nesting site MW SUB-STRETCH BIRD FAUNA STATUS of lesser-kestrels) for an area of 10.000 m2 (1 ha) inside the Castro Verde Monitoring of fauna road kills carried out in 2018 on the entire network Species Common Name Special Protection Area. This contract was renewed in 2007 and its term under Brisa concession showed that in the sub-stretches that cross areas extended until the end of 2032. A1 Carvalhos / Santo Ovídio Anthus trivialis Petinha-das-árvores R (rare) included in the Natura 2000 Network, there was no record of collisions with species listed as threatened in “Livro Vermelho dos Vertebrados de Portugal A4 Novo Túnel de Águas In addition, the cutting and removal of vegetation burned by fires was Caprimulgus Noitibó-cinzento VU (2005)” [The Red Book of Portuguese Vertebrates (2005)]. Santas (Águas Santas/ europaeus (vulnerable) carried out to facilitate the regeneration of native plants, contributing to the Ermesinde) recovery of habitats. The area covered by this measure totalled approximately On the Almodôvar/S. Bartolomeu de Messines and S. Bartolomeu de 27.000 m2 (2,7 ha) during 2018. Messines/V.L.A. on A2 motorway, which crosses the sites of Caldeirão and Barrocal, monitoring campaigns are carried out to assess the impacts on In 2018 there were no works supervised by BGI where uncommon or rare With regard to the restoring and protection of habitats in partnerships biodiversity and the quality of ecosystems. species grew. with third parties, Brisa is aware of the impact of its activity on biodiversity, promoting voluntary actions, from an environmental responsibility The monitoring of the quality of ecosystems assessed fauna road kill, showing perspective. These actions are translated in projects that form part of the that there was no record of collisions with species listed as threatened in Business & Biodiversity Initiative. “Livro Vermelho dos Vertebrados de Portugal (2005)” [The Red Book of Portuguese Vertebrates (2005)]. 305-1 EVOA – Bird Watching and Interpretation Centre stemmed from a protocol DIRECT GHG EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) entered by Companhia das Lezírias and Brisa – Autoestradas de Portugal, within the scope of Brisa’s biodiversity programme ten years ago, has The answer to this indicator is found in Chapter 4.5 Environment, on pages successfully achieved its goals. Visitors can enjoy a unique natural heritage, 304-3 composed of three wetlands covering a total of 70 ha at Lezíria Grande 112-113 of this Report. HABITATS PROTECTED OR RESTORED in Vila Franca de Xira, a refuge and rearing ground of 120 thousand birds. The following conversion factors were used for determining emissions associated with fuel consumption: Restoring and protecting certain habitats is part of Brisa’s biodiversity Contributing to the impact of the EVOA, which in 2018 reached the strategy and it is used to prevent or restore negative impacts associated barrier of 7777 thousand visitors, Brisa prepared a programme to with Brisa’s activities. Areas of protected or restored habitats may result promote visits by the general public at larger scale in the areas recovered MW UNIT VALUE SOURCE from the following actions: under the Protocol with Companhia das Lezírias. This programme called Environment First, was launched in 2013 and is part of Brisa’s GHG Emissions fixed combustion Diesel kg CO2e/GJ 74.2367 The implementation, at the end of works, landscape integration and Education Programme. GHG Emissions fixed combustion Gasoline kg CO2e/GJ 69.7288 restoration projects; In the light of the data provided above, in 2018 the area of protected/restored GHG mobile combustion kg CO2e/GJ 71.3180 The implementation of active habitat restoration or protection Light passenger vehicle Diesel APA, National habitats totalled 37.000,00 m2 corresponding to 3.7 ha. measures during the road infrastructure operating phase; Inventory Report GHG mobile combustion kg CO2e/GJ 71.8401 2018. IPCC, Fourth Habitat protection and restoration projects resulting from partnerships Light passenger vehicle Gasoline Assessment Report with other entities, directed to areas with habitats different to those referred to above. 304-4 GHG mobile combustion kg CO2e/GJ 71.0227 TOTAL NUMBER OF IUCN RED LIST SPECIES AND NATIONAL Light merchandise vehicle Diesel In 2018, no project for landscape the integration and recovery was carried out. CONSERVATION LIST SPECIES WITH HABITATS IN AREAS AFFECTED GHG mobile combustion kg CO2e/GJ 71.7008 BY OPERATIONS Heavy passenger vehicle Diesel With regard to active restoration and protection measures during operating phase, within the scope of the implementation of mitigation measures During 2018, there were two animal species (birds) on the IUCN red list associated with the Aljustrel/Castro Verde sub-stretch of the A2 sub and on the national species conservation list, with habitats affected by the stretch, a protocol was signed with the ICNF (formerly ICNB) to ensure operations, by extinction risk level. the implementation of measures viewing the management of the Lesser Kestrel colony (Falco naumanni) that ended in 2013. Under this protocol, a 153 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 305-2 305-5 With regard to other atmospheric emissions, data provided by air quality INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS (SCOPE 2) GHG EMISSION REDUCTION monitoring within the scope of General Environmental Monitoring Plans, on motorways with average daily traffic far higher than the number of vehicles in the Brisa Group’s fleet (such as the A3 and A2) generally identify The answer to this indicator is found in Chapter 4.5 Environment, on pages The answer to this indicator is found in Chapter 4.5 Environment, on page low concentrations of atmospheric pollutants. Therefore, the 842 vehicles 112-113 of this Report. 112 of this Report. circulating throughout Portugal cannot be considered significant and are negligible within the framework of this indicator and this report. The following conversion factors were used for determining energy consumption: 305-6 Market Based Method CO2(g/kWh): 331,1 EMISSIONS OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES 306-1 Location Based Method CO2(g/kWh): 289.6 TOTAL WATER DISCHARGE BY QUALITY AND DESTINATION This indicator does not apply to the Brisa Group as the organisation’s processes, products and services do not use substances that deplete the As part of the re-activation of the BGI laboratory in Loures, this indicator Source: Power supplier (EDP Comercial Empresas) Energy Labelling IEA, ozone layer. Moreover, ozone-depleting substances contained or emitted by takes into account information on the effluent produced at the BGI labs, in CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion. products during their use or disposal are not to be accounted for, this being Maia and Loures. the case of substances contained in air conditioning equipment. The discharge value is determined based on water consumption values In view of the above and although it does not seem that the scope of this obtained through the 303-1 indicator, considering that the domestic discharge indicator applies to the organisation, it is important to draw up and report volume produced corresponds to 80% of the water consumption. 305-3 the inventory of equipment in existence and the type of refrigerant used, in OTHER GHG EMISSIONS (SCOPE 3) order to monitor the degree of compliance with legislation that establishes The laboratory in Maia is estimated to discharge around 85.6 m3 in 2018, that as from 1 January, 2015 there should be no equipment that use hydro dropping in relation to 2016, according to information on water consumption chlorofluorocarbons, and show/demonstrate the Group’s commitment in obtained through the 303-1 indicator. The laboratory in Loures is estimated to Scope 3 emissions are not controllable by Brisa, which takes no responsibility relation to these global issues. discharge around 3.2 m3 in 3, according to information on water consumption for them. However, bearing in mind its goal to contribute to a carbon neutral economy, Brisa wants to know the impacts of Scope 3 emissions in order obtained through the 303-1 indicator. to identify improvement opportunities to be implemented by third parties. 305-7 NOX, SOX AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS ‘17 305-4 SITE UNITS 1ST Q 2ND Q 3RD Q 4TH Q CUMULATIVE 80% GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY The Brisa group does not carry out any activity producing significant MAIA (m3) 20 26 33 31 110 88 atmospheric emissions within the scope of this indicator, since none of Within the scope of this indicator, to determine GHG emissions intensity, Brisa’s activities can be included in the manufacturing industry category. we used the emissions at Group level (Scopes 1 and 2) and consolidated kilometres of network for this report. Based on these figures, in 2018 the The Brisa Group’s atmospheric emissions to be considered are those ‘18 intensity of Brisa emissions was 12,2 tCO2e by kilometre. generated by the circulation of its vehicle fleet, which cannot be considered SITE UNITS 1ST Q 2ND Q 3RD Q 4TH Q CUMULATIVE 80% significant as they are diffuse type emissions arising out of its vehicles only. MAIA (m3) 21 27 30 29 107 85.6 In relation to SOx emissions generated by burning fuel from traffic, these LOURES (m3) 4 4 3.2 are not significant due to the implementation of significant reductions in the sulphur content of fuel. 154 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 306-2 Even though no complaints existed relating to this issue, namely as regards the use of products with potential risk, the organisation can conduct external 102-41 WASTE BY TYPE AND DESTINATION PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL EMPLOYEES COVERED BY audits certified by qualified partners (Achilles and SGS), for an even more assertive validation. The answer to this indicator is found in Chapter 4.5 Environment, on pages 113-114 of this Report. Additionally, the organisation has been replacing products that pose a potential risk to the environment, with other alternatives with zero risk. ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 Employees as of 31 December 2 344 2 344 2 573 * Enzyme-based products; replacement of PET’s, PP’s, HDPE’s, LDPE’s, by glass. 307-1 No. of employees covered by agreements 2 271 2 270 1 835 NON-COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS % of employees covered 96.89% 96.84% 71.3% There were no convictions associated with this indicator in 2018. Calculation formula: LABOUR INDICATORS No. of employees covered by the collective labour agreement (ACT) / 308-1 total employees of the Brisa Group at the end of the period under review) *1000 PERCENTAGE OF NEW SUPPLIERS THAT WERE SCREENED USING ENVIRONMENTAL CRITERIA 102-8 TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY CONTRACT TYPE AND GENDER In 2018 we did not need to select new suppliers of strategic scope. 401-1 Notwithstanding, the wording of contracts with known entities already provide the development and implementation of Construction and Demolition Waste ‘18 TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE Management Prevention Plans and certification according to ISO 14001. NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES TURNOVER TYPE OF CONTRACT Staff includes all employees, with the exception of trainees, outsources, posted workers and the Board of Directors of Brisa Autoestradas. Open-ended 2 365 308-2 Fixed term* 162 NEGATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND ACTIONS TAKEN Undetermined term 46 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 GENDER Entered 65 74 352 Taking into accounts implemented controls and based on the analysis of Women 854 Left 64 74 212 product documentation, employee product handling training and technician Employees at end of period 2 344 2 344 2 573 and company certifications, as well as by verifying the effectiveness of the Men 1 719 actions, we did not find any negative impact in the supply chain. Average no. of employees 2 348 2 344 2 548 TOTAL 2 573 Turnover rate 5.49% 6.31% 22.14% * Includes fixed term contracts, term of office and traineehips. 155 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY ‘18 Turnover rate = (n. of exits during reporting period + n. of admissions during reporting period) / total no. of employees at end of period) x At Controlauto and Iteuve: GENDER 100, by age group and gender leave and paid absences in accordance with the General Labour Law; TOTAL MEN WOMEN possibility to enjoy up to 25 holiday days; urgent and necessary assistance to member of household (up to Entered 352 129 223 401-2 15 days/year, plus one more er child, adoptee or step-child, in addition Left 212 115 97 BENEFITS PROVIDED TO FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES THAT ARE NOT to the first); PROVIDED TO TEMPORARY OR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES Total employees 2 573 1 719 854 health insurance, life insurance and personal injury insurance; Rate of new hires 13.81% 5.06% 8.75% The benefits awarded to part-time employees are the same as those granted meal card; to full-time employees. meal vouchers and allowances for compensation of family expenses. Turnover rate 22.14% 9.58% 12.56% The benefits for businesses that endorse the Collective Bargaining Agreement ACT Brisa are: At M Call: ‘18 leave and paid absences in accordance with the General Labour Law; leave and paid absences in accordance with the General Labour Law; RATE OF TURNOVER payment of sickness allowance (in cases of sick leave or accidents urgent and necessary assistance to member of household (up to NEW HIRES RATE in the workplace, subsidised by social security or insurance; 15 days/year, plus one more er child, adoptee or step-child, in addition 23 holiday days; to the first); REGION payment of a supplement to the sickness benefit (Clause 72 and 73, sickness insurance; North 0.71% 1.53% ACT published in the BTE no. 27, on 08 August 2018); luncheon card; Centre 2.67% 3.81% special allowance for workers with disabled children (Clause 70, ACT meal vouchers and allowances for compensation of family expenses. published in the BTE no. 29, on 8 August 2018); Lisbon 3.18% 5.61% urgent and necessary assistance to member of household (up to Alentejo 7.14% 10.75% 15 days/year, plus one more er child, adoptee or step-child, in addition to the first); Algarve 0.12% 0.43% health insurance, life insurance and personal injury insurance; 401-3 TOTAL 13.81% 22.14% PARENTAL LEAVE defined retirement complement; AGE GROUP luncheon card; TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES ENTITLED TO PARENTAL <30 5.49% 8.48% meal vouchers and allowances for compensation of family expenses LEAVEE (Clause 87, ACT published in the BTE no. 29, on 08 August 2018). 30-50 5.89% 9.22% Pursuant to art. 31, sub-paragraph 4, and articles 33 to 46 of SUBSECTION IV Parenthood (arts. 33 to 46), all employees are entitled. >50 2.43% 4.43% For this purpose, we consider that the same number of employees who enjoyed the right, as we are not aware of any employee who refused to Calculation formula: use such right. Rate of new hires = (No. of new hires / total no. of employees) x 100, by age group and gender 156 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 The election of worker representatives is pending. — The C.S.H.S. will be made up of 7 members elected as provided above, three of whom as representatives of the workers and three appointed by NO. % the employer. TOTAL F M F M ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 — Once the C.H.S.H.W. is set up, it will have the responsibility to propose regulations for its operation, to be subsequently negotiated and agreed Employees enjoying 66 78 78 31 47 Employees as of 31 December 2 344 2 344 2 573 upon by the companies and trade union organisations that are signatories parental leave (no.) to the ACT. No. of employees covered by agreements 2 271 2 271 1 835 Employees who returned 65 72 72 30 42 97% 89% % of employees covered 96.89% 96.89% 71.32% Source: ACT after enjoying parental leave (no. and %) 63 21 42 88% 89% Calculation formula: 403-2 Employees who were still 32 63 at the company 12 months after taking parental No. of employees covered by the collective labour agreement (ACT) TYPE OF INJURY AND RATES OF INJURY, OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES, leave* (no. and %) / total employees of the Brisa Group at the end of the period under LOST DAYS, ABSENTEEISM AND WORK-RELATED DEATHS review) *1000 * This figure was determined for parental leaves in 2017 During 2018, the Internal Service for Health and Safety in the Workplace (ISHSW) carried out routine activities determined by the legal framework Calculation formula: HEALTH, HYGIENE AND SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE for Health and Safety in the Workplace and by the Brisa Group’s Policy, Rate of return to work after parental leave = (total number of including the following: employees who returned to work after parental leave / total number of employees who took parental leave) * 100, by gender; Annual Health and Safety in the Workplace Report (Sole Report, Clause 77 MSST model) of each of the Brisa Group companies –– Brisa O&M, Retention rate = (total number of employees still at the company BIT, BGI, CTA, ITV, VVP, VVC, MCALL, BAE, BCR, VVCS, VVS; 12 months after taking parental leave / total number of employees GENERAL PRINCIPLES returning from parental leave in the previous reporting period) *100, Annual accident rate reports for each of the Brisa Group companies; by gender. Employers must comply with the laws on Health, Safety and Hygiene Monitoring and support for selecting suitable PPE for the individual in the Workplace and adapt it, in cooperation the workers’ characteristics of some employees; representative bodies, to the specific characteristics of their activities, Work accidents deemed particularly serious in terms of safety; through internal regulations and their subsequent transposition into 403-1 this ACT. Employee consultation; PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL WORKFORCE REPREESNTED IN FORMAL JOINT As there are corporate relations between all signatory companies Technical opinions (EPI, change in working equipment and or safety MANAGEMENT-WORKER SAFETY AND HEALTH COMMITTEES of this ACT, and as the main activities are carried at the facilities and conditions in premises, etc.); for the rendering of services to one of them, only one company Replies to ACT notices; The terms for the official creation of a Commission on Health, Safety and is deemed to exist for the purposes of Health, Safety and Hygiene Quarterly review of Group companies’ accident rate index; Hygiene in the Workplace were provided in the Collective Labour Agreement in the Workplace, specifically regarding worker representatives. in 2006. This joint committee, which provides for the election of workers’ Identification of Minimum Programme contents and risks that must Given the geographic distribution of the companies’ workplaces, representatives, whose existence in the form of an election is formally agreed be covered by training courses on health and safety at work provided worker representatives will be elected by correspondence, observing with the trade union organisations, is made up of a total of seven members, to employees of the Brisa Group. all formalities provided for by law. three worker representatives and three representatives of the company. A joint Commission on Health, Safety and Hygiene in the Workplace In 2007, Brisa’s representatives sitting on the Commission of Health, Safety (C.H.S.H.W) will be set up as an advisory body, following the election and Hygiene in the workplace, were appointed for the purpose of advising of worker representatives. the company in its occupational health and safety systems and processes. 157 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Brisa O&M VVC ABSENTEISM RATE (%) Health and safety training action provided to new of the Road Assistance employees road patrolling teams and mechanic technicians; Opinions on the projects for the VVC new shops; Report of working conditions on all VVC shops. ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 Checking of fire-extinguishers and working conditions of different work Occupational accidents 0.54 0.58 0.50 stations; 0.21 ‘18 Trade union activity 0.21 0.21 Technical opinion and follow-up of the specificities of employee work / ‘16 ‘17 Urgent assistance 0.17 0.20 0.24 occupational medicine. No. of accidents 91 111 97 Illness 2.51 2.62 3.70 BIT Lost days 3 687 4 075 3 903 Control of OHS documentation relating to each project; observation and Unjustified absence 0.01 0.02 0.06 analysis of any activity at the work site; Men x hours worked 4 053 796 4 036 979 4 332 464 Absence pending justification 0.03 0.03 0.02 Training actions in the specific context of each construction works, concerning Frequency index 22.45 27.50 22.39 the safety procedures data sheet, as provided in DL no. 273/2003, covering Strike 0.00 0.00 0.00 all civil construction teams involved; Severity index 909.52 1 009.42 900.87 Other causes 0.21 0.27 0.23 Risk assessment of electronic equipment maintenance. Incidence index 38.76 47.35 38.09 TOTAL 3.68 3.93 4.96 BGI Duration index 40.52 36.71 40.24 Control of OHS documentation relating to each project; observation and No. of fatalities resulting from accidents 0 0 0 analysis of any activity at the work site; Calculation formula: Training actions in the specific context of each construction works, concerning * Formerly (up to August 2017) BEG – Brisa Engenharia e Gestão. In September 2017, BGI – Brisa Absenteeism = hours of absence / maximum work potential Gestão de Infraestruturas was set up, integrating BEG, BCI (Brisa Conservação e Infraestruturas) Note: excluding absences for study/examinations and parenthood. the safety procedures data sheet, as provided in DL no. 273/2003, covering and part of BOM (Brisa Operação e Manutenção). all civil construction teams involved; Occupational Accident Indices: Training of civil construction officials/civil construction assistants (periodical Incidence index (no. of accidents in the workplace / average employee and to new employees); ABSENTEISM RATE (NO. OF HOURS) x1000 Jechnical Open Days; Training actions for new employees working on motorways; ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 Frequency index (no. of accidents in the workplace x 1000000 / no. of hours worked) Training actions to Lab operators; Occupational accidents 25 389 27 355 25 642 Severity index (no. of lost days x 1000000 / no. of hours worked) Opinion on BGI Lagoas Park internal Emergency Plan; Trade union activity 9 923 9 663 10 552 Duration index (no. of lost days / no. of accidents) Risk assessment of electronic equipment maintenance. Urgent assistance 7 930 9 600 12 015 Working days are considered as lost days and the count starts on the day CTA and ITV Illness 118 082 122 795 188 504 immediately following the day of the accident. Review of risk assessment and safety procedure for B inspectors; Unjustified absence 626 822 2 966 The formulas used for calculating this indicator are the same as for 2015, Checking of working conditions in inspection centres; 2016 and 2017 using the basis for calculation agreed in Directive no. 288/2009 Absence pending justification 1 290 1 442 1 235 Technical opinions (EPI, change in working equipment, etc.); of 20 March which approves the Annual Report Template for the HSHW Strike 8,5 27 49 Services Activity. None of the other indicators are legally binding but they Approval with ANP of various procedures (MAP) of inspection centres. are used frequently in studies of Health and Safety in the Workplace Other causes 9 929 12 863 11 595 M Call As of reporting date it is not possible to separate information by gender TOTAL 173 178 184 567 252 557 concerning absenteeism by reason. Report/audit of working conditions; Technical opinion and follow-up of the specificities of employee work / occupational medicine. 158 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 403-3 403-4 Clause 77, Item 2 WORKERS WITH HIGH INCIDENCE OR HIGH RISK OF DISEASES RELATED HEALTH AND SAFETY TOPICS COVERED IN FORMAL AGREEMENTS As there are corporate relations between all signatory companies of this ACT, TO THEIR OCCUPATION WITH TRADE UNIONS and as the main activities are carried at the facilities and for the rendering of services to one of them, only one company is deemed to exist for the purposes Topics related to health and safety, covered in formal agreements with trade of Health, Safety and Hygiene in the Workplace, specifically regarding worker Brisa contracts health services in both the fields of Occupational Medicine unions, are described below. representatives. and Curative Medicine. These services cover all of the workers and allow actions to be taken to prevent, educate and control the risk of diseases Clause 10, Item 4 Clause 77, Item 3 considered serious by the Portuguese National Health Service. Any individual admitted to the company’s staff will be subject to a proper Given the geographic distribution of the companies’ workplaces, worker Occupational Medicine periodically organises consultations and auxiliary prior medical examination; respective cost will be borne by the employer; representatives will be elected by correspondence, observing all formalities diagnosis examinations aimed at ruling out the occurrence of severe diseases, provided for by law. regardless of whether they are related to working conditions or to the Clause 17, Item 1, Line g) professional activity. Clause 77, Item 4 Adopt, in all aspects relating to health, safety and hygiene in the workplace, the measures arising, for the entity or activity, from the application of current A joint Commission on Health, Safety and Hygiene in the Workplace Employees are given medical examinations every two years, followed by (C.H.S.H.W) will be set up as an advisory body, following the election of a consultation with a doctor. Consultations are still arranged in the year provisions in the law and in the agreements; worker representatives. when no examinations are performed. Employees with ages and functions that could potentially involve a greater risk/likelihood of health problems Clause 17, Item 1, Line h) Clause 77, Item 4.1 are given annual medical examinations and consultations. Employees under Provide suitable information and training to workers to prevent the risks 18 years old and over 50 form part of this group, as well as employees who of accidents and illness; The C.S.H.S. will be made up of 7 members elected as provided above, work shifts. three of whom as representatives of the workers and three appointed Clause 18, Item 1, Line i) by the employers. From another angle, Curative Medicine provides advice and treatment of Cooperate within the entity or service to improving the health, safety and conditions for all workers who request this service. hygiene system in the workplace, specifically through worker representatives elected for this purpose; Specific examinations such as electrocardiograms and diagnoses of levels of cholesterol and triglyceride are performed for cardiovascular diseases Clause 18, Item 1, Line j) Glycaemia levels are controlled for diabetes, and Gamma GT analyses are performed for liver diseases. Comply with the rules on Health, Safety and Hygiene in the workplace provided in applicable legal provisions and agreements and with the orders Brisa also works in the area of Alcohol Consumption Prevention and Control given by the employer; The purpose of this program is to prevent work-related accidents and to detect situations of dependency, which are forwarded to an intervention Clause 21, Item 11 program, thus promoting the protection of workers’ health. Workers who work without interruption with screen equipment must take a 10 minute-break every 2 hours, which are considered as effective working In this area, programmes aimed at local communities are covered by the time for all due purposes; National Health Service, as Brisa, due to the nature of its activity, seeks to raise awareness in relation to this specific population and provide road Clause 77, Item 1 safety training. All necessary means and resources for this purpose are Employers must comply with the laws on Health, Safety and Hygiene in the made available by Brisa. Workplace and adapt it, in cooperation the workers’ representative bodies, to the specific characteristics of their activities, through internal regulations and their subsequent transposition into this ACT. 159 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 404-1 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE, BY GENDER, ‘18 With regard to the support to employability of end-of-career employees and transition to retirements, 4 employees were able to choose one of 3 AND BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY types of programmes with different objectives – job search, set up of own TOTAL HOURS PARTICIPANTS business and transition to retirement. These programmes were developed OF TRAINING (NO.) in collaboration with a specialised company. ‘18 TRAINING AREA The programmes consist of training and personal development, namely regular themed workshops, personal coaching sessions, and they also AVERAGE NO. OF TOTAL HOURS Corporate alignment 10 962 2 649 HOURS OF TRAINING OF TRAINING include follow-up sessions to promote their effectiveness. BY EMPLOYEE (NO.) Behaviour 9 277 1 163 The Job Search programme is addressed to end-of-career employees who Technical 7 923 962 wish to continue their career outside the Brisa Group, develop their skills EMPLOYEE SUB-GROUP Financial Management 6 928 326 and enhance their employability. This program is broken down in 3 phases – Administrative personnel 11.02 4 231 assessment of profile and technical skill, preparation in the approach to the Integration 7 244 85 labour market and implementation of the plan, during which the employee is Client service 38.68 10 829 accompanied by specialised consultants and invited to participate in thematic Information systems 5 535 603 Heads of service 65.14 4234 workshops aimed at the development of skills and behavioural competences, Safety 4 251 859 such as career management, networking, conflict management, personal Topographic designers 3.40 17 marketing, negotiation. Others (includs languages, quality , environment and costumer care) 2 356 804 Directors and Managers 76.30 6 028 The 50% remaining employees opted for the Create your Own Business, TOTAL 54 656 7 451 Electricians/Electronic technicians 28.98 2 289 programme, which is addressed to end-of-career employees, with the main objective of assisting in the definition and structure of the person’s business. Foremen/Supervisors 46.45 2508 The programme helps defining the business plan, assessing its viability, Calculation formula: Auto inspectors 21.03 6813 identifying resources and legal aspects. The training focuses first and Average training hours by professional sub-group = Total number foremost on the general aspects of how to create and develop a business, Mcall operators 21.83 1244 of training hours by professional sub-group/ Total number of including sales, marketing modules and and concludes with the preparation employees in each sub-group; of a Business Plan and applying for the preparation of a Business Plan Tool booth operators 6.02 3 911 Average training hours by gender = total number of training hours viewing application to Eligible IEFP (Professional Job and Training Institute) Construction workers 17.22 2514 by gender/ total number of employees. support to finance the start of the business This programme can be carried out alongside the Job Search programme. Senior technicians 47.35 10038 TOTAL 23.41 54 656 Additionally, Brisa offers a Transition to Retirement programme to employees 404-2 who opt for specialised support in their transition to retirement. This program includes advice and support to minimise the negative impact associated SKILL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMMES FOR EMPLOYEES AND TRANSITION ‘18 with job loss and features a set of modules – transition and change, time SUPPORT PROGRAMMES management, communication techniques, health, financial planning and real estate, etc... AVERAGE NO. OF TOTAL HOURS In 2018 we continued to develop programmes to support young people HOURS OF TRAINING OF TRAINING BY EMPLOYEE (NO.) employability, implementing internship programmes – Summer and 6and 12month (paid) internships (viewing the approach to active life), and Brisa Trainee Program, which views to reinforce the Group’s staff with GENDER young graduate talent. During the year under review, 7 interns and 13 Women 20.38 13 427 trainees were selected. Men 24.6 41 229 160 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 404-3 PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE ‘18 AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY SUB-GROUP TOTAL GENDER AGE GROUP The Performance Management process involves all employees of the Brisa Group comprising 3 functional segments Senior Management, Senior Staff FUNCTIONAL SUB-GROUPS NO. % WOMEN (NO.) MEN (NO.) <30 (n.º) 30 50 (n.º) >50 (n.º) and Staff. Administrative/Storage 409 16% 306 103 18 293 98 Eligibility Criteria: Client service 280 11% 7 273 5 185 90 According to the Performance Management System of Senior Clerks 5 0% 0 5 0 1 4 Management, and Senior Staff, all workers are assessed within their respective functional groups, if they joined the company before June Heads of service 65 3% 25 40 0 56 9 30 of the year concerned. Topographic designers 5 0% 0 5 0 2 3 According to the Staff Performance Management System, workers are assessed for their respective jobs, with the following exceptions: Managers 83 3% 14 69 0 38 45 Workers who joined the company after 1 April of the year under Electricians 18 1% 0 18 0 2 16 assessment; Electronic technicians 61 2% 3 58 1 41 19 Workers with absenteeism higher than 6 months (absenteeism from January to December of the year under assessment); Supervisors 54 2% 3 51 0 25 29 Employees having changed functions, and salary, after July 1 of the Inspectors 324 13% 24 300 23 251 50 year under assessment. Mcall operators 57 2% 43 14 3 44 10 ‘18 Toll booth operators 417 16% 157 260 0 257 160 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 Principals 233 9% 8 225 0 116 117 No. of employees assessed 1 967 2 261 2 224 2 258 Construction workers 146 6% 1 145 0 71 75 No. of eligible employees * 9 923 2 344 2 344 2 379 Secretariat 11 0% 11 0 0 5 6 % of employees assessed 83.95% 96.46 % 94.88% 94.91% Senior technicians 212 8% 91 121 42 135 35 * Eligible population = Total staff as of 31 December 2017 (year which 2018 assessments concern). Reception Desk 178 7% 146 32 53 90 35 Kitchen 15 1% 15 0 1 4 10 TOTAL 2 573 100% 854 1 719 146 1 616 811 405-1 DIVERSITY OF COMPOSITION OF CORPORATE BODIES AND EMPLOYEES The most represented group is active in toll-related operations, accounting for 16% of the total number of employees, followed by administrative, client services and car inspection functional groups. 161 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 405-2 RELEVANT OPERATIONAL UNIT Assumptions: RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND REMUNERATION OF WOMEN TO MEN (COMPANY) OF THE GROUP (EURO) ‘18 Employees of the Companies who signed the ACT in 2018. WOMEN MEN RACIO W/M Only Full-Time Employees are considered. The Group does not restrict access by women to any job or category and the remuneration they receive is not different to that of men. BRISA AUTO-ESTRADAS 2 023.83 2 913.28 0.69 Average ratio value by category was used for calculation. Employees hired over the past 10 years, functional groups in which BRISA INOVAÇÃO E TECNOLOGIA,SA 2 024.62 2 413.02 0.84 The wage table agreed pursuant to the ACT applies equally to the definition of there are no women were excluded. the basic salary for both men and women, who are covered by the agreement. BRISA O&M 1 101.64 1 176.86 0.94 All employees of the Group, except for corporate bodies and directors/ VIA VERDE PORTUGAL 1 725.84 1 906.06 0.91 managers and offices including both genders. The same principle applies to M Call, Controlauto and other group companies in the vehicle inspection business, even though they are not covered by BGI BRISA GEST. INFRAESTRUTURAS 2 092.77 2 089.46 1.00 Brisa’s Collective Bargaining Agreement; REMUNERATION RATIO HUMAN RIGHTS INDICATORS ‘18 Remuneration and recruitment policies followed by the organisation thirty years ago are different from those of today, and only in the last few years MONTHLY GROSS BASE (EURO) did we start seeing women doing jobs that were traditionally performed by EMPLOYEE SUB-GROUP WOMEN MEN RACIO W/M men. On the other hand, more senior employees had more career progression opportunities. Taking these factors into consideration, the ratio of basic ADMINISTRATIVE PERSONNEL 414-1 salary between men and women was calculated in two different ways. The Clerk 897.50 902.34 0.99 PERCENTAGE OF NEW SUPPLIERS THAT WERE SCREENED USING first case only considered a sample of the total labour force, and the second LABOUR PRACTICES CRITERIA case calculated the ratio for the group’s entire labour force. INSPECTIONS Inspector 906.32 890.67 1.02 Three social criteria were considered for this indicator: Sub-foreman 943.50 1 031.33 0.91 WAGE RATIO MONTHLY BASE (EURO) ‘18 MAINTENANCE 1. Labour practices 2. Human Rights 3. Impacts on society Electronic technician 1 702.63 2 049.69 0.83 EMPLOYEE SUB-GROUP WOMEN MEN RACIO W/M SENIOR STAFF Labour practices: ADMINISTRATIVE PERSONNEL In 2018 no new suppliers were screened using labour practice criteria. New Key staff 3 636.67 4 013.93 0.91 Clerk 868.94 856.00 1.02 suppliers are in fact quite few, and the number of OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001 Technician 2 877.80 2 887.71 1.00 certified companies in Portugal are scarce. VEHICLE Deputy technician 2 092.50 2 129.40 0.98 Inspector 896.50 885.52 1.01 Senior technician 3 060.00 3 799.51 0.81 Notwithstanding, in previous years, suppliers selected using these criteria Sub-foreman 925.00 985.29 0.94 continue to provide services to the Group. Naturally, Brisa continues to raise Trainee 1 716.50 1 679.50 1.02 awareness among its partners to the importance of implementing adequate MAINTENANCE health and safety policies in the workplace. RELEVANT OPERATIONAL UNIT Electronic technician SENIOR STAFF 1 664.00 1 658.00 1.00 (COMPANY) OF THE GROUP (EURO) ‘18 Human Rights: Senior Staff 3 176.00 3 192.60 0.99 WOMEN MEN RACIO W/M All new suppliers are selected in line with the current labour legislation, so we consider 100%. Aditionally contractors and subcontractors, are inspected Technician 2 272.75 2 292.45 0.99 BRISA AUTO-ESTRADAS 2 645.49 3 361.24 0.79 when it comes to their workers, with special emphasis on illegal work and Deputy technician 1 702.00 1 718.76 0.99 child labour. BRISA INOVAÇÃO E TECNOLOGIA,SA 2 492.42 3 105.93 0.80 Senior technician 2 448.00 3 016.45 0.81 BRISA O&M 1 398.15 1 558.32 0.90 Trainee 1 373.20 1 377.50 1.00 VIA VERDE PORTUGAL 2 153.94 2 466.34 0.87 BGI BRISA GEST. INFRAESTRUTURAS 2 796.48 2 788.03 1.00 162 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Since 2016, Brisa has adjusted it’s strategic suppliers qualification policy, having Human Rights: % OF such policy began to be verified by an external, exempt and autonomous ASPECT DESCRIPTION OPERATIONS All new suppliers are 100% screened in line with current labour legislation. entity (Achilles), based on the validation of the available information related No suppliers with significant actual or potential negative human rights Public reports and Information of the environmental dimension is public. 100% / NA to the impacts on society and human rights. impacts were identified. assessment results The results of the assessments concerning relevant This policy also encompasses the vertical structures to which the supplier social issues are published in this Report. entities are related. Naturally Brisa continues to promote the importance Impacts on society: Development Solutions are determined on a case by case basis 100% of implementing Health and Safety at work policies amongst it’s partners. programmes of local from identified needs. No suppliers with significant actual or potential negative human rights communities based impacts were identified. on their needs Ex.: Protocol developed for the A4 Maia Impacts on society: No new suppliers were selected based on impacts on society criteria. Engagement plans In 2018 Brisa supported by PwC mapped stakeholders. 100% However, Brisa reviewed in 2016 it’s strategic suppliers qualification policy, based on the This mapping will be revised on an annual basis. having such policy began to be verified by an external, exempt and autonomous mapping of entity, based on the validation of the available information related to the stakeholders impacts on society and human rights. SOCIETY INDICATORS Consulted The engagement and consultation of the local 100% local communities community is critical in the development phase of the project for new works and widening works. Brisa consults with the local entities, i.e. local 413-1 government and relevant public institutions, with the aim of ascertaining the expectations of local OPERATIONS WITH IMPLEMENTED LOCAL COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT, communities and including them since design phase IMPACT ASSESSMENTS, AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES 414-2 onwards. Local community involvement is also guaranteed NEGATIVE SOCIAL IMPACTS ON THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND ACTIONS TAKEN through the responsible Concessionaire. % OF ASPECT DESCRIPTION OPERATIONS The development and implementation of mobility Three social criteria were considered for this indicator: services also involve consultation and dialogue with Assessment of In long duration motorway works, Brisa remains 100% impacted communities, particularly local authorities social impacts involved with local entities, through the responsible 1. Labour practice 2. Human Rights 3. Impacts on society and other entities Concessionaire, and runs public consultations as part of Environmental Impact Assessment processes, Workers Brisa’s workers comission. 100% guaranteed by BGI (see Indicator 424-2). committees health Procurement practices: and safety Formal health and Safety Committees are provided During motorway operation and maintenance, committees for in Brisa ACT – Collective Bargaining Agreement In relation to the actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices accessibility and road safety are the most relevant and their composition stems from the election of the in the supply chain, no supplier was identified in operations considered social issues, as shown in the Materiality Analysis workers representatives appointed by trade union relevant for the Brisa Group. carried out in the second half of 2018. representatives. These representatives were not In what concerns road safety Brisa intervention yet proposed or elected. covers all its dimensions, from project to operation With regard to actual positive impacts, we point out that practices stemming phases, including communication and prevention Formal processes Brisa ensures the existence of channels to receive 100% from OHSAS 18001 standard continued to be applied and implemented on of road accidents. of expositions of 100% formal expositions from the local community community through respective reception services and channels the ground. In particular, employees carrying out operational tasks are (see VVC and VVS) Assessment of Environmental monitoring. During operating phase in 27% closely monitored, to ensure that they are protected from, or less exposed environmental BCR network covers 340 km of motorways. Specific to risks, due to negligence, during their day-to-day activities. impacts and aspects of environmental monitoring are described continuous in indicator EN304-2. monitoring AEDL, Brisal, AELO, AEA and AEBT concessions are not considered, because they are excluded from the scope of this report. 163 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 413-2 Road surface improvements and reinforcement works: OTHER WORKS OPERATIONS WITH SIGNIFICANT (ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL) NEGATIVE IMPACTS ON LOCAL COMMUNITIES A1 Sacavém / S. João da Talha / Santa Iria de Azóia / Alverca Contract for the reinforcement, repair and replacement of semi-gantries: A1 Carregado / Aveiras de Cima CONSTRUCTION PHASE A1 Leiria / Pombal A1 Auto-estrada do Norte The main impact on local communities during this phase is mainly related A1 Coimbra Sul / Coimbra Norte (A1/A14) / Mealhada A2 Auto-estrada do Sul to land planning and to other specific concerns as a consequence of A1 Albergaria (A1/IP5) / Estarreja A3 Auto-estrada Porto/Valença and Circular Sul de Braga land occupation. A2 Almada / Fogueteiro A4 Auto-estrada Porto/Amarante A2 Alcácer do Sal / Grândola Norte – Grândola Norte Junction – Link to IC1 A5 Auto-estrada da Costa do estoril List of works in progress in 2018: A2 Grândola Sul / Aljustrel – km 124+500-151+500 A6 Auto-estrada Marateca/Caia A4 Castelões (A4/IP9) / Amarante Poente A9 Circular Regional Externa de Lisboa Widening works Construction contract for the widening and improvement to 2x4 lanes: A4 Paredes / Guilhufe / Penafiel/Castelões A10 Auto-estrada Bucelas/Carregado/IC3 A5 Linda-a-Velha / Estádio Nacional A12 Auto-estrada Setúbal/Montijo A1 Carvalhos / Jaca/ Santo Ovídeo Acoustic barriers A12 Pinhal Novo / Poceirão /A2/A12 Ligação ao Alto da Guerra and A4 Águas Santas (A3/A4) / Ermesinde – Construction contract for the A13 Auto-estrada Almeirim/Marateca widening and improvement to 2x4 Lanes and renovation of tunnels Vertical signage Replacement: of Águas Santas Contract for the reinforcement, repair and replacement of gantries: A1 Sacavém / S. João da Talha A2 A2/A12 / Marateca Improvements Traffic circulation conditions: A5 Estádio Nacional / A5/A9 A5 Auto-estrada da Costa do Estoril A9 Estádio Nacional (A5/A9) / Queluz A5 Miraflores (A5/IC17) junction and Linda-a-Velha junction A5 V. Duarte Pacheco / Cruz das Oliveiras Contract for the reinforcement, repair and replacement of other gantries A12 Montijo / A33 and semi-gantries: Acoustic barriers Design/construction of acoustic barriers: A5 Auto-estrada da Costa do Estoril A1 Leiria / Pombal Slopes Stabilisation Works: A1 Soure / Condeixa A1 Fátima / Leiria – km 127+100 Contract for the renovation of “New Jersey” central reservation – 1st Phase: A1 Coimbra Norte (A1/A14) / Mealhada A1 Leiria / Pombal – km 133+000 A1 Mealhada / Aveiro (Sul) A1 Sacavém / Alverca / Vila Franca de Xira A5 Linda-a-Velha / Estádio Nacional – Estádio junction A2 Almada / Fogueteiro A9 A16 / Radial Pontinha Drainage renovation works and re profiling A4 Baltar / Paredes of platform form km 9+400 to km 9+400 and 9+820 A4 Penafiel / Castelões (A4/IP9) / Amarante Poente A9 A9/A16 / Radial da Pontinha – km 9+100, downwards A9 Bucelas (Zambujal) / A9/A10 – km 25+700, upwards A10 Arruda dos Vinhos / Carregado (A1/A10) – km 7+000, upwards A14 Santa Eulália/Montemor-o-Velho – km 14+900 (W/E direction) 164 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Structures: A4 Castelões (A4/IP9)/ Amarante PoenteContract for the renovation A17 Litoral Centro Contract for pavement improvement works on Marinha and structural reinforcement of manholes PK 050+675, 051+650 and Grande (A8/A17) / Mira ( 2018 campaign) sub-stretch of A17 Autoestrada A1 Leiria / Pombal Contract for the Renovation of Viaduct over Ribeira 057+320 (Ramo B), on Castelões (A4/IP9)/ Amarante Poente sub-stretch do Litoral Centro de Agudim, on Leiria / Pombal sub-stretch of A1 Autoestrada do Norte of, A4 Autoestrada Porto/Amarante A4 Contract for the Renovation of bridge over Rio Tâmega, on Amarante Buildings POMBAL / SOURE Contract for the Renovation of Viaduct over Rio Arunca, on Pombal/Soure sub-stretch of A1 Autoestrada do Norte poente/Amarante nascente sub-stretch of A4 Auto-estrada Porto/ Amarante Contract for the refurbishment of the Carcavelos Operational Centre south A1 Contract for the renovation and structural reinforcement of manholes buildings – Paintings 240, 241, 246, 261 and 262, on Pombal/ Soure/ Condeixa sub-stretches and A4 Castelões (A4/IP 9) / Amarante Contract for the renovation and structural reinforcement of manholes at km 57+320 (Nó EN 210) and A1 Contract for the refurbishment of restaurant buildings in Leiria Service manhole 279.1, on Coimbra Sul/ Coimbra Norte (A1/A14) sub-stretch of A1 km 57+320 (Ramo A Ramo C+D), on Castelões (A4/IP 9) / Amarante sub Area Autoestrada do Norte stretch of A4 Autoestrada Porto/Amarante A2 Contract for the refurbishment of restaurant buildings in Alcácer do A1 Soure / Condeixa Contract for the renovation of viaduct over Rio de A5 Estádio Nacional/ A5/A9/Estádio Nacional (A5/A9)/ Queluz Contract Sal service area Mouros, on Soure/Condeixa, sub-stretch of A1 Autoestrada do Norte for the renovation and structural reinforcement of manholes 017 (A5), and Contract for the refurbishment of warehouse in Carcavelos A1 Coimbra (Sul)/Coimbra (Norte) Contract for the renovation and 000.2 (A9) structural reinforcement: of overcrossings 284 and 285, on Coimbra Sul/ A6 Contract for the refurbishment of restaurant buildings in Vendas Coimbra Norte (A1/A14) sub-stretch of A1 Autoestrada do Norte A5 Estádio Nacional / Oeiras II Contract for the renovation and structural Novas service areas reinforcement of manhole 018.1 and rural crossing 019 A2 Contract for the refurbishment of toilet facilities in Palmela Service Contract for the renovation and reinforcement of under crossing PI54, on A5 Oeiras I / Carcavelos / Estoril Contract for the renovation and Area Famalicão / Cruz sub-stretch of A3 Auto-Estrada Porto / Valença structural reinforcement of manholes 031 on Oeiras I/ Carcavelos A2 Contract for the refurbishment of restaurant buildings in Almodôvar A2 Fogueteiro/Coina Contract for the cover of the toll plaza on sub-stretch and 036, on Carcavelos/ Estoril sub-stretch service area Coina junction A5 Contract for the shoring of tubular Armco structures Lotes D, E, F e G A3 Contract for the refurbishment of restaurant buildings in Barcelos A2 Alcácer do Sal / Grândola Norte Sub-stretch, replacement and A10 Carregado / Benavente Contract for the replacement of expansion service area refurbishment of expansion joints of bridge over river Sado and access joints in Lezíria Bridge and respective access viaducts 1st Phase Contract for the refurbishment of Via Verde shop in Santa Maria da Feira viaduct, North / South direction AMARANTE POENTE/AMARANTE NASCENTE Contract for Contract for the refurbishment of Via Verde shop in Braga A2 Contract for the replacement and refurbishment of expansion joints the Renovation of bridge over Rio Tâmega, on Amarante poente/Amarante of bridge over river Arade, on Almodôvar/São Bartolomeu de Messines nascente sub-stretch of A4 Auto-estrada Porto/Amarante OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE PHASE sub-stretch of A2 Auto-estrada do Sul A13 Contract for the renovation and reinforcement of overcrossings 033 and 036, on Pegões/Stº Estevão sub-stretch of A13 – Auto-estrada In this phase, the main identified impacts on the local community are Link to A2/A6/A13 junctions on Alcácer do Sal/Grândola Norte sub-stretch Almeirim/Marateca related to noise, traffic accidents and biodiversity. Contract for the construction of accesses, repairs/improvements A14 Vila Verde/ A14/A17/ Sta. Eulália Sub-stretch, refurbishment and A3 EN 201 / Ponte de Lima Sul/Ponte de Lima Norte / EN 303 Contract structural reinforcement of manholes 006 and 010 on Vila Verde/ A14/ A17/ for the renovation and structural reinforcement: of manholes 123.1, 136.1 Sta. Eulália sub-stretches of A14 Autoestrada Figueira da Foz / Coimbra and 168.1 Norte Contract for the renovation and structural reinforcement: of manhole 082.1, A14 Vila Verde / A14/A17 / Sta. Eulália sub-stretch, contract for the 205-1 on Braga Sul / Braga Oeste sub-stretch, under crossings 113 and 118, OPERATIONS ASSESSED FOR RISKS RELATED TO CORRUPTION renovation and structural reinforcement of manholes 24+238 on Sto. Tirso/ on Braga Oeste/ EN201 sub-stretch, manholes 129.1, on EN201/ Ponte de Famalicão sub-stretch of A3 Autoestrada Porto/Valença and km 10+380, Lima sub-stretch, 167.1 and 167.2, on Ponte de Lima/ EN303 sub-stretch of 10+448, 10+752 and 10+946 on Vila Verde/ A14/A17/ Sta. Eulália sub-stretch Compliance with disclosed audit directives/standards is an essential part A3 -Autoestrada Porto / Valença, manhole 048.1, on Estoril/ Alcabideche of A14 Autoestrada Figueira da Foz / Coimbra Norte of internal audit work, carried out by the Group’s Audit, Organization and sub-stretch of A5 – Autoestrada da Costa do Estoril and manhole 095, on A17 Louriçal / Marinha das Ondas Contract for the stabilisation of hard Quality Department. Almeirim/ EN118 sub-stretch of A13 – Autoestrada Almeirim Marateca shoulder at km 33+000, N/S direction of Louriçal/Marinha das Ondas sub-stretch of A17 – Autoestrada do Litoral Centro 165 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY The work undertaken in 2018 took the following aspects into consideration: 205-3 206-1 CONFIRMED INCIDENTS OF CORRUPTION AND ACTIONS TAKEN ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOURS 1. Assessment of the risks associated with the activities of the audited areas; In terms of mecanisms/measures already adopted by the Brisa Group, in There were no convictions associated with this indicator in 2018. previous years, to face fraud we highlight: 2. Testing of existing internal control mechanisms; 1. A Code of Ethics and an Ethics Ombudsman 3. Verification of the degree of implementation of recommendations PRODUCT RESPONSIBIILITY INDICATORS made following previous audits. 2. Channel for reporting irregularities Irregularities In this regard, the organisation has developed controls allowing to introduce 3. Specific rules on personal data processing and information protection; continuous improvement in processes, to make them more robust and mitigate any risks associated with activities that are carried out. 416-1 ASSESSMENT OF IMPACTS ON HEALTH AND SAFETY RELATING TO 4. Cross-disciplinary policies throughout the Brisa Group, specifically: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES In the specific case of the activity of motor vehicle inspections, in Controlauto, specific prevention and control measures were implemented Risk; when it comes to the occurrence of possible situations of fraud. An AntiThis indicator identifies the impacts on health and safety during the course Procurement; of the organisation’s 3 phases of activity: Design, Construction and Operation. Fraud Policy has been approved and published, and a new body in the organizational structure constituted with the objective of developing and IT systems implementing the measures necessary to comply with, and enforce this Information security DESIGN PHASE Policy within the Organization, covering a total of 420 employees which represent approximately 18% of the Brisa Group’s total employees. Vehicles; The main objective of Design Safety Coordination (DSC) is to ensure the Receipts and payments integration of the General Principles of Prevention into the creation of the Complementarily, still related to the activity of the Controlauto companies, project in order to reduce risks during implementation phase and use/ Fraud. an annual report on the implementation of the “Management Plan of maintenance phase following completion of the works. Corruption Risks and Related Offenses” (PGRCIC) risks are identified. Based In relation to 2018 we point out the following: on the risk identification measures mentioned, actions to prevent such risks Considering that over 50% of the causes of accidents in the construction are identified, such as the various managers involved in the management and public works industry are attributable to the design phase, according of the PGRCIC. 1. Total number of cases of employees dismissed or punished for to statistics, it is BGI’s responsibility to act at such phase to facilitate the corruption: construction process within the scope of Safety in the Workplace. There is no knowledge or record of situations of this nature; Taking advantage of BGI’s extensive experience in the follow-up of 2. Total number of cases where partner and business contracts were not construction works, the DSC will be able to draft, or control the drafting of 205-2 renewed due to corruption related violations: 0; Tender Specifications, the Health and Safety Plan (HSP) and the Technical Compilation (TC) in a more effective way. Connection between BGI technicians COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING ON ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES are therefore essential to ensure that all its responsibilities as Safety AND PROCEDURES 3. Legal actions relating to corruption practices brought against the Coordinator for the design phase are met (DL 273/2003). reporting organisation or its employees: 0. In 2018 no anti-fraud training was given. Brisa Code of Ethics provides principles addressed to anti-corruption. All employees, suppliers and partners of Brisa are aware of this Code and have signed a written confirmation of knowledge and acceptance of the principles and duties contained therein. The Portuguese and English versions of the Code are available for consultation on Brisa intranet and website. 166 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY CONSTRUCTION PHASE b) Horizontal signs (road marking) Brisa Group targets for the following indicators: The main aim of Project Safety Coordination (PSC) is to ensure the continuous Thermoplastic material (spray) or water-based acrylic paint and the spraying State of Repair of Engineering Structures Indicator (IM) ≤ 2 Good improvement of working conditions at sites under the management of glass beads are used for horizontal signs. Functional performance measurements are made, such as retro-reflection Annual Conservation Indicator (IG) ≥ 80% Sufficient responsibility of BGI, with effective reduction in accident rates in relation to the sector of activity concerned. “RL”, luminance coefficient under diffuse illumination “Qd”, slip resistance “SRT” and thickness. Estimated figures of indicators of the Brisa Group for 2018 are the following: PSC will be performed by BGI with the utmost rigour, in strict compliance The life time of the Horizontal Signs paint used by Brisa Concessão Rodoviária State of Repair of Engineering Structures Indicator (IM = 1.2; with the legislation and documents originating from the design phase, depends on its wear. It is repainted when retro-reflection drops to minimum Annual Conservation Indicator (IG) = 90%. particularly the HSP. values provided in the Quality Control Plan (QCP). Note: State of Repair (IM) and Annual Conservation of Engineering Structures Warranty Period ENGINEERING STRUCTURES (IG) indicators are estimates. Final figures will be determined up to the end A Provisional Project Reception Inspection Report is drawn up at the end of the first quarter of 2018. of the project. Verification tests: With the approval of the aforementioned indicators by the regulatory body, it During the warranty period, projects are monitored by Operating Centres a) Inspections of engineering structures Frequency: is possible to attest of the overall state of state of repair, as well as the status that report any anomalies to BAE, which then informs BGI, allowing it to work CES (current engineering structures PS, PI, PA, PP, PE and PH) of the engineering structures existing in the various managed networks. with the Contractors to repair the anomalies concerned. 4 years current engineering structures on the BCR network; 3-5 years current engineering structures on other networks. ROAD SURFACE At the end of the warranty period, a Final Project Reception Inspection Report is drawn up. If all is compliant after this report, the bank guarantee a) Frequency of surveys/inspections to be conducted on road surfaces: is returned to the Contractor responsible for the execution of the project The first inspection is conducted during the project warranty period, and it Surveys/inspections of functional parameters (adhesion and longitudinal concerned. is performed by the BGI/dep. Team. The following inspections are carried regularity) are performed every 4 years, and they are conducted at variable out by BGI/dmi teams, receiving specific training given by BGI/des. frequencies as concerns the structural parameter (deflection). OPERATION PHASE SES (special engineering structures Viaducts, bridges and tunnels) b) Identification of the required quality indicator: At the level of current maintenance of the road network, the following 6 years special engineering structures of all networks; The overall condition of road surfaces is characterised by the FUNCTIONAL elements have been identified and are considered to be the most relevant IPAV performance indicator (IMS indicator). It results from the weighting of All inspections are performed by the BGI/dep team. and with the greatest impact on health and safety: a set of simple performance indicators (ICAT: adhesion, IREG: regularity, ICE: b) Identification of the required indicators: useful life) that are based on technical parameters measured by specific Vertical Signage equipment. This activity forms part of the Road Surface survey area. State of Repair of Engineering Structures Indicator (IM); Horizontal signs (road marking); Annual Conservation Indicator (IG); ‘17 Engineering structures (structural elements); The description and calculation of the values of these two indicators Pavement. are detailed. FUNCTIONAL IPAV 73 Technical Description ICAT 62 a) Vertical signage IREG 72 As part of its vertical signs maintenance process, Brisa Concessão Rodoviária is replacing vertical signs, considering the life span of these materials and ICE 100 quality parameters. From 2005 onwards, the company began to install vertical signs with high resolution reflective screens, in order to improve retro-reflection quality. Criteria for replacement have to do with their performance level, as laid down in the Quality Control Plan (QCP). 167 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 416-2 418-1 INCIDENTS OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND VOLUNTARY TOTAL NUMBER OF SUBSTANTIATED COMPLAINTS REGARDING CODES CONCERNING THE HEALTH AND SAFETY IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS BREACHES OF CUSTOMER PRIVACY AND LOSSES OF CLIENT DATE AND SERVICES In 2018 intensive work was carried out to ensure that the company would There were no convictions associated with this indicator in 2018. comply with EU Regulation 2016/679, of the European Parliament and the Council of 27 April 2016/RGPD, the application of which started on 25 May, covering technical, processing and procedure levels as well as communication, release of data processing policies and training of employees. There was 102-43 no record of any proceedings opened by the regulatory entity (CNPD); only APPROACH TO STAKEHOLDERS INVOLVEMENT two requests for clarification were received following two claims made by data holders. No other claims were recorded regarding violation of privacy or loss of client data. Brisa pays particular attention to this subject for a Brisa has various typified instruments of involvement with stakeholders; long time which it has always considered to require follow-up and analysis. respective expectations and responses are summed up in this report in Chapter 2.2, Mapping of Stakeholders. Additionally, Brisa has different communication channels and platforms, comprising the following: 1. integrated client service platform serving the various clients of the Brisa Group, managed by Via Verde Contact; 2. a dedicated media relations departments; 3. several formal relationship channels with public entities; 4. set of surveys carried out on a regular basis (quarterly and annual) to measure: client satisfaction; reputation of Brisa, Via Verde and Controlauto brands; media and social media). 102-44 KEY TOPICS AND CONCERNS RAISED The main topics and concerns raised through the involvement of stakeholders are explained in Chapter 2.3 Materiality Analysis of the Integrated Report (pages. 27-29). 168 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY INDIVIDUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2018 AND 2017 (Amounts expressed in thousand Euro) ‘18 ‘18 ‘17 ‘17 Notes Restated Notes Restated NON-CURRENT ASSETS SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY: Tangible fixed assets 11 11 770 13 822 Share capital 19 6 000 6 000 Intangible assets 12 2 602 2 162 Treasury shares nominal value 20 (474) (474) Investments in subsidiaries and associates 13 458 243 672 541 Treasury shares discounts and premiums 20 (228 246) (228 246) Other investments 13 7 248 7 400 Adjustments of investments in associated companies 57 148 55 824 Goodwill 14 6 177 6 177 Legal and other reserves 21 269 416 279 880 Deferred tax assets 15 2 406 2 034 Retained earnings 168 546 66 526 Other debtors 151 949 Net profit for the year 157 997 230 771 Total non-current assets 488 597 705 085 Total shareholders’ equity 430 387 410 281 CURRENT ASSETS NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES: Inventories 21 17 Loans 22 75 905 313 387 Trade and other receivables 16 15 428 14 756 Pension liabilities 28 2 208 1 491 Group companies 13 84 661 89 787 Provisions 24 90 849 87 029 Other current assets 17 17 737 16 822 Total non-current liabilities 168 962 401 907 Cash and cash equivalent 18 38 932 37 725 CURRENT LIABILITIES: Total current assets 156 779 159 107 Provisions 24 425 320 Total assets 645 376 864 192 z Suppliers 25 4 834 3 116 Loans 22 16 33 Group companies 13 12 023 Shareholders 295 276 Suppliers of investment 25 1 950 2 845 Current tax liabilities 8 4 348 124 Other current liabilities 26 34 159 33 267 Total current liabilities 46 027 52 004 Total liabilities and equity 645 376 864 192 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the statement of financial position for the period ended 31 December 2018. 169 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEARS ENDED AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2018 AND 2017 (Amounts expressed in thousand Euro) Notes ‘18 Restated ‘17 OPERATING INCOME: Rendered Services 3 33 522 32 118 Other operating income 3 1 512 1 362 Reversal of amortisation, depreciation, adjustments and provisions 3 17 Total operating income 35 051 33 480 OPERATING EXPENSES: External supplies and services 4 (13 910) (12 447) Personnel costs 6 (22 030) (22 478) Amortisation, depreciation and adjustments 11 e 12 (2 886) (2 808) Provisions 24 (928) (971) Tax (78) (33) Other operating expenses (556) (609) Total operating expenses (40 388) (39 346) Operating Results (5 337) (5 866) FINANCIAL EXPENSES 7 (12 029) (15 029) FINANCIAL INCOME 7 1 550 2 319 INVESTMENT INCOME 7 169 982 246 398 Profit before tax 154 166 227 822 INCOME TAX 8 3 831 2 949 Net profit for the year 157 997 230 771 OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSES RECOGNISED UNDER SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY WHICH MAY BE RESTATED TO EXPENSES AND INCOME: Income from equity holdings 13 1 610 40 755 OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSES RECOGNISED UNDER SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY WHICH WILL NOT BE SUBSEQUENTLY RECLASSIFIED IN RESULTS: Pension plan remeasurements 14 e 28 (321) (99) Total Other Comprehensive Income 1 289 40 656 Total net profit and loss and other comprehensive income for the year 159 286 271 427 Basic and diluted earnings per share (in Euro): 9 0,29 0,42 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the results and other comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2018. 170 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY FOR THE YEARS ENDED AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2018 AND 2017 (Amounts expressed in thousand Euro) Adjustments of equity holdings Legal and other Retained Net profit Notes Share capital Treasury shares in associates and affiliates Total reserves earnings for the year Balance at 01 January 2017 6 000 (228 720) 368 554 411 571 557 405 Restatement effects 2 15 069 (475 123) 541 649 81 595 Restated balances at 01 January 2017 6 000 (228 720) 15 069 368 554 (475 123) 953 220 639 000 Restated net profit for 2017 230 771 230 771 Other income and expenses recognised under Shareholders’ equity: Effect of the application of the Equity Method 13 40 755 40 755 Pension plan remeasurements 14 e 28 (99) (99) Total net profit and loss and other comprehensive income for the year 40 755 (99) 230 771 271 427 Appropriation of net profit for 2016: Other reserves 10 1 507 (1 507) Dividends 10 (410 064) (410 064) Effect of the change in the measurement policy of 2 541 649 (541 649) financial investments Distribution of free reserves 10 (90 082) (90 082) Restated balances at 31 December 2017 6 000 (228 720) 55 824 279 880 66 526 230 771 410 281 Balance at 01 January 2018 6 000 (228 720) 55 824 279 880 66 526 230 771 410 281 2018 Net Profit 157 997 157 997 Other income and expenses recognised under Shareholders’ equity: Effect of the application of the Equity Method 13 1 610 16 400 18 010 Pension plan remeasurements 14 e 28 (321) (321) Total net profit and loss and other comprehensive 1 610 (321) 16 400 157 997 175 686 income for the year Appropriation of net profit for 2017: Other reserves 10 65 017 (65 017) Dividends 10 (80 134) (80 134) Effect of the change in the measurement policy 2 85 620 (85 620) of financial investments Changes in the control % of subsidiaries 13 (286) (286) Distribution of free reserves 10 (75 160) (75 160) Balance at 31 December 2018 6 000 (228 720) 57 148 269 426 168 546 157 997 430 387 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the statement of changes in shareholders’ equity for the year ended 31 December 2018. THE CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANT NO. 62018 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 171 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEARS ENDED AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2018 AND 2017 (Amounts expressed in thousand Euro) Notes ‘18 ‘17 Notes ‘18 ‘17 OPERATING ACTIVITIES: FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Cash receipts from clients 32 506 34 293 Cash receipts relating to: 315 800 Cash paid to suppliers (14 027) (13 078) Borrowings 175 Cash paid to personnel (19 786) (19 944) Derivative financial instruments 315 975 Cash-flows generated by operations (1 307) 1 271 Cash payments relating to: Income tax received 6 939 99 Borrowings (12 000) Other receipts relating to operating activities 1 613 341 Interest and similar costs (1 392) (1 367) Net cash from operating activities (1) 7 245 1 711 Dividends 10 (155 275) (500 084) Derivative financial instruments (233) (1 940) INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES: (168 900) (503 391) Cash receipts relating to: Net cash from financing activities (3) (168 900) (187 416) Investments in subsidiaries, associates and other 13 13 819 63 005 Foreign exchange effect (4) (2) 112 Tangible and intangible fixed assets 9 15 Variation in cash and cash equivalents (5) = (1) + (2) + (3) + (4) 1 222 15 733 Interest and similar income 5 300 906 Dividends 7 e 13 150 782 150 680 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 18 37 697 21 964 169 910 214 606 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 18 38 919 37 697 Cash payments relating to: Investments in subsidiaries, associates and other 13 (5 175) (10 632) Tangible and intangible fixed assets (1 856) (2 648) (7 031) (13 280) Net cash from investing activities (2) 162 879 201 326 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2018. THE CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANT NO. 62018 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 172 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 1. INTRODUCTION Adoption of new standards and interpretations, amended or revised BRISA – Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A. (“Company” or “Brisa”) was founded in The following standards, interpretations, amendments and revisions applicable to the Company’s operations, endorsed by the European Union with mandatory 28 September 1972 having as corporate object the construction, maintenance application in financial years starting on or after 01 January 2018, resulting in no relevant impact on the Group’s financial statements, are as follows: and operation of motorways and respective service areas under concession, as well as the study and execution of public infrastructures. On 22 December 2010, within the scope of its corporate reorganization, the Company assigned Effective date to Brisa – Concessão Rodoviária S.A. (“BCR”) the latter’s position in the Standard/Interpretation (years beginning on or after) concession contract approved by Council of Ministers Resolution no. 198IFRS 15 – Revenue from contracts 01-jan-2018 This standard introduces a structure for recognising revenue when the contractual obligation of B/2008, of 31 December (“Brisa Concession”). This operation included the with customers delivering assets or providing services is met, by applying the 5-phase method. transfer by Brisa of a number of assets and liabilities allocated to Brisa Concession, carried out in the form of contributions in kind for the realization of a share capital increase at BCR. As result of the reorganization process, Changes to IFRS 15 – Revenue from 01-jan-2018 Identification of performance obligations, time of recognition of revenue from PI licences, the Company’s object is now the holding of equity holdings, the management contracts revision of indicators for classifying the principal relation versus agent, and new regimes for the and development of new businesses and the provision of logistics support simplification of the transition. and financial and administrative management services. IFRS 9 Financial instruments: 01-jan-2018 Replaces IAS 39 requirements in relation to the classification and measurement of financial assets These financial statements do not include the effect of the consolidation of and liabilities; recognition of impairments on receivable credits (using the model of expected loss); assets, liabilities, income and expenses; this will be done in the consolidated and requirements for the recognition and classification of hedge accounting. financial statements to be approved and disclosed separately, which reflect total assets of € 3,034,017 thousand, equity of € 511,219 thousand and net IFRS 2 – Share-base payment 01-jan-2018 Measurement of share-based payment plans financially settled, recognition of changes, and the profit attributable to shareholders in the amount of € 157,997 thousand. classification of share-based payment plans as settled in equity, where the employer is required to withhold tax. 2. MAIN ACCOUNTING POLICIES Improvements in international financial 01-jan-2018 These improvements involve the clarification of aspects relating to: IFRS 1 First adoption of IFRS: 2.1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION reporting standards (2014-2016 cycle) eliminates temporary exemptions for IFRS 7, IFRS 10 and IAS 19, as they are no longer applicable; IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities: clarifies that its scope includes investments The accompanying financial statements were prepared on a going concern classified within the scope of IFRS 5, and that the only exemption refers to the disclosure of the basis from the Company’s books and accounting records, restated to summary of the financial information of such entities; and IAS 28 Investments in associates International Financial Reporting Standards, effective for the year beginning 01 and joint ventures: (i) clarifies that investments in associates or joint ventures held by a venture January 2018, as adopted in the European Union. Such standards include the capital company can be measured at fair value according to IFRS 9, on an individual basis, and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) issued by the International (ii) clarifies that an entity which is not an investment entity, but holds investments in associates Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), the International Accounting Standards and joint ventures which are investment entities can keep the measurement at fair value of the (“IAS”) issued by the Accounting Standards Committee (“IASC”) and the associate or joint venture in its own subsidiaries. respective interpretations – SIC and IFRIC issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee (“IFRIC”) and Standing Interpretation IFRIC 22 – Foreign currency 01-jan-2018 Interest rate to apply where the consideration is received or paid in advance. Committee (“SIC””). These standards and interpretations are hereinafter transactions and advance referred to collectively as “IFRS”. consideration 173 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Non-adopted new standards and interpretations, amended or revised Effective date Until 31 December 2018 the following standards were endorsed by European Union, their application being Standard/Interpretation (years beginning on or after) mandatory in future financial years: IFRS 3 Concentration of 01-jan-2020 This amendment revises the definition of business Effective date business activities for the purposes of accounting for concentrations Standard/Interpretation (years beginning on or after) of business activities. IFRS 16 – Leases 01-jan-2019 This standard specifies the principles to IAS 1 – Presentation of Financial 01-jan-2020 This amendment introduces a change to the recognise, measure, present and disclose Statements IAS 8 Accounting policies, material concept. leases, replacing IAS 17 Leases. The standard changes in accounting estimates and defines a new definition of lease and a new errors accounting of leases for lease-holders. There are no changes concerning the accounting of Improvements in international 01-jan-2019 These improvements involve the clarification leases by lessors. financial reporting standards of aspects relating to: IAS 23 Borrowing costs: (2015-2017 cycle) The amendments clarify that if any specific IFRS 9 Financial instruments: 01-jan-2019 Options of accounting processing of financial borrowing remains outstanding after the related assets with negative compensation. asset is ready for its intended use or sale, that borrowing becomes part of the funds that an IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty over income 01-jan-2019 Clarification regarding the determination of entity borrows generally when calculating the tax treatment taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused capitalisation rate on general borrowings. IAS tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates, 12 Income taxes: The amendments clarify that when there is uncertainty over income tax all income tax consequences of dividends (i.e. treatments under IAS 12. distribution of profits) should be recognised in profit or loss, regardless of how the tax arises; These standards, although endorsed by the European Union, were not adopted by the Company in the year and IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IFRS started at 31 December 2018 as their application is not yet mandatory. No significant impact is likely to occur 11 Joint Arrangements: clarify that (i) when an as result of the adoption of the said standards. entity obtains control of a business that is a joint operation, it remeasures previously held interests The following standards, interpretations, amendments and revision likely to apply to the Company’s operations, in that business; and (ii) when an entity obtains the adoption of which will be mandatory in future financial years, were not endorsed by the European Union, joint control of a business that is a joint operation, as of the date of these financial statements: the entity does not remeasure previously held interests iat fair value. Effective date Conceptual structure 01-jan-2020 Amendments to some IFRS in relation to cross Standard/Interpretation (years beginning on or after) Amendments to reference in references and clarifications concerning the other IFRS application of new definitions of assets and IAS 19 Employee benefits 01-jan-2019 Requires using updated assumptions to liabilities and expenses and income. determine remaining responsibilities, with impact on the income statement, except for No relevant effects are estimated for future financial statements from the application of these standards and the decrease of any excess in “asset ceiling”. interpretations, though its impact was not yet determined or quantified. IAS 28 Investments in 01-jan-2019 Clarification as to long term investment in associates and joint ventures associates and joint ventures which are not measured by the equity method. 174 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY The main accounting policies adopted are described below. During the year ended at 31 December 2018, the Company changed The effects of these changes in the statement of financial position as of 31 the measurement policy for investments in subsidiaries and associate December 2017 were as follows: companies to the Equity Method, under the terms of IAS 27 separate 2.2. FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS financial statements. This accounting policy change result in the financial Adoption of Equity ‘17 Investments in subsidiaries and associate companies statements providing reliable and more relevant information about financial THOUSAND EURO ‘17 Method Restated Investments in subsidiaries, which the Company controls, and associate investments. Non-current assets: companies, where it holds significant influence, are recorded according to As provided IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates the equity method. and errors, this change was applied retrospectively; consequently changes Investments in subsidiaries and associates 388 837 283 704 672 541 were made to the statements of financial position as of 1 January 2017 Under the equity method, investments are recorded at cost, adjusted by Goodwill 6 177 6 177 and 31 December 2017 and to the statement of profit and loss and other the amount corresponding to the Company’s comprehensive income of comprehensive income for the year ended at 31 December 2017. Other 26 367 26 367 the associate (including net profit), against net profit for the year or other comprehensive income, respectively, and dividends received. The effects resulting of this change in accounting policy in the statement Total non-current assets 415 204 289 881 705 085 of financial position as of 1 January 2017 were as follows: Current assets: 159 107 159 107 In the specific case of changes in equity in subsidiaries and associate companies, resulting from the capital increase with share premium, causing a Total assets 574 311 289 881 864 192 dilution of the investment held, the corresponding adjustment in the amount of the investment is made against gains or losses relating to investments. THOUSAND EURO 01/01/‘17 Shareholders’ equity: Non-current assets: Share capital 6 000 6 000 Losses in subsidiaries and associate companies in excess of the investment in such companies are not recognised, except when the Group has made Investments in subsidiaries and associates 228 811 Treasury Shares (228 720) (228 720) payments to the benefit of the associates. Goodwill 5 435 Income from equity holdings 55 824 55 824 Any excess of cost over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired Total non-current assets 234 246 Legal and other reserves 279 880 279 880 as of the acquisition date is recorded as goodwill. Where cost is lower than Retained earnings 66 526 66 526 the fair value of the net assets identified, the difference is recorded as gains Current assets: in the statement of profit and loss for the period in which the acquisition Total assets 234 246 Net profit for the year 145 151 85 620 230 771 occurs. Total shareholders’ equity 202 311 207 970 410 281 Shareholders’ equity: In addition, dividends received from these companies are recorded as Non-current liabilities: decreases in the amount of the investments. Adjustments of investments in associated companies 15 069 Provisions 5 118 81 911 87 029 Retained earnings (475 123) A valuation of the investments in associates is performed when there are Other 314 878 314 878 signs that the asset may be impaired (including goodwill and/or implicit loans/ Net profit for the year 541 649 Total non-current liabilities 319 996 81 911 401 907 financing), in which case any impairment losses will be recorded as expenses. Total shareholders’ equity 81 595 Reversal of impairment losses recognised in prior years is recorded when Current liabilities: 52 004 52 004 there is an indication that the impairment losses recognised for the asset Non-current liabilities: no longer exist or have decreased. However, impairment losses are reversed Total Liabilities 372 000 81 911 453 911 Provisions 152 651 up to the amount that would have been recognised (net of amortisation) if Total liabilities and equity 574 311 289 881 864 192 the impairment loss had not been recorded in prior years. Total non-current liabilities 152 651 Current liabilities: Total liabilities and equity 234 246 175 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY The effects resulting of this change in the statement of financial position 2.3. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2.5. LEASING as of 31 December 2017 were as follows: Adoption Intangible assets, which comprise essentially licences and software are stated Lease contracts are classified as: (i) finance leases, if substantially all of Equity ‘17 at cost minus accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Intangible the benefits and risks of ownership are transferred under them; and (ii) THOUSAND EURO ‘17 Method Restated assets are recognised only if it is probable that future economic benefits operating leases, if substantially all the benefits and risks of ownership are will flow to the Company, they are controllable by the Company and their not transferred under them. Operating income 33 480 33 480 fair value can be measured reliably. Operating costs (39 346) (39 346) Leases are classified as finance or operating leases based on the substance Operating Results (5 866) (5 866) Internally generated intangible assets, namely current research and rather than the form of the contract. development costs, are recognised as costs when incurred. Financial expenses (15 029) (15 029) Fixed assets acquired under finance lease contracts as well as the Internal costs relating to the maintenance and development of software corresponding liabilities are recorded in accordance with the financial method, Financial income 2 319 2 319 are recorded as expenses in the statement of profit and loss and other where fixed assets, corresponding accumulated depreciation and liabilities Investment income 160 778 85 620 246 398 comprehensive income when incurred, except where such expenses relate are recognised in accordance with the contracted financial plan. In addition, directly to projects which will probably generate future economic benefits for interest included in lease instalments and depreciation of tangible fixed Profit before tax 142 202 85 620 227 822 the Company. In such cases these costs are capitalised as intangible assets. assets are recognised as expenses in the statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income for the year they concern. Income tax 2 949 2 949 Amortisation of such assets is provided on a straight-line basis as from Net profit for the year 145 151 85 620 230 771 the date the assets started being used, in accordance with the period the In the case of operating leases, lease instalments are recognised as expenses Company expects to use them. in the statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease contract. Other investments 2.4. TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Other investments are recorded at acquisition cost, less any accumulated Tangible fixed assets used in rendering services or for administrative use 2.6. IMPAIRMENT OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS impairment losses. are stated at cost, including expenses incurred with their purchase, less Impairment assessments are made as of the date of the statement of financial accumulated depreciation and, where applicable, impairment losses. position and whenever an event or change in circumstances is identified Goodwill that indicates that the book value of an asset may not be recovered. Where Differences between the acquisition costs of investments in subsidiaries Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is provided on a straight-line basis such indications exist, the Company will determine the recoverable value of and associate companies were recorded under caption Goodwill. over their estimated useful life, as from when the assets become available the asset, so as to determine the possible extension of the impairment loss. for their intended use, in accordance with the following estimated periods Goodwill is not amortised but subjected to annual impairment tests. Goodwill of useful life: In situations in which the individual asset does not generate cash-flows is allocated to the cash-generating units to which it belongs for the purposes independently of other assets, the estimated recoverable value is determined of performing the impairment tests, which are carried out at least once Years for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. a year. The recoverable amount is determined based on business plans of useful life used by the Company’s management or on valuation reports performed Buildings and other constructions 10 a 50 Whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, by independent experts. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recorded as a an impairment loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss and Basic equipment 1 a 20 other comprehensive income, under caption “Amortisation, depreciation cost in the statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income for the period under caption “Amortisation, depreciation and adjustments”. Transport equipment 4 to 6 4a6 and adjustments”. Administrative equipment 1 a 10 Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed, except for goodwill The recoverable amount is the higher of the net selling price (selling price implied in investments in associates. Tools and utensils 1a4 less costs to sell) and the usable value of the asset. Net selling price is the amount that would be obtained from selling the asset in a transaction between Where differences between the acquisition cost of the investments in knowledgeable independent entities less the costs directly attributable to subsidiaries and associate companies are negative, they are recognised as the sale. Usable value is the present value of the estimated future cash income at acquisition date. flows resulting from the continued use of the asset and sale thereof at the end of its useful life. Recoverable amounts are estimated for individual assets or, where this is not possible, for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 176 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Impairment losses recognised in prior years are reversed when there are adjusted to reflect the best estimate as of that date. the effective interest method of any difference between that initial amount indications that such losses no longer exist or have decreased. The reversal Provisions for reorganization expenses are recognised whenever there is and the maturity amount. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly of impairment losses is recognized in the statement of profit and loss and a formal detailed reorganization plan which has been communicated to the discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts to the net carrying other comprehensive income as “Reversal of amortisation, depreciation, parties involved. amount of the financial asset or financial liability. adjustments and provisions”. However, impairment losses are reversed up to the amount that would have been recognised (net of amortisation) if the Current obligations deriving from onerous contracts are recognised and Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting impairment loss had not been recorded in prior years. measured as provisions. An onerous contract exists whenever the Company is party in a contract in which the unavoidable expenses to meet its obligations The Company may contract derivative financial instruments to hedge the 2.7. FOREIGN CURRENCY ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND TRANSACTIONS will exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it. financial risks to which it is exposed. Transactions in currencies other than Euro are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing as of the transaction date. At each date of the statement 2.12. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The use of financial instruments is subject to internal policies approved by the Board of Directors. of financial position, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Company becomes currency are translated to Euro at the rates of exchange prevailing at such a party to the contractual relationship. Derivative financial instruments are measured at their fair value. The method date. for recognising these financial instruments will depend on the nature and Exchange gains and losses resulting from differences between the exchange Cash and cash equivalent purpose of the transaction. rates in force on the dates of the transactions and those in force on the dates of collection, payment or the date of the statement of financial position are Amounts included in caption “Cash and cash equivalents” include cash, bank recognised as income or expenses in the statement of profit and loss and deposits and term deposits which can be immediately withdrawable without Hedge accounting other comprehensive income. any significant risk of fluctuations in value. Derivative financial instruments are designated as hedging instruments in accordance with provisions of IFRS 9, namely as to their documentation 2.8. FINANCING COSTS Caption “Cash and cash equivalents” in the cash flows statement also includes and effectiveness. Hedging criteria are met where (i) there is an economic Loan expenses are recognised in the statement of profit and loss and other bank overdrafts, reflected in the statement of financial position under caption relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, according comprehensive income for the period to which they relate. “Loans”. to the policy defined by the Company; (ii) changes in fair value do not result from change in credit risk; and (iii) ) the hedge ratio of the hedging relationship 2.9. INVENTORIES Financial liabilities and equity instruments is the same as that resulting from the quantity of the hedged item that the Company actually hedges and the quantity of the hedging instrument that Merchandise and raw materials are stated at acquisition cost, which is lower Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified in accordance the Company actually uses to hedge that quantity of hedged item. than their corresponding market value, whilst the average acquisition cost with the substance of the contract, independently of its legal form. Equity is used as costing method. instruments are contracts that evidence a residual interest in the entity’s Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as fair value assets after deducting all of its liabilities. hedges are recognised in the income statement for the year, together with Impairment losses in inventories are recorded by the amount of the difference changes in the fair value of the asset or liability subject to that risk. between cost and the realisable value of inventories, if this is lower than cost. Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the amount received, net of the costs incurred with their issuance. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as 2.10. RESULT OF OPERATIONS cash flow hedging instruments are recorded in caption “Other reserves” Operating results include all operating expenses and income, whether Financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost as concerns their effective component, and in the income statement as recurrent or not, including restructuring expenses, and expenses and income Financial assets and liabilities at amortised costs, deducted in the case of concerns their non-effective component. The amounts recorded under relating to operating assets (tangible fixed assets and intangible assets). assets, of any accumulated impairment losses include: “Other reserves” are transferred to the income statement in the same year Therefore, operating profit excludes net financial expenses, the results of • Accounts receivable; in which the effect on the hedged item is reflected in the income statement. investments and income tax. • Loans; • Accounts payable. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument matures 2.11. PROVISIONS or is sold or exercised,or when the hedging relationship ceases to comply Provisions are recognised when, and only when, the Company has an Financial assets at amortised cost are held with the purpose of receiving with IFRS 9 requirements. obligation (legal or implicit) resulting from a past event, under which it is flows of capital and/or interest. probable that it will have an outflow of resources to resolve the obligation Trading instruments and the amount of the obligation can be reasonably estimated. At each the The amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability is the amount at Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments which are date of each statement of financial position, provisions are reviewed and which the financial asset or financial liability is measured at initial recognition, contracted for financial hedging purposes, in accordance with the Company’s minus principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using 177 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY risk management policies, but do not comply with requirements of IFRS 9 adjustments and provisions”. to qualify for hedge accounting, are recorded in the statement of profit and Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Pension liabilities recognised as of the date of the statement of financial loss and other comprehensive income for the year in which they occur. position correspond to the present value of the liabilities under the defined The Company derecognises financial assets only when all rights to future benefits plans, adjusted for remeasurements, minus the fair value of the cash flows have expired or when the financial assets and all significant risks net assets of the pension funds. Fair value of financial instruments and rewards of its ownership are transferred to another entity. The Company The fair value of financial assets and liabilities is determined as follows: derecognises transferred financial assets in relation to which it still retains Contributions made by the Company to the defined pension plans are significant risks and benefits, insofar as their control was transferred. recognised as expense on the dates they are due. • The fair value of standard financial assets and liabilities traded on active markets is determined based on their listed prices (Level 1); The Company derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the 2.16. CONTINGENT ASSETS AND LIABILITIES corresponding obligation is either discharged or cancelled or expires. Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial statements, but are • The fair value of other assets and liabilities (except for derivative financial disclosed in the notes to the financial statements, when the existence of instruments) is determined in accordance with generally accepted valuation 2.13. SHARE CAPITAL AND TREASURY SHARES future economic benefit is probable. models, based on the analysis of discounted cash flow, considering prices observable in current market transactions (Level 2); Ordinary shares are classified in equity, as share capital. Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but are • The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined based on Expenses directly attributed to the issuance of new shares or other equity disclosed in the notes to the financial statements, unless the possibility of listed prices. Where listed prices are not available, fair value is determined instruments are recorded as deduction, net of tax, to the amount received an outflow of funds affecting future economic benefits is remote, in which based on the analysis of discounted cash flows, which include that are not resulting from the issue. Expenses directly attributed to the issuance of case they are not subject to disclosure. supported by observable market prices or rates (Level 3). new shares or options for the purchase of a business are deducted at the value of the issue. Impairment of financial assets The Company assesses on a prospective basis the estimated credit losses Treasury shares are recorded at cost, as a decrease in shareholders’ equity. associated with the financial assets, which constitute debt instruments, Income or expenses relating to the disposal of treasury stock are recorded classified at amortised cost. under caption “Other reserves”. In what concerns the balances of accounts receivable, the Company applies 2.14. DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION the simplified approach provided for in IFRS 9, whereby estimated credit The distribution of dividends to holders of share capital is recognised as losses are recognised since the initial recognition of balances receivable liabilities in the Company’s financial statements, in the period in which such throughout the period up to their maturity, based on a matrix of historical dividends are approved by the shareholders and until the moment of their default rates for the maturity of balances receivable. financial settlement, or, in case of interim dividends, when approved by the Board of Directors. For financial assets carried at cost, the amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the 2.15. PENSION LIABILITIES best estimate of the fair value of the financial asset. The Company undertook to pay its employees supplementary retirement Impairment losses are recorded in the statement of comprehensive income contributions under a defined benefits plan, having constituted autonomous under caption “Amortisation, depreciation and adjustments” in the year pension funds for the purpose. they are determined. In order to estimate the amount of its liability for the payment of such If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and supplementary contributions, actuarial calculations are made from time to such decrease can be objectively related to an event occurring after the time, using the Projected Unit Credit Method. Remeasurements resulting (i) impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss shall from the difference between the assumptions used to determine liabilities be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in profit or loss. with the plan and the actual evolution of actuarial variables, (ii) changes However, an impairment loss is reversed up to the limit of the amount that introduced in the assumptions and (iii) the difference between the expected will be recognized (net of amortization or depreciation) if it had not been return on the fund’s assets and actual return are recorded as equity, and recognized in prior periods. The reversal of impairment losses is recorded expenses with benefits granted are reflected in the statement of profit and in the statement of profit and loss under Caption “Reversal of amortisation, loss and other comprehensive income for the year in which they are incurred. 178 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY temporary differences between tax and accounting income. 2.17. REVENUE 3. OPERATING INCOME Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated and assessed periodically Revenue corresponds to the fair value of the consideration received or using the tax rates expected to be in force when the timing differences will Operating income for the years ended as of 31 December 2018 and 2017 is receivable from transactions with clients during the ordinary course of reverse. as follows: ‘18 business and it is recorded net of any tax and trade or financial discounts granted. When determining the value of the revenue, the Company assesses Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences. THOUSAND EURO ‘17 the performance obligations taken and the price allocated to each, as well as the existence of variable prices likely to give rise to future adjustments, Services rendered: Deferred tax assets are only recognised when there is reasonable expectation where it uses its best estimate. that there will be sufficient future taxable income to utilise them. The Logistic and administrative support 33 522 32 118 temporary differences underlying deferred tax assets are reappraised Revenue relating to services rendered is recognised in the statement of annually in order to recognise or adjust the deferred tax assets based on Other operating income: profit and loss and other comprehensive income in the period they concern, the current expectation of their future recovery. when the control over the product or services is transferred to the client. Administration services 826 810 2.20. CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS/ESTIMATES IN APPLYING THE Gains on tangible and intangible fixed assets 11 22 2.18. ACCRUAL BASIS ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Other 675 530 Dividends from investments are recognised as income in the year they are The preparation of financial statements in accordance with the IFRS attributed. 1 512 1 362 recognition and measurement principles require the Board of Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that can affect the value of Reversal of amortisation, depreciation, Interest and financial income are recognised on an accrual basis in accordance the assets and liabilities presented, especially deferred tax assets, intangible Adjustments and provisions: with the effective interest rate applicable. assets, tangible fixed assets, impairment losses and provisions, the disclosure Provisions (Note 24) 17 of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, Expenses and income are recognised in the year to which they relate as well as income and costs. 35 051 33 480 independently of when they are paid or received. Income and expenses for which their real amount is not known are estimated. These estimates are based on the best knowledge available at the time In the years ended at 31 December 2018 and 2017 operating income with and on the actions planned, and they are constantly revised based on the associate companies and subsidiaries totalled € 34 663 thousand and € Expenses and income attributable to the current year, the expenses and information available. Changes in the facts and circumstances can result in 33,221 thousand, respectively (Note 13). receipts of which will only occur in future years, as well as the expenses and revision of the estimates, and so the actual future results can differ from receipts that have already occurred but which concern future years and such estimates. which will be attributed to the results of each of these years, are recorded under captions “Other current assets” and “Other current liabilities. Significant estimates and assumptions made by the Board of Directors in preparing these financial statements include namely, assumptions used to value liabilities with pensions, deferred taxes, the useful life of intangible and 2.19. INCOME TAX tangible fixed assets, provisions and impairment analyses. Tax on income for the year is calculated based on the taxable results and takes into consideration deferred taxation. 2.21. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Events that have occurred after the date of the statement of financial position Current income tax is determined based on the taxable income for the year. providing additional information on conditions that existed as of the said Taxable income differs from accounting result since it may excludes several date are reflected in the financial statements. expenses and income which will only be deductible or taxable in subsequent years (timing differences), as well as expenses and income which will never Events that have occurred after the date of the statement of financial position be deductible or taxable under the terms of the tax rules in force (permanent providing additional information on conditions that occur after the said date, differences). if relevant, will be reflected in the notes to the financial statements. Deferred taxes refer to temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities for accounting purposes and the corresponding amounts for tax purposes, as well as those resulting from tax benefits obtained and 179 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 4. SUPPLIES AND SERVICES 6. PERSONNEL COSTS As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 income and gains were made up as follows: As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 the Goods & Services Account was made As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 personnel costs were made up as follows: up as follows: ‘18 ‘17 THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 THOUSAND EURO THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 Interest gained 1 531 2 104 Maintenance and repair 2 921 3 279 Remuneration 12 785 12 233 Financial revision of the disposal of shares: Specialised works Bonuses 4 646 5 750 AtoBe Mobility Technology, S.A. (“AtoBe”) (a) 12 24 Technical and administrative assistance 3 665 2 623 143 Wage expenses 3 217 3 169 Exchange gains 7 Studies and opinions 1 008 514 Retirement Benefits: Other 48 Legal and tax advice 688 990 Defined contribution (Note 28) 331 317 1 550 2 319 Other 1 985 1 477 Defined benefits (Note 28) 311 283 a) As of 31 December 2019 this amount corresponds to the financial restatement of accounts receivaRents and rentals 586 569 ble from the disposal of 3% of the stake in AtoBe, occurred in 2015. Brisa exercised its call option on 2% Other 740 726 of the stake in AtoBe relating to the disposal occurred in 2016. Advertising costs 401 498 22 030 22 478 As of 31 December 2017 this amount corresponds to the financial restatement of accounts receivable Training 305 294 from the disposal of 2% and 3% of the stake in AtoBe, occurred in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Communications 241 229 In the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017, the average number of Other 2 110 1 974 employees was 219 and 205, respectively. In the years ended at 31 December 2018 and 2017 the company recorded 13 910 12 447 interest earned with subsidiaries, associate companies and related parties 7. NET FINANCIAL RESULTS totalling € 1,160 thousand and € 1,803 thousand, respectively (Note 13). As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 financial expenses and losses were made 5. OPERATING LEASES up as follows: Expenses of € 553 thousand and € 518 thousand relating to instalments ‘18 under operating lease contracts were recognised in the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017, respectively. THOUSAND EURO ‘17 Interest expense 10 505 9 615 Lease instalments payable under operating lease contracts in force as of Derivative financial instruments 233 4 033 31 December 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ‘18 Exchange losses 14 18 THOUSAND EURO Year ‘17 Other 1 277 1 363 2018 386 12 029 15 029 2019 385 259 2020 227 104 2021 149 30 2022 86 847 779 180 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 investment income was made up as follows: ‘17 The deadline for the deduction of reportable tax losses (RTL) is as follows: THOUSAND EURO ‘18 Restated ‘17 ‘18 Dividends received from other investments THOUSAND EURO Restated AELO Auto-Estradas do Litoral Oeste, S.A. (“AELO”) 1 951 Deduction Gains/(losses) on subsidiaries and associates (note 13): 169 982 246 398 Tax period periods Brisa Concessão Rodoviária, SGPS, S.A. (“BCR SGPS”) 119 140 96 103 2018 5 a) On 13 December 2018 the corporate object and name of Brisa II – Serviços de Gestão de Concessões, Brisa O&M, S.A. (“BOM”) 34 458 31 213 S.A. were altered. The name was changed to ASIRB – Serviços Rodoviários, S.A. 2017 5 Brisa Internacional, SGPS, S.A. (“Brisa Internacional”) 6 907 87 157 2016 12 Via Verde Portugal, Gestão de Sistemas Electrónicos de Cobrança, S.A. (“Via Verde”) 4 113 4 065 2015 12 8. INCOME TAX BGI Brisa Gestão de Infraestruturas, S.A. (“BGI”) 3 673 2 263 2014 12 The Company is subject to Corporate Income Tax (“IRC) at the normal rate of Controlauto Controlo Técnico Automóvel, S.A. (“Controlauto”) 3 284 3 877 21%, which can be increased by a municipal surcharge of up to a maximum Transport Infrastructure Investment Company SCA (“SICAR”) 1 179 10 972 rate of 1.5% of the taxable income. Via Oeste, SGPS, S.A. (“Via Oeste”) 893 9 816 The deduction amount to be made in each of the tax periods is limited to Additionally, the nominal tax rate may vary from 21% to 31.5%, depending Brisa International, B.V. (“BI BV”) 168 1 001 on the amount of taxable income (TI) determined, which will be subject to a 70% of respective taxable income. tax surcharge at the following rates: SICIT Sociedade de Investimento e Consultoria During the regular inspections that were carried out, Tax Authorities have 1 133 em Infra-estruturas de Transportes, S.A. (“SICIT”) State surtax: 3% sobre o LT se M€1.5 < LT <= M€7.5; requested corrections to the income tax base and tax, in particular as AEBT Auto-Estradas do Baixo Tejo, S.A. (“AEBT”) 1 830 regards the activity carried out under the concession contract. The Board 5% sobre o LT se M€7.5 < LT <= M€35; and Via Verde Contact, S.A. (“VVC”) 134 of Directors based on technical advice from external consultants, believes 9% sobre o LT > M€35 that such corrections are unfounded. In this context, the Board of Directors M. CALL, S.A. (“Mcall”) 132 has used the instruments at its disposal to defend its views, continuing to The Company is taxed for Corporate Income Tax under the Special Taxation Brisa Áreas de Serviço, S.A. (“BAS”) 43 believe in the goodness of its arguments and in a favourable outcome of all of Group Companies regime (“SGTR”) included in a group where it is the existing disputes with the Tax Authorities. Transport Infrastructure, S. à r.l. 2 parent company and which further includes subsidiaries BGI, BOM, AtoBe, Brisa Internacional, Via Oeste, VVS, VVC, Mcall, Via Verde Carsharing, S.A. Via Verde Serviços, S.A. (“VVS”) (2 615) (1 873) In relation to corrections made by the Tax Authority in various years deriving (“VVCS”) and ASIRB. from the recognition of tax losses generated from the separation of collections, AtoBe (1 738) ( 469) during the year ended at 31 December 2018 Brisa was notified of 1st instance This regime consists of the sum of the taxable results of all the companies AEBT (1 097) decisions rejecting the judicial appeals submitted concerning 2003, 2006 included in the tax perimeter, less distributed dividends, to which the relevant and 2008. The Company filed new appeals, which were already accepted by Mcall (172) Corporate Income Tax rate and municipal Surcharge will be applied. the Court, where it presented the corresponding allegations. The Board of VVC (113) Directors of Brisa, based on the opinion of its legal and accounting experts In accordance with the current legislation in Portugal, tax returns are subject and consultants, maintains its understanding that the recognition of the said BAS (42) to review and correction by the tax authorities during a period of four years operation is adequately based from the legal point of view, and therefore in (five years for social security), except where tax losses exist or tax benefits ASIRB Serviços Rodoviários, S.A. (“ASIRB”) (a) (6) (1) accounting and tax terms as well. have been granted or inspections, claims or appeals are in progress, in Brisa Roads Áreas de Serviço, S.A. (“BRAS”) (1) which case, depending on the circumstances, the period can be extended The corrections relating to 2008, 2009 and 2010 stemming from the or suspended. Therefore the Company’s tax returns for the years 2015 to TIICC, S. à r.l. (“TIICC”) (1) securitization of future receivables, result from the Tax Authority concluding as 2018 may still be subject to review and correction. to the inadequacy of the legal and tax framework applied to the securitisation 168 031 246 398 of future receivables in the amount of €400 000 thousand, carried out on The Board of Directors believes that any possible corrections resulting from December 19, 2007; the said authority considers that it does not comply with revisions/inspections of these tax returns will not have a significant effect the legislation for the securitization of receivables established in Decree-law on the financial statements as of 31 December 2018. 181 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 453/99, of 5 November, as amended by Decree-Law 82/02 of 5 April, and Additionally, to obtain the suspension of tax enforcement proceedings, The reconciliation between profit before income tax and income tax for the consequently with the tax law provided in Decree-Law 219/2001, of 4 August, the Company set up a pledge over 24 618 shares of subsidiary BOM, in the year is as follows: as amended by Decree-law 303/2003 of 5 December. amount of € 191 637 thousand. During the year ended at 31 December 2016, ‘18 these proceedings were settled in a manner that was partly favourable to In view of the above, the Tax Authority considers that: the Company, as the tax due was reduced to € 28 829 thousand (Note 27). THOUSAND EURO ‘17 During the year ended as of 31 December 2018 Brisa was notified of the • The amount of €400 000 thousand received pursuant to the said operation favourable decision concerning the reduction of the guarantee provided Profit before tax 154 166 227 822 was unduly added to the taxable income of 2007; as pledge, down to the amount of € 33 479 thousand, corresponding to Expected tax (21% rate) 32 375 47 842 8 402 shares of BOM. The Company is undertaking the formalisation of the • Income corresponding to the services giving rise to the assigned future reduction of the said pledge (Note 27) Capital income (410) receivables are to be recognized, in both tax and accounting terms, in the Provisions 55 143 tax periods in which they are generated; With respect to the tax periods of 2011 and 2012, the TA made the same correction to taxable income, although on a non-consolidated basis, since Pension fund 65 59 • An approximate amount of €100 000 thousand relating to the tax benefit the securitisation operation was transferred to BCR, jointly with the assets Equity method (51 744) (35 286) under decree-law 287/99 likely to be used up to 2007, was unduly deducted and liabilities allocated to Brisa Concession. to the corporate tax income for that year; Other (128) 277 Within the scope of the SGTR, additional corporate income tax assessment Autonomous taxation 301 754 • When determining the taxable income relating to 2008 to 2010 (already relating to 2012 and 2011 was issued in the name of Brisa (controlling company), inspected) an amount of € 80 000 thousand was unduly deducted from but the tax foreclosure was suspended against guarantee provided by BCR, in Taxes on previous years income (604) ( 282) the taxable income relating to each of the said years. the amount of € 30 948 thousand and € 11 941 thousand (following reduction (Set up)/reversal of deferred taxation (Note 15) (287) 90 occurred during the year ended at 31 December 2018), respectively. The Board of Directors of Brisa, based on the opinion of its legal and Income tax (3 831) (2 949) accounting experts and consultants, deems that the recognition of the said Income tax recognised in the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 was operation is adequately based from the legal point of view, and therefore in made up as follows: accounting and tax terms as well. Consequently, the Board of Directors of Brisa considers that the corrections proposed in the Tax Inspection Reports As of 31 December 2018 and 2017, current income tax liabilities were made relating to years 2007 to 2010 are unjustified, as described in the judicial claim (relating to the taxable periods of 2007 and 2010) submitted to the THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 up as follows: ‘18 tax authority. Current tax (2 940) (2 757) Deferred tax (Note 15) (287) 90 THOUSAND EURO ‘17 Corrections to the taxable income mentioned above resulted in tax Taxes on previous years income (604) (282) Current tax liabilities: enforcement proceedings, which are suspended until a decision is reached. To obtain the suspension of tax enforcement proceedings relating to the (3 831) (2 949) Corporate Income Tax (CIT): taxable periods of 2008 and 2009 the Company provided bank guarantees Payment on account (7 966) (9 992) in the amount of € 64 129 thousand (Note 27). Tax withheld 6 (17) Tax estimate (a) 12 308 10 133 4 348 124 a) This amount corresponds to the estimated tax amount determined under the “SGTR” for its group of companies. 182 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 9. EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended 31 December 2018 THOUSAND EURO ‘18 Land and natural Buildings and Basic Transport Administrative Tools Fixed assets and 2017 were determined based on the following amounts: Total GROSS ASSETS: resources other constructions equipment equipment equipment and utensils in progress 45 149 ‘18 Opening balance 3 064 9 496 11 461 327 20 781 20 THOUSAND EURO ‘17 Increases 14 389 375 43 821 Result for the purpose of determining the basic and diluted Disposals (31) (31) 157 997 230 771 earning per share (net profit for the year) Write-downs (4) (1 167) (1 171) Average number of shares for the purpose of determining 552 647 386 552 647 386 the basic and diluted earning per share Closing Balance 3 064 9 510 11 846 327 19 958 20 43 44 768 Basic and diluted earnings per share (in Euro) 0.29 0.42 CUMULATIVE DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT LOSSES: Opening balance 4 298 8 033 305 18 672 19 31 327 At 31 December 2018 and 2017 no diluting effects have occurred; hence, basic and diluted earnings per share are identical. Increase 226 933 14 583 1 1 757 Disposals (31) (31) 10. DIVIDENDS AND APPROPRIATION OF Write-downs (2) (53) (55) RESULTS Closing Balance 4 524 8 964 319 19 171 20 32 998 At the General Shareholders Meetings held on 04 May 2018 and 05 May 2017 Net value 3 064 4 986 2 882 8 787 43 11 770 the payment of dividends was decided of € 0.145 per share and € 0.742 per share, totalling € 80 134 thousand and € 410 064 thousand, respectively, THOUSAND EURO ‘17 concerning the net profit for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016. Land and natural Buildings and Basic Transport Administrative Tools Fixed assets It was further decided to transfer to free reserves the remaining amount Total GROSS ASSETS: resources other constructions equipment equipment equipment and utensils in progress of respective net profit for the said years. Opening balance 3 064 9 412 10 576 327 19 767 20 1 43 212 At the General Shareholders Meetings held on 5 December 2018 and 6 Increases 84 1 154 44 1 406 2 688 December 2017 the payment of dividends was decided of € 0.136 per share Disposals (389) (89) (128) (606) and € 0.163 per share, totalling € 75 160 thousand and € 90.082 thousand, respectively, via the distribution of reserves. Write-downs (2) (142) (1) (145) Transfers 122 (122) 11. TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Closing Balance 3 064 9 496 11 461 327 20 781 20 45 149 In the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 changes in other tangible fixed assets and corresponding accumulated depreciation and impairment CUMULATIVE DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT LOSSES: losses were as follows: Opening balance 4 071 7 546 354 18 219 18 30 208 Increase 227 817 40 721 1 1 806 Disposals (328) (89) (126) (543) Write-downs (2) (142) (144) Transfers 40 (40) Closing Balance 4 298 8 033 305 18 672 19 31 327 Net value 3 064 5 198 3 428 22 2 106 1 13 822 183 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 12. INTANGIBLE ASSETS In the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 changes in intangible fixed assets and corresponding accumulated depreciation and impairment losses were as follows: THOUSAND EURO ‘18 GROSS ASSETS: Licenses and software Intangible assets in progress Total Opening balance 6 470 372 6 842 Increases 1 583 7 1 590 Disposals (125) (125) Transfers 66 (66) Closing Balance 7 994 313 8 307 CUMULATIVE DEPRECIATION IMPAIRMENT LOSSES: Opening balance 4 680 4 680 Increase 1 129 1 129 Decrease (104) (104) Closing Balance 5 705 5 705 Net value 2 289 313 2 602 THOUSAND EURO ‘17 GROSS ASSETS: Licenses and software Intangible assets in progress Total Opening balance 5 572 408 5 980 Increases 935 45 980 Write-downs (118) (118) Transfers 81 (81) Closing Balance 6 470 372 6 842 CUMULATIVE DEPRECIATION IMPAIRMENT LOSSES: Opening balance 3 796 3 796 Increase 1 002 1 002 Write-downs (118) (118) Closing Balance 4 680 4 680 Net value 1 790 372 2 162 184 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 13. INVESTMENTS Investments in subsidiaries and associate companies Investments in subsidiaries, associate companies and other investments and respective changes occurred in the years ended at 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: THOUSANDS EUROS ‘18 ‘18 Equity Closing Acquisition Cumulative impairment Equity Closing % held Opening balance Increases (a) Decreases (b) method balance value losses (Note 23) method balance INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES: Restated BCR SGPS 70% 110 531 30 946 141 477 70 141 407 141 477 Via Oeste 100% 127 925 127 925 55 733 72 192 127 925 Brisa Internacional 100% 315 216 1 400 (247 860) 6 442 75 198 13 287 61 911 75 198 BOM 100% 35 741 2 902 38 643 500 38 143 38 643 Controlauto 74,002 % 31 230 1 313 32 543 18 257 14 286 32 543 BGI 100% 4 889 3 549 8 438 19 441 (11 003) 8 438 VVS 100% 2 948 3 100 6 048 6 098 (50) 6 048 Via Verde 60% 4 903 62 4 965 773 4 192 4 965 BAS 51% 1 598 (55) 1 543 1 555 (12) 1 543 BI BV 100% 176 168 344 15 329 344 Mcall 100% 367 (172) 195 955 (760) 195 VVC 100% 240 (114) 126 100 26 126 BRAS 100% 50 (1) 49 50 (1) 49 ASIRB 100% 49 (6) 43 50 (7) 43 AtoBe (c) 81,21% 426 (426) 9 424 (9 424) INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES: SICAR 35,59% 34 146 ( 10 442) (4 953) 18 751 7 876 10 875 18 751 AEBT 36,848% 1 703 ( 1 155) 596 1 144 1 297 (153) 1 144 SICIT 35% 874 (69) 805 18 787 805 Transport Infrastructure, S. à r.l. tes 35% 5 1 6 4 2 6 TIIC 35% 6 (6) AEDL Auto-Estradas do Douro Litoral, S.A. (“AEDL”) (d) 99,92% 265 400 (265 400) Brisal Auto-Estradas do Litoral, S.A. (“Brisal”) (d) 70% 194 219 (194 219) 672 541 4 976 (259 457) 40 183 458 243 595 128 (459 619) 322 734 458 243 185 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY THOUSAND EURO ‘17 ‘17 Opening balance Equity Reversals of /(impairment Closing Acquisition Cumulative impairment Equity Closing % held Increases (a) Decreases (b) INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES: Restated method losses)(Note 23) balance value losses (Note 23) method balance Brisa Internacional 100% 249 175 950 65 091 315 216 259 748 55 468 315 216 Via Oeste 100% 127 925 (2 076) 2 076 127 925 55 733 72 192 127 925 BCR SGPS 70% 125 760 (16 978) 1 749 110 531 70 110 461 110 531 BOM 100% 36 171 (430) 35 741 500 35 241 35 741 Controlauto 74,002 % 29 497 1 733 31 230 18 257 12 973 31 230 Via Verde 60% 4 756 147 4 903 773 4 130 4 903 BGI 100% 4 091 (7 224) 8 022 4 889 19 441 (14 552) 4 889 VVS 100% 148 2 800 2 948 2 998 (50) 2 948 BAS 51% 25 1 530 43 1 598 1 555 43 1 598 Mcall 100% 256 111 367 955 (588) 367 VVC 100% 124 116 240 100 140 240 BI BV 100% 1 551 (1 551) 176 176 15 161 176 Brisa II Serviços de Gestão de Concessões, S.A. 100% 50 (1) 49 50 (1) 49 AtoBe 79,21% 428 (428) 8 998 (8 998) INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES: SICAR 35,59% 63 128 (24 382) (4 600) 34 146 18 318 15 828 34 146 AEBT 36,848% 6 145 1 530 (6 393) 421 1 703 1 297 406 1 703 SICIT 35% 811 63 874 18 856 874 Transport Infrastructure, S. à r.l. tes 35% 3 2 5 4 1 5 TIIC 35% 6 (6) AEDL (d) 99,92% 265 400 (265 400) Brisal (d) 70% 194 219 (194 219) 649 994 6 860 (49 304) 54 893 10 098 672 541 848 455 (459 619) 283 705 672 541 186 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY a) In the years ended at 31 December 2018 and 2017 the increases in investment in associates BRAS Brisa deems that these measures, although contractually admissible, were triggered in contravention of the Changes in investments in associate companies and subsidiaries in the and Brisa II are related with their incorporation. rules set forth in the concession contract and financing contracts of AEDL, particularly in what concerns the appropriation of the shares, which will not have been previously authorized by the Portuguese State. years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: In the year ended at 31 December 2018 increases in investments in associates Brisal Internacional and For this reason, viewing the restoration of legality, Brisa jointly with other shareholders of AEDL, took ‘18 VVS concern increases in supplementary capital. In the year ended at 31 December 2017, increases in ‘17 investment in subsidiaries Brisa Internacional, VVS e BAS concern increases in supplementary capital, the initiative to: whereas increase in investment in subsidiary AEBT concerns the acquisition of a 6.848% stake (including THOUSAND EURO Take legal action against such acts, requesting the immediate suspension of their effectiveness; corresponding supplementary capital and shareholders loans). Restated opening balance 672 541 649 994 Elect new Board Members of AEDL, designating the Board of Directors that was in place b) As of 31 December 2018, reduction in investment in subsidiary SICAR is related to a reduction in share during the 2016-2018 period. capital, whereas reductions in investments in subsidiaries Brisa Internacional and AEBT concern the Increases 4 976 6 860 reimbursement of accessory contributions (Note 22). As of 31 December 2017, reductions in investment As a result, the Board of Directors of Brisa, based on its legal advisers’ opinion, considers that Brisa is in subsidiaries BCR SGPS and SICAR are related with a reduction in share capital and reimbursement of not exposed to any variability in the negative cash flows foreseen for the said projects, and does not Decrease (259 457) (49 304) supplementary capital, and the decrease in subsidiaries BI BV and AEBT are due to the reimbursement exercise an effective control over the said subsidiaries. of accessory contributions. Effect of the application of the Equity Method: Notwithstanding these recent events at AEDL, Brisa, as shareholder, remains firm in its understanding c) In the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company exercised the option of purchasing all shares of not accepting any responsibility that results into a higher participation or involvement than the participation and involvement contractually undertaken. Effect in results (Note 7) 168 031 246 398 sold in 2016, representing 2% of the participation in AtoBe, for the amount of 426 thousand Euros. Considering that the Company exerts control over this associate, this transaction had an impact on equity amounting to 286 thousand Euro. Brisa, as a shareholder of Brisal and AEDL, believes that the stability and defence of the project finance Effect on equity 18 010 40 755 model is vital for all players in the sector, including sponsors, construction companies, financing parties d) In view of the expectations regarding the evolution of future operations of Concessão Litoral Centro and the State itself. Provisions (Note 24) 3 259 (70 740) (‘Brisal’ concession contract) and Concessão Douro Litoral (‘AEDL’ concession contract), impairment losses were recognized in the respective financial statements of prior years, reflecting the non-exercising of the According to recent news on the newspapers, some of AEDL creditors had allegedly filed a lawsuit Dividends (150 680) (148 831) entire contractual right arising from the investment made in the construction of such infrastructures. against Brisa claiming the payment of an amount related to AEDL debt. The Board once more reaffirms Likewise, Brisa recognized in its financial statements in previous years the losses corresponding to its that within the project finance framework of the concession, expressly accepted by all parties, Brisa is not responsible for AEDL’s debt. Until the present date Brisa has not yet received any notification Goodwill (Note 14) (286) (742) exposure as shareholder of said concessions. regarding these procedures. It should be noted that these two projects were structured under the form of project finance, therefore Closing Balance 458 243 672 541 holding specific characteristics, namely the risk allocation to the various participants in them, either as This contractual model assumes, clearly, the possibility for the financing providers to appropriate the shareholders or as financing providers, ensuring access to long term debt intended to be repaid with concessions in certain circumstances, and Brisa understands and accepts that this is the case. However, the cash flows generated by the projects themselves and respective assets and with limited recourse such appropriation must always strictly follow the contracts, in particular the agreed risk allocation, the to shareholders. parties’ will, the processes defined and the agreed portfolio of rights and obligations. Within the scope of the concession contracts referred to above, the parties (including financing entities) In this context, the Board of Directors of Brisa has deemed to refer that: entered into several agreements, namely the Capital Subscription Agreement, and in Brisal’s specific case, the Shareholders’ Support Agreement and the Traffic Support Agreement, all of which forming part as The current management of these concessionaires remains strongly restrained, being annex to the respective concession agreements that set out the support obligations of shareholders, confined to day-to-day measures and operations, subject to the budget previously agreed namely in what concerns the relevant capital calls. with financial institutions, where any decision not covered by this budget requires their prior approval. Given the continued deterioration of operating conditions within the scope of these two projects, the Board of Directors’ position, as made public to the market, is that Brisa, as shareholder of the said Under the present circumstances, Brisa continues not to exercise control over the said projects, will not accept any further responsibility that may translate into an investment or involvement companies, since it is not able to autonomously guide the relevant activities of the concessionaires, higher than that contractually agreed. and at the same time, it ceased to be exposed or be entitled to variable results, via its investments in these entities, as provided in paragraph 7 of IFRS 10. During 2012 the fall in traffic worsened considerably as result of the economic crisis, combined with the impact of the introduction of real tolls in a number of motorways, which adversely affected the said As a result, the Board of Directors of Brisa, based on its legal advisers’ opinion, considers that Brisa is projects. Likewise, the deterioration of the macroeconomic outlook and the fiscal measures imposed to not exposed to any variability in the negative cash flows foreseen for the said projects, and does not consolidate and rebalance public accounts led to a downward revision in the second half of 2012 of cash exercise an effective control over the said subsidiaries. flows estimates for Brisal and Douro Litoral concessions. Despite the reversal in the declining trend of traffic, which has increased in recent years, figures are still very short of initial estimates. As pointed out in previous years, financial institutions exposed to these projects have a step-in right, being the timing to exercise such right defined by them. Therefore, in what concerns Concessão Douro Litoral, on 24 January 2019 the creditors of AEDL (currently, and in its overwhelming majority, hedge funds led by Strategic Value Partners LLC) have, after breaking up the negotiation process under way, undertaken a set of measures to gain formal control over AEDL. Among others, such measures included the following: Appointment of a new Board of Directors of AEDL; Declaration of the early maturity of AEDL overall debt resulting from the financing contracts; and The enforcement of the pledge provided in the Security Agreement, and consequent appropriation of all shares corresponding to the share capital of AEDL. 187 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Other investments The breakdown of other investments and respective changes occurred in the years ended at 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: THOUSAND EURO ‘18 % held Opening balance Increases Decreases Closing balance AELO 15% 3 850 110 (505) 3 455 ELOS Ligações de Alta Velocidade, S.A. (“ELOS”) 16,3% 3 006 11 3 017 TIIC 2 S.C.A., SICAR (“TIIC 2”) 3,35% 143 230 373 I-Start 296 296 F-Hitec 97 2 99 ELOS OM, S.A. (“ELOS OM”) 16,3% 8 8 7 400 353 (505) 7 248 THOUSAND EURO ‘17 % held Opening balance Increases Decreases Closing balance AELO 15% 6 690 280 (3 120) 3 850 ELOS 16,3% 2 849 157 3 006 I-Start 296 296 TIIC 2 3,35% 143 143 F-Hitec 97 97 ELOS OM 16,3% 8 8 9 940 580 (3 120) 7 400 188 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Payments and receipts from financial investments In the years ended at 31 December 2018 and 2017 receipts concerning financial investments were made up as follows: In the years ended at 31 December 2018 and 2017 payments concerning financial investments were made up as follows: THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 Contractual obligations with AEDL investment 100 353 DECREASE IN INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES: INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES: SICAR 10 442 24 382 VVS 3 100 2 800 BCR SGPS 16 977 Brisa Internacional 950 REPAYMENT OF SUPPLEMENTARY CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS: 1 400 BRAS 50 AEBT 1 155 6 393 BAS 1 530 AELO 505 3 120 AEBT 1 530 BI BV 1 551 ASIRB 50 REPAYMENT OF TREASURY LOANS TO : TREASURY LOANS TO: AELO 1 350 3 AEBT 319 9 404 ELOS 282 Brisa Internacional 300 BGI 700 Brisa Internacional 300 Shareholders’ loans to AEBT 2 819 Mcall 175 Other investments 243 300 DISPOSAL OF EQUITY HOLDINGS 5 175 10 632 AtoBe 48 13 819 63 005 189 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Balances and transactions with affiliated companies At 31 December 2018 and 2017 balances with group, associated and affiliated companies were made up as follows: Companies Clients Suppliers Other debtors Other accounts of the group Other current assets Loans Companies of the Other current liabilities SGTR THOUSAND EURO (Note 16) (Note 25) (Note 16) payable (Note 26) Assets (a) (Note 17) (Note 22) group Liabilities (b) (Note 26) (Notes 16 and 26) SUBSIDIARIES: ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 Via Oeste 77 963 82 073 (72) (77) Brisa Internacional 75 905 1 012 2 BOM 828 794 200 85 2 323 3747 12 023 2 491 2 244 BGI 311 256 14 22 143 1 038 445 Via Verde 396 326 1 Controlauto 176 159 1 BAS 33 55 1 81 AtoBe 147 125 2 2 50 (607) (126) VVS 79 26 27 82 10 (299) (149) Mcall 27 21 13 13 4 3 3 (68) 39 BI BV 15 15 VVC 292 398 12 (50) 13 ASIRB (2) ASSOCIATES: AEDL 31 184 1 107 3 221 216 900 216 900 AEBT 40 107 6 411 6 349 Brisal 126 1 217 SICIT 5 8 TIIC 5 5 RELATED PARTIES: BCR 4 337 4 273 318 (105) (105) ELOS 210 210 282 Auto-Estradas do Atlântico, S.A. (“AEA”) 72 849 AELO 5 55 1 360 VVCS 27 33 5 14 (386) (342) Iteuve Portugal, Lda (“Iteuve”) 31 BNV Mobility, B.V. 89 Brisa United States, LLC (“BUS”) 313 387 Capinv 2, S.A. 1 6 932 7 701 258 294 2 534 3 590 2 338 3 767 301 561 306 687 413 50 75 905 313 387 12 023 13 3 2 952 1 944 Impairment losses on Accounts receivable (Note 22) (216 900) (216 900) 6 932 7 701 258 294 2 534 3 590 2 338 3 767 84 661 89 787 413 50 75 905 313 387 12 023 13 3 2 952 1 944 a) Account receivable from AEDL includes partners’ loans in the amount of €216 900 thousand, fully adjusted for impairment, as it is unlikely that they will be repaid (Note 23). Account receivable from Via Oeste concerns partners’ loans in the amount of € 77 963 thousand, which accrue interest at a rate of EUR12M + 1.5% and for which there is no repayment schedule. Accounts receivable from AEBT included in this caption concern partners’ loans granted, which accrue interest at a rate of EUR6M + 1.5% and EUR6M+6%, respectively. b) During the year ended at 31 December 2018, the Company repaid the loan granted by subsidiary BOM during the year ended at 31 December 2017, in the nominal amount of € 12 000 thousand. This loan accrued interest at normal market rates. 190 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Additionally, transactions carried out with group companies, associated and affiliated companies in the years ended as of 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Operating income Operating Financial expenses Financial income Acquisition of tangible and (Note 3) expenses (Note 22) (Note 7) intangible fixed assets THOUSAND EURO SUBSIDIARIES: ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 BOM (a) (18 842) (17 389) 208 289 126 (6) VVC 1 231 1 294 (2) Via Verde 1 884 1 588 1 1 BGI 1 516 1 250 48 49 22 Via Oeste 1 1 090 1 159 Controlauto 927 774 3 1 3 AtoBe 675 660 51 125 BAS 313 270 Mcall 134 103 64 64 5 Brisa Internacional 1 1 4 404 2 BCR SGPS 1 1 VVS 366 126 250 398 ASSOCIATES: Brisal (a) 12 844 12 279 (50) AEDL (a) 11 098 10 220 AEBT 153 145 52 597 SICIT 39 46 70 RELATED PARTIES: BCR 21 449 20 843 (12) 17 BUS 9 587 BNV Mobility, B.V. 119 92 AEA 696 690 VVCS 131 122 14 AELO 45 45 18 Capinv 2, S.A. 1 1 TIICINVEST, Sociedade Unipessoal Lda. 1 1 Iteuve 150 1 34 663 33 221 728 1 010 4 533 9 587 1 160 1 803 (6) 18 a) Brisal and AEDL operation and maintenance services were contracted with the Company. Following the creation of BOM, and as consequence of the transfer into the latter of the operation and maintenance activities, BAE and BOM concluded contracts whereby services agreed with Brisal and AEDL were to be effectively provided by BOM, though keeping unchanged the original contractual relationship between the Company and said concessionaires., however, did not change. The Company did not record any margin out of such transactions, recording as operating income the net result between invoices issued to the concessionaires and corresponding invoices from BOM. 191 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 14. GOODWILL 15. DEFERRED TAXES 16. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES The breakdown of goodwill and respective change in the years ended at 31 Deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2018 and 2017, by underlying As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 this caption was made up as follows: December 2018 and 2017 was as follows: timing difference, were as follows: ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘18 THOUSAND EURO THOUSAND EURO THOUSAND EURO ‘17 CLIENTS: Opening balance Closing balance Provisions not considered for tax purposes 1 132 1 037 Group companies (Note 13) 6 932 7 701 BGI 2 264 2 264 Retirement benefits (pensions) 464 314 Other 279 51 Controlauto 2 192 2 192 Other liabilities 810 683 Doubtful receivables 37 37 AEBT 742 742 2 406 2 034 7 248 7 789 AtoBe 600 600 Mcall 379 379 OTHER DEBTORS: The changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities in the years ended 31 SGTR (Note 13) 4 541 2 743 6 177 6 177 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Group companies (Note 13) 2 534 3 590 THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 Personnel 155 75 THOUSAND EURO ‘17 Opening balance 2 034 2 097 Other related Parties (Note 30) 18 Other 987 578 Opening balance Restated Increases (Note 13) Closing balance Effect on results: Other doubtful receivables 1 1 BGI 2 264 2 264 Differences between the tax base and book value of: Controlauto 2 192 Other liabilities 127 (206) 8 218 7 005 2 192 AEBT 742 742 Change in provisions not accepted for tax purposes 95 56 15 466 14 794 AtoBe 600 600 Retirement benefits 65 60 Cumulative impairment losses (Note 23) (38) (38) Mcall 379 379 Sub-total (Note 8) 287 (90) 15 428 14 756 5 435 742 6 177 Effect on equity Trade and other receivables result from operating activities and they are net As mentioned in Note 23, the amount recoverable from cash-generating Retirement benefits 85 27 of accumulated impairment losses. These are estimated based on available units was determined based on respective value in use, according to cash information and past experience. Sub-total 85 27 flow projections for a period of 5 years, considering a perpetual growth rate between 1% and 2% (nominal) , discounted at rates between 5.8% and 11.1%. Given the nature of the Company’s operation, there is no significant concentration of credit risk. Closing Balance 2 406 2 034 Cash flow projections for each cash-generating unit have different key variables, such as the characteristics of the domestic car universe, prospects for new car sales and traffic projections. As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 the tax rate used for determining deferred tax assets was 21%. 192 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 17. OTHER CURRENT ASSETS Caption “Cash and cash equivalents” includes cash, sight deposits and term deposits immediately withdrawable, all of which bearing an insignificant risk of change in value. Caption “Bank overdrafts” relates to bank accounts As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 this caption was made up as follows: where balances have gone below zero. THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 19. SHARE CAPITAL GOVERNMENT AND OTHER PUBLIC BODIES: As of 31 December 2018 the Company’s share capital was made up of 600 000 000 fully subscribed and paid up shares with a nominal value of € 0.01 each. Corporate Income Tax: Recoverable taxes (a) 15 906 15 906 As of 31 December 2018 Company shareholders were as follows: Other taxes 2 2 Number 15 908 15 908 of shares % Share capital % vote Tagus Holdings S. à r.l. 243 497 061 40,6% 44,1% ACCRUED INCOME: José de Mello Investimentos, SGPS, S.A. 182 683 904 30,4% 33,1% Group companies (Note 13) 413 50 Arcus European Infrastructure Fund GP LLP 114 557 795 19,1% 20,7% Interest receivable 1 33 Ações próprias (Nota 20) 47 352 614 7,9% N/A 414 83 Other shareholders 11 908 626 2,0% 2,2% DEFERRED COSTS: 600 000 000 100,0% 100,0% Insurance 113 124 Other 1 302 707 20. TREASURY SHARES 1 415 831 In the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 no changes have occurred with treasury shares. As of the said dates, this caption was made up as follows: 17 737 16 822 a) This amount concerns a tax payment made by the Company in previous years, the refund of which is pending the settlement of the disputes mentioned in Note 8. ‘18 ‘17 Number Number of shares Thousand Euro of shares Thousand Euro 18. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENT Opening balance 47 352 614 228 720 47 352 614 228 720 The breakdown of cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2018 and 2017 was as follows: Closing Balance 47 352 614 228 720 47 352 614 228 720 THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 Commercial legislation regarding treasury shares requires companies to maintain a free reserve equal in amount Bank deposits 38 932 37 725 to the cost of their treasury shares. Such reserve is not available for distribution until such treasury shares are disposed of, with a reserve of €228 720 thousand (Note 21) being maintained for that purpose. In addition, the Cash and cash equivalent 38 932 37 725 applicable accounting rules provide that gains and losses on the sale of treasury shares must be recorded in Bank overdrafts (Note 22) (13) (28) reserves. 38 919 37 697 193 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 21. LEGAL RESERVE AND OTHER RESERVES At 31 December 2018 and 2017 this caption was made up as follows: THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 Current Non-current Current Non-current THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 Bond Issue (Note 13) Commercial paper and short term lines 3 75 905 5 313 387 Legal reserve 1 200 1 200 Bank overdrafts (Note 18) 13 28 Reserve unavailable for distribution (Note 20) 228 720 228 720 16 75 905 33 313 387 Free reserves 39 496 49 960 269 416 279 880 BOND ISSUES At 31 December 2018 and 2017 the breakdown of (non-convertible) bond issues was as follows: Legal reserve Commercial legislation establishes that at least 5% of annual net profit must be appropriated to a legal reserve until the reserve equals at least 20% of share capital. This reserve is not available for distribution except in the event of liquidation, but it can be used to absorb losses once the other reserves THOUSAND EURO ‘18 have been exhausted, or to increase capital. Nominal value Nominal Issue of the issue Current Non-current Maturity interest rate Reserve unavailable for distribution 2017 70 800 75 905 mar/20 4.000% Commercial law requires the setting up of a reserve, in equal amount to the value of treasury shares, to be kept unavailable for distribution as long as such treasury shares are held. ‘17 Nominal value Nominal 22. LOANS Issue of the issue Current Non-current Maturity interest rate At 31 December 2018 and 2017 the breakdown of loans obtained by the 2017 303 800 313 387 mar/20 4.000% Company was as follows: 2017-2020 Issue The € 303 800 thousand bond issue was issued in 23 March 2017. This bond with maturity on 23 March 2020 bears interest at a fixed rate of 4%. On 17 October 2018 the issuer repaid in advance € 233 000 thousand of principal and € 14 860 thousand in interest sole bondholder Brisa Internacional, against reduction in supplementary capital in this subsidiary (Note 13). The repayment of the remaining principal and payment of interest will be made on 23 March 2020. At 31 December 2018 and 2017 the amount of accrued interest totalled € 4 404 thousand and € 9 587 thousand, respectively (Note 13). 194 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY COMMERCIAL PAPER AND SHORT-TERM LINES a) Impairment losses in financial investments in the years ended at 31 December 2018 and 2017, relating to investments in Brisal, AEDL and Via Oeste, were determined using official tests, based on cash-flows projections until the end of the concession contracts of Litoral Centro, Douro Litoral and Atlântico, taking into account corresponding traffic projections. At 31 December 2018 and 2017 the breakdown of caption “Other loans As a result of the said analyses, the Company recognised a reversal of impairment relating to Via Oeste, holder of the stake in AEA in the amount of € 2,076 thousand in the year obtained” was as follows: ended at 31 December 2017. The discount rates used in all evaluations associated with impairment tests reflect the cost of capital employed and the specific risk of each asset and were estimated within a ‘18 range of 5.8% to 11.1%. THOUSAND EURO ‘17 Additionally, with regard to evaluations which do not concern road concessions the perpetual growth rates considered were of 1% to 2%, (nominal) taking into account the prospects of value creation in each business after the period established for the projections. Commercial paper and short term lines 3 5 Discount rates used in project finance for the purposes of impairment tests correspond to the original IRR of the base case, as the financing structure of these companies is defined since the initial moment of investment and shareholders cannot change it without the approval of financial banks. In what concerns remaining companies, the discount rate takes As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 Brisa had in place credit agreement in the into account the evolution of the invested capital structure and the specific risk of each asset, as well as the country where the operation is established. form of an advance on a current account in the total amount of € 24 000 Additionally, as of 31 December 2017, the Company recognised a reversal of impairment losses concerning investment in BGI, in the amount of € 8,022 thousand, stemming from thousand and € 36 000 thousand, respectively. This credit facility remained improvement occurred in estimated flows foreseen in respective business plan. undrawn as of the said dates. 23. CUMULATIVE IMPAIRMENT LOSSES 24. PROVISIONS Changes in cumulative impairment losses in the years ended 31 December Changes in provisions in the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 2018 and 2017 were as follows: ‘18 THOUSAND EURO ‘18 THOUSAND EURO Restated Opening Closing Opening Closing Captions balance Increase Use Decrease balance balance balance IMPAIRMENT LOSSES: PROVISIONS: Accounts receivable (Note 16) 38 38 Non-current: Partners’ loans AEDL (Note 13) 216 900 216 900 Pending legal proceedings (Note 3) 31 (17) 14 Financial investments (Note 13) (a) 459 619 459 619 Financial investments (Note 13) 81 911 4 152 (893) 85 170 676 557 676 557 Other risks and charges 5 087 678 (100) 5 665 87 029 4 830 (100) (910) 90 849 THOUSAND EURO ‘17 Current Other risks and charges 320 250 (145) 425 Opening balance Decrease Closing Restated (Note 13) balance 87 349 5 080 (245) (910) 91 274 IMPAIRMENT LOSSES: Accounts receivable (Note 16) 38 38 Partners’ loans AEDL (Note 13) 216 900 216 900 Financial investments (Note 13) (a) 469 717 (10 098) 459 619 686 655 (10 098) 676 557 195 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY THOUSAND EURO ‘17 25. SUPPLIERS AND SUPPLIERS OF INVESTMENT Restated Opening Closing As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 these captions were made up as follows: Captions balance Increase Use Decrease balance PROVISIONS: THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 Non-current: SUPPLIERS: Pending legal proceedings (Note 3) 31 31 Other related Parties (Note 30) 816 Financial investments (Note 13) 152 651 1 918 (72 658) 81 911 Decunify Soluções de Comunicações, S.A. 438 338 Other risks and charges 4 659 795 (367) 5 087 Group Empresas do grupo companies (Nota (Note 13)13) 258 294 157 341 2 713 (367) (72 658) 87 029 Empresas Iten Solutions do grupo (Nota Sistemas Informação, S.A. de13) 223 Current: Claranet Empresas Portugal, do grupo S.A. (Nota 13) 176 49 Other risks and charges 485 176 (341) 320 Wingman Empresas-do Estratégia grupo (Nota 13) Unipessoal, Lda. Internet, 133 87 157 826 2 889 (708) (72 658) 87 349 Empresas Vieira do grupo de Almeida & Associados (Nota 13) 126 14 Expressão Empresas Nova do grupo (Nota 13) Media e Publicidade, S.A. Planeamento 125 89 The breakdown of provisions for financial investments as of 31 December 2018 and 2017 was as follows: Other Empresas do grupo (Nota 13) 2 539 2 245 4 834 3 116 THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 SUPPLIERS OF INVESTMENT: Via Oeste 79 018 79 911 Other related Parties (Note 30) 548 VVS 4 566 1 951 Decunify Soluções de Comunicações, S.A. 490 675 AtoBe 1 582 45 Wingman Estratégia Internet, Unipessoal, Lda. 284 67 TIICC 4 4 Iten Solutions Sistemas de Informação, S.A. 13 1 801 85 170 81 911 Other 615 302 1 950 2 845 The provision for ongoing lawsuits is aimed to face potential liabilities with lawsuits brought against the company, which were estimated based on information from legal consultants. At 31 December 2018 and 2017 claims against the Company totalled € 7 072 thousand and € 7 512 thousand, respectively; the corresponding provision reflects the Board of Directors’ best estimate of the amount of such liabilities. Provision for other risks and charges as of 31 December 2018 and 2017 included the amounts of € 1 742 thousand and € 1 842 thousand, respectively, corresponding to the Board of Directors’ estimate of the amount of the potential losses to be incurred by the Company associated to the Douro Litoral Concession, resulting from commitments undertaken in agreements entered into with the consortium responsible for the construction of Douro Litoral motorway (“DLACE”). 196 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 26. OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES 27. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 28. PENSION LIABILITIES As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 this caption was made up as follows: At 31 December 2018 and 2017 Brisa had liabilities related to several bank Defined Benefit Plan guarantees provided in favour of third parties, namely: ‘18 Brisa and some of its subsidiaries have a supplementary retirement, incapacity ‘17 and survivor pension plan, under which their employees reaching retirement ‘18 THOUSAND EURO ACCRUED COSTS: THOUSAND EURO ‘17 age at the service of the Company and of some of its subsidiaries and that have been at their service for at least ten years, as well as those that have been at their service for at least five years and are in a situation of incapacity, Remuneration payable (a) 10 605 9 034 AEA 23 100 23 100 have the right to a retirement pension supplementary to that guaranteed Group companies (Note 13) 13 3 ELOS (a) 18 226 17 769 by the Social Security. Other 300 257 Other guarantees provided to third parties (b) 64 455 64 455 The benefit defined in the pension plan corresponds to 7% of the gross 10 918 9 294 105 781 105 324 remuneration at the date of retirement, plus 0.5% for each year of service GOVERNMENT AND OTHER PUBLIC BODIES: after the tenth year. Also, in accordance with the pension plan in force, the a) This amount relates to bank guarantees presented by Brisa to guarantee the compliance with the retirement pension supplement cannot exceed 17% of the gross remuneration Corporate Income Tax (CIT) Capital Subscription and Realisation Agreement. at the date of retirement and the sum of the pension supplement plus that Tax payable (b) 16 051 16 051 b) At 31 December 2018 and 2017 this caption included the amount of € 64 129 thousand corresponding attributed by the Social Security can also not exceed the gross remuneration to bank guarantees provided to the Tax Authorities within the scope of pending proceedings (Note 8). base. PERSONAL INCOME TAX: Income tax withheld 303 305 Within the scope of companies financed under Project Finance (AEDL, AEA, In the case of death of the beneficiary, the plan also grants to the surviving 218 377 AEBT and AELO), equity holdings were pledged in favour of funding providers. spouse, children or equivalent, under certain conditions, the right to Value added tax a supplementary survivor pension, corresponding to 50% of the supplementary Payments to Social Security 307 292 retirement pension that the beneficiary was receiving. Within the scope of the commitments undertaken in companies subject to Other taxes 543 543 Project Finance (AEDL, AEBT, AELO and ELOS), the Company is responsible for any additional costs that may arise. At AELO, AEBT and ELOS this liability The liability resulting from the above-mentioned scheme was transferred 17 422 17 568 to an autonomous pension fund. The liability is determined semi-annually is pro rata to the percentage of capital held. OTHER RECEIVABLES: based on actuarial studies prepared by independent experts, with the last Group companies (Note 13) 2 338 3 767 Brisa entered into a Subscription Agreement with SICAR, whereby it undertook made available being as of 31 December 2018. SGTR (Note 13) 1 589 799 to invest up to € 50 000 thousand. At 31 December 2018 and 2017 it had already invested € 7 876 thousand and € 18 318 thousand, respectively. The actuarial studies as of 31 December 2018 and previous years were prepared Other 1 892 1 839 using the Projected Unit Credit method and the following assumptions and Viewing to suspend tax enforcement proceedings relating to 2010 tax period, technical bases: 5 819 6 405 the Company provided a bank guarantee of € 153 310 thousand, by means 34 159 33 267 of pledge on 24 618 shares of BOM, in the amount of € 191 637 thousand. a) This caption includes the amount of holiday pay, holiday bonus, performance bonus payable to employees and social expenses. During the year ended at 31 December 2016, these proceedings were settled in a manner that was partly favourable to the Company, as the tax due ‘18 ‘17 ‘16 ‘15 was reduced to € 28 829 thousand (Note 27). During the year ended as of b) This amount refers to a sum returned by tax authorities following the tax inspection relating to 2007 31 December 2018 Brisa was notified of the favourable decision concerning Technical interest rate 2.25% 2.25% 2.25% 3.25% (Note 8), which the Company considers as being due. the reduction of the guarantee provided as pledge, down to the amount of Fund’s annual income rate 2.25% 2.25% 2.25% 3.25% € 33 479 thousand, corresponding to 8 402 shares of BOM. The Company is undertaking the formalisation of the reduction of the said pledge (Note 8) Annual salary growth rate 1.85% 1.85% 1.85% 2.25% Annual pension growth rate 0% 0% 0% 0% 197 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY The annual wage growth rate reflects the wage policy which is being followed At 31 December 2018 and in previous years, the difference between the 29. MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL RISKS by the Group. present value of liabilities and the market value of the fund’s assets was follows: General principles As of 31 December 2018 the impact of a 25 bps reduction in the technical Like most companies, Brisa is exposed to a number of financial risks stemming interest rate and the fund’s annual income rate used in the actuarial study would correspond to an increase in the present value of projected liabilities THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 ‘16 ‘15 from its business activity. It is worth noting the counterparty risk to which the Company is exposed due to risk hedging operations and short-term by approximately € 287 thousand. investments of treasury surpluses. Current value of projected liabilities 5 733 5 342 4 736 4 003 Additionally, the demographic assumptions considered at 31 December 2018 Fund’s market value (3 525) (3 851) (3 654) (3 777) All financial risk transactions, namely those involving the use of derivative and previous years were as follows: instruments must be approved by the Financial Director or the Executive 2 208 1 491 1 082 226 Committee. ‘18 ‘17 ‘16 ‘15 The difference between the market value of the fund’s assets and the current The main financial risks to which the Company is exposed and the measures value of liabilities is recorded as non-current liability. implemented to manage such risks can be summed up as follows: Mortality tables TV 88/90 TV 88/90 TV 88/90 TV 88/90 Disability table EKV 80 EKV 80 EKV 80 EKV 80 The fund’s assets and return rate at 31 December 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Credit risk Credit risk relates to trade and other accounts receivable, from the moment According to the mentioned actuarial studies, the costs with retirement Return Rate Assets’ Fair Value such credit is recognized.. Although limited, due to the nature of the Company’s pension supplements for the year ended 31 December 2018 and in previous main operations, the risk is monitored on a regular basis with the objective of: years was as follows: SHARES AND OTHER EQUITY INSTRUMENTS ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 • monitoring the evolution of the level of balances receivable; THOUSAND EURO ‘17 ‘16 ‘15 European stocks -13.3% 14.7% 813 1 011 • reviewing on a regular basis, the recoverability of amounts receivable. International stocks (exc. Europe) N/A N/A 54 58 Cost of current services (Note 6) 272 253 208 166 Bonds and other debt instruments 0,0% 0,3% 1 990 2 272 Changes in impairment losses of accounts receivable are disclosed in Note 23. Financing cost (Note 6) 124 110 134 161 Real estate funds and Hedge Funds 0,1% 1,3% 366 390 The Board of Directors deems that the estimated impairment losses on Remeasurements 406 126 634 (364) Liquidity 2,0% 1,3% 302 120 accounts receivable as of 31 December 2018 are adequately reflected in the Income from the fund (Note 6) (85) (80) (120) (140) financial statements (Notes 16 and 23). 3 525 3 851 717 409 856 ( 177) Remeasurements are recorded as income and expenses are recognised Defined Contribution Plan directly in equity. Directors and the management staff have the benefit of a defined contribution supplementary retirement pension, with Company having assumed the As mentioned, liabilities for the social benefits referred to above were commitment to pay to an insurance company 10% of the respective basic transferred to an autonomous pension fund to where the company, when annual remuneration. In the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017, the necessary, makes contributions to cover such liabilities. amount of bonuses recorded under “Personnel Costs” was of € 331 thousand and € 317 thousand, respectively (Note 6). 198 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY At 31 December 2018 and 2017, accounts receivable from third parties, except Financial assets and liabilities within the scope of IFRS 9 Additionally, main transactions carried out with other related entities in the for related parties, included the following overdue balances, for which the The Company’s financial assets and liabilities are measured at amortised cost. years ended as of 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Board of Directors has not recognised impairment losses as it believes that they are receivable: Operating Operating Intangible Fair value estimate assets and liabilities measured at fair value ‘18 income expenses assets ‘17 The following fair value hierarchy levels apply to assets and liabilities measured OVERDUE BALANCES: at fair value: • Level 1: the fair value of financial instruments is based on market pricing ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 José de Mello Group 45 843 200 45 Up to 90 days 41 from active and liquid financial markets at the date of the statement of financial position; 45 843 200 45 1 to 360 days 2 More than 360 days 1 2 • Level 2: the fair value of financial instruments is not determined based on 1 45 market pricing from active and liquid financial markets, prices but according In the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017, gross remuneration of to valuation models; members of Brisa’s corporate bodies was as follows: ‘18 Counterparty Risk The investment of cash surpluses and the majority of transactions involving • Level 3: the fair value of financial instruments is not determined based on ‘17 derivative financial instruments expose the Company to the risk of nonmarket pricing from active and liquid financial markets, prices but according to valuation models, the main inputs of which are not observable in the EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS: compliance by the counterparties in these operations. In order to mitigate this risk, the company controls on a permanent basis the level of exposure financial markets. Fixed remuneration 1 825 1 831 to each counterparty on the back of credit limits that are defined based on Variable remuneration: 1 916 2 283 their rating levels, amongst other factors. At 31 December 2018 and 2017, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured at fair value. Defined benefits 272 272 Project Finance NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS: It is a policy of the Brisa Group to tender for new road concessions, both Fixed remuneration 392 386 domestic and international, integrated in joint ventures/consortia. 30. OTHER RELATED PARTIES Supervisory Board 120 120 The main balances as of 31 December 2018 and 2017 concerning other related Project finance has been used to fund these projects with the clear objective 4 525 4 892 parties not disclosed in Note 13 are as follows: of separating each project in operating, financial and legal terms. The creation of companies with their own financing structures and no recourse to Brisa cash flow or assets (besides the capital commitments the amount In the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017, gross remuneration of Brisa Other debtors Suppliers Investment Suppliers of which is known at the very beginning) allows to limit and quantify the (Note 15) (Note 25) (Note 25) key management personnel was as follows: risk assumed by Brisa when investing in new concessions. Moreover, Brisa enters in these projects in partnership, normally with minority stakes, thereby mitigating its exposure to each project. ‘17 ‘18 ‘18 ‘18 ‘17 José de Mello Group 18 816 548 KEY MANAGING PERSONNEL For each project an entity is set up with its own financing structure and 18 816 548 no recourse by creditors to cash flows or assets of Brisa, (apart from the Fixed remuneration 1 887 1 820 normal stand-by equity guarantees provided under the terms of these Variable remuneration: 787 1 018 projects, the value of which is known from the start). Therefore, the risk taken on by Brisa is limited to the amount of equity attributed to Defined benefits 43 45 the project and to the guarantees mentioned above. 2 717 2 883 199 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 31. APPROVAL OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 were approved by the Board of Directors on 17 April 2019 and their issuance was authorised on the same date. However, they are still subject to the approval of the General Shareholder’s • Vasco Maria Guimarães José de Mello Meeting, under the terms of the commercial law in force in Portugal. • João Pedro Stilwell Rocha e Melo 32. STATUTORY OFFICIAL AUDITOR FEES • João Pedro Ribeiro de Azevedo Coutinho In the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 the Official auditor’s fees totalled €30 thousand in each of the said years. • António José Lopes Nunes de Sousa São Domingos de Rana, 17 April 2019 • Daniel Alexandre Miguel Amaral The Certified Accountant no. 62018 • Rui Alexandre Pires Diniz _______________________ • Michael Gregory Allen João Rodrigues • Luís Eduardo Brito Freixial de Goes • Graham Peter Wilson Marr • Stuart David Gray 200 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL POSITION AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2018 AND 2017 (Amounts expressed in thousand Euro) Notes ‘18 Restated ‘17 Notas ‘18 Restated ‘17 NON-CURRENT ASSETS SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY: Tangible fixed assets 12 49 534 48 978 Share capital 22 6 000 6 000 Intangible assets 13 2 276 394 2 397 252 Treasury Shares 23 (228 720) (228 720) Investments in associates 14 95 382 110 976 Adjustments of investments in associates 1 130 (2 383) Other investments 15 10 259 7 407 Legal reserve 24 1 200 1 200 Goodwill 16 26 447 26 447 Effect of currency translation 24 53 620 54 018 Other debtors 151 925 Retained earnings and other reserves 24 439 160 349 395 Deferred tax assets 17 84 206 78 126 Consolidated net profit for the year 157 997 230 771 Other non-current assets 18 2 054 3 146 Equity attributable to equity holders 430 387 410 281 Total non-current assets 2 544 427 2 673 257 Non-controlling interests 25 80 832 91 615 Total shareholders’ equity 511 219 501 896 CURRENT ASSETS Inventories 4 634 5 282 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES: Trade and other receivables 19 59 790 52 360 Loans 26 1 888 158 1 996 662 Associate companies 14 60 260 64 416 Provisions 28 218 675 201 440 Other current assets 20 26 514 23 983 Other non-current liabilities 29 37 081 45 958 Cash and cash equivalent 21 338 392 519 405 Deferred tax liabilities 17 593 5 737 Total current assets 489 590 665 446 Total non-current liabilities 2 144 507 2 249 797 Total assets 3 034 017 3 338 703 CURRENT LIABILITIES: Provisions 28 23 150 21 020 Suppliers 22 604 20 582 Loans 26 190 031 426 363 Other accounts payable 20 279 16 590 Current tax liabilities 9 35 897 22 612 Other current liabilities 30 86 330 79 843 Total current liabilities 378 291 587 010 Total liabilities 2 522 798 2 836 807 Total liabilities and equity 3 034 017 3 338 703 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2018. THE CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANT NO. 62018 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 201 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS FOR THE YEARS ENDED AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2018 AND 2017 (AMOUNTS EXPRESSED IN THOUSAND EURO) Notes ‘18 Restated ‘17 OPERATING INCOME: Sale of Goods 5 and 6 26 517 8 907 Rendered Services 5 and 6 711 669 662 011 Other operating income 5 and 6 8 268 8 348 Reversal of amortisation, depreciation, adjustments and provisions 5 and 6 4 383 4 856 Revenue associated to construction service 5 and 6 12 297 13 324 Total operating income 763 134 697 446 OPERATING EXPENSES: Cost of Goods Sold 5 (14 541) (3 657) External supplies and services 5 (75 879) (70 865) Personnel costs 5 (94 510) (90 924) Amortisation, depreciation and adjustments 5, 12, 13 and 27 (144 222) (142 330) Provisions 5 and 28 (51 051) (47 791) Other operating expenses 5 (7 813) (7 552) Expenses associated to construction service 5 and 6 (12 297) (13 324) Total operating expenses (400 313) (376 443) Operating profit 362 821 321 003 Financial expenses 5 and 8 (66 746) (150 131) Financial income 5 and 8 1 346 2 152 Investment income 5 and 8 2 847 231 686 Profit before tax 300 268 404 710 Income tax 5 and 9 (88 701) (128 765) The accompanying notes form an integral part of the separate consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2018. Net profit for the year 211 567 275 945 ATTRIBUTABLE TO: THE CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANT NO. 62018 Shareholders 5 and 10 157 997 230 771 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Non-controlling interests 5 and 25 53 570 45 174 EARNINGS PER SHARE (IN EURO): Basic 10 0,286 0,418 Diluted 10 0,286 0,418 202 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY FOR THE YEARS ENDED AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2018 AND 2017 (AMOUNTS EXPRESSED IN THOUSAND EURO) Adjustments of Forex Retained Net Share Treasury equity holdings Legal translation earnings and consolidated profit Non-controlling Notes capital shares in associates reserve adjustments other reserves for the year interests TOTAL Balance at 01 January 2017 6 000 (228 720) (4 411) 1 200 48 553 551 966 256 369 92 603 723 560 Restatement effects 8 700 (939) 3 728 11 489 Restated balances at 01 January 2017 6 000 (228 720) (4 411) 1 200 48 553 560 666 255 430 96 331 735 049 Restated consolidated net profit for the year 230 770 45 175 275 945 Other income and expenses recognised under Shareholders’ Increase/(decrease) in the fair value of financial 31 39 664 690 40 354 instruments net of tax effect Changes in currency translation reserves 5 465 (10) 5 455 Pension plan remeasurements 17 and 33 (202) (7) (209) Effect of the application of the Equity Method 2 028 2 028 Other (6 298) (6 298) Total comprehensive income for the year 2 028 5 465 33 164 230 770 45 848 317 275 Appropriation of consolidated net profit for 2016: Dividends 11 and 25 (153 695) (256 369) (26 476) (436 540) Distribution of free reserves 11 (90 082) (90 082) Share capital decrease 25 ( 7 276) (7 276) Interim dividends 25 (18 000) (18 000) Effect of adopting IFRS 9 25 (658) 940 (282) Accessory capital 25 1 470 1 470 Restated balances at 31 December 2017 6 000 (228 720) (2 383) 1 200 54 018 349 395 230 771 91 615 501 896 Balance at 01 January 2018 6 000 (228 720) (2 383) 1 200 54 018 349 395 230 771 91 615 501 896 Consolidated net profit for the year 157 997 53 570 211 567 Other income and expenses recognised under Shareholders’ Equity Increase/(decrease) in the fair value of financial instruments 31 924 280 1 204 net of tax effect Changes in currency translation reserves (398) 48 (350) Pension plan remeasurements 17 and 33 (648) 45 (603) Effect of the application of the Equity Method 1 693 1 693 Changes in the control % of subsidiaries (286) (286) Other (2) (21) (23) Total comprehensive income for the year 1 407 (398) 274 157 997 53 922 213 202 Appropriation of consolidated net profit for 2017: Dividends 11 and 25 150 637 (230 771) (48 585) (128 719) Distribution of free reserves 11 (75 160) (75 160) Transfers 2 106 14 014 (16 120) Balance at 31 December 2018 6 000 (228 720) 1 130 1 200 53 620 439 160 157 997 80 832 511 219 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity for the year ended at 31 December 2018. THE CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANT NO. 62018 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 203 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEARS ENDED AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2018 AND 2017 (AMOUNTS EXPRESSED IN THOUSAND EURO) Notes ‘18 Restated ‘17 Consolidated net profit for the year 211 567 275 945 Other income and expenses recognised directly under Shareholders’ Equity which may be restated to expenses and income: Changes in currency translation reserves (350) 5 455 Increase/(decrease) in the fair value of financial instruments, net of tax effect 17 and 31 1 204 40 354 Income from equity holdings 14 1 693 2 028 Other income and expenses recognised directly under Shareholders’ Equity (23) (6 298) 2 524 41 539 Other income and expenses recognised directly under Shareholders’ Equity which will be reclassified to results: Pension plan remeasurements 17 and 33 (603) (209) Total Other Comprehensive Income 1 921 41 330 Total consolidated net profit and loss and other comprehensive income for the year 213 488 317 275 Attributable to: Shareholders 159 280 271 428 Non-controlling interests 53 922 45 847 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2018. THE CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANT NO. 62018 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 204 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEARS ENDED AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2018 AND 2017 (AMOUNTS EXPRESSED IN THOUSAND EURO) Notes ‘18 ‘17 Notes ‘18 ‘17 OPERATING ACTIVITIES: FINANCING ACTIVITIES Cash receipts from clients 672 791 639 282 Cash receipts relating to: Cash paid to suppliers (118 800) (97 763) Borrowings 26 392 200 1 113 500 Cash paid to personnel (95 432) (91 828) Capital increases and accessory capital by 25 1 470 non-controlling interests Flows generated by operations 458 559 449 691 Income tax paid (88 480) (68 644) Financial instruments 175 Payments for the replacement of infrastructures (27 009) (27 609) 392 200 1 115 145 Other receipts relating to operating activities 73 906 42 536 Cash payments relating to: Net cash from operating activities (1) 416 976 395 974 Borrowings 26 (726 585) (902 735) INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES Interest and similar costs 26 (68 505) (69 474) Cash receipts relating to: Dividends 11 and 25 (203 859) (544 236) Tangible fixed assets 437 871 (2 240) (4 982) Derivative financial instruments Investments in subsidiaries, associates and other 14 and 15 13 819 316 555 Capital decreases and accessory capital of non25 (7 276) Investment subsidies 733 111 controlling interests Dividends 14 and 15 8 327 15 780 (1 001 189) (1 528 703) Interest and similar income 5 174 2 512 Net cash from financing activities (3) (608 989) (413 558) 28 490 335 829 Foreign exchange effect (4) 102 18 807 Cash payments relating to: Transfer to asset held for sale (5) 23 807 Investments in subsidiaries, associates and other 14 and 15 (3 628) (6 249) Variation in cash and cash equivalents (6) = (1) + (2) + (3) + (4) (180 971) 337 589 Tangible and intangible fixed assets (13 922) (17 021) (17 550) (23 270) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 21 519 349 181 760 Net cash from investing activities (2) 10 940 312 559 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 21 338 378 519 349 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2018. THE CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANT NO. 62018 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 205 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 (AMOUNTS EXPRESSED IN THOUSAND EURO) 1. INTRODUCTION Effective date (years BRISA – Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A. has its head office in Cascais and Standard/Interpretation beginning on or after) was founded on 28 September 1972. The Brisa Group (“the Group”) is made up of the subsidiaries and associated companies listed in Notes 4 and 14, IFRS 15 – Revenue from contracts with 01-jan-2018 This standard introduces a structure for recognising revenue when the contractual obligation of including subsidiary Brisa – Concessão Rodoviária, S.A. (“BCR”), which has customers delivering assets or providing services is met, by applying the 5-phase method. securities listed on Bourse de Luxembourg (“LuxSE”) and Euronext Lisbon. The Group’s principal activities are described in Note 5. Changes in IFRS 15 – Revenue from 01-jan-2018 Identification of performance obligations, time of recognition of revenue from PI licences, contracts with customers revision of indicators for classifying the principal relation versus agent, and new regimes for the simplification of the transition. 2. MAIN ACCOUNTING POLICIES IFRS 9 Financial instruments: 01-jan-2018 Replaces IAS 39 requirements in relation to the classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities; recognition of impairments on receivable credits (using the model of expected loss); 2.1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION and requirements for the recognition and classification of hedge accounting. The accompanying consolidated financial statements were prepared on a going concern basis from the books and accounting records of the companies IFRS 2 – Share-base payment 01-jan-2018 Measurement of share-based payment plans financially settled, recognition of changes, and the included in the consolidation (Note 4), restated in the consolidation process to classification of share-based payment plans as settled in equity, where the employer is required International Financial Reporting Standards, effective for the years beginning to withhold tax. 01 January 2018, as adopted in European Union. Such standards include the International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) issued by the International Improvements in international financial 01-jan-2018 These improvements involve the clarification of aspects relating to: IFRS 1 First adoption of IFRS: Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), the International Accounting Standards reporting standards (2014-2016 cycle) eliminates temporary exemptions for IFRS 7, IFRS 10 and IAS 19, as they are no longer applicable; (“IAS”) issued by the Accounting Standards Committee (“IASC”) and the IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities: clarifies that its scope includes investments respective interpretations – SIC and IFRIC issued by the International Financial classified within the scope of IFRS 5, and that the only exemption refers to the disclosure of the Reporting Interpretation Committee (“IFRIC”) and Standing Interpretation summary of the financial information of such entities; and IAS 28 Investments in associates Committee (“SIC””). These standards and interpretations are hereinafter and joint ventures: (i) clarifies that investments in associates or joint ventures held by a venture referred to collectively as “IFRS”. capital company can be measured at fair value according to IFRS 9, on an individual basis, and (ii) clarifies that an entity which is not an investment entity, but holds investments in associates Adoption of new standards and interpretations, amended and joint ventures which are investment entities can keep the measurement at fair value of the or revised associate or joint venture in its own subsidiaries. The following standards, interpretations, amendments and revisions endorsed IFRIC 22 – Foreign currency 01-jan-2018 Interest rate to apply where the consideration is received or paid in advance. by the European Union with mandatory application in financial years starting transactions and advance on or after 01 January 2018, are as follows: consideration 206 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY The adoption of these standards was applied retrospectively and the effect ‘17 ‘17 on the Group’s financial position as of 1 January 2017 deriving from IFRS 9, ‘17 IFRS 9 Restated ‘17 IFRS 9 Restated which is the only standard where the adoption had a materially relevant Non-current assets 2 673 257 2 673 257 Current liabilities: impact. Current assets 665 446 665 446 Other accounts payable 16 590 16 590 THOUSAND EURO 01/01/‘17 Total assets 3 338 703 3 338 703 Current tax liabilities 22 612 22 612 Non-current assets Other current liabilities 79 843 79 843 Shareholders’ equity: Current assets Total current liabilities 588 616 (1 606) 587 010 Share capital 6 000 6 000 Total assets Total liabilities and equity 3 338 703 3 338 703 Treasury Shares (228 720) (228 720) Shareholders’ equity: Adjustments of investments in associates (2 383) (2 383) The impact on the financial statements stemmed from the introduction Results brought forward 8 700 Legal reserve 1 200 1 200 of IFRS 9, specifically the remeasurement of the financial liability resulting from the repurchase transaction and partial cancellation of the bond issued Net income (939) Effect of currency translation 54 018 54 018 in 2006 and maturing in 2016 and replacement by a new bond maturing in 2025, occurredon 30 April 2015. Equity attributable to equity holders 7 761 Retained earnings and other reserves 341 353 8 042 349 395 Non-controlling interests 3 728 Consolidated net profit for the year 231 479 (708) 230 771 The impact from the adoption of the new standards during the year ended Total shareholders’ equity 11 489 at 31 December 2017 was as follows: Equity attributable to equity holders 402 947 7 334 410 281 Non-controlling interests 88 472 3 143 91 615 ‘17 Non-current liabilities: THOUSAND EURO ‘17 IFRS 9 Restated Total shareholders’ equity 491 419 10 477 501 896 Loans (15 295) Operating income 697 446 697 446 Deferred tax liabilities 5 283 Operating costs (376 443) (376 443) Non-current liabilities: Total non-current liabilities (10 012) Operating Results 321 003 321 003 Loans 2 010 351 (13 689) 1 996 662 Current liabilities: Provisions 201 440 201 440 Financial expenses (148 654) (1 477) (150 131) Loans (1 477) Other non current liabilities 45 958 45 958 Financial income 2 152 2 152 Total current liabilities (1 477) Deferred tax liabilities 919 4 818 5 737 Investment income 231 686 231 686 Total liabilities and equity 0 Total non-current liabilities 2 258 668 (8 871) 2 249 797 Profit before tax 406 187 (1 477) 404 710 The assessment made of the Company’s financial assets did not result in Income tax (129 230) 465 (128 765) ‘17 any change in their measurement. Therefore, no impact on equity as of ‘17 IFRS 9 Restated Net profit for the year 276 957 (1 012) 275 945 1 January 2017 has resulted therefrom. Current liabilities: Attributable to: Following the adoption of the new standards, the financial statements for Provisions 21 020 21 020 the year ended at 31 December 2017 were restated. This change had the Shareholders 231 479 (708) 230 771 following impact on the statement of financial position: Suppliers 20 582 20 582 Non-controlling interests 45 478 (304) 45 174 Loans 427 969 (1 606) 426 363 207 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Non-adopted new standards and interpretations, amended or revised Until 31 December 2018 the following standards were endorsed by the European Union, with their application being mandatory in future financial years: Effective date (years Standard/Interpretation beginning on or after) IFRS 16 – Leases 01-jan-19 This standard specifies the principles to recognise, measure, present and disclose leases, replacing IAS 17 Leases. The standard defines a new definition of lease and a new accounting of leases for lease-holders. There are no changes concerning the accounting of leases by lessors. IFRS 9 Financial instruments: 01-jan-19 Options of accounting processing of financial assets with negative compensation. IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty over income tax 01-jan-19 Clarification regarding the determination of taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, treatment unused tax credits and tax rates, when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments under IAS 12. These standards, although endorsed by the European Union, were not adopted by the Group in the year ended at 31 December 2018 as their application is still not mandatory. No significant impact is expected to occur following the adoption of the said standards. The following standards, interpretations, amendments and revision likely to apply to the Company’s operations, the adoption of which will be mandatory in future financial years, were not endorsed by the European Union as of the date of these financial statements: Effective date (years Standard/Interpretation beginning on or after) IAS 19 Employee benefits 01-jan-19 Requires using updated assumptions to determine remaining responsibilities, with impact on the income statement, except for the decrease of any excess in “asset ceiling”. IAS 28 Investments in associates and 01-jan-19 Clarification as to long term investment in associates and joint ventures which are not measured joint ventures by the equity method. IFRS 3 Concentration of business 01-jan-20 This amendment revises the definition of business for the purposes of accounting for activities concentrations of business activities. IAS 1 – Presentation of Financial 01-jan-20 This amendment introduces a change to the material concept. Statements IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors 208 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Whenever necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of Effective date (years subsidiary companies to conform to the Group’s accounting policies. Standard/Interpretation beginning on or after) b) Joint ventures Improvements in international financial 01-jan-19 These improvements involve the clarification of aspects relating to: IAS 23 Borrowing costs: The reporting standards (2015-2017 cycle) amendments clarify that if any specific borrowing remains outstanding after the related asset Joint arrangements are classified as joint ventures or joint undertakings is ready for its intended use or sale, that borrowing becomes part of the funds that an entity according to the contractual rights and obligations of each investor. borrows generally when calculating the capitalisation rate on general borrowings. IAS 12 Income taxes: The amendments clarify that all income tax consequences of dividends (i.e. distribution Joint undertakings are in included in the consolidated financial statements of profits) should be recognised in profit or loss, regardless of how the tax arises; and IFRS 3 according to the equity method. Investments in joint undertakings are initially Business Combinations and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: clarify that (i) when an entity obtains measured at cost; their book value is subsequently increased or reduced control of a business that is a joint operation, it remeasures previously held interests in that by recognising the share of the Group in total gains or losses recorded by business; and (ii) when an entity obtains joint control of a business that is a joint operation, the the joint undertaking. entity does not remeasure previously held interests iat fair value. Conceptual structure Amendments 01-jan-20 Amendments to some IFRS in relation to cross references and clarifications concerning the When the share of the losses attributable to the Group is equivalent or to reference in other IFRS application of new definitions of assets and liabilities and expenses and income. exceeds the value of the investment in the joint venture, the Group recognises additional losses if it has taken on obligations or made payments to the benefit of the joint ventures. No significant effects with impact on the Group’s financial statements are expected to occur as a result of the adoption of these standards. Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated in the proportion of the Group’s interest in the joint The financial statements were prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention, except in the case of financial instruments, which were recognised at venture. Unrealised losses will also be eliminated, unless the transaction fair value. The main accounting policies adopted are described below. provides additional evidence of an impairment over the transferred asset. Accounting policies of joint ventures are altered, where necessary, in order 2.2. CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES to ensure that they are applied consistently with those of the Group. a) Controlled companies c) Concentration of business activities Controlled companies have been consolidated in each accounting period using the full consolidation method. Control is considered to exist where the Group is exposed to or is entitled to variable returns stemming from its involvement with affiliates and can determine such returns on account of the The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for according to the purchase power it exerts on these companies. Subsidiaries are consolidated as from the date in which respective control is transferred to the Group, and they are method. The acquisition cost is calculated as the sum of the fair values excluded from consolidation as from the date such control ceases to exist. of the assets transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed, and the equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for the control of the acquire, Third party participation in shareholders’ equity and net profit of such companies is presented separately in the consolidated statement of financial at acquisition date.. Acquisition related costs are recognized as cost when position and consolidated income statement, respectively, under the caption “Non-controlling interests” (Note 25). incurred. When applicable the acquisition costs also include the fair value of the contingent consideration measured at the acquisition date. Subsequent The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the date of their acquisition to the changes to value of the contingent consideration are recorded in accordance date of their disposal. with the accounting of rules applicable to the identified assets and liabilities, except if they qualify as measurement period adjustments. During the Controlled companies as of 31 December 2018 are listed in Note 4. Significant balances and transactions between such companies were eliminated in the provisional measurement period, these subsequent changes affect the consolidation process. Non-realised losses are also eliminated, unless considered as an indicator of impairment for the asset transferred. Capital gains purchase value of the concentration of business activities (fair value of within the Group on the disposal of subsidiary and affiliated companies are also eliminated. net assets purchased), whilst changes occurred following the provisional measurement period affect results or equity, in accordance with respective 209 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY standards, and the fair value of assets and liabilities for the purposes of sold. The fair value of the investments kept corresponds to the fair value financing), in which case any impairment losses will be recorded as expenses. measuring the concentration of business activities is no longer altered. of the initial recognition for the purposes of the subsequent accounting Reversal of impairment losses recognised in prior years is recorded when in the scope of IFRS 9 – Financial instruments or, if applicable, the cost for there is an indication that the impairment losses recognised for the asset If the initial accounting of the business combination is incomplete by the the purposes of the initial recognition of an investment in an associate or no longer exist or have decreased. However, impairment losses are reversed end of the reporting period in which the business combination occurs, the a joint-venture. up to the amount that would have been recognised (net of amortisation) if Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is the impairment loss had not been recorded in prior years. incomplete and adjusts those provisional amounts during the measurement d) Investments in associates period (period between the date of acquisition and the date at which the Unrealised gains in transactions with associates are eliminated in proportion Group obtains the full information about the facts and circumstances that An associate is an entity over which an investor has significant influence, to the Group’s interest in such entities, by corresponding entry to the amount existed at the acquisition date and that cannot exceed one year from the being the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the related investment. Unrealised losses are also eliminated, but only acquisition date), or additional assets and liabilities are recognized, to reflect of the investee, but not control or joint control. up to the point in which the loss does not show that the asset transferred the facts and circumstances that existed at the financial position date and is in a situation of impairment. that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognized at the acquisition Investments in the majority of associates (Note 14) are accounted for using the date. Where, as of the date of acquisition of the control, the Group already equity method, except where they are classified as held for sale. Investments has a holding previously acquired, the fair value of such holding will be taken are originally recorded at cost which is then increased or decreased by the e) Goodwill into account to determine the goodwill or badwill. difference between cost and the proportional value of the equity of such companies as of the date of acquisition or the date the equity method was The differences between the acquisition cost of the investments in group If the above-mentioned differential is negative, it is recognized in the income first used. companies and associates, plus, in the case of subsidiaries, of the nonstatement for the period after reassessment of the estimated fair value. controlling interests and the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities of Under the equity method, investment in an associate is initially recognized those entities at the date of acquisition, if positive, are recorded in goodwill The interests of non-controlling shareholders are identified separately in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost and adjusted or in investments in associates, as applicable. Goodwill on investments in from the equity attributable to shareholders of the parent company. Nonthereafter to recognize the Group’s share of the profit or loss and other subsidiaries registered abroad as well as the fair value adjustments of the controlling interests can be initially measured by their fair value or by the comprehensive income of the associate (and accounted for in the income subsidiary’s assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition is recorded in percentage of the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the acquired statement and the other comprehensive income of the Group) and the the reporting currency of the subsidiary, being translated to the Group’s subsidiary. This option is made separately for each transaction. After the dividends received. reporting currency (Euro) at the exchange rate in force on the date of the initial measurement the non-controlling interests are determined as the consolidated statement of financial position. Exchange differences arising on amount initially recognized plus the proportion of the changes in the equity In the specific case of changes in equity in associates, resulting from the such translations are recorded in the caption “Foreign currency translation of the subsidiary. The comprehensive income of a subsidiary is attributed capital increase with share premium, causing a dilution of the investment adjustments”. to the non-controlling interests even if they are negative. held, the corresponding adjustment in the amount of the investment is made by corresponding entry to income or loss from investments. Goodwill is not amortised but subjected to annual impairment tests. Goodwill Changes in the controlling interests over subsidiary companies both in is allocated to the cash-generating units to which it belongs for the purposes increases and in decreases that do not represent a loss of control are Losses in associates in excess of the investment in such companies are not of performing the impairment tests, which are carried out at least once a accounted as equity transactions. The controlling interests of the Group recognised, except when the Group has made payments to the benefit of year. The recoverable amount is determined based on management business and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes the associates. plans or valuation reports performed by independent experts. Any goodwill of participation. Any difference between the amount by which the nonimpairment loss is recorded as cost in the consolidated income statement controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the acquisition price Any excess of cost over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired for the period under caption “Amortisation, depreciation and adjustments”. is recognized as equity and allocated to the controlling interests. as of the acquisition date is recorded as goodwill. Where cost is lower than the fair value of the net assets identified, the difference is recorded as a Goodwill impairment losses cannot be reversed, except for goodwill on When the Group loses control over a subsidiary, the gain or loss in the sale gain in the consolidated statement of profit and loss for the period in which investments in associates. is calculated as the difference between (i) the aggregated amount of the fair the acquisition occurs. value of the consideration received and the fair value of the interest retained When the differences between the acquisition cost of investments in group and (ii) the accounting value of the assets (including goodwill) and the liabilities In addition, dividends received from these companies are recorded as companies and associates, added, in the case of subsidiaries, of the value of the subsidiary and of the non-controlling interests; respective gains are decreases in the amount of the investments. of non-controlling interests and the fair value of identifiable assets and recognised in results for the year. The amounts previously recognized as liabilities of those companies at the date of acquisition are negative, they comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement or retained A valuation of the investments in associates is performed when there are are recognized as income at the date of acquisition, after reassessment of earnings in a similar manner as if the related assets and liabilities had been signs that the asset may be impaired (including goodwill and/or implicit loans/ the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities. 210 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Goodwill on acquisitions prior to the transition date to IFRS (1 January as held for sale, such assets and/or groups for sale will be reclassified generate future economic benefits for the Group. In such cases these costs 2004) was maintained at the former amount, being subjected to annual according to the underlying nature of the assets and will be remeasured at are capitalised as intangible assets. impairment tests. the lower of i) the carrying amount before they were classified as held for sale, adjusted for any depreciation/amortisation expense, or revaluation Amortisation of such assets is provided on a straight-line basis as from amounts that were recognised, had such assets not been classified as held the date the assets started being used, in accordance with the period the 2.3. SEGMENT REPORTING for sale, and ii) recoverable amounts of the assets as of the date they are Company expects to use them. An operating segment is a component of an entity : reclassified, in accordance with their underlying nature. These adjustments will be recognised in results for the year. Whenever there are signs of possible loss of economic value in intangible (i) that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues assets, impairment tests are carried out to estimate the recoverable value and incur expenses (including revenues and expenses relating to of the asset, and where necessary, recognise an impairment loss. transactions with other components of the same entity); 2.5. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (ii) whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the entity’s Intangible assets acquired separately are measured at acquisition cost, Useful life of intangible assets are reviewed at the end of each reporting chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources which comprises; i) the purchase price, including intellectual rights and other year so that depreciation complies with the asset consumption patterns. to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance; and taxes, after deduction for discounts; and ii) any directly attributable cost of Changes to useful life are treated as a change in an accounting estimate preparing the asset for its intended use. and applied prospectively. (iii) for which discrete financial information is available. After the initial accounting, the Group measures its intangible assets according Operating segments are reported consistently with the internal management to the cost model. 2.6. TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS information model provided to the Group’s key decision-makers. Such decisionmakers are responsible for allocating resources to the segment and assessing Tangible fixed assets used in production, rendering services or for Intangible assets, which comprise essentially contractual rights and costs administrative use are stated at cost, including expenses incurred with its performance, in addition to strategic decision-making. incurred on specific projects with future economic value, are stated at cost their purchase, minus accumulated depreciation and, where applicable, minus accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Intangible assets impairment losses. are only recognised if it is probable that they will produce future economic 2.4. NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE benefits for the Group, they are controllable by the Company and their value Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is provided on a straight-line basis Non-current assets (or discontinued operations) are classified as held for sale can be determined reliably. over their estimated useful life, as from when the assets become available if the amount is realisable through sale, as opposed to through continued for their intended use, in accordance with the following estimated periods use. This is considered to be the case where: (i) sale is probable and the asset The Brisa Group follows IFRIC 12 – Service Concession Arrangements in of useful life: is available for immediate sale in its current condition; (ii) management is situations where a public entity has assigned the Group with the supply of Years of committed to a sales plan; and (iii) the sale is expected to take place within public services, through public services concession arrangements. The Group a period of 12 months. useful life follows the intangible asset model for these arrangements, being granted the right to charge users for the public service provided, there existing Buildings and other constructions 1 a 50 Non-current assets (or discontinued operations) classified as held for sale no guarantee over the revenues to be received by the Grantor during the Basic equipment 1 a 20 are stated at the lower of book value or fair value less costs to sell. Assets concession period and the Group assuming the demand risk. Expenses with with finite life cease to be amortised/depreciated as from the date they concession infrastructures are recognised as intangible assets and amortised Transport equipment 4a6 are classified as held for sale until the date of the sale or the transaction over the period of the concession. These intangible assets are added to becomes unlikely. the amounts agreed with the Grantor for the construction/acquisition of Administrative equipment 1 a 10 assets to operate the concession, where these translate in investments in Tools and utensils 1 a 10 Subsidiaries classified as non-current assets held for sale continue to expansion or improvements to infrastructures. be consolidated until the date of respective sale, and their assets and liabilities are then classified as held for sale and accounted at the lower of the Internally generated intangible assets, namely current research and Tangible fixed assets directly related to concessions that will revert to the carrying amount and the fair value minus selling costs, whilst the recording development costs, are recognised as costs when incurred. grantor at the end of respective contracts are amortized throughout their of depreciation/amortisation ceases. estimated useful life up to the end of the concession period. Internal costs relating to the maintenance and development of software are Where, due to changes in circumstances of the Brisa Group, non-current recorded as expenses in the consolidated income statement when incurred, assets and/or groups for sale cease to fulfil the conditions to be classified except where such costs relate directly to projects which will probably 211 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Whenever there are signs of possible loss of economic value in tangible 2.8. IMPAIRMENT OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS, 2.9. FOREIGN CURRENCY ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND assets, impairment tests are carried out to estimate the recoverable value EXCLUDING GOODWILL TRANSACTIONS of the asset, and where necessary, recognise an impairment loss. Impairment assessments are made as of the date of the statement of financial Transactions in currencies other than Euro are recorded at the rates of Useful life of assets are revised at the end of each reporting year so that position and whenever an event or change in circumstances is identified that exchange prevailing as of the transaction date. At each date of the consolidated depreciation complies with the asset consumption patterns. Land is not indicates that the book value of an asset may not be recovered. Where such statement of financial position, monetary assets and liabilities denominated depreciated. Changes to useful life are treated as a change in an accounting indications exist, the Group determines the recoverable value of the asset, in foreign currency are translated to Euro at the rates of exchange prevailing estimate and applied prospectively. so as to determine the possible extension of the impairment loss. at such dates. Foreign currency non-monetary assets and liabilities recorded at fair value are translated to Euro using the rates of exchange prevailing In situations where the individual asset does not generate cash-flows on the dates the fair value is determined. 2.7. LEASING independently of other assets, the estimated recoverable value is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. Exchange gains and losses resulting from differences between the exchange Lease contracts are classified as: (i) finance leases, if substantially all rates in force on the dates of the transactions and those in force on the the benefits and risks of ownership are transferred under them; and (ii) Whenever the book value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, an dates of collection, payment or the date of the consolidated statement of operating leases, if substantially all the benefits and risks of ownership are impairment loss is recognised by charge to the statement of comprehensive financial position are recognised as income or costs in the consolidated not transferred under them. income, under caption “Amortisation. depreciation and adjustments”.. income statement, except for those relating to non-monetary items where the change in fair value is recognised directly in shareholders’ equity (“Translation Leases are classified as finance or operating leases based on the substance Intangible assets which do not have a finite useful life are tested for impairment reserves”), namely: rather than the form of the contract. on a regular basis (at least once a year), regardless of any signs of impairment. Exchange differences resulting from the translation of mediumFixed assets acquired under finance lease contracts as well as the The recoverable amount is the higher of the net selling price (selling price and long-term foreign currency intra Group balances, which in practice corresponding liabilities are recorded in accordance with the financial method, less costs to sell) and the usable value of the asset. Net selling price is the are extensions of investments; where fixed assets, corresponding accumulated depreciation and liabilities amount that would be obtained from selling the asset in a transaction between are recognised in accordance with the contracted financial plan under caption knowledgeable independent entities less the costs directly attributable to Exchange differences on financial operations to hedge exchange risk “Suppliers of investments”. In addition, the interest included in the lease the sale, or the market price if the asset is traded on an active market, or on foreign currency investments as established in IAS 21, provided instalments and depreciation of the tangible fixed assets are recognised fair value calculated based on an estimate of future cash flows that any that they comply with the efficiency criteria established in IFRS 9. as expenses in the consolidated statement of profit and loss for the year market agent would expect to obtain from the asset. Usable value is the to which they relate. present value of the estimated future cash flows resulting from the continued Translation of foreign currency financial statements of subsidiary and use of the asset and sale thereof at the end of its useful life. Recoverable associates is made as follows: assets and liabilities at the exchange rates Tangible fixed assets acquired through financial leases depreciate over the amounts are estimated for individual assets or, where this is not possible, in force on the date of the consolidated statement of financial position; useful life of the corresponding asset. for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. shareholders’ equity captions at the historical exchange rates; and separate Income statement captions at the average exchange rates. In the case of operating leases, lease instalments are recognised as expenses on a straight-line basis in the consolidated statement of profit and loss over Impairment losses recognised in prior years are reversed when there are The effect of such translations is reflected in the shareholders’ equity caption the period of the lease contract. indications that such losses no longer exist or have decreased. The reversal “Translation reserves” and is transferred to the income statement when the of impairment losses is recognized in the consolidated statement of profit and corresponding investments are sold. loss as “Reversal of amortisation, depreciation, adjustments and provisions”. However, impairment losses are reversed up to the amount that would have In accordance with IAS 21 goodwill and fair value corrections determined on the been recognised (net of amortisation) if the impairment loss had not been acquisition of foreign entities are considered in the reporting currency of such recorded in prior years. entities being translated to Euro at the exchange rates in force on the date of the consolidated statement of financial position. Such exchange differences are reflected under caption “Foreign exchange translation adjustments”. 212 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 2.10. FINANCING COSTS 2.13. OPERATING RESULTS 2.15. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Costs incurred on loans obtained directly to finance the acquisition, construction Operating results include all operating expenses and income, whether Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a or production of qualifying tangible and intangible fixed assets, i.e. assets recurring or not, including restructuring expenses, and expenses and income party to the contractual relationship. which take more than one year to build, are capitalised and form part of relating to operating assets (tangible fixed assets and intangible assets). It the cost of the assets. Such costs are capitalised as from the beginning of further includes capital gains and losses on the sale of companies included the preparation for construction or development of the assets and ends on in the consolidation by the full consolidation method. Therefore, operating Cash and cash equivalent the date such assets are available for use or when the project concerned is profit excludes net financial expenses, the results of associates and other Amounts included in caption “Cash and cash equivalents” include cash, suspended. Any financial income generated by loans obtained in advance to investments and income tax. bank deposits, term deposits and other treasury applications maturing in finance specific capital expenditure is deducted from the capital expenditure less than three months and which can be immediately withdrawable with subject to capitalisation. insignificant risk of change. 2.14. PROVISIONS Loan expenses are recognised in the consolidated income statement for Provisions are recognised when, and only when, the Company has an For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, caption “Cash and the period to which they relate. obligation (legal or implicit) resulting from a past event, under which it is cash equivalents” also includes bank overdrafts included in caption “Loans” probable that it will have an outflow of resources to resolve the obligation in the statement of financial position. and the amount of the obligation can be reasonably estimated. At each the 2.11. SUBSIDIES date of each consolidated statement of financial position provisions are Government subsidies are recognised based on their fair value, when there reviewed and adjusted to reflect the best estimate as of that date. Accounts receivable is reasonable certainty that they will be received and that the Group will Accounts receivable do not have implicit interest and are reflected at their comply with the conditions required for them to be granted. The amount recognised as provisions consists of the present value of the nominal value, minus estimated loss on realisation. best estimate, as of reporting date, of the resources required to settle the Operating subsidies, namely for personnel training, are recognised in the obligation. This estimate is determined taking into account the risks and consolidated income statement for the year in accordance with the expenses uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Financial liabilities and equity instruments incurred. In particular, the Group recognizes provisions for the reinstatement of Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified in accordance with Investment subsidies relating to the acquisition of tangible fixed assets obligations associated to the infrastructures operated under the concession the substance of the contract, independently of their legal form. Equity are deducted from the value of such fixed assets and recognised in the agreements that require a specific level of service. These provisions are instruments are contracts that reflect a residual interest in the Group’s consolidated income statement for the year on a consistent straight-line calculated based on future intervention plans, namely as concerns road assets after deduction of the liabilities. basis in proportion to depreciation of the subsidised fixed assets. resurfacing. Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the amount Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognized and received, net of the costs incurred with their issuance. 2.12. INVENTORIES measured as provisions. An onerous contract is considered to exist where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the Merchandise and raw materials are stated at are stated at acquisition cost, Bank loans obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits to be received which is lower than their corresponding market value, whilst the average from the contract. Loans are recorded as liabilities at the amount received, net of issuance acquisition cost is used as costing method. costs. Financial costs, calculated in accordance with the effective interest Provisions for reorganization expenses are recognised whenever there is rates, including premiums payable, are recorded on an accruals basis, being Finished and semi-finished products, sub-products and work in progress are a formal detailed reorganization plan which has been communicated to the added to the book value of the loans if they are not paid during the year. stated at average production cost, which includes the cost of the raw materials parties involved. incorporated, labour and production overheads (considering depreciation of production equipment based on normal utilisation levels), which is lower than net realisable value. Net realisable value corresponds to normal selling price less cost to complete production and selling costs. Impairment losses on inventories are recorded by the difference between the cost and the realisable value of inventories, if this is lower than cost. 213 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Accounts payable Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments which are be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in profit or loss. Accounts payable do not bear interest and are recorded at their nominal value. entered into for financial hedging purposes in accordance with the Group’s However, an impairment loss is reversed up to the limit of the amount that risk management policies, but do not comply with the requirements of IFRS will be recognized (net of amortization or depreciation) if it had not been 9 to qualify for hedge accounting, are recorded in the consolidated income recognized in prior periods. The reversal of impairment losses is recorded Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting statement for the year in which they occur. in the income statement. The Group has the policy of contracting derivative financial instruments to hedge the financial risks to which it is exposed as a result of changes in Fair value of financial instruments interest rates. The Group does not contract derivative financial instruments 2.16. SHARE CAPITAL AND TREASURY SHARESS for speculative purposes. The fair value of financial assets and liabilities is determined as follows, according to provisions in IFRS 13: Ordinary shares are classified in equity, as share capital. Derivative financial instruments are measured at their fair value. The method for recognising these financial instruments will depend on the nature and The fair value of standard financial assets and liabilities traded on active Expenses directly attributed to the issuance of new shares or other equity purpose of the transaction. markets is determined based on their listed prices (Level 1); instruments are recorded as deduction, net of tax, to the amount received resulting from the issue. Expenses directly attributed to the issuance of new shares or The use of financial instruments is subject to internal policies approved by The fair value of other assets and liabilities (except for derivative financial options for the purchase of a business are deducted at the value of the issue. the Board of Directors. instruments) is determined in accordance with generally accepted valuation models, based on the analysis of discounted cash flow, Treasury shares are accounted for at acquisition cost, if the purchase is made considering prices observable in current market transactions (Level 2); at spot, or at estimated fair value if the purchase is deferred, as a reduction HEDGE ACCOUNTING to equity. Income or expenses on the sale of treasury shares recorded under Derivative financial instruments are designated as hedging instruments The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined based on caption “Other reserves”. in accordance with provisions of IFRS 9, namely as to their documentation listed prices. Where listed prices are not available, fair value is determined and effectiveness. Hedging criteria are met where (i) there is an economic based on analyses of discounted cash flow, which include assumptions relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, according not supported by prices or market rates (Level 3). 2.17. DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION to the policy defined by the Company; (ii) changes in fair value do not result The distribution of dividends to holders of share capital is recognised as from change in credit risk; and (iii) ) the hedge ratio of the hedging relationship liabilities in the Company’s financial statements, in the period on which such is the same as that resulting from the quantity of the hedged item that the Impairment of financial assets dividends are approved by shareholders until the date of their financial settlement, Company actually hedges and the quantity of the hedging instrument that The Company assesses on a prospective basis the estimated credit losses or, in case of interim dividends, when approved by the Board of Directors. the Company actually uses to hedge that quantity of hedged item. associated with the financial assets, which constitute debt instruments, classified at amortised cost. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedging instruments are recorded in caption “Other reserves” In what concerns the balances of accounts receivable, the Company applies for its effective component and in the income statement for its ineffective the simplified approach provided for in IFRS 9, whereby estimated credit component. The amounts recorded under “Retained earnings and Other losses are recognised since the initial recognition of balances receivable reserves” are transferred to the income statement in the same year in throughout the period up to their maturity, based on a matrix of historical which the effect on the hedged item is reflected in the income statement. default rates for the maturity of balances receivable. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument matures For financial assets carried at cost, the amount of the impairment loss is or is sold or exercised, or when the hedging relationship ceases to comply measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the with IFRS 9 requirements. best estimate of the fair value of the financial asset. The impairment losses are recorded in the income statement in the year TRADING INSTRUMENTS they are identified. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and such decrease can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss shall 214 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 2.18. PENSION LIABILITIES 2.20. REVENUE 2.22. INCOME TAX The Group has assumed the commitment to provide its employees with Revenue corresponds to the fair value of the consideration received or Tax on income for the year is calculated based on the taxable results of the retirement pension supplements under a defined benefits plan, having receivable from transactions with clients during the ordinary course of companies included in the consolidation and takes into consideration deferred constituted autonomous pension funds for the purpose. business and it is recorded net of any tax and trade, or financial discounts taxation. Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income granted. When determining the value of the revenue, the Company assesses tax is recognised in the statement profit or loss and other comprehensive In order to estimate the amount of its liability for the payment of such the performance obligations taken and the price allocated to each, as well income, except when it concerns gains or losses recognised directly in equity, supplementary contributions, actuarial calculations are made from time to as the existence of variable prices likely to give rise to future adjustments, in which case it is also recognised directly in equity. time, using the Projected Unit Credit Method. Remeasurements resulting (i) where it uses its best estimate. from the difference between the assumptions used to determine liabilities Current income tax is calculated based on the taxable results (which may differ with the plan and the actual evolution of actuarial variables, (ii) changes Revenue relating to services rendered is recognised in the statement of from the accounting results) of the companies included in the consolidation, introduced in the assumptions and (iii) the difference between the expected profit and loss and other comprehensive income in the period they concern, in accordance with the tax rules applicable to the area in which the head return on the fund’s assets and actual return are recorded in the consolidated when the control over the product or services is transferred to the client. office of each Group company is located. statement of profit and loss in the year they occur. For construction contracts where the outcome can be estimated reliably, Deferred taxes refer to temporary differences between the amounts of Pension liabilities recognised as of the date of the consolidated statement corresponding expenses and income are recognised by reference to the assets and liabilities for accounting purposes and the corresponding amounts of financial position correspond to the present value of the liabilities under stage of completion of the contract at the end of the reporting period. for tax purposes, as well as those resulting from tax benefits obtained and the defined benefits plans, adjusted for remeasurements, less the fair value The stage of completion is measured based on the stage of realization of temporary differences between tax and accounting income. of the net assets of the pension funds. the construction work in the infrastructure. Contract costs are recognized as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. When it is likely that Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated and assessed periodically Contributions made by the Group to the defined benefits pension plans are total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is using the tax rates expected to be in force when the timing differences will recognised as expense on the dates they are due. recognised as an expense immediately. reverse. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences. 2.19. CONTINGENT ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 2.21. ACCRUAL BASIS Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but are Dividends from investments are recognised as income in the year they are Deferred tax assets are only recognised when there is reasonable expectation disclosed in the notes to the financial statements, unless the possibility of attributed that there will be sufficient future taxable income to utilise them. The an outflow of funds affecting future economic benefits is remote, in which temporary differences underlying deferred tax assets are reappraised case they are not subject to disclosure. Interest and financial income are recognised on an accrual basis in accordance annually in order to recognise or adjust the deferred tax assets based on with the effective interest rate applicable. the current expectation of their future recovery. Contingent assets are not recognised in the consolidated financial statements but are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements when it is probable Expenses and income are recognised in the year to which they relate that any associated future economic benefits will occur. independently of when they are paid or received. Income and expenses for 2.23. CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS/ESTIMATES IN which their real amount is not known are estimated. APPLYING THE ACCOUNTING STANDARDS The preparation of financial statements in accordance with the IFRS Expenses and income attributable to the current year, which will only be recognition and measurement principles require the Board of Directors to paid or received in future years, as well as the amounts paid and received make judgements, estimates and assumptions that can affect the value of in the current year that relate to future years and will be attributed to each the assets and liabilities, especially of deferred tax assets, intangible assets, of these years, are recorded in the captions “Other current assets”, “Other tangible fixed assets and provisions, the disclosure of contingent assets non-current assets” and “Other current liabilities” and other non-current and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as income liabilities.. and costs. These estimates are based on the best knowledge available at the time and on the actions planned, and they are constantly revised based on the information available. Changes in the facts and circumstances can result in 215 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY revision of the estimates, and so the actual future results can differ from such estimates. Effective Company Head Office Percentage Activities Significant estimates and assumptions made by the Board of Directors in preparing these consolidated financial statements include assumptions BRISA Auto Estradas de Portugal, S.A. (“Brisa”) Cascais Parent Provision of logistic support and administrative used to value pension liabilities, deferred taxes, the useful life of tangible Company and financial services fixed assets, impairment analyses, the fair value of derivative financial Brisa Concessão Rodoviária, SGPS, S.A. (“BCR SGPS”) Cascais 70% Management of investments instruments and provisions. Brisa Concessão Rodoviária, S.A. (“BCR”) Cascais 70% Construction, maintenance and operation of motorways Controlauto Controlo Técnico Automóvel, S.A. (“Controlauto”) Paço de Arcos 74.002% Vehicle inspection services 2.24. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Via Verde Portugal Gestão de Sistemas Electrónicos de Cobrança, S.A. Cascais 60% Management of electronic toll systems Events that occur after the consolidated statement of financial position (“Via Verde Portugal”) date that provide additional information on conditions that existed as of Brisa Gestão de Infraestruturas, S.A. (“BGI”) Cascais 100% Management of engineering and road the consolidated statement of financial position date are reflected in the maintenance projects consolidated financial statements. Brisa O&M, S.A. (“BOM”) Cascais 100% Management, operation and maintenance of road infrastructures and mobile assistance Events that occur after the consolidated statement of financial position AtoBe Mobility Technology, S.A. (“AtoBe”) Cascais 81,21% Provision of new technology-related services date that provide additional information on conditions that existed after the consolidated statement of financial position date are refllected in the notes M. Call, S.A. (“Mcall”) Porto Salvo 100% Provision of telecommunication services of the consolidated financial statements. Via Verde Contact, S.A. (“VVC”) Cascais 100% Management of client relationship Via Verde Serviços, S.A. (“VVS”) Cascais 100% Design, marketing and management of products and services in mobility-related areas 3. CHANGES IN POLICY, ESTIMATES AND ERRORS Via Verde Carsharing, S.A. (“VVCS”) Cascais 100% Provision of car sharing services In the year ended 31 December 2018 except for the changes resulting from the adoption of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15, no changes in accounting policies have Via Verde Connected Cars, S.A. (“VVCC”) Cascais 100% Provision of telematic services related to the car sector, and occurred in relation to those used to prepare the information for the year insurance mediation activity 2017 that could affect the consolidated financial situation or the consolidated Brisa Áreas de Serviço, S.A. (“BAS”) Cascais 51% Management, operation, commercial development, maintenance results of operations, and no significant errors relating to prior years were and repair of service areas recorded. Brisa Roads Áreas de Serviço, S.A. (“BRAS”) Cascais 100% Provision of Services of administrative services concerning sub-concessions of service areas 4. COMPANIES INCLUDED IN THE CONSOLIDATION Via Oeste, SGPS, S.A. (“Via Oeste”) Cascais 100% Management of investments The companies included in the consolidation, their head offices and the Brisa Internacional, SGPS, S.A. (“Brisa Internacional”) Cascais 100% Management of investments proportion of capital held in them at 31 December 2018 are as follows: Brisa Participações e Empreendimentos, Ltda. (“BPE”) São Paulo Brazil 100% Management of investments Brisa United States, LLC (“BUS”) Atlanta USA 100% Management of investments Brisa International, BV (“BIBV”) Amesterdão Holanda 100% Management of investments Brisa International Investments, BV (“BIIBV”) Amesterdão Holanda 100% Management of investments A-to-Be USA LLC (“A-to-Be USA”) Illinois USA 81.21% Provision of new technology-related services ASIRB Serviços Rodoviários, S.A. (“ASIRB”) Cascais 100% Handling, collection and delivery of vehicles These companies were included in the consolidation by the full consolidation method. 216 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 5. BUSINESS SEGMENTS Supporting services to the concessions The identification of the Group’s operating segments is made by the Board This segment includes operation and maintenance services of motorway of Directors. infrastructure, management of electronic billing, road assistance and management of engineering projects. As of 31 December 2018 the Group was organized according to the following business segments: Vehicle inspections Brisa Concession; Other Motorway Concessions; This segment includes vehicle inspection services, in particular, study, management and operation of the vehicle technical control and any other Support services to the concessions; activities directly related. Vehicle inspections; Product technology Product technology; Other businesses. This segment includes technological development and services related to new technologies. Brisa Concessão Rodoviária Other businesses Decree-law 467/72, of 22 November established the bases of Brisa Concession, namely the construction, maintenance and operation of motorways. Since This segment includes logistics and financial and administrative services. then, the concession bases were revised on several occasions, following amendments to the concession contract. Decree-Law 294/97 of 24 October, Decree-Law 287/99, of 28 July, Decree-Law 314 A/2002, of 26 December, and Decree-Law 247-C/2008, of 30 December approved the bases of the current concession currently; these bases are as described below, having relevant impact on the Company’s financial and economic situation: The total length of the motorway network operated under concession covers 1 100 kilometres, which are all open to traffic, except for the access to the new airport the length of which will depend on the location of the airport. The motorways are all tolled except for 86 kilometres. The concession period will end on 31 December 2035 and the assets directly related to the concession will revert to the State on such date. The minimum share capital of BCR is € 75 million. In the last five years of the concession the State may redeem the contract, under certain conditions ensuring financial stability. The supervision of the concession falls to the Ministry of Finance in what concerns financial matters and to the ministry responsible for the road sector as concerns remaining issues. 217 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY The results of each segment (after the elimination of intra segment transactions) in the years ended as of 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: ‘18 Support services to Vehicle Product Other Segments Consolidated Brisa Concession Eliminations THOUSAND EURO the concessions inspections technology businesses Total total Operating income: Sales of goods and products external clients 12 548 13 969 26 517 26 517 Sales of goofd and products intrasegment 18 1 190 1 208 (1 208) Rendered services external clients 596 096 55 110 31 205 4 095 25 163 711 669 711 669 Rendered services intra-segment 14 449 153 590 36 5 246 9 890 183 211 (183 211) Other operating income external clients 5 687 1 019 32 462 1 068 8 268 8 268 Other operating income intra-segment 1 395 63 560 2 018 (2 018) Reversal of amortisation, depreciation, adjustments and provisions 3 977 106 40 2 258 4 383 4 383 Revenue associated to construction service 12 297 12 297 12 297 Total operating income 632 506 223 786 31 313 25 027 36 939 949 571 (186 437) 763 134 Operating expenses: Cost of sales external (4 228) (10 313) (14 541) (14 541) Cost of sales intra-segment (621) (621) 621 Supplies and services external suppliers (5 204) (40 442) (5 215) (7 893) (17 125) (75 879) (75 879) Supplies and services intra-segment (126 095) (54 040) (1 430) (2 965) (1 206) (185 736) 185 736 Personnel costs (1 593) (55 211) (10 244) (4 843) (22 649) (94 540) 30 (94 510) Amortisation, depreciation and adjustments (133 474) (3 550) (2 194) (2 026) (2 978) (144 222) (144 222) Provisions (45 048) (3 656) (1 364) (46) (937) (51 051) (51 051) Other operating expenses external (1 347) (763) (4 971) (116) (616) (7 813) (7 813) Other operating expenses intra-segment (50) (50) 50 Expenses associated to construction service (12 297) (12 297) (12 297) Total operating expenses (325 058) (161 890) (25 418) (28 823) (45 561) (586 750) 186 437 (400 313) Operating profit 307 448 61 896 5 895 (3 796) (8 622) 362 821 362 821 Financial expenses external (64 336) (457) (112) (82) (1 759) (66 746) (66 746) Financial expenses intra-segment 1 (25) (11 596) (11 620) 11 620 Financial income external 8 24 3 7 1 304 1 346 1 346 Financial income intra-segment 125 25 11 470 11 620 (11 620) Investment income 149 2 698 2 847 2 847 (64 328) (307) 40 (75) 2 117 (62 553) (62 553) Profit before tax 243 120 61 589 5 935 (3 871) (6 505) 300 268 300 268 Income tax (73 857) (16 964) (1 498) 1 713 1 905 (88 701) (88 701) Non-controlling interests (50 134) (2 701) (1 153) 420 (2) (53 570) (53 570) Consolidated net profit for the year attributable to shareholders 119 129 41 924 3 284 (1 738) (4 602) 157 997 157 997 218 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY The results of each segment (after the elimination of intra segment transactions) in the years ended as of 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: ‘17 Supporting services Vehicle Product Other Segments Consolidated Brisa Concession Eliminations THOUSAND EURO to the concessions inspections technology businesses Total total Operating income: Sales of goods and products external clients 7 638 1 269 8 907 8 907 Sales of goods and products intra-segment 33 239 272 (272) Rendered services external clients 563 028 39 291 31 531 5 192 22 969 662 011 662 011 Rendered services intra-segment 2 247 148 442 32 5 341 9 948 166 010 (166 010) Other operating income external clients 5 373 890 265 496 1 324 8 348 8 348 Other operating income intra-segment 4 546 235 31 289 1 105 (1 105) Reversal of amortisation, depreciation, adjustments and provisions 4 790 30 34 2 4 856 4 856 Revenue associated to construction service 13 324 13 324 13 324 Total operating income 588 766 196 870 32 097 12 570 34 530 864 833 (167 387) 697 446 Operating expenses: Cost of sales external (2 451) (1 206) (3 657) (3 657) Supplies and services external suppliers (5 239) (39 579) (5 482) (5 863) (14 702) (70 865) (70 865) Supplies and services intra-segment (121 369) (40 739) (1 549) (2 595) (1 081) (167 333) 167 333 Personnel costs (1 724) (52 215) (10 461) (3 695) (22 856) (90 951) 27 (90 924) Amortisation, depreciation and adjustments (133 129) (3 088) (2 275) (1 013) (2 825) (142 330) (142 330) Provisions (44 087) (2 485) (221) ( 27) (971) (47 791) (47 791) Other operating expenses external (1 230) (656) (4 994) (13) (659) (7 552) (7 552) Other operating expenses intra-segment (4) (4) 4 Expenses associated to construction service (13 324) (13 324) (13 324) Total operating expenses (320 106) (141 213) (24 982) (14 412) (43 094) (543 807) 167 364 (376 443) Operating profit 268 660 55 657 7 115 (1 842) (8 564) 321 026 ( 23) 321 003 Financial expenses external (81 033) (471) (154) (12) (68 461) (150 131) (150 131) Financial expenses intra-segment (28) (90) (10 771) (10 889) 10 889 Financial income external 36 42 2 14 2 058 2 152 2 152 Financial income intra-segment 24 67 10 775 10 866 (10 866) Investment income 54 231 632 231 686 231 686 (80 997) (433) (98) (21) 165 233 83 684 23 83 707 Profit before tax 187 663 55 224 7 017 (1 863) 156 669 404 710 404 710 Income tax (50 377) (14 624) (1 776) 1 271 (63 259) (128 765) (128 765) Non controlling interests (41 185) (2 752) (1 362) 123 2 (45 174) (45 174) Consolidated net profit for the year attributable to shareholders 96 101 37 848 3 879 (469) 93 412 230 771 230 771 219 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY The accounting policies in the various segments are consistent with the Group policies. In the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017, changes in non-current assets of each segment were as follows: THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 Other operating income: The assets and liabilities of the segments and respective reconciliation with the consolidated total assets at 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: CHANGES IN NON-CURRENT ASSETS Compensation for operating losses (Note 29) 1 572 1 572 ‘18 ‘17 Indemnities received on works 433 595 ‘18 THOUSAND EURO Assets THOUSAND EURO ‘17 Brisa Concessão Rodoviária (118 230) (108 372) Equipment rental 457 466 Other 5 806 5 715 Brisa Concessão Rodoviária 2 586 430 2 903 080 Supporting services to the concessions 3 814 2 047 8 268 8 348 Supporting services to the concessions 32 590 20 757 Vehicle inspections (487) (1 731) Vehicle inspections 53 813 50 427 Reversal of amortisation, depreciation and adjustments and provisions: Product technology 3 856 3 108 Product technology 22 180 16 188 Impairment losses on accounts receivable (Note 27) 506 250 Other businesses (2 189) (180 123) Other businesses 243 622 237 275 (113 236) (285 071) Provisions (Note 28) 3 877 4 606 Total assets of segments 2 938 635 3 227 727 4 383 4 856 Non-allocated assets 95 382 110 976 Income associated to construction service (a) 12 297 13 324 Consolidated Assets 3 034 017 3 338 703 6. OPERATING INCOME 763 134 697 446 Operating income for the years ended as of 31 December 2018 and 2017 was as follows: a) Within the scope of concession contracts covered by IFRC 12, the construction activity is sub-contracted Liabilities THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 to external specialised companies. The Group does not have, therefore, any margin in the construction of assets allocated to the concession and the income and expenses associated to the construction of these assets are recorded in equal amount. THOUSAND EURO Brisa Concessão Rodoviária 2 396 572 2 732 939 Supporting services to the concessions 52 872 47 907 Sale of Goods 26 517 8 907 Services rendered: 7. OPERATING LEASES Vehicle inspections 7 845 6 165 In the years ended at 31 December 2018 and 2017 the Group recognised Product technology 13 459 7 441 Tolls 592 421 557 016 expenses of € 5 381 thousand and € 4 391 thousand, respectively, relating Other businesses 52 050 42 355 Vehicle inspections 31 205 31 531 to instalments under operating lease contracts. Total liabilities 2 522 798 2 836 807 Operation and Maintenance 34 474 31 508 Lease instalments payable under operating lease contracts in force as of Electronic collection 18 387 18 760 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: In order to monitor the performance of each segment and the allocation of ‘18 Service areas 17 145 8 060 resources between them: Other rendered services 8 901 6 812 YEAR THOUSAND EURO ‘17 All assets are allocated to reportable segments excluding investments 2018 2 064 in associates and other financial assets; Management of electronic equipment 3 236 5 199 2019 2 387 1 007 Goodwill is allocated to the respective segments and corresponds to Lease of on-board units 4 019 2 940 € 23 203 thousand allocated to the “vehicle inspections” business 2020 1 509 311 segment, € 2 643 thousand allocated to the “Supporting services to Management of engineering projects 1 819 124 the concessions” business segment and € 601 thousand allocated 2021 670 66 Vehicle assistance 62 61 to the “Product technology” business segment (Note 16); 2022 363 711 669 662 011 All liabilities are allocated to reportable segments. 4 929 3 448 220 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 8. FINANCIAL RESULTS As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 investment income was made up as follows: 9. INCOME TAX As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 financial expenses and losses were made Brisa and its subsidiaries with head-office in Portugal are subject to Corporate up as follows: THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 Income Tax at the normal rate of 21%, which can be increased by a municipal surcharge of up to a maximum rate of 1.5% of taxable income. ‘18 Gains on associates (Note 14) THOUSAND EURO ‘17 Transport Infrastructure Investment Company SCA (“SICAR”) 1 179 10 973 Additionally, the nominal tax rate may vary from 21% to 31.5%, depending on the amount of taxable income (TI) determined, which will be subject to a Interest expense (50 545) (67 061) Auto-Estradas do Atlântico Concessões Rodoviárias de 1 070 10 004 tax surcharge at the following rates: Loss on the valuation of derivative financial instruments : (a) ( 65 353) Portugal, S.A. (“AEA”) ( 233) Exchange losses (240) ( 45) Controlauto Açores, Lda. (“Controlauto Açores”) 149 54 State surtax: 3% on TI if €M 1.5 < TI <= €M 7.5; Other (b) (15 728) (17 672) Geira, S.A. (“Geira”) 92 97 5% on TI if €M 7.5 < TI <= €M 35; and (66 746) (150 131) SICIT Sociedade Investimento e Consultoria em 1 133 9% on TI > €M 35 Infra-Estruturas de Transportes, S.A. (“SICIT”) a) In the year ended at 31 December 2017 this caption included an amount of € 61 320 thousand relating to the settlement of the derivative financial instrument entered into by Northwest Parkway (“NWP”), AEBT Auto-Estradas do Baixo Tejo, S.A. (“AEBT”) 1 830 The Company is taxed for Corporate Income Tax under the Special Taxation following the disposal of the said concession. of Group Companies regime (“SGTR”) included in a group where it is the b) This caption includes the sums of € 6 240 thousand and € 7 445 thousand (Note 28) stemming from Transport Infrastructure S. à r.l. (“Transport”) 2 parent company and which further includes subsidiaries BGI, BOM, AtoBe, the financia update of the provision for reinstatement of infrastructures carried out in the years ended Brisa Internacional, Via Oeste, VVS, VVC, Mcall, VVCS and ASIRB. 31 December 2018 and 2017, respectively, and expenses with banking services and funding, which form 2 491 23 093 an integral part of the effective cost of the loans. Losses on companies and associates (Note 14) This regime consists of the sum of the taxable results of all the companies included in the tax perimeter, less the dividends distributed, to which the As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 the breakdown of income and gains was AEBT Auto-Estradas do Baixo Tejo, S.A. (“AEBT”) (1 097) applicable Corporate Income Tax rate plus municipal Surcharge is applied. as follows: New Mobility Ventures, B.V. (“Mobility, B.V.”) (723) (532) In accordance with current legislation, tax returns are subject to review and ‘18 TIICC, S. à r.l. (“TIICC”) (1) correction by the tax authorities during a period of four years (five years THOUSAND EURO ‘17 (1 821) (532) for social security), except where tax losses exist or tax benefits have been granted or inspections, claims or appeals are in progress, in which case, Interest earned (a) 1 300 1 892 Gains on income from investments depending on the circumstances, the period can be extended or suspended. Exchange gains 14 146 Therefore the Company’s tax returns for the years 2015 to 2018 may still AELO Auto-Estradas do Litoral Oeste, S.A. (“AELO”) 1 951 be subject to review and correction. Gains on the valuation of derivative financial instruments derivatives: 1 Gains on the disposal of investments: Other 32 113 The Board of Directors believes that any possible corrections resulting from 1 346 2 152 FBH OMT 226 1 088 revisions/inspections of these tax returns will not have a significant effect on the financial statements as of 31 December 2018. a) The decrease was mainly due to the decrease in interest rates. Northwest Parkway Holding, LLC (“NWP”) + Go-Pass Mobility 208 037 Services, LLC (“Go Pass”) (a) 226 209 125 2 847 231 686 a) Investment in NWP and Go Pass was disposed of on 9 March 2017 for USD 334 063 86, which corresponded at the exchange rate in force as of the said date to approximately € 316 618 thousand. The disposal generated gains in the amount of € 208 037 thousand. Following the deduction of due diligence expenses and the amount recorded in cash equivalent of the disposed companies in the amount of USD 27 818 850, the operation generated a net financial flow of USD 306 244 936, i.e. approximately € 271 089 thousand following conversion at the average exchange rate. 221 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY The deadline for the deduction of reportable tax losses (RTL) in Portugal In view of the above, the Tax Authority considers that: Within the scope of the SGTR, additional corporate income tax assessment is as follows: relating to 2012 and 2011 was issued in the name of Brisa (controlling company), The amount of €400 000 thousand received pursuant to the said but the tax foreclosure was suspended against guarantee provided by BCR, in TAX PERIOD DEDUCTIONS PERIODS operation was unduly added to the taxable income of 2007; the amount of € 30 948 thousand and € 11 941 thousand (following reduction occurred during the year ended at 31 December 2018), respectively. 2018 5 Income corresponding to the services giving rise to the assigned 2017 5 future receivables are to be recognized, in both tax and accounting The Board of Directors of Brisa, based on the opinion of its legal and accounting terms, in the tax periods in which they are generated; experts and consultants, deems that the recognition of the said operation is 2016 12 adequately based from the legal point of view, and therefore in accounting 2015 12 An approximate amount of €100 000 thousand relating to the tax and tax terms as well. Brisa will use all legal defence instruments which it benefit under decree-law 287/99 likely to be used up to 2007, was has available as tax payer, to validate the treatment it has given to these 2014 12 unduly deducted to the corporate tax income for that year; operations from all points of view. In view of the above, as of 31 December 2018, no provision was recorded for this purpose. When determining the taxable income relating to 2008 to 2010 The deductable amount to be made in each of the tax periods is limited to (already inspected) an amount of € 80 000 thousand was unduly Income tax recognised in the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 was 70% of respective taxable income. deducted from the taxable income relating to each of the said years. made up as follows: During the regular inspections that were carried out, Tax Authorities have The Board of Directors of Brisa, based on the opinion of its legal and ‘18 requested corrections to the income tax base and tax, in particular as accounting experts and consultants, deems that the recognition of the said regards the activity carried out under the concession contract. The Board operation is adequately based from the legal point of view, and therefore in THOUSAND EURO ‘17 of Directors based on technical advice from external consultants, believes accounting and tax terms as well. Consequently, the Board of Directors of Brisa considers that the corrections proposed in the Tax Inspection Reports Current tax 102 125 80 150 that such corrections are unfounded. In this context, the Board of Directors has used the instruments at its disposal to defend its views, continuing to relating to years 2007 to 2010 are unjustified, as described in the judicial Deferred tax (Note 17) (11 592) 50 042 believe in the goodness of its arguments and in a favourable outcome of all claim (relating to the taxable periods of 2007 and 2010) submitted to the tax authority. Taxes on previous years income (1 832) (1 427) existing disputes with the Tax Authorities. 88 701 128 765 In relation to corrections made by the Tax Authority in various years deriving Corrections to the taxable income mentioned above resulted in tax enforcement from the recognition of tax losses generated from the separation of tax proceedings, which are suspended until a decision is reached. To obtain the collections, during the year ended at 31 December 2018 Brisa was notified suspension of tax enforcement proceedings relating to the taxable periods of 1st instance decisions rejecting the judicial appeals submitted concerning of 2008 and 2009 the Company provided bank guarantees in the amount financial years 2003, 2006 and 2008. The Company filed new appeals, which of € 64 129 thousand (Note 32). were already accepted by the Court, where it presented the corresponding allegations. The Board of Directors of Brisa, based on the opinion of its legal Additionally, to obtain the suspension of tax enforcement proceedings, a and accounting experts and consultants, maintains its understanding that pledge was set up over 24 618 shares of subsidiary BOM, in the amount the recognition of the said operation is adequately based from the legal of € 191 637 thousand. During the year ended at 31 December 2016, these point of view, and therefore in accounting and tax terms as well. proceedings were settled in a manner that was partly favourable to Brisa, as the tax due was reduced to € 28 829 thousand (Note 27). During the year The corrections relating to 2008, 2009 and 2010 stemming from the ended as of 31 December 2018 Brisa was notified of the favourable decision securitization of future receivables, result from the Tax Authority concluding as concerning the reduction of the guarantee provided as pledge, down to to the inadequacy of the legal and tax framework applied to the securitization the amount of € 33 479 thousand, corresponding to 8 402 shares of BOM. of future receivables in the amount of €400 000 thousand, carried out on The Company is undertaking the formalisation of the reduction of the said December 19, 2007; the said authority considers that it does not comply with pledge (Note 32). the legislation for the securitization of receivables established in Decreelaw 453/99, of 5 November, as amended by Decree-Law 82/02 of 5 April, With respect to the tax periods of 2011 and 2012, the TA made the same and consequently with the tax law provided in Decree-Law 219/2001, of 4 correction to taxable income (securitisation of future receivables), although on August, as amended by Decree-law 303/2003 of 5 December. a non-consolidated basis, since the securitisation operation was transferred to BCR, jointly with the assets and liabilities allocated to Brisa Concession. 222 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Income tax recognised in the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 was As of 31 December 2018 and 2017, current income tax liabilities were made 11. DIVIDENDS AND APPROPRIATION OF RESULTS made up as follows: up as follows: At the General Shareholders Meetings held on 04 May 2018 and 05 May 2017 ‘18 the payment of dividends was decided in the amounts of € 0.145 per share THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 THOUSAND EURO ‘17 and € 0.742 per share, totalling € 80 134 thousand and € 410 064 thousand, respectively, related to the net profit for the years ended 31 December 2017 Profit before tax 300 268 404 710 Current tax liabilities: and 2016. It was further decided to transfer to free reserves the remaining Expected tax (21% rate) 63 056 84 989 Corporate Income Tax (CIT) amount of the respective net profit for the said years. Provisions 3 974 3 373 Payment on account (66 338) ( 49 027) At the General Shareholders Meetings held on 5 December 2018 and 6 Amortizations 55 (736) December 2017 the payment of dividends was decided in the amounts of Tax withheld (702) ( 1 819) € 0.136 per share and € 0.163 per share, totalling € 75 160 thousand and Impairment losses (70) 141 Tax estimate 102 937 73 458 € 90 082 thousand, respectively, via the distribution of reserves. Derivative financial instruments (87) 311 35 897 22 612 Investment income (541) (4 893) Pension fund 203 185 Other 152 10. EARNINGS PER SHARE: 123 Basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended 31 December 2018 Effect of adopting IFRS 9 3 212 and 2017 were determined based on the following amounts: ‘18 Gains 44 710 Differences between individual and consolidated 57 (384) THOUSAND EURO ‘17 Result for the purpose of determining the basic and 157 997 230 771 Tax losses (19) (75 834) diluted earning per share (net profit for the year attributable to shareholders) Autonomous taxation 894 1 244 Average number of shares for the purpose of 552 647 386 552 647 386 Municipal surcharge 5 121 3 761 determining the basic and diluted earning per share State surcharge 26 147 15 983 Basic and diluted earnings per share (in Euro) 0,286 0,418 Federal tax (USA) (a) 7 148 Taxes on previous years income (1 832) (1 427) At 31 December 2018 and 2017 no diluting effects have occurred; hence, basic and diluted earnings per share are identical. (Set up)/reversal of deferred taxation (Note 17) (11 592) 50 042 The weighted average number of shares is deducted of the treasury shares Income tax 88 701 128 765 held by the Company. a) Federal tax in the amount of € 7,148 concerns the tax paid by BUS on the gains determined following the disposal of NWP. 223 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 12. TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS In the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 changes in other tangible fixed assets and corresponding accumulated depreciation and impairment losses were as follows: ‘18 Land and Buildings and Basic Transport Administrative Tools Fixed assets Advances to be forwarded THOUSAND EURO natural resources other constructions equipment equipment equipment and utensils in progress to tangible fixed assets Total Gross assets: Opening balance 13 930 40 001 161 203 5 224 35 228 339 1 410 32 257 367 Increases 455 2 362 1 097 1 117 30 3 375 21 8 457 Disposals (1) (85) (848) (88) (1 022) Write-downs (10) (49) (111) (1 374) (94) (1 638) Transfers 89 2 184 1 ( 883) (30) 1 361 Closing Balance 13 930 40 534 165 615 5 362 34 883 370 3 808 23 264 525 Cumulative depreciation and impairment losses: Opening balance 24 661 147 896 3 153 32 357 322 208 389 Increase 1 696 4 109 767 1 114 9 7 695 Disposals (1) (51) (557) (81) ( 690) Write-downs (10) (35) (111) (247) ( 403) Transfers 40 ( 40) Closing Balance 26 346 151 959 3 252 33 103 331 214 991 Net value 13 930 14 188 13 656 2 110 1 780 39 3 808 23 49 534 224 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY ‘17 Land and Buildings and Basic Transport Administrative Tools Fixed assets Advances to be forwarded THOUSAND EURO natural resources other constructions equipment equipment equipment and utensils in progress to tangible fixed assets Total Gross assets: Opening balance 14 010 39 104 157 255 5 114 33 847 319 725 3 250 377 Increases 1 114 2 996 1 039 2 035 20 1 398 29 8 631 Disposals ( 80) (242) (618) (892) (178) (2 010) Write-downs (501) ( 37) (354) (892) Transfers 25 2 071 (122) (713) 1 261 Closing Balance 13 930 40 001 161 203 5 224 35 228 339 1 410 32 257 367 Cumulative depreciation and impairment losses: Opening balance 23 230 144 716 3 111 31 825 316 203 198 Increase 1 672 4 188 698 1 098 6 7 662 Disposals (241) ( 554) (619) (172) (1 586) Write-downs (494) (37) (354) (885) Transfers 40 (40) Closing Balance 24 661 147 896 3 153 32 357 322 208 389 Net value 13 930 15 340 13 307 2 071 2 871 17 1 410 32 48 978 In the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017, caption Basic Equipment included the net amounts of € 7,071 thousand and € 5,447 thousand, respectively, relating to assets directly associated to the concession activity, which will therefore revert to the State at the end of the concession period, without compensation. 225 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 13. INTANGIBLE ASSETS The gross amount of intangible assets at 31 December 2018 includes essentially contractual rights and results from: Changes in intangible fixed assets and corresponding accumulated depreciation and impairment losses in the years (i) Contractual right for Brisa Concession (Note 5), as consideration for the road construction services associated to ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: this concession, in the amount of € 4 217 288 thousand, of which € 244 682 thousand relate to the ‘18 capitalization of financial expenses; (ii) Payment by Brisa to the State (the conceding entity) in exchange for the right to collect tolls on the CREL Licenses Intangible assets motorway as from 1 January 2003 under the provisions of Decree-Law 314 A/2002 of 26 December, minus the Total Rights and software in progress THOUSAND EURO amount received earlier when such tolls were abolished, and which at 31 December 2002 had not yet been Gross assets: recognised as income – € 236 318 thousand; Opening balance 4 699 226 20 695 30 629 4 750 550 (iii) Amount paid under the Global Agreement entered into between the Company and the State, corresponding Increases 5 198 5 500 3 315 14 013 to changes in the Bases of the Concession (Decree-Law 247-C/2008 of 30 December) – € 158 100 thousand; Transfers 8 2 870 (2 878) (iv) Costs incurred by Brisa to renegotiate the concession contract in 1991, which resulted in extending the Capitalized financial costs 631 631 initial concession period – € 101 750 thousand; Closing Balance 4 704 432 29 065 31 697 4 765 194 Intangible assets in progress concern mainly widening works in sub-stretches where such widening is deemed Cumulative depreciation and necessary and which are still ongoing. At 31 December 2018, the balance of this caption included an amount of impairment losses: € 29 471 thousand relating to road widening works. Opening balance 2 337 320 15 978 2 353 298 Increase 131 854 3 648 135 502 The concession rights included in intangible assets obtained in exchange for construction services are made up as follows: Closing Balance 2 469 174 19 626 2 488 800 Net value 2 235 258 9 439 31 697 2 276 394 Brisa Concession ‘17 THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 Licenses Intangible assets Construction costs Total THOUSAND EURO Rights and software in progress Opening balance 4 210 041 4 195 941 Gross assets: Opening balance 4 667 359 18 218 45 932 4 731 509 Increases 7 247 14 100 Increases 6 478 2 472 9 581 18 531 Closing Balance 4 217 288 4 210 041 Write-downs (265) (265) Transfers 25 389 270 (25 659) The above-mentioned concession rights include the capitalization of financial costs as follows: Capitalized financial costs 775 775 Brisa Concession Closing Balance 4 699 226 20 695 30 629 4 750 550 Cumulative depreciation and impairment losses: THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 Financial expenses Opening balance 2 205 999 13 951 2 219 950 Opening balance 243 556 242 781 Increase 131 321 2 292 133 613 Increases 1 126 775 Write-downs (265) (265) Closing Balance 2 337 320 15 978 2 353 298 Closing Balance 244 682 243 556 Net value 2 361 906 4 717 30 629 2 397 252 226 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 14. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES Brisa deems that these measures, although contractually admissible, were triggered in contravention of the rules set forth in the concession contract and financing contracts of AEDL, particularly in what concerns the appropriation of the shares, which will not have been previously authorized by the Portuguese State. At 31 December 2018 the following associated companies were recorded in accordance with the equity method: For this reason, viewing the restoration of legality, Brisa jointly with other shareholders of AEDL, took the initiative to: Effective % Take legal action against such acts, requesting the immediate suspension of their effectiveness; Company Head Office held Activity Elect new Board Members of AEDL, designating the Board of Directors that was in place Controlauto Açores, Lda. (“Controlauto Açores”) Praia da Vitória 29.60% Vehicle inspection during the 2016-2018 period. As a result, the Board of Directors of Brisa, based on its legal advisers’ opinion, considers that Brisa is Geira, S.A. (“Geira”) Portugal 50% Management, operation and maintenance not exposed to any variability in the negative cash flows foreseen for the said projects, and does not of road infrastructures exercise an effective control over the said subsidiaries. Notwithstanding these recent events at AEDL, Brisa, as shareholder, remains firm in its understanding of SICIT Sociedade de Investimento e Consultoria em Portugal 35% Investment consultancy not accepting any responsibility that results into higher participation or involvement than the participation Infra-estruturas de Transportes, S.A. (“Sicit”) and involvement contractually undertaken. Brisa, as a shareholder of Brisal and AEDL, believes that the stability and defence of the project finance Transport Infrastructure Investment Company SCA (“SICAR”) Luxembourg 35.59% Investment fund in Infrastructures model is vital for all players in the sector, including sponsors, construction companies, financing parties and the State itself. Transport Infrastructure, S. à r.l. (“Transport”) Luxembourg 35% Management of investments According to recent news on the newspapers, some of AEDL creditors had allegedly filed a lawsuit against Brisa claiming the payment of an amount related to AEDL debt. The Board once more reaffirms TIICC, S. à r.l. (“TIICC”) Luxembourg 35% Management of investments that within the project finance framework of the concession, expressly accepted by all parties, Brisa is not responsible for AEDL’s debt. Until the present date Brisa has not yet received any notification regarding these procedures. AEBT Auto-Estradas do Baixo Tejo, S.A. (“AEBT”) Portugal 36.85% Construction, maintenance and operation of motorways This contractual model assumes, clearly, the possibility for the financing providers to appropriate the New Mobility Ventures, B.V. (“Mobility, B.V.”) Breda The Netherlands 47.50% Operation of electronic toll systems concessions in certain circumstances, and Brisa understands and accepts that this is the case. However, such appropriation must always strictly follow the contracts, in particular the agreed risk allocation, the parties’ will, the processes defined and the agreed portfolio of rights and obligations. Brisal Auto-Estradas do Litoral, S.A. (“Brisal”) (a) Cascais 70% Construction, maintenance and operation of motorways In this context, the Board of Directors of Brisa has deemed to refer that: AEDL Auto-Estradas do Douro Litoral, S.A. (“AEDL”) (a) Cascais 99.92% Construction, maintenance and operation of motorways The current management of these concessionaires remains strongly restrained, being confined to day-to-day measures and operations, subject to the budget previously agreed Auto-Estradas do Atlântico Concessões Rodoviárias de Torres Vedras 50% Construction, maintenance and operation of motorways with financial institutions, where any decision not covered by this budget requires their prior approval. Portugal, S.A. (“AEA”) Under the present circumstances, Brisa continues not to exercise control over the said companies, since it is not able to autonomously guide the relevant activities of the concessionaires, a) In view of the expectations regarding the evolution of future operations of Concessão Litoral Centro During 2012 the fall in traffic worsened considerably as result of the economic crisis, combined with and at the same time, it ceased to be exposed or be entitled to variable results, via its (‘Brisal’ concession contract) and Concessão Douro Litoral (‘AEDL’ concession contract), impairment losses the impact of the introduction of real tolls in a number of motorways, which adversely affected the said investments in these entities, as provided in paragraph 7 of IFRS 10. were recognized in the respective financial statements of prior years, reflecting the non-exercising of the projects. Likewise, the deterioration of the macroeconomic outlook and the fiscal measures imposed to entire contractual right arising from the investment made in the construction of such infrastructures. consolidate and rebalance public accounts led to a downward revision in the second half of 2012 of cash As a result, the Board of Directors of Brisa, based on its legal advisers’ opinion, considers that Brisa is Likewise, Brisa recognized in its financial statements in previous years the losses corresponding to its flows estimates for Brisal and Douro Litoral concessions. Despite the reversal in the declining trend of not exposed to any variability in the negative cash flows foreseen for the said projects, and does not exposure as shareholder of said concessions. traffic, which has increased in recent years, figures are still very short of initial estimates. exercise an effective control over the said subsidiaries. It should be noted that these two projects were structured under the form of project finance, therefore As pointed out in previous years, financial institutions exposed to these projects have a step-in right, holding specific characteristics, namely the risk allocation to the various participants in them, either as being the timing to exercise such right defined by them. shareholders or as funding providers, ensuring access to long term debt intended to be repaid with the cash flows generated by the projects themselves and respective assets and with limited recourse Therefore, in what concerns Concessão Douro Litoral, on 24 January 2019 the creditors of AEDL (currently, to shareholders. and in its overwhelming majority, hedge funds led by Strategic Value Partners LLC) have, after breaking up the negotiation process under way, undertaken a set of measures to gain formal control over AEDL. Within the scope of the concession contracts referred to above, the parties (including financing entities) entered into several agreements, namely the Capital Subscription Agreement, and in Brisal’s specific case, Among others, such measures included the following: the Shareholders’ Support Agreement and the Traffic Support Agreement, all of which forming part as annex to the respective concession agreements that set out the support obligations of shareholders, Appointment of a new Board of Directors of AEDL; namely in what concerns the relevant capital calls. Declaration of the early maturity of AEDL overall debt resulting from the financing contracts; Given the continued deterioration of operating conditions within the scope of these two projects, the and Board of Directors’ position, as made public to the market, is that Brisa, as shareholder of the said projects, will not accept any further responsibility that may translate into an investment or involvement The enforcement of the pledge provided in the Security Agreement, and consequent higher than that contractually agreed. appropriation of all shares corresponding to the share capital of AEDL. 227 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Changes in investments in associated companies in the years ended Investments in associated companies at 31 December 2018 and 2017 were At 31 December 2018 and 2017, investments in associates considered 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: as follows: considered materially relevant relate to AEA and SICAR, being the relevant financial information and respective reconciliation with the book value of ‘18 ‘18 these investments as follows: THOUSAND EURO ‘17 THOUSAND EURO ‘17 AEA SICAR Opening balance 110 976 133 778 AEA 73 390 72 320 Increase (a) 2 580 SICAR 18 751 34 147 THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 Decrease (b) (11 597) (32 638) AEBT 1 886 2 445 Operating income 72 661 69 011 7 487 19 214 Exchange differences 54 SICIT 805 874 Operating costs (42 614) (40 729) (6 433) (1 656) Dividends (6 377) (15 780) Controlauto Açores 399 317 Operating Results 30 047 28 282 1 054 17 558 Gains on the disposal of investments 1 088 Geira 145 160 Financial revenues 20 48 2 271 4 144 Effect of the application of the Equity Method TIICC 6 5 Financial costs (8 113) (11 034) (11) (230) Effect in results (Note 8) 670 22 561 Mobility, B.V. 708 Financial result (8 093) (10 986) 2 260 3 914 Effect on equity (c) 1 693 2 028 95 382 110 976 Income tax (5 875) (4 577) (4) Provisions (Note 28) 17 (2 695) Net profit for the year 16 079 12 719 3 314 21 468 Closing Balance 95 382 110 976 Non-current assets 209 130 229 752 51 888 97 076 a) As of 31 December 2017, the increase in caption Investment in Associates was made in associates AEBT and Mobility B.V.. Current assets 36 216 38 029 1 833 5 420 b) As of 31 December 2017, decrease in caption Investment in associated companies corresponded mainly 245 346 267 781 53 721 102 496 to the decrease in the share capital of associate SICAR and the repayment of accessory contributions of associate AEBT . Non-current liabilities 212 954 265 039 264 78 c) This effect stems from the equity changes occurred in associated companies, corresponding mainly, to the impact of the recognition of cash flow hedging instruments. Current liabilities 25 005 11 432 764 6 461 237 959 276 471 1 028 6 539 Equity attributable to equity holders 7 387 (8 690) 52 693 95 957 Percentage held 50% 50% 35,59% 35,59% Investment 3 694 (4 345) 18 751 34 147 Allocation of the difference of the purchase 69 696 76 665 price to the fair value of the intangible asset (a) 73 390 72 320 18 751 34 147 a) The difference between acquisition cost of this investment and the fair value of identifiable net assets was considered as an increase in the right associated to AEA concession contract, subject to annual amortisation until the end of the concession term. 228 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY At 31 December 2018 and 2017, balances with associates were made up as follows: Accounts receivable and other Other accounts Other current Other Current Assets Debtors (Note 19) Associates Suppliers payable liabilities THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 AEDL 1 475 3 451 216 900 216 900 1 36 Brisal 4 103 2 159 4 1 40 12 AEA 670 1 945 53 222 57 462 34 69 1 AEBT 3 714 900 6 411 6 349 948 567 584 Mobility, B.V. 622 600 15 15 BNV Mobility, B.V. 8 89 SICIT 5 8 Controlauto Açores 2 5 TIICC 5 5 Geira 14 50 9 983 8 526 277 160 281 316 38 160 41 15 963 567 632 Impairment losses on accounts receivable (Note 27) (216 900) (216 900) 9 983 8 526 60 260 64 416 38 160 41 15 963 567 632 Additionally, transactions carried out with associates in the years ended as of 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Rendered Other operating Supplies and Financial services income services income THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 Brisal 14 126 12 598 634 16 (34) AEDL 12 461 10 970 435 6 6 AEBT 7 991 5 835 82 75 53 381 597 AEA 4 357 4 644 696 690 60 268 755 803 BNV Mobility, B.V. 134 92 22 Geira 522 513 SICIT 41 83 70 Movenience 14 Controlauto Açores 12 12 39 498 34 791 790 1 846 82 385 1 158 1 470 229 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY In the years ended at 31 December 2018 and 2017 payments concerning At 31 December 2018 and 2017 this caption included investments in the In the years ended at 31 December 2018 and 2017 receivables concerning investments in associates were made up as follows: following entities: other investments were made up as follows: THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 AEDL (a) 352 Non-current: AELO 1 855 3 123 100 AEBT 4 348 AELO Auto-Estradas do Litoral Oeste, S.A. (a) 3 455 3 850 Mobility, B.V. 1 250 ELOS 3 026 3 014 16. GOODWILL 100 5 950 Iberis Bluetech Fund, FCR, EuVECA (“Fundo Bluetech”) (b) 2 000 At 31 December 2018 and 2017 goodwill was made up as follows: BlueCrow Innovation Fund II, FCR (“Fundo BlueCrow”) (b) 1 000 a) In the year ended at 31 December 2018 this amount concerned obligations of contributing in additional construction costs. TIIC 2 S.C.A., SICAR (“TIIC 2”) 373 143 In the years ended at 31 December 2018 and 2017 the breakdown of receivables Fundo ISTART 296 296 THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 Iteuve 14 917 14 917 relating to investments in associates was as follows: F-Hitec 99 97 Controlauto 8 286 8 286 Other investments 10 7 THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 10 259 7 407 BGI 2 264 2 264 SICAR 24 382 AtoBe 601 601 10 442 AEBT 1 474 15 797 a) Investment in AELO includes: (i) an amount of € 7 thousand relating to capital contributions and (ii) Mcall 379 379 € 3 448 thousand corresponding to additional construction costs of the said concessionaire supported FBH OMT 1 864 directly by Brisa. In the year ended at 31 December 2018 the total supplementary capital in the amount 26 447 26 447 of € 505 thousand was reimbursed. Mobility, B.V. 300 b) In the year ended at 31 December 2018 1 970 shares in Bluetech Fund and 20 shares in BlueCrow Fund were subscribed and paid up . The allocation of the balance of this caption to respective operating segments 11 916 42 343 is disclosed in Note 5. In the years ended at 31 December 2018 and 2017 payments concerning As mentioned in Note 27, the amount recoverable from cash-generating units other investments were made up as follows: 15. OTHER INVESTMENTS was determined based on respective value in use, according to cash flow projections for a period of 5 years, considering a perpetual growth rate in This caption includes, mainly, investments in entities over which the Group line with estimated inflation rate between 1% and 2% (nominal), discounted does not have significant influence, which are stated at cost less estimated impairment losses. THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 at rates between 5.8% and 11.1%.” Fundo Bluetech 2 000 Cash flow projections for each cash-generating unit have different key BlueCrow Fund 1 000 variables, such as the characteristics of the of the domestic car universe,, prospects for new car sales and traffic projections. ELOS 293 157 TIIC 2 230 142 F-Hitec 2 Other investments 3 3 528 299 230 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 17. DEFERRED TAXES ‘18 a) Changes occurred in the year ended 31 December 2017 in deferred tax assets relating to reportable THOUSAND EURO ‘17 tax losses concerned mainly the change in future estimates for taxable results and its use in NWP concession, which was sold in the meantime. Deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2018 and 2017, by underlying Restated opening balance 72 389 152 351 timing difference, were as follows: Effect on results: Effect of change in rate: 18. OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS Differences between the tax base and book value of: Deferred tax Deferred tax At 31 December 2018 and 2017 this caption was made up as follows: assets liabilities Tangible assets 1 ‘18 ‘18 Provisions not considered for tax purposes 9 256 THOUSAND EURO ‘17 ‘17 Provisions for the replacement of infrastructures Financial instruments 4 131 (183) THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 Provisions for the replacement 70 243 65 064 Retirement benefits (Note 33) 2 054 3 146 Retirement benefits 16 102 of infrastructures 25 4 307 Provisions not considered for 4 405 3 622 Change for the year: tax purposes (Use)/increase of reportable tax losses (a) 14 (139 671) Retirement benefits (pensions) 896 733 593 919 Differences between the tax base and book value of: Differences between the tax base Intangible assets 79 515 and book value of: Tangible assets 4 Tangible assets 6 6 Other assets (74) (1 606) Other liabilities 126 ( 205) Other assets 320 394 Change in other provisions not accepted for tax purposes 776 379 Other liabilities 810 684 Change in provisions for the replacement of infrastructures 5 180 3 712 Increase / (decrease) of financial instruments (130) 3 926 Differences between individual 6 741 6 276 and consolidated income Retirement benefits 246 214 Effect of adopting IFRS 9 4 818 465 Effect of adopting IFRS 9 4 818 Differences between individual and consolidated income 611 (617) Tax losses brought forward 222 225 11 567 (53 884) Derivative financial instruments 563 1 122 Sub-total (Note 9) 11 592 (49 577) Effect on equity 84 206 78 126 593 5 737 Effect of change in rate: Retirement benefits 3 (227) Changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities in the years ended 31 December Financial instruments 254 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 3 27 Change for the year: Retirement benefits 214 (18) Increase / (decrease) of financial instruments (429) (23 031) Differences between individual and consolidated income (139) (215) (23 049) Sub-total (351) (23 022) Effect of currency translation (17) (7 363) 11 224 (79 962) Closing Balance 83 613 72 389 231 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 19. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Accounts receivable from third parties, which do not present differences 21. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENT between its book value and respective fair value, stem from operating activity As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 this caption was made up as follows: and are deducted of cumulative impairment losses. These are estimated Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2018 and 2017 are made up as based on available information and past experience (Note 34). follows: ‘18 ‘17 Given the nature of the Company’s operation, there is no significant ‘18 ‘17 THOUSAND EURO Accounts Receivable: concentration of credit risk. THOUSAND EURO Cash 2 283 2 178 Tolls (a) 28 339 26 444 Bank deposits payable on demand 237 157 315 329 Doubtful receivables 24 987 24 914 20. OTHER CURRENT ASSETS Term deposits 98 952 201 898 53 326 51 358 As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 this caption was made up as follows: Cash and cash equivalents 338 392 519 405 ‘18 Other debtors Advances to suppliers 310 372 THOUSAND EURO ‘17 Bank overdrafts (Note 26) (14) (56) Government and other public bodies: 338 378 519 349 Personnel 1 065 827 Income tax (a) 15 907 15 907 Doubtful receivables 52 42 Other 2 167 1 735 Caption “Cash and cash equivalents” includes cash, sight and term deposits 1 427 1 241 and short-term treasury investments immediately withdrawable, all of which 18 074 17 642 bearing an insignificant risk of change in value. Caption “Bank overdrafts” Other receivables and debtors : (b) Cumulative impairment losses accounts receivable (1 200) (1 735) relates to bank accounts where balances have gone below zero. (Note 27) Related Parties (Note 35) 1 686 2 848 16 874 15 907 Within the scope of the contractual obligations assumed by BCR, the balance Other 28 537 21 869 of short-term treasury investments as of 31 December 2018 included the Accrued income: following reserve accounts: 30 223 24 717 84 976 77 316 Interest receivable 244 92 Debt Service Reserve Account,in the amount of € 85 300 thousand; Cumulative impairment losses (25 186) (24 956) Other 3 219 2 774 Reserve account for capital expenditure purposes in the amount of € 7 458 accounts receivable (Note 27) thousand. 3 463 2 866 59 790 52 360 Although the business BCR may pursue is restricted pursuant to its bylaws Deferred costs: and concession contract, it includes entering into new financing transactions a) As of 31 December 2018 and 2017, this balance included the amounts of €4 632 thousand and €3 903 thousand, respectively, receivable from Spanish entities related to the use of Brisa concession Insurance 4 111 3 876 and incur in capital expenditure. As such, considering that the abovemotorways by clients of the Spanish concessions, within the scope of an interoperability agreement. mentioned reserve accounts may be used for such purposes, the Group Other 2 066 1 334 b) As of 31 December 2018 and 2017, this caption included a balance of € 9 983 thousand and € 8 526 considers the balances of the reserve accounts as cash and cash equivalents. thousand, respectively, relating to affiliated companies (Note 14). 6 177 5 210 26 514 23 983 a) This amount relates to a tax payment made by the Company in previous years, the refund of which is pending the settlement of the disputes mentioned above. 232 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 22. SHARE CAPITAL 24. LEGAL RESERVE AND OTHER RESERVES Non-controlling interests as of 31 December 2018 and 2017 were made up as follows: As of 31 December 2018 the Company’s share capital was made up of Legal reserve ‘18 600 000 000 fully subscribed and paid up shares with a nominal value of Commercial law establishes that at least 5% of annual net profit must be € 0.01 each. appropriated to a legal reserve until the reserve equals at least 20% of share THOUSAND EURO ‘17 capital. This reserve is not available for distribution except in the event of BCR SGPS 64 694 75 854 As of 31 December 2018 Company shareholders were as follows: liquidation, but it can be used to absorb losses once the other reserves have Controlauto 11 430 10 974 been exhausted, or to increase capital. Via Verde Portugal 3 285 3 264 Number of % % Other reserves (59) (12) AtoBe THOUSAND EURO shares Share capital Vote At 31 December 2018 and 2017 the amounts of Euro 39 713 thousand and BAS 1 482 1 535 Tagus Holdings S. à r.l. 243 497 061 40.6% 44.1% Euro 49 960 thousand, respectively were available for distribution. 80 832 91 615 José de Mello Investimentos, SGPS, S.A. 182 683 904 30.4% 33.1% Additionally, at 31 December 2018 and 2017, caption Other Reserves included Arcus European Infrastructure Fund GP LLP 114 557 795 19,1% 20,7% the amount of € 228 720 thousand (Note 23), in reserves related with treasury In the years ended at 31 December 2018 and 2017 payments related to shares. investments with impact on non-controlling interests were made up as follows: Treasury shares (Note 23) 47 352 614 7.9% N/A Effect of currency translation As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 the Group had a currency translation reserve ‘18 Other shareholders 11 908 626 2,0% 2,2% 600 000 000 100,0% 100,0% in the amount of €53 620 thousand and €54 018 thousand, respectively, stemming from the conversion of the assets and liabilities of the Group THOUSAND EURO ‘17 operations expressed in foreign currency, mainly located in the United BCR SGPS (a) 45 182 48 403 States of America. Via Verde Portugal 2 710 2 271 Controlauto 693 753 23. TREASURY SHARES 48 585 51 427 In the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 no changes have occurred with a) In the year ended at 31 December 2018 payments made by BCR SGPS to non-controlling interests treasury shares. As of the said dates, this caption was made up as follows: 25. NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS concerned dividends, in the amount of € 45,181 thousand. In the year ended at 31 December 2017 payments made by BCR SGPS to non-controlling interests concerned dividends and reductions in capital, in the amount of € 41 127 and € 7 276 thousand, respectively.. The changes in this caption in the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 THOUSAND EURO N.º of Shares Thousand N.º of Thousand THOUSAND EURO ‘17 In the years ended at 31 December 2018 and 2017 receipts related to investments with impact on non-controlling interests were made up as follows: (Nota 22) Euro shares Euro Opening balance 91 615 96 331 Opening balance 47 352 614 228 720 47 352 614 228 720 ‘18 Changes in equity of associates (64 353) (31 890) Closing Balance 47 352 614 228 720 47 352 614 228 720 Profit for the year attributable to 53 570 45 174 THOUSAND EURO ‘17 non-controlling interests BAS 1 470 Commercial law regarding treasury stock requires companies to maintain Early dividends attributable to non(18 000) a free reserve equal in amount to the cost of their treasury stock. The controlling interests (a) reserve is not available for distribution while the stock is held, a reserve of €228,720 thousand (Note 24) being maintained for that purpose. In addition, Closing Balance 80 832 91 615 the applicable accounting rules provide that gains and losses on the sale of treasury shares must be recorded in reserves. a) In the year ended as of 31 December 2017, the change occurred in this caption included the recognition of non-controlling interests in the amount of € 18,000 thousand, resulting from early distribution of dividends by BCR SGPS, in the amount of € 60,000 thousand. 233 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 26. LOANS 2012-2032 Issue At 31 December 2018 and 2017 the breakdown of loans entered into by the Group was as follows: The €100 000 thousand bond was issued by BCR on 12 July 2012. This bond issue with a 19.5-year maturity, pays interest at a fixed rate of 6% in the first five years and interest indexed to the consumer price index (except housing) as from the sixth year to maturity. Current Non-current Repayment of principal will be made in one instalment at maturity on 12 January 2032. THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 2012-2018 Issue The €300 000 thousand bond was issued by BCR on 02 October 2012. This bond issue with a 5.5-year maturity bore interest at a fixed Bond Issues 22 149 338 150 1 386 861 1 381 843 rate of 6.875%. Repayment of principal will be made in one instalment at maturity on 06 April 2018. Bank loans 38 617 38 579 426 297 464 819 2014-2021 Issue Commercial paper and short term lines 129 251 49 578 75 000 150 000 The €300 000 thousand bond was issued by BCR on 01 April 2014. This bond issue with a 7-year maturity bears interest at a fixed Bank overdrafts (Note 21) 14 56 rate of 3.875%. Repayment of principal will be made in one instalment at maturity on 01 April 2021. 190 031 426 363 1 888 158 1 996 662 2015-2025 Issue The €300 000 thousand bond was issued by BCR on 30 April 2015. This bond issue with a 10-year maturity bears interest at a fixed BOND ISSUES rate of 1.875%. Repayment of principal will be made in one instalment at maturity on 30 April 2025. At 31 December 2018 and 2017 (non-convertible) bond issues were made up as follows: 2016-2022 Issue The €120 000 thousand bond was issued by BCR on 07 June 2016. This bond issue has a floating interest rate indexed to the 6-month Euribor. Repayment of principal will be made in one instalment at maturity on 07 January 2022. THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 2016-2023 Issue Nominal Value Nominal Issue of the issue Current Non-current Maturity interest rate The €300 000 thousand bond was issued by BCR on 22 March 2016. This bond issue with a 7-year maturity bears interest at a fixed rate of 2%. Repayment of principal will be made in one instalment at maturity on 22 March 2023. 2012-2032 100 000 4 915 5 439 94 254 93 952 jan/32 Floating 2012-2018 300 000 315 232 apr/18 6,875% 2017-2027 Issue 2014-2021 300 000 8 374 8 413 299 522 299 138 apr/21 3,875% € 300 000 000 bond was issued by BCR on 10 May 2017. This bond issue with a 10-year maturity bears interest at a fixed rate of 2015-2025 300 000 169 279 276 574 272 951 apr/25 1,875% 2.375%. Repayment of principal will be made in one instalment at maturity on 10 May 2027. 2016-2022 120 000 23 31 119 627 119 450 jan/22 Floating 2016-2023 300 000 4 287 4 294 298 654 298 256 mar/23 2,000% 2017-2027 300 000 4 381 4 462 298 230 298 096 may/27 2,375% 22 149 338 150 1 386 861 1 381 843 234 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 bond issues for which it was possible to obtain a market valuation were the following: THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 Stock Nominal Value Book Market Book Market Nominal Interest Issue Exchange of the issue value value(a) value value(a) Maturity Rate 2012 Lux SE 300 000 315 232 305 118 apr/18 6,875% 2014 Lux SE 300 000 307 896 324 318 307 551 335 376 apr/21 3,875% 2015 Lux SE 300 000 276 743 306 024 273 230 311 511 apr/25 1,875% 2016 Lux SE 300 000 302 941 312 195 302 550 318 855 mar/23 2,000% 2017 Lux SE 300 000 302 611 307 344 302 558 318 198 mai/27 2,375% 1 190 191 1 249 881 1 501 121 1 589 058 2012 Lux SE 100 000 99 169 (b) 99 391 (b) 2016 Euronext 120 000 119 650 (b) 119 481 (b) 1 409 010 1 719 993 a) Source: Bloomberg b) Market information not available The fair value of the bond issues corresponds to their amortised cost, as described in Note 34. The above-mentioned bond issues are part of a Euro Medium Term Note Programme, which has a maximum amount of €3 000 000 thousand. BANK LOANS Caption “Bank loans” at 31 December 2018 and 2017 was made up as follows: THOUSAND EURO ‘18 THOUSAND EURO ‘17 Borrower Nominal amount Amount outstanding Repayment Nominal amount Amount outstanding borrowed Current Non-Current Maturity Periodicity Interest rate borrowed Current Non-Current BCR 467 825 38 617 426 297 Dec-30 Bi-annual Floating 506 810 38 579 464 819 235 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Within the scope of the corporate reorganization of the Brisa Group, Brisa COMMERCIAL PAPER AND SHORT-TERM LINES RECONCILIATION OF CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES negotiated with the European Investment Bank (EIB) the transfer to BCR At 31 December 2018 and 2017 the breakdown of caption “Other Borrowings” In the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017, the evolution of the Group’s of several loans entered into between Brisa Auto-Estradas de Portugal, was as follows: remunerated debt was as follows: S.A. and EIB. The debt transferred as of 22 December 2010 ascended to € 779 708 thousand. It was also agreed with the EIB the consolidation of 16 existing financing agreements into one sole agreement, subject to floating interest rate indexed to the 6-month Euribor with extended term (this loan THOUSAND EURO Borrower ‘18 ‘17 Currency THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 has semi-annual instalments from June 2011 to December 2030). Restated opening balance 2 423 025 2 207 926 Other loans Payments relating to loans (726 585) (902 735) Commercial paper and short term lines BCR 199 648 199 579 EUR Additionally, the Group entered into derivative financial instruments associated with this loan, which are classified as hedging instruments (Note 31). Receipts relating to loans 392 200 1 113 500 Commercial paper and short term lines Controlauto (2) (5) EUR Payments relating to interest (65 160) (60 941) Commercial paper and short term lines BIT 4 602 EUR As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 bank loans had the following repayment Charges relating to loans 54 709 65 275 schedule: Commercial paper and short term lines Brisa 3 4 EUR 204 251 199 578 Closing Balance 2 078 189 2 423 025 THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 Bank overdrafts (Note 21) Bank overdraft lines Brisa 13 30 EUR Up to 1 year 38 617 38 579 Bank overdraft lines Via Verde Portugal 1 26 EUR Up to 2 years 38 559 38 522 14 56 Up to 3 years 38 598 38 558 204 265 199 634 Up to 4 years 38 636 38 597 Up to 5 years 38 674 38 636 At 31 December 2018 and 2017 the Group had committed short term credit lines and commercial paper issues with banks in a total maximum amount of More than 5 years 271 830 310 506 € 457 000 thousand and € 481 500 thousand, respectively; as of the same date, 464 914 503 398 approximately € 204 600 thousand and € 200 000 thousand, respectively, were drawn. Of the total amount drawn as of 31 December 2018, €75 000 thousand relate to a commercial paper programme with a commitment that goes beyond one year, thus being classified as of medium or long terms. 236 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 27. CUMULATIVE IMPAIRMENT LOSSES Impairment losses are deducted to the amount of the corresponding assets. Changes in cumulative impairment losses in the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: In the specific case of goodwill (Note 16) and of the concessions related rights, impairment tests were carried out in accordance with the discounted cash ‘18 flow method; the cash flows projections used covered the whole period of THOUSAND EURO concessions under a Project Finance and 5-year periods for the remaining Opening Exchange Decrease Closing businesses of the Group. Increase Utilization Transfers balance effect (Note 6) balance Impairment losses: The discount rates used in all evaluations associated with impairment tests reflect the cost of capital employed and the specific risk of each asset and Financial investments: were estimated within a range of 5.8% to 11.1%. Investments in associates 459 619 459 619 Additionally, with regard to evaluations which do not relate to road concessions Other investments 13 843 13 843 the perpetual growth rates considered were of 1% to 2%, (nominal) taking Accounts receivable: into account the prospects of value creation in each business after the period established for the projections. Associates (Note 14) 216 900 216 900 Accounts receivable and other debtors (Note 19) 24 956 4 1 144 (653) (265) 25 186 Discount rates used in project finance for the purposes of impairment tests Inventories 103 103 correspond to the original IRR of the base case, as the financing structure of these entities is defined since thesetting up of the respective project Other current assets (Note 20) 1 735 (140) 33 (428) 1 200 finance and shareholders cannot change it without the approval of lenders. Other (37) (274) 428 117 In what concerns remaining companies, the discount rate takes into account the evolution of the invested capital structure and the specific risk of each 717 156 (173) 1 144 (653) (506) 716 851 asset, as well as the country where the operation is established. THOUSAND EURO ‘17 Opening Exchange Decrease Closing Increase balance effect (Note 6) balance Impairment losses: Financial investments: Investments in associates 459 619 459 619 Other investments 13 843 13 843 Accounts receivable: Associates (Note 14) 216 900 216 900 Accounts receivable and other debtors (Note 19) 24 079 1 127 (250) 25 186 Inventories 103 103 Other current assets (Note 20) 1 999 (274) 10 1 200 716 543 (274) 1 137 (250) 716 851 237 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 28. PROVISIONS ‘18 Changes in provisions in the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: THOUSAND EURO Closing Captions Opening balance Increase Utilization Decrease (Note 6) Financial revision (Note 8) Transfers balance Provisions: Non-current: Pending legal proceedings 1 406 73 (45) 1 434 Investments in associates (Note 14) 3 17 20 Replacement of infrastructures 189 333 26 817 (5 916) (2 119) 4 721 (8 576) 204 260 Other risks and charges 10 698 2 400 (118) (19) 12 961 201 440 29 307 (6 034) (2 183) 4 721 (8 576) 218 675 Current: Replacement of infrastructures 17 219 18 169 (25 054) (1 694) 1 519 8 576 18 735 Other risks and charges 3 801 3 592 (2 978) 4 415 21 020 21 761 (28 032) (1 694) 1 519 8 576 23 150 222 460 51 068 (34 066) (3 877) 6 240 241 825 THOUSAND EURO ‘17 Closing Captions Opening balance Increase Utilization Decrease (Note 6) Financial Revision (Note 8) Transfers balance Provisions: Non-current: Pending legal proceedings 1 433 23 (50) 1 406 Investments in associates (Note 14) 2 698 615 (3 310) 3 Replacement of infrastructures 166 172 24 246 (6 143) (342) 5 710 (310) 189 333 Other risks and charges 9 727 1 338 ( 367) 10 698 180 030 26 222 (6 510) (3 702) 5 710 (310) 201 440 Current Replacement of infrastructures 23 073 19 819 (23 504) (4 214) 1 735 310 17 219 Other risks and charges 3 321 2 365 (1 885) 3 801 26 394 22 184 (25 389) (4 214) 1 735 310 21 020 206 424 48 406 (31 899) (7 916) 7 445 222 460 238 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY The provision for ongoing lawsuits is aimed to cover liabilities estimated 29. OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 30. OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES based on the Board of Directors, based on information from the lawyers, which resulted from actions brought against the Company relating to As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 this caption was made up as follows: As of 31 December 2018 and 2017 this caption was made up as follows: traffic accidents, losses caused by the construction of motorways and ‘18 ‘18 labour claims. At 31 December 2018 and 2017 the total amount of claims was approximately of € 47 478 thousand and € 47 406 thousand, respectively; THOUSAND EURO ‘17 THOUSAND EURO ‘17 respective provision corresponds to the best estimate of the Board of Fair value of derivative instruments (Note 31) Compensation for operating losses (a) 25 156 26 727 224 Directors’ best estimate of the amount of such liabilities. Global Agreement (b) 6 076 11 746 Accrued costs: As of 31 December 2018 and 2017, caption Investments in associates Fair value of derivative instruments (Note 31) Remuneration payable 1 755 3 811 23 978 21 924 relates to the participation in the negative shareholder’s equity (excluding supplementary capital) of associates. Retirement benefits (Note 33) 3 976 3 270 Other accrued expenses 6 060 4 474 Suppliers of investment 118 404 30 038 26 398 Provisions for reinstatement of infrastructures relate to the responsibilities to replace the wear layer of the flexible pavements and is recognised, 37 081 45 958 Deferred income: at the present value, through the period up to the date in which the Compensation for operating losses (Note 29) 1 572 1 572 intervention takes place. The provision is subject to a financial update at a) This caption includes €73,670 thousand relating to compensation obtained from the State for not charging tolls on some sub-stretches in the metropolitan area of Lisbon and Porto, minus €46,942 Financial contributions 222 each reporting date calculated at the average interest cost rate of the thousand already transferred to income, of which the amount of €1,572 thousand relating to the year company and recorded as a financial expense. The reversals accounted for ended at 31 December 2018 were recorded in caption “Other operating income” (Notes 6 and 30). Advanced revenues of service areas 560 relate essentially to the reassessment of the estimates for the costs to be b) This caption corresponds to the difference between the amount received from the State, under Other 2 588 2 452 incurred and changes in the planned schedule of the interventions in the the Global Agreement established with Brisa relating to BCR Concession, and the balances pending settlement which are recognised in the financial statements as of the date of the agreement. Under 4 382 4 584 infrastructure. the terms agreed, these balances must be first validated by IGF and will then be settled. Government and other public bodies: Provision for other risks and charges as of 31 December 2018 and Value added tax 19 920 19 609 2017 included the amounts of € 1 742 thousand and € 1 842 thousand respectively, corresponding to the Board of Directors’ current estimate Income tax of the amount of the potential losses to be incurred by the Company in Tax payable (a) 16 051 16 051 relation to the Douro Litoral Concession, resulting from commitments assumed under agreements entered into with the consortium responsible Payments to Social Security 1 707 1 620 for the construction of Douro Litoral motorway (“DLACE”). Income tax withheld 1 099 1 121 As of 31 December 2018 and 2017, provision for other risks and charges Other 537 further included € 4 415 thousand and € 3 800 thousand, respectively, 38 777 38 938 linked to a restructuring plan. Other debtors: Dividends payable to shareholders 295 276 Other 12 614 9 647 12 909 9 923 86 330 79 843 a) This amount refers to a sum returned by tax authorities following the tax inspection relating to 2007, which the Company considers as being due. 239 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 31. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS pricing models and discounted cash flow models for unlisted instruments Cash flow hedges (over-the-counter instruments). These models are based essentially on At 31 December 2018 and 2017 the Group had the following interest rate The Group has entered into a series of derivative financial instruments to market information. minimise the risk of exposure to changes in interest and exchange rates. derivative instruments: Derivative financial instruments used by the Group are interest rate swaps. Such instruments are entered into considering the risks that affect its assets and liabilities, after verifying which market instruments available are the Such instruments may be classified as hedge instruments or instruments most adequate to hedge the risks. held for trading, in accordance with provisions in IFRS 9 (Note 2.15). Such transactions, which are entered into with the prior approval by the Chief Hedge accounting is applicable to derivative financial instruments that are Financial Officer or the Executive Commission, are permanently monitored efficient as regards the effect of offsetting the variations in the fair value through analysis of the various indicators relating to such instruments, or cash flows of the underlying assets/liabilities. The efficiency of these especially evolution of their market value and sensitivity of their projected hedging transactions is checked on a quarterly basis. cash flows and of the market itself to changes in the key variables that affect the structures, with the objective of assessing their financial effect. Cash flow hedge instruments are derivative financial instruments that hedge interest rate risk. The effective component of the changes in the fair value These derivative financial instruments are recorded in accordance with the of the cash flow hedges is recognised in caption “Other Reserves”, while the provisions of IFRS 9, being measured at their fair value considering evaluations non-efficient part is reflected immediately in the income statement. made by financial institutions based on mathematical models, such as option THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 Contracting Fair value Fair value Type of operation Maturity Counterparty Underlying amount Underlying amount entity (Notes 29 and 34) (Notes 29, 30 and 34) BCR Fixed/floating int. rate swap 15 June 2019 BBVA and BST 12 794 (224) 38 382 (1 352) BCR Fixed/floating int. rate swap 15 June 2023 Caixa-BI 18 750 (1 755) 22 917 (2 459) 31 544 (1 979) 61 299 (3 811) In the years ended at 31 December 2018 and 2017 the Group recorded changes in these derivative financial instruments in equity net of the tax effect, in the amounts of €1 204 thousand and € 40 354 thousand, respectively. 240 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 32. CONTINGENT ASSETS AND LIABILITIES ended as of 31 December 2018 Brisa was notified of the favourable decision In the case of death of the beneficiary, the plan also grants to the surviving concerning the reduction of the guarantee provided as pledge, down to spouse, children or equivalent, under certain conditions, the right to At 31 December 2018 and 2017 the companies included in the consolidation the amount of € 33 479 thousand, corresponding to 8 402 shares of BOM. a supplementary survivor pension, corresponding to 50% of the supplementary had the following bank guarantees provided to third parties: The Company is undertaking the formalisation of the reduction of the said retirement pension that the beneficiary was receiving. pledge (Note 9) THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 Within the scope of the ring-fencing of subsidiary BCR, a set of guarantees The liability resulting from the above-mentioned scheme was transferred to an autonomous pension fund. The liability is determined semi-annually AT (a) 64 129 64 129 were provided in favour of BCR’s senior creditors, which include, among based on actuarial studies prepared by independent experts, with the last other, a pledge on shares held by BCR SGPS in the share capital of BCR, and made available as of 31 December 2018. Portuguese State (Base XX of BCR Concession Contract) 62 387 61 243 a pledge on the balances of BCR’s bank accounts. AEA 23 100 23 100 The actuarial studies as of 31 December 2018 and previous years were Additionally, as result of the tax execution procedures brought against prepared using the Projected Unit Credit method and the following ELOS (b) 18 226 17 769 BAE relating to the years ended as of 31 December 2012 and 2011 (Note assumptions and technical bases: Bank guarantees in favour of courts (c) 54 54 9), BCR provided a guarantee to the tax authorities on September 22, 2016 ‘18 and December 29, 2015 in the amounts € 30 948 thousand and € 11 941 ‘17 ‘16 ‘15 Other guarantees provided to third parties (d) 2 514 1 932 thousand, respectively, viewing to suspend the said proceedings. 170 410 168 227 Technical interest rate 2.25% 2.25% 2.25% 3.25% Following Ministerial Order 314-B/2010 of 14 June, the Road Authority (former SIEV, currently IMT) charged to the Company “access fees to the Fund’s annual income rate 2.25% 2.25% 2.25% 3.25% a) This caption corresponds to bank guarantees provided to the Tax Authorities within the scope of activity of other authorised businesses”, “electronic transaction fees” and pending proceedings (Note 9). Annual salary growth rate 1.85% 1.85% 1.85% 2.25% “annual fee for the business of other entities” in the approximate overall b) This amount concerns bank guarantees presented by Brisa to guarantee the compliance with the amount of € 3 600 thousand. The Company deemed these fees to be illegal Annual pension growth rate 0% 0% 0% 0% Capital Subscription and Realisation Agreement. and has legally challenged such claims. The Board of Directors, based on c) This amount corresponds to bank guarantees provided by Brisa and BCR to several courts under real estate expropriation proceedings. the legal opinion of the Company’s attorneys, deems as highly unlikely that d) This caption comprises two guarantees issued in USD in the amount of USD 793 thousand. any outflow concerning these claims will occur, and therefore did not set up The annual wage growth rate was adjusted taking into account the wage any provision for the purpose. policy which is being followed by the Group. Within the scope of companies financed through Project Finance (Brisal, As of 31 December 2018 the impact of a 25 bps reduction in the technical AEDL, AEA, AEBT and AELO), equity holdings were pledged in favour of interest rate and the fund’s annual income rate used in the actuarial study funders. 33. PENSION LIABILITIES would correspond to an increase in the present value of projected liabilities by approximately € 1,039 thousand. Within the scope of the commitments assumed in companies subject Defined Benefit Plan to Project Finance (AEDL, AEBT, AELO and ELOS), Brisa and remaining Brisa and some of its subsidiaries have a supplementary retirement, Additionally, the demographic assumptions considered at 31 December shareholders are responsible for any additional costs that may arise. At incapacity and survivor pension plan, under which their employees 2018 and previous years were as follows: AELO, AEBT and ELOS this liability is pro rata to the percentage of capital reaching retirement age at the service of the Company and of some of held. ‘18 its subsidiaries and that have been at their service for at least ten years, Brisa entered into a Subscription Agreement with SICAR, whereby it as well as those that have been at their service for at least five years and ‘17 ‘16 ‘15 are in a situation of incapacity, have the right to a retirement pension undertook to invest up to € 50 000 thousand. At 31 December 2018 and Mortality tables TV 88/90 TV 88/90 TV 88/90 TV 88/90 supplementary to that guaranteed by the Social Security. 2017 it had already invested € 7 876 thousand and € 18 318 thousand, Disability table EKV 80 EKV 80 EKV 80 EKV 80 respectively. The benefit defined in the pension plan corresponds to 7% of the gross remuneration at the date of retirement, plus 0.5% for each year of service Viewing to suspend tax enforcement proceedings relating to 2010 tax after the tenth year. Also, in accordance with the pension plan in force, period, the Company provided a bank guarantee of € 153 310 thousand, the retirement pension supplement cannot exceed 17% of the gross by means of pledge on 24 618 shares of BOM, in the amount of € 191 637 remuneration at the date of retirement and the sum of the pension thousand. During the year ended at 31 December 2016, these proceedings supplement plus that attributed by the Social Security can also not exceed were settled in a manner that was partly favourable to the Company, as the gross remuneration base. the tax due was reduced to € 28 829 thousand (Note 27). During the year 241 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY In accordance with the actuarial studies the cost of the retirement pension The fund’s assets and return rate at 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as All financial risk transactions involving the use of derivative financial supplements for the years ended 31 December 2018 is as follows: follows: instruments must be approved by the Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Committee. ‘18 Return rate Fair value of assets THOUSAND EURO Detailed description of the Group’s main financial risks and measures ‘17 ‘16 ‘15 THOUSAND EURO Cost of current services 954 884 747 663 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 implemented to manage them is summed up below (additional considerations concerning the Group’s risk management policy can be Shares and other equity instruments found in the Management Report). Financing cost 429 400 491 540 820 (36) 1 923 (75) European stocks -13,3% 14,7% 3 661 4 399 Remeasurements Interest rate risk Fund’s income (405) (397) (575) (4 163) International stocks (exc. Europe) N/A N/A 243 251 The objective of interest rate risk management is to minimise the cost of 1 798 851 2 586 (3 035) Bonds and other debt instruments 0,1% 0,3% 9 707 10 906 debt by keeping the volatility of financial costs at a low level. At the end of Real estate funds and Hedge Funds 0,1% 1,3% 1 650 1 699 2018, approximately 66% of financial debt were at fixed interest rate, which ensures that financial costs have low sensitivity to increases in interest Remeasurements are recorded as income and expenses are recognised Liquidity 1,4% 0,8% 1 960 870 rates. The remaining 34% of the financial debt were indexed to a floating directly in equity. 17 222 18 125 rate, allowing the Group to continue benefiting from the historically low level of short-term interest rates throughout 2018. As mentioned, liabilities for the social benefits referred to above were transferred to an autonomous pension fund to where the company, when Defined Contribution Plan If market interest rates in the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 had necessary, makes contributions to cover such liabilities. The management and directors have the benefit of a defined contribution been 1% higher, the financial costs for these years would have increased supplementary retirement pension, with Company having assumed the by approximately € 7 100 thousand and € 7 200 thousand, respectively. At 31 December 2018 and in previous years, the difference between the commitment to pay an insurance company 10% of the respective basic present value of liabilities and the market value of the fund’s assets was annual remuneration. In the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017, the BCR interest rate hedge derivatives at the end of 2018 and 2017 corresponded follows: amount of bonuses recorded under personnel costs totalled €378 thousand to the part of the derivative portfolio previously entered into by Brisa Autoand €367 thousand, respectively. Estradas and assigned to BCR on 22 December 2010, following the financial ‘18 close of the Group’s corporate reorganization, together with the underlying THOUSAND EURO ‘17 ‘16 ‘15 loan agreements. Since some of the characteristics of the hedged loans were changed, as a consequence of the transfer process from Brisa to BCR, Current value of projected liabilities 19 144 18 249 17 029 14 473 the terms of the associated swaps were also changed in order to ensure Fund’s market value (17 222) (18 125) (17 756) (17 786) 34. MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL RISKS correspondence with the characteristics of the associated underlying loan. 1 922 124 (727) (3 313) General principles Exchange rate risk Like most corporate groups, the Brisa Group is exposed to a set of financial Brisa’s exposure to exchange risk results essentially from its investments The difference between the market value of the fund’s assets and the risks stemming from its business activity. These involve, in particular, in BUS in the United States. current value of liabilities is recorded as a non-current asset or non-current liquidity, refinancing and interest rate risks stemming from financial liabilities (Notes 18 and 29). liabilities of subsidiaries and counterparty risk to which the companies of the Brisa Group are exposed by entering into risk hedging transaction and performing short-term investments of treasury surpluses. Brisa’s financial management centralises financing financing transactions, short-term investment of cash surpluses, foreign exchange transactions as well as the Group’s counterparty risk., subject to the compliance with any restrictions stemming from the specific financial structure of each company. It is also responsible for the identification, quantification and for the proposal and implementation of measures aimed at the management/ mitigation of the financial risks to which the Group is exposed. 242 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY At 31 December 2018 and 2017 the following foreign exchange rates were Foreign exchange risk management is based on permanent quantification Accounts receivable at 31 December 2018 and 2017 include the following used to translate into Euro assets and liabilities in foreign currency: and monitoring of relevant financial and accounting exposures. Financial overdue balances, for which the Board of Directors has not recognised exposure consists of the market value of the investments and dividends impairment losses as it believes that they will be receivable: ‘18 receivable by Brisa Internacional, while accounting exposure results from ‘17 ‘18 the book value of the investments and their contribution to Group’s Brazilian Real 4.4440 3.9729 consolidated results. THOUSAND EURO ‘17 US Dollar 1.1450 1.1993 The following table shows the impact on profit and reserves of a 10% Overdue balances increase in the USD and BRL, resulting from the exposure of the aboveUp to 90 days 5 299 2 816 mentioned assets and liabilities to these currencies at 31 December 2018 At 31 December 2018 and 2017 the following foreign exchange rates were and 2017. The impact of any depreciation would be symmetrical to that of 90 to 180 days 450 337 used to translate into Euro expenses and income expressed in foreign an appreciation. 180 to 360 days 584 532 currency: ‘18 More than 360 days 1 395 1 690 ‘17 USD BRL 7 728 5 375 Brazilian Real 4.3099 3.6054 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 The quality of the Company’s credit risk and liquidity as of 31 December 2018 US Dollar 1.1810 1.1296 Results 774 7 733 24 2 and 2017 specifically as concerns financial assets (cash and equivalent), whose counterparties are financial institutions, were as follows: Reserves 830 (7 629) 27 29 The Euro equivalents of the monetary assets and liabilities in foreign 1 604 104 51 31 currency at 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: The Board of Directors understands that the above sensitivity analysis, THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 Assets Liabilities based on the dates indicated, may not be representative of the Company’s A+ 123 407 101 076 exposure to foreing exchange risk over the year. ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 Credit risk A A119 280 1 081 296 276 351 UD Dollars (USD) 7 374 12 620 6 504 2 214 Credit risk relates to trade and other accounts receivable, from the BBB + 19 983 48 640 Brazilian Real (BRL) 513 311 10 6 moment such credit is recognized. Although limited, due to the nature of BBB 20 989 7 7 887 12 931 6 514 2 220 the Company’s main operations (i.e. motorway concessions), the risk in the various businesses is monitored on a regular basis with the objective of: BBB 9 618 BB + 11 691 • monitoring the evolution of the level of balances receivable; Additionally, the Euro equivalents of the non-monetary asset and liabilities BB 26 574 11 180 • reviewing on a regular basis, the recoverability of amounts receivable. in foreign currency at 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: BB 13 41 244 Changes in impairment losses of accounts receivable are disclosed in Note 12 945 CCC 8 667 Assets Liabilities 27. No rating 146 168 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 The Board of Directors deems that the estimated impairment losses on accounts receivable as of 31 December 2018 are adequately provided for in Bank deposits 336 109 517 227 Cash 2 283 2 178 UD Dollars (USD) 223 304 027 the consolidated financial statements (Note 19) 338 392 519 405 243 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Counterparty Risk of the financial risk provided by this contractual structure, combined Maturity of financial liabilities at 31 December 2018 and 2017 was as follows: The application of cash surpluses and the majority of operations involving with a low operational risk that results from the nature of BCR’s activity, ‘18 derivative financial instruments expose the Group to the risk of nonled to strong ratings at the time (A-Stable by Fitch and Baa1 Stable by compliance by the counterparties in these operations. In order to mitigate Moody’s), placing the company amongst the highest rated companies in THOUSAND EURO this risk the Company’s Financial Management maintains permanent Portugal. These ratings were affected by the sharp cut in Portugal’s rating, Up to 1 to 2 2 to 3 More than particularly in 2011, when Moody’s reduced the company’s credit rating to Total control over the level of exposure to each counterparty on the back of 1 year years years 3 years credit limits that are defined based on respective rating levels, amongst sub-investment grade level. Since 2014, on the back of the recognition by Loans 213 338 156 303 379 544 1 617 475 2 366 660 other factors. rating agencies of strong operational and financial performance over the years, BCR’s ratings were revised upwards several times, including three Derivative financial instruments 224 1 755 1 979 It should also be noted that BCR’s financial structure determines that on times in 2018: Fitch improved BCR’s rating to BBB+ with “Stable” Outlook Suppliers 22 604 22 604 treasury and hedging operations the counterparties must meet strict on January 19, and subsequently to Awith “Stable” Outlook on December rating criteria (Qualifying Banks) or provide a guarantee from an entity 4, whilst Moody’s upgraded BCR’s rating to Baa2 with “Stable” Outlook Other accounts payable 20 279 84 34 20 397 that meets the required criteria. on October 16. It is worth noting that the ratings currently given to BCR Other liabilities 81 724 10 052 91 776 not only represent the return to rating levels assigned in 2010 (as is the case of Fitch’s rating) but they are also higher than the ratings given to 338 169 156 387 379 578 1 629 282 2 503 416 Liquidity risk the Portuguese Republic. This fact attests for BCR’s financial strength and the credit protective nature ensured by the company’s financial and The funding and liquidity risk management policies are based on the following objectives: contractual structure. THOUSAND EURO ‘17 Up to 1 to 2 2 to 3 More than The financial and contractual structure referred to above includes a set of 1 year years years 3 years Total • To ensure that debt maturity is scaled over time; covenants, which provide added protection to creditors. In addition, BCR’s • Maintain short term debt at less than 15% of total indebtedness. indebtedness capacity is limited by various factors, one of which being Loans 85 366 208 731 156 303 1 997 020 2 447 420 • Continue to extend the average maturity of debt to make it more the maintenance of a minimum rating of Baa3/BBB-, which the company is Derivative financial instruments 1 351 2 460 3 811 consistent with the long-term assets held by the Group. compliant with at 31 December 2018. Suppliers 20 582 20 582 In compliance with these objectives, Brisa follows the evolution of financing Additionally, four ratio covenants should be pointed out on account of 265 85 Other accounts payable 16 590 34 16 974 markets closely, carefully selecting the most efficient alternatives at any their action range, namely Net Senior Debt/EBITDA, Historic ICR, Forward moment. Other liabilities 75 259 15 016 90 275 Looking ICR and CLCR), which are subject to two thresholds one in the form of trigger event and the other in the form of event of default implying 197 797 210 347 156 388 2 014 530 2 579 062 The management of liquidity risk is of particular importance in what different consequences if not completed with.. At 31 December 2018 these concerns the new road concession projects in which Brisa has been involved ratios were all within the stipulated levels, with Net Senior Debt/EBITDA over the past few years, for which it contracted financing transactions ratio evolving positively from 4.51x at the end of 2017 to 3.84x at the end under a project finance regime, which normally have very long repayment of 2018 (i.e. below the 5.75x trigger event level), and the Historic ICR ratio schedules, scaled over time so as to coincide with projected cash flow from also finishing 2018 at high levels (although having fallen slightly from 5.68x respective concessions. at the end of 2017 to 5.59x one year later) and remaining quite above the minimum 2.25 trigger event level. As a result of the corporate reorganization which culminated at the end of 2010 with the transfer of Brisa Concession and all the rights, obligations, BCR has a Euro Medium-Term Notes Programme (EMTN) totalling assets, liabilities and contractual positions associated thereto to BCR, this € 3 000 000 thousand, of which € 1 420 000 thousand were being used at company became the Group company with the greater proportion of the 31 December 2018. Group’s debt (of approximately € 2,074,000 thousand by the end of 2018). Moreover, BCR is a company with a dynamic financial structure where the In order to ensure its financial flexibility, at the end of 2018 BCR had in place management of liquidity and refinancing risks are of particular relevance. with the banking sector committed short-term credit lines and commercial paper programmes in a total amount amount of € 450 000 thousand. The setting up at the end of 2010 of an innovating financial and contractual structure common to all senior creditors provided an effective ring-fencing The existence of reserve accounts to ensure compliance with the debt service of BCR, reducing creditors’ exposure to this company alone. The limitation and capital expenditure obligations also contributes to mitigate financing risk. 244 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Project Finance It is a policy of the Brisa Group to tender for new road concessions both With this goal in mind, risk management is guided by two major concerns: THOUSAND EURO ‘18 domestic and international integrated in joint ventures/consortia. • Reduce, whenever possible, fluctuations in results and cash flows subject Class: Item Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 to risk situations; Project finance has been used to fund these projects with the clear objective • Limit deviations from projected results, by means of a strict financial Financial assets Derivative financial 1 978 of separating each project in operating, financial and legal terms. The planning, based on pluriannual budgets. at fair value instruments (Note 31) creation of companies with their own financing structures and no recourse to Brisa cash flow or assets (besides the capital commitments the amount All of the Group’s assets and liabilities are measured at amortised cost, of which is known at the very beginning) allows to limit and quantify the except for derivative financial instruments, which are measured at fair risk assumed by Brisa when investing in new concessions. Moreover, Brisa enters in these projects in partnership, normally with minority stakes, value. THOUSAND EURO ‘17 thereby mitigating its exposure to each project. Fair value estimate assets and liabilities measured at fair value Class: Item Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 The following table shows the Group’s assets and liabilities measured at Financial assets Derivative financial 3 810 For each project an entity is set up with its own financing structure and fair value at 31 December 2018 and 2017 according to the following fair at fair value instruments (Note 31) no recourse by creditors to cash flows or assets of Brisa (apart from the value levels: normal stand-by equity guarantees provided under the terms of these projects, the value of which is known from the start). Therefore, the risk • Level 1: the fair value of financial instruments is based on market pricing taken on by Brisa is limited to the amount of equity attributed to the from active and liquid financial markets at the date of the statement of As far as bank loans are concerned, most of which are subject to floating project and to the guarantees mentioned above. financial position; interest rate, as mentioned in Note 26, it is considered that their book value (amortised cost) does not differ significantly from corresponding market Financial liabilities within the scope of IFRS 9 • Level 2: the fair value of financial instruments is not determined based on value. In its day to day operation the Group is exposed to financial risks, particularly market pricing from active and liquid financial markets, prices but according interest rate risks, which are likely to affect its equity and results. to valuation models; Financial risk is the probability of obtaining different than expected results, • Level 3: the fair value of financial instruments is not determined based on whether income or losses, changing the Group’s equity in a materially active market prices but according to valuation models, the main inputs relevant and unexpected way. of which are not observable in the financial markets. The management of the risks referred to above, which to a large extent, stem from the unpredictability of financial markets, requires a stringent application of a set of rules and methodologies approved by the Executive Committee, the ultimate purpose of which is to minimise their potential negative impact on the Group’s net worth and performance. 245 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 35. RELATED PARTIES Gross remuneration of the members of Brisa’s corporate boards in the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 was as follows: Balances and transactions between the Group and those entered into, accepted and carried out in similar transactions with independent entities. The terms and conditions of the transactions between Brisa and these related parties are substantially similar to those contracted, accepted and practised in similar operations with independent entities. THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 The main balances receivable from and payable to related entities as of 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Executive directors: Accounts Receivable and Other accounts Fixed remuneration 1 825 1 831 Suppliers THOUSAND EURO other debtors (Note 19) payable Variable remuneration: 1 916 2 283 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 Defined benefits Non-executive directors: 272 272 AELO 734 2 093 10 11 Fixed remuneration 536 386 ELOS 946 727 Supervisory Board 216 120 Efacec Group 6 1 11 5 4 4 765 4 892 José de Mello Group 20 885 44 548 José de Mello Saúde Group 3 34 2 Gross remuneration of the members of Brisa’s key personnel in the years Street Park 4 ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 was as follows: 1 686 2 848 929 66 555 4 Additionally, main transactions carried out with other related entities in the years ended as of 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: THOUSAND EURO ‘18 ‘17 Key managing personnel Tangible Supplies and Rendered Other operating Fixed remuneration 3 522 3 662 THOUSAND EURO fixed assets services services income Variable remuneration: 1 432 1 646 ‘18 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 Defined benefits 5 049 95 5 422 114 AELO 9 5 328 5 115 45 45 José de Mello Group 1 119 531 6 45 José de Mello Saúde Group 179 131 87 38 13 Efacec Group 19 1 1 3 2 TIICINVEST, Unipessoal, Lda. 1 19 1 299 672 5 418 5 162 45 103 246 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY 36. APPROVAL OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 were approved by the Board of Directors on 17 April 2019 and their issuance was authorised on the same date. However, they are still subject to the approval of the General • Vasco Maria Guimarães José de Mello Shareholder’s Meeting, under the terms of the commercial law in force in Portugal. • João Pedro Stilwell Rocha e Melo 37. STATUTORY OFFICIAL AUDITOR FEES • João Pedro Ribeiro de Azevedo Coutinho The remuneration of the Statutory Official Auditor for the year ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 amounted to € 30 thousand, in both cases. • António José Lopes Nunes de Sousa • Daniel Alexandre Miguel Amaral São Domingos de Rana, 17 April 2019. • Rui Alexandre Pires Diniz The Certified Accountant no. 62018 • Michael Gregory Allen _______________________ • Luís Eduardo Brito Freixial de Goes João Rodrigues • Graham Peter Wilson Marr • Stuart David Gray 247 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Report and Opinion of the Supervisory Board financial information referred hereinabove is sustained by adequate accounting records and Supervisory Board's Statement on accounts of the year of 2018 documents and was adequately prepared. The members of the Supervisory Board hereby warrant that, as far as they are aware, the 5. The Supervisory Board assessed the legal certification of the consolidated and individual information contained in the Integrated Report and other individual and consolidated financial statements issued by the Certified Account Auditor under the terms of the law, accounting documents related to 2018, was drawn up in compliance with the applicable which deserved its agreement; it analyzed the annual report carried out by him; and followed accounting standards and regulations, and that it gives a true and fair view of the Company and 1. In accordance with legal and statutory provisions, the Supervisory Board issues this Report the development of the audit work, which in its opinion, was carried out with full its affiliates’ assets and liabilities, their financial situation and results and faithfully describes the and Opinion on the Integrated Annual Report and other individual and consolidated independence. development of its businesses, the performance and situation of the Company and the main accounting documents of Brisa Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A., that have been presented by risks and uncertainties that it faces. its Board of Directors for the 2018 financial year. 6. The Supervisory Board monitored and appreciated in a positive way the activity carried out by the External Auditor, to whose Report it had access, considering adequate the São Domingos de Rana, 18 April 2019 2. Over the year under review the Supervisory Board followed the management and evolution methodology adopted and the means employed, and took note of the main conclusions of of the Company's businesses, having held regular meetings with the Chief Financial Officer, the work carried out that are globally consistent with their own perception of the subject. the Corporate Secretary and the Certified Account Auditor, entities with whom kept a close THE SUPERVISORY BOARD collaboration. It was also present in the meeting of the Board of Directors that approved the 7. The Supervisory Board expresses its appreciation for the collaboration received from the Integrated Annual Report and had access to the minutes of the meetings of this governing Board of Directors, the Certified Account Auditor, the External Auditor and the Services, in body and to all financial and management accounting documents, either from Brisa as from general. Francisco Xavier Alves (Chairman) its affiliates. During its activities, the Supervisory Board did not identify or came to its knowledge any situation violating legal and statutory rules. Tirso Olazábal Cavero (Member) OPINION 3. With the periodicity deemed suitable, the Supervisory Board performed its duties as laid Joaquim Patrício da Silva (Member) down in Article 420 of the Companies Code; namely, it assessed the accounting principles In view of the foregoing, the Supervisory Board believes that the conditions are met for the and valuation criteria used in the preparation of the financial information, which it deemed approval by the General Meeting of Brisa Auto-Estradas de Portugal, SA, of the following: adequate and followed the implementation of the risk management system, the a) The Integrated Annual Report and the individual and consolidated financial statements development of internal audit actions and the efficiency of the internal control system. for the 2018 financial year; b) The Proposal for the Allocation of Net Income presented by the Board of Directors in 4. The Supervisory Board considers that the Integrated Annual Report and the individual and the Integrated Annual Report. consolidated financial statements for the year ended as of 31 December 2018 (statement of financial position, statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity, cash flow statements, and the notes to the financial statements) provide an adequate view of the Company's equity at the end of the financial year and provide a clear understanding of how profit and losses originated and how the business evolved. The 248 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY The supervisory body is responsible for the supervision of the process of preparation and disclosure of the financial REPORTING ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS LEGAL CERTIFICATION OF THE ACCOUNTS information of the Entity and the Group. On the management report Auditor’s responsibility for the audit of the individual and consolidated financial statements In compliance with provisions in article 451, no. 3, sub-paragraph e) of the Companies Code, it is our opinion that the management report was prepared according to the relevant legal and regulatory requirements in force, and REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE INDIVIDUAL AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our responsibility is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the individual and consolidated financial that the information contained therein is consistent with the individual and consolidated financial statements statements taken as a whole are free of material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error, and issue a report audited, and taking into account our knowledge and assessment of the Group, we did not identify material expressing our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance; however, it is not a guarantee that an misstatements. Opinion audit conducted according to ISAs will always detect a material misstatement if it exists. Misstatements may We have audited the attached individual financial statements of Brisa Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A., (the Entity) originate from fraud or error and they are considered material if individually or jointly, they could influence the economic decisions of users of the financial statements. Lisbon, 18 April 2019 and the attached consolidated financial statements of the Brisa Group, composed of the Entity and its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the individual and consolidated statements of financial position as of 31 December As part of an audit conducted according to ISAs, we make professional judgements and maintain professional Alves da Cunha, A. Dias & Associados, SROC, Lda 2018 (showing a total of Euro 645,376 thousand for the Entity and Euro 3,034,017 thousand for the Group, and a Represented by José Duarte Assunção Dias ROC nº 513. scepticism during the audit and: total equity of Euro 430,387 thousand for the Entity and Euro 511,219 thousand for the Group, including a net profit of Euro 157,997 thousand for the Entity and Euro 211,567 thousand for the Group), the individual statement of we identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the individual and consolidated financial statements profit and loss and other comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of profit and loss and other due to fraud or error, we design and perform audit procedures which respond to such risks, and we obtain audit comprehensive income, the statements of changes in individual and consolidated equity and the individual and evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material consolidated cash flow statements for the year ended as of that date, which include a summary of the relevant misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve accounting policies. collusion, forgery, deliberate failure to record transactions, or intentional misrepresentations or overriding of internal control procedures; In our opinion, the above mentioned individual and consolidated financial statements attached hereto present, in a true and appropriate manner, in all materially relevant respects, the individual and consolidated financial position we obtain an understanding of the relevant internal control for the audit with the purpose of designing audit of Brisa Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A. as of 31/12/2018 and its financial performance and the individual and procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not to express an opinion on the efficacy of the internal consolidated cash flows relating to the year ended as of the said date, in accordance with the International Financial control of the Entity and the Group; Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. we assess the adequacy of the accounting policies used and the reasonability of accounting estimates and respective disclosures made by the management body; Bases of the opinion we conclude as to the appropriate use by the management body of the going concern assumption and, based Our audit was conducted in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and the technical and on the audit evidence obtained, whether any material uncertainty exists relating to events or conditions that may ethical standards of the Certified Auditors Association (Ordem dos Revisores Oficiais de Contas). Our responsibilities cast significant doubt upon the ability of the Entity and the Group to continue as a going concern. If we conclude as provided in the said standards are described in section “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the individual that a material uncertainty exists, we must draw attention in our report to related disclosures included in the and consolidated financial statements” herein below. We are independent from the entities which compose the financial statements or, if such disclosures are not appropriate, we must change our opinion. Our conclusions are Group, under the terms of the law, and comply with relevant ethical requirements under the terms of the Code of based on audit evidence obtained until the date of our report. However, future events or conditions may cause Ethics of the Certified Auditors Association. the Entity or the Group to cease to continue as going concern; We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. we assess the presentation, structure and overall contents of the individual and consolidated financial statements, and whether such financial statements reflect the underlying transactions and events in order to Responsibilities of the management body and the supervisory body for the individual and consolidated financial achieve a fair presentation; statements we obtain sufficient and adequate audit evidence relating to the financial information of the entities or activities The management body is responsible for: within the Group in order to express an opinion on the individual and consolidated financial statements. We are preparation of individual and consolidated financial statements which give a true and appropriate view of the responsible for the guidance, supervision and performance of the Group’s audit and we are ultimately responsible financial position of the Entity and the Group, their individual and consolidated performance and individual and for our audit opinion; consolidated cash flows, in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted in we communicate with those charged with governance, among other subjects, the scope and schedule of the the European Union; audit, the audit’s relevant conclusions, including any relevant internal control deficiency identified during the preparation of a management report according to legal and regulatory terms; audit. -establishment and maintenance of an appropriate internal control system to enable the preparation of financial Our responsibility also comprises the verification that the information contained in the management report is statements exempt from material distortion due to fraud or error; consistent with the individual and consolidated financial statements. adoption of appropriate policies and accounting criteria in the circumstances; and disclosing any relevant fact that may have affected the operations, financial position or results of the Entity and the Group; and the evaluation of the capacity of the Entity’s and the Group’s ability to remain in continuity, disclosing, where applicable, matters that may raise significant doubts about the continuity of the activities. • Share capital: 25.000 Euro • Registered at CRL Lisboa under NIPC 502 289 740 Registered as Official Auditor under number 74 • Registered with CMVM under number 2699 2/3 Rua Américo Durão, 6 – 8º Esq. – 1900-064 LISBOA PORTUGAL • TEL.: 21 829 28 80 – FAX: 21 847 07 80 • acad@acad.pt • www.acad.pt 3/3 249 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Auditors’ Report (Free translation from the original in Portuguese) c) the creation and maintenance of an appropriate system of internal control to enable the obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to the Entity to cease to continue as a going concern; fraud or error; Report on the audit of the financial statements e) evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including d) the adoption of appropriate accounting policies and criteria; and the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and Opinion events in a manner that achieves fair presentation; and e) the assessment of the Entity’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Brisa – Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A. events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Entity’s ability to continue its f) communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned (the Entity), which comprise the statement of financial position as at December 31, 2018 (which shows activities. scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant total assets of Euro 645,376 thousand and total shareholders' equity of Euro 430,387 thousand deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. including a net profit of Euro 157,997), the statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the process of preparation and disclosure process income, the statement of changes in shareholders’ equity and the statement of cash flows for the year of the Entity’s financial information. Our responsibility also includes verifying that the information included in the Directors’ report is then ended, and the notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting consistent with the financial statements. policies. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Report on other legal and regulatory requirements In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly in all material respects, the Our responsibility is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole financial position of Brisa – Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A. as at December 31, 2018, and its financial are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report Director’s report performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the European Union. that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it In our opinion the Director’s report has been prepared in accordance with applicable requirements of exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the law and regulation, that the information included in the Directors’ report is consistent with the Basis for opinion the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on audited financial statements and, taking into account the knowledge and assessment about the Entity, the basis of these financial statements. no material misstatements were identified. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) and other technical and ethical standards and recommendations issued by the Institute of Statutory Auditors. Our As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain responsibilities under those standards are described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: April 18, 2019 the financial statements” section below. In accordance with the law we are independent of the Entity and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the ethics code of the a) identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due Institute of Statutory Auditors. to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from represented by: We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; Rui Jorge dos Anjos Duarte, R.O.C. Responsibilities of management and supervisory board for the financial statements b) obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit Management is responsible for: procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Entity’s internal control; a) the preparation of the financial statements, which present fairly the financial position, the financial performance and the cash flows of the Entity in accordance with International c) evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the European Union; estimates and related disclosures made by management; b) the preparation of the Directors’ Report in accordance with the applicable law and regulations; d) conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. Sede: Palácio Sottomayor, Rua Sousa Martins, 1 3º, 1069-316 Lisboa, Portugal Receção: Palácio Sottomayor, Avenida Fontes Pereira de Melo, nº16, 1050-121 Lisboa, Portugal Tel +351 213 599 000, Fax +351 213 599 999, www.pwc.pt Matriculada na CRC sob o NUPC 506 628 752, Capital Social Euros 314.000 Inscrita na lista das Sociedades de Revisores Oficiais de Contas sob o nº 183 e na CMVM sob o nº 20161485 PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. pertence à rede de entidades que são membros da PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited, cada uma das quais é uma entidade legal autónoma e independente. Auditors’ Report Brisa – Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A. Auditors’ Report Brisa – Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A. December 31, 2018 PwC 2 of 3 December 31, 2018 PwC 3 of 3 250 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Auditors’ Report (Free translation from the original in Portuguese) obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause c) the creation and maintenance of an appropriate system of internal control to enable the the Group to cease to continue as a going concern; preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to Report on the audit of the consolidated financial statements fraud or error; e) evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying Opinion d) the adoption of appropriate accounting policies and criteria; transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation; We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Brisa – Auto-Estradas de e) the assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, f) obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities Portugal, S.A. (the Group), which comprise the statement of consolidated financial position as at events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue its or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial December 31, 2018 (which shows total assets of Euro 3,034,017 thousand and total shareholders' activities. statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group equity of Euro 511,219 thousand including a net profit of Euro 157,997 thousand), the consolidated audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion; income statement, the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income, the consolidated The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the process of preparation and disclosure of the statement of changes in shareholders’ equity and the consolidated cash flow statement for the year Group’s financial information. g) communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned then ended, and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant accounting policies. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit; In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material Our responsibility is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial Our responsibility also includes verifying that the information included in the Directors’ report is respects, the consolidated financial position of Brisa – Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A. as at December statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue consistent with the consolidated financial statements. 31, 2018, and their consolidated financial performance and their consolidated cash flows for the year an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material Report on other legal and regulatory requirements European Union. misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic Director’s report Basis for opinion decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. In our opinion the Director’s report has been prepared in accordance with applicable requirements of We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) and other As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain the law and regulation, that the information included in the Directors’ report is consistent with the technical and ethical standards and recommendations issued by the Institute of Statutory Auditors. Our professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: audited consolidated financial statements and, taking into account the knowledge and assessment responsibilities under those standards are described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of about the Group, no material misstatements were identified. the consolidated financial statements” section below. In accordance with the law we are independent a) identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, of the entities that are included in the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, accordance with the ethics code of the Institute of Statutory Auditors. and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. April 18, 2019 The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, our opinion. misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. Responsibilities of management and supervisory board for the consolidated financial b) obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit represented by: statements procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control; Rui Jorge dos Anjos Duarte, R.O.C. Management is responsible for: c) evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting a) the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, which present fairly the financial estimates and related disclosures made by management; position, the financial performance and the cash flows of the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the European Union; d) conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to b) the preparation of the Directors’ Report in accordance with the applicable law and regulations; events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence Sede: Palácio Sottomayor, Rua Sousa Martins, 1 3º, 1069-316 Lisboa, Portugal Receção: Palácio Sottomayor, Avenida Fontes Pereira de Melo, nº16, 1050-121 Lisboa, Portugal Tel +351 213 599 000, Fax +351 213 599 999, www.pwc.pt Matriculada na CRC sob o NUPC 506 628 752, Capital Social Euros 314.000 Inscrita na lista das Sociedades de Revisores Oficiais de Contas sob o nº 183 e na CMVM sob o nº 20161485 PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. pertence à rede de entidades que são membros da PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited, cada uma das quais é uma entidade legal autónoma e independente. Auditors’ Report Brisa – Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A. Auditors’ Report Brisa – Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A. December 31, 2018 PwC 2 of 3 December 31, 2018 PwC 3 of 3 251 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY Independent Assurance Report (Free translation from the original in Portuguese) 5 For this purpose the above mentioned work included: Conclusion on the reasonable assurance work To the Board of Directors (i) Inquiries to management and senior officials responsible for areas under analysis, with the 11 Based on the work performed, it is our opinion that the sustainability information, with respect purpose of understanding how the information system is structured and their awareness of to the indicators identified in the Annex “GRI Index” of the Integrated Report 2018, for the year ended Introduction issues included in the report; in December 31, 2018, as “External Assurance – Reasonable”, and presented in the paragraph 4.1 (ii) Identification of the existence of internal management procedures leading to the above, were prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with GRI Standards guidelines 1 We were engaged by the Board of Directors of Brisa Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A. (“Brisa” or requirements and with the instructions and criteria disclosed on the Report. implementation of economic, environmental and social policies; “Company”) to perform a reasonable assurance engagement on the indicators identified in the (iii) Testing, on a sampling basis, the efficiency of processes and systems in place for collection, paragraph 4 below and a limited assurance engagement on the indicators also mentioned in that Conclusion on the limited assurance work consolidation, validation and reporting of the performance information previously mentioned, paragraph, which integrates the sustainability information included in the Integrated Report 2018, for through calculations and validation of reported data; the year ended in December 31, 2018, prepared by the Company for the purpose of communicating its 12 Based on the work performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the (iv) Confirmation that operational units follow the instructions on collection, consolidation, annual sustainability performance. sustainability information, with respect to the indicators identified in the Annex “GRI Index” of the validation and reporting of performance information; (v) Execution of substantive procedures, on a sampling basis, in order to collect evidence of the Integrated Report 2018, for the year ended in December 31, 2018, as “External Assurance – Limited”, Responsibilities reported information; and referred in the paragraph 4.2 above, were not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with 2 It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to prepare the sustainability information (vi) Comparison of financial and economic data included in the sustainability information with the GRI Standards guidelines requirements and with the instructions and criteria disclosed on it and that identified in the paragraph 4 below, included in the Integrated Report 2018, in accordance with the audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados, SROC, Lda, in the scope of the legal review of Brisa has not applied, in the sustainability information included in the same Integrated Report 2018, sustainability reporting guidelines “Global Reporting Initiative”, GRI Standards version, the Brisa’s financial statements for the year ended in December 31, 2018; the GRI Standards guidelines, for the option “In accordance – Core”, and the principles defined in the AA1000APS Standard (2008) issued by Accountability, regarding the principles of inclusivity, (vii) Analysis of the process for defining the materiality of the sustainability issues, based on the AA1000APS Standard (2008). materiality and responsiveness, and with the instructions and criteria disclosed in the Integrated materiality principle of GRI Standards, according to methodology described by the Company in Report 2018, as well as for the maintenance of an appropriate internal control system that enables the the Report; Restriction on use adequately preparation of the mentioned information. (viii) Assessment of the level of adherence to the principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness set by AA1000APS Standard (2008), in the sustainability information 13 This report is issued solely for information and use of the Board of Directors of the Company for 3 Our responsibility is to issue an assurance report, which is professional and independent, based the purpose of communicating the annual sustainability performance in the Integrated Report 2018 disclosure, through the analysis of the contents of the Report and the internal documents of the on the procedures performed and specified in the paragraph below. and should not be used for any other purpose. We will not assume any responsibility to third parties Company; other than Brisa by our work and the conclusions expressed in this report, which will be attached to Scope (ix) Verification that the sustainability information included in the Report complies with the the Company's Integrated Report 2018. requirements of GRI Standards guidelines. 4 The work performed was conducted in accordance with International Standard on Assurance April 18, 2019 Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) “Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of 6 In addition, we performed the following procedures for the purpose of reasonable assurance historical financial information”, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board work: PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados of the International Federation of Accountants. This standard requires that we plan and perform the Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. assurance engagement to obtain an assurance level: i) Assessment of the risks and general of the information systems that support the human Represented by: resources processes; 4.1 reasonable on whether the sustainability information identified in the Annex “GRI Index” of ii) Verification, through the performance of analytical and substantive tests, and based on defined Integrated Report 2018, for the year ended in December 31, 2018, as “External Assurance – materiality criteria, of the adequate application of reporting criteria Reasonable”, comprising the GRI Standards indicators relative to organizational profile (102-8), António Brochado Correia, R.O.C. stakeholders engagement (102-41), economic performance (201-1), market presence (202-1), 7 In the limited assurance work, the procedures performed were more limited than those used in procurement practices (204-1), anti-corruption (205-2), anti-competitive behavior (206-1), an engagement to obtain reasonable assurance and, therefore, less assurance was obtained than in a (This is a translation, not to be signed) energy (302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4 and 302-5), water (303-1), biodiversity (304-1, 304-2, 304-3 reasonable assurance engagement. and 304-4), emissions (305-1, 305-2 and 305-4), waste (306-2), environmental compliance (307-1), employment (401-1), occupational health and safety (403-2), training and education 8 We believe that the procedures performed provide an acceptable basis for our conclusion. (404-1), diversity and equal opportunity (405-1), salary equality between women and men (4052); and Quality control and independence 4.2 limited on whether the remaining sustainability information identified in the Annex “GRI 9 We apply the International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC1) and, accordingly, maintain a Index” of Integrated Report 2018, for the year ended in December 31, 2018, as “External comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding Assurance – Limited”, compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory is free from material misstatement. requirements. PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. Sede: Palácio Sottomayor, Rua Sousa Martins, 1 3º, 1069-316 Lisboa, Portugal 10 We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics Receção: Palácio Sottomayor, Avenida Fontes Pereira de Melo, nº16, 1050-121 Lisboa, Portugal for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants and Tel +351 213 599 000, Fax +351 213 599 999, www.pwc. pt of the ethics code of the Institute of Statutory Auditors. Matriculada na CRC sob o NUPC 506 628 752, Capital Social Euros 314.000 Inscrita na lista das Sociedades de Revisores Oficiais de Contas sob o nº 183 e na CMVM sob o nº 20161485 PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. pertence à rede de entidades que são membros da PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited, cada uma das quais é uma entidade legal autónoma e independente. Independent Assurance Report Brisa Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A. Independent Assurance Report Brisa Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A. December 31, 2018 PwC 2 of 3 December 31, 2018 PwC 3 of 3 252 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY TRAFFIC STATISTICS BRISA CONCESSÃO RODOVIÁRIA (BCR) A1/IP1 AUTO-ESTRADA DO NORTE v.kma) ADT Change SUB-STRETCH ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 v.km ADT Alverca (A1/A9)-V. Franca de Xira II 1,7 1,7 65 394 65 939 0,8% 0,8% V. Franca de Xira II-V. Franca de Xira I 0,9 0,9 66 138 66 527 0,6% 0,6% V. Franca de Xira I-Castanheira do Ribatejo 0,8 0,8 53 902 54 450 1,0% 1,0% Castanheira do Ribatejo-A1/A10 0,2 0,2 53 342 53 841 0,9% 0,9% A1/A10-Carregado 0,2 0,2 61 582 63 107 2,5% 2,5% Carregado-Aveiras de Cima 2,6 2,7 45 720 46 868 2,5% 2,5% Aveiras de Cima-Cartaxo 1,4 1,5 35 076 35 968 2,5% 2,5% Cartaxo-Santarém 1,0 1,1 35 651 36 563 2,6% 2,6% Santarém-A1/A15 0,2 0,2 38 132 39 194 2,8% 2,8% A1/A15-Torres Novas (A1/A23) 3,5 3,6 35 767 36 800 2,9% 2,9% Torres Novas (A1/A23)-Fátima 1,9 2,0 25 549 26 237 2,7% 2,7% Fátima-Leiria 1,5 1,5 26 419 27 260 3,2% 3,2% Leiria-Pombal 2,3 2,4 25 980 26 971 3,8% 3,8% Pombal-Soure 1,4 1,5 26 011 27 009 3,8% 3,8% Soure-Condeixa 1,2 1,3 26 161 27 171 3,9% 3,9% Condeixa-Coimbra Sul 0,8 0,8 28 021 29 301 4,6% 4,6% Coimbra Sul-Coimbra Norte (A1/A14) 0,8 0,8 26 163 27 597 5,5% 5,5% Coimbra Norte (A1/A14)-Mealhada 1,2 1,2 27 519 28 787 4,6% 4,6% Mealhada-Aveiro Sul 2,3 2,4 26 927 28 118 4,4% 4,4% Aveiro Sul-Albergaria (A1/IP5) 1,3 1,4 24 553 25 717 4,7% 4,7% Albergaria (A1/IP5)-Estarreja 1,5 1,6 39 755 42 291 6,4% 6,4% Estarreja-Feira 2,3 2,4 37 010 39 582 7,0% 7,0% Feira-Espinho (IC24) 1,5 1,6 41 551 44 468 7,0% 7,0% Espinho (IC24)-Feiteira 1,1 1,2 42 367 45 213 6,7% 6,7% Castanheira do Ribatejo-PLLN b) 0,0 0,0 1 882 20 80 10,6% 10,6% A1 33,7 33,7 33 075 34 341 3,8% 3,8% a) Traffic in 108 veic.km | b) PLLN Plataforma Logística Lisboa Norte 253 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY TRAFFIC STATISTICS BRISA CONCESSÃO RODOVIÁRIA (BCR) A2/IP1 AUTO-ESTRADA DO SUL v.kma) ADT Change SUB-STRETCH ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 v.km ADT Fogueteiro-Coina 1,2 1,2 35 924 36 241 0,9% 0,9% Coina-Palmela 1,3 1,3 31 058 31 699 2,1% 2,1% Palmela-A2/A12 0,2 0,2 32 401 32 928 1,6% 1,6% A2/A12-Marateca 1,5 1,6 24 421 25 138 2,9% 2,9% Marateca-A2/A6/A13 0,2 0,2 23 038 23 778 3,2% 3,2% A2/A6/A13-Alcácer do Sal 1,7 1,8 19 066 19 755 3,6% 3,6% Alcácer do Sal-Grândola Norte 1,4 1,5 17 552 18 074 3,0% 3,0% Grândola Norte-Grândola Sul 0,7 0,8 13 070 13 625 4,2% 4,2% Grândola Sul-Aljustrel 1,2 1,2 10 281 10 782 4,9% 4,9% Aljustrel-Castro Verde 1,0 1,0 10 136 10 681 5,4% 5,4% Castro Verde-Almodôvar 0,7 0,7 10 980 11 586 5,5% 5,5% Almodôvar-S.B. Messines 1,4 1,4 11 257 11 881 5,5% 5,5% S.B. Messines-Paderne (A22) 0,5 0,5 10 861 11 520 6,1% 6,1% A2 13,0 13,5 15 866 16 452 3,7% 3,7% a) Traffic in 108 veic.km 254 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY TRAFFIC STATISTICS BRISA CONCESSÃO RODOVIÁRIA (BCR) A3/IP1 AUTO-ESTRADA PORTO-VALENÇA v.kma) ADT Change SUB-STRETCH ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 v.km ADT Maia-Santo Tirso 2,6 2,7 56 194 58 429 4,0% 4,0% Santo Tirso-Famalicão 1,0 1,0 48 485 50 864 4,9% 4,9% Famalicão-Cruz 0,8 0,8 24 866 26 245 5,5% 5,5% Cruz-Braga Sul 0,6 0,6 22 492 23 976 6,6% 6,6% Braga Sul-Braga Poente 0,2 0,2 9 740 10 361 6,4% 6,4% Braga Poente-EN 201 0,7 0,7 9 287 9 865 6,2% 6,2% EN201-Ponte de Lima Sul 0,4 0,4 10 272 10 927 6,4% 6,4% Ponte de Lima Sul-Ponte de Lima Norte 0,0 0,0 12 830 13 412 4,5% 4,5% Ponte de Lima Norte-EN 303 0,6 0,6 8 045 8 505 5,7% 5,7% EN 303-Valença 0,2 0,2 7 815 8 271 5,8% 5,8% Braga Sul-Celeirós 0,1 0,2 17 799 18 961 6,5% 6,5% Celeirós-EN14 0,1 0,1 28 760 30 366 5,6% 5,6% A3 7,3 7,7 19 729 20 744 5,1% 5,1% a) Traffic in 108 veic.km A4/IP4 AUTO-ESTRADA PORTO-AMARANTE v.kma) ADT Change SUB-STRETCH ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 v.km ADT Ermesinde-Valongo 2,6 2,7 56 194 58 429 4,0% 4,0% Valongo-Campo 1,0 1,0 48 485 50 864 4,9% 4,9% Campo-Baltar 0,8 0,8 24 866 26 245 5,5% 5,5% Baltar-Paredes 0,6 0,6 22 492 23 976 6,6% 6,6% Paredes-Guilhufe 0,2 0,2 9 740 10 361 6,4% 6,4% Guilhufe-Penafiel 0,7 0,7 9 287 9 865 6,2% 6,2% Penafiel-Castelões (A4/IP9) 0,4 0,4 10 272 10 927 6,4% 6,4% Castelões (A4/IP9)-Amarante Poente 0,0 0,0 12 830 13 412 4,5% 4,5% A4 7,3 7,7 19 729 20 744 5,1% 5,1% a) Traffic in 108 veic.km 255 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY TRAFFIC STATISTICS BRISA CONCESSÃO RODOVIÁRIA (BCR) A5/IC15 AUTO-ESTRADA DA COSTA DO ESTORIL v.kma) ADT Change SUB-STRETCH ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 v.km ADT Estádio Nacional-Oeiras 1,5 1,6 12 0560 123 710 2,6% 4,0% Oeiras-Carcavelos 1,0 1,0 80 247 82 710 3,1% 4,9% Carcavelos-Estoril 0,9 0,9 53 622 55 103 2,8% 5,5% Estoril-Alcabideche 0,4 0,5 40 926 42 081 2,8% 2,8% Alcabideche-Alvide 0,1 0,1 43 290 44 538 2,9% 6,4% Alvide-Cascais 0,2 0,2 35 089 36 323 3,5% 6,2% A5 4,2 4,3 68 454 70 387 2,8% 2,8% a) Traffic in 10 veic.km 8 A6/IP7 AUTO-ESTRADA MARATECA (A2)-CAIA v.kma) ADT Change SUB-STRETCH ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 v.km ADT A2/A6/A13-Vendas Novas 0,7 0,7 9 191 9 490 3,3% 3,3% Vendas Novas-Montemor-o-Novo Poente 0,6 0,6 8 337 8 692 4,3% 4,3% Montemor-o-Novo Poente-Montemor-o-Novo Nascente 0,2 0,2 7 628 7 996 4,8% 4,8% Montemor-o-Novo Nascente-Évora Poente 0,4 0,4 6 699 7 023 4,8% 4,8% Évora Poente-Évora Nascente 0,2 0,2 3 317 3 519 6,1% 6,1% Évora Nascente-Estremoz 0,5 0,5 4 142 4 418 6,7% 6,7% Estremoz-Borba 0,1 0,2 3 234 3 437 6,3% 6,3% Borba-Elvas Poente 0,3 0,3 3 195 3 419 7,0% 7,0% A6 2,8 2,9 5 510 5 786 5,0% 5,0% a) Traffic in 10 veic.km 8 256 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY TRAFFIC STATISTICS BRISA CONCESSÃO RODOVIÁRIA (BCR) A9/IC18 CREL CIRCULAR REGIONAL EXTERIOR DE LISBOA v.kma) ADT Change SUB-STRETCH ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 v.km ADT Estádio Nacional (A5/A9)-Queluz 0,3 0,4 26 808 28 434 6,1% 6,1% Queluz-A9/A16 0,2 0,3 23 393 25 286 8,1% 8,1% A9/A16-Radial Pontinha 0,4 0,4 33 210 35 790 7,8% 7,8% Radial Pontinha-Radial Odivelas 0,5 0,6 22 015 24 588 11,7% 11,7% Radial Odivelas-A8/A9 0,3 0,3 22 756 25 414 11,7% 11,7% A8/A9-Bucelas (Zambujal) 0,3 0,3 21 801 24 019 10,2% 10,2% Bucelas (Zambujal)-A9/A10 0,4 0,5 13 329 14 934 12,0% 12,0% A9/A10-Alverca 0,1 0,1 7 681 8 330 8,4% 8,4% A9 2,6 2,8 20 322 22 317 9,8% 9,8% a) Traffic in 108 veic.km A10/IC2 AUTO-ESTRADA BUCELAS (CREL)-CARREGADO-IC3 v.kma) ADT Change SUB-STRETCH ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 v.km ADT A9/A10-Arruda dos Vinhos 0,3 0,3 11 120 12 344 11,0% 11,0% Arruda dos Vinhos-Carregado 0,3 0,3 7 673 8 632 12,5% 12,5% Carregado-Benavente 0,3 0,3 5 574 6 009 7,8% 7,8% Benavente-A10/A13 0,1 0,1 2 373 2 600 9,6% 9,6% A10 0,9 1,0 6 520 7 198 10,4% 10,4% a) Traffic in 108 veic.km A12/IC3 AUTO-ESTRADA SETÚBAL-MONTIJO v.kma) ADT Change SUB-STRETCH ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 v.km ADT Montijo-Pinhal Novo 0,7 0,8 19 124 20 350 6,4% 6,4% Pinhal Novo-A2/A12 0,6 0,7 18 707 19 805 5,9% 5,9% A2/A12-Setúbal 0,5 0,6 28 412 29 235 2,9% 2,9% A12 1,9 2,0 20 913 22 006 5,2% 5,2% a) Traffic in 108 veic.km 257 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY TRAFFIC STATISTICS BRISA CONCESSÃO RODOVIÁRIA (BCR) A13/IC3/IC11 AUTO-ESTRADA ALMEIRIM-MARATECA v.kma) ADT Change SUB-STRETCH ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 v.km ADT Almeirim-Salvaterra Magos 0,3 0,4 3 669 3 817 4,0% 4,0% Salvaterra Magos-A13/A10 0,2 0,2 3 677 3 845 4,6% 4,6% A13/A10-Sto. Estevão 0,2 0,2 5 420 5 776 6,6% 6,6% Sto. Estevão-Pegões 0,4 0,4 5 174 5 467 5,7% 5,7% Pegões-Marateca 0,2 0,2 5 167 5 446 5,4% 5,4% A13 1,3 1,4 4 476 4 709 5,2% 5,2% a) Traffic in 108 veic.km A14/IP3 AUTO-ESTRADA FIGUEIRA DA FOZ-COIMBRA (NORTE) v.kma) ADT Change SUB-STRETCH ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 v.km ADT Santa Eulália-Montemor-o-Velho 0,1 0,1 3 936 4 168 5,9% 5,9% Pinhal Novo-A2/A12 Montemor-o-Velho-EN335 0,1 0,1 4 092 4 339 6,0% 6,0% EN335-Ançã 0,2 0,2 4 318 4 603 6,6% 6,6% Ançã-Coimbra Norte (A14/A1) 0,1 0,1 7 322 7 747 5,8% 5,8% A14 0,5 0,5 4 675 4 962 6,1% 6,1% a) Traffic in 108 veic.km v.kma) ADT Change SUB-STRETCH ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 v.km ADT BCR 73,5 76,6 19 847 20 693 4,3% 4,3% a) Traffic in 108 veic.km 258 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY TRAFFIC STATISTICS CONCESSÃO ATLÂNTICO (AEA) A8/IC1 AUTO-ESTRADA DO OESTE v.kma) ADT Change SUB-STRETCH ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 v.km ADT Loures CREL 0,3 0,3 49 252 51 431 4,4% 4,4% CREL Lousa 1,5 1,6 54 072 56 720 4,9% 4,9% Lousa Malveira 0,4 0,4 49 350 51 740 4,8% 4,8% Malveira Enxara 0,8 0,8 27 560 28 990 5,2% 5,2% Enxara Torres Vedras Sul 0,9 1,0 26 216 27 529 5,0% 5,0% Torres Vedras Sul Torres Vedras Norte 0,4 0,5 20 182 21 289 5,5% 5,5% Torres Vedras Norte Ramalhal 0,2 0,2 22 984 24 341 5,9% 5,9% Ramalhal Campelos 0,6 0,6 16 985 17 894 5,4% 5,4% Campelos Bombarral 0,5 0,5 16 528 17 369 5,1% 5,1% Zona Industrial Tornada (Pagante) 0,1 0,2 11 208 12 045 7,5% 7,5% Tornada Alfeizerão 0,3 0,4 12 307 13 206 7,3% 7,3% Alfeizerão Valado de Frades 0,5 0,6 12 051 12 891 7,0% 7,0% Valado de Frades Pataias 0,3 0,3 11 525 12 259 6,4% 6,4% Pataias Marinha Grande Sul 0,4 0,4 11 484 12 218 6,4% 6,4% Marinha Grande Sul Nó c/ A17 (S) 0,1 0,1 12 105 12 975 7,2% 7,2% Nó c/ A17 (S) Nó c/ A17 (N) 0,0 0,0 6 671 7 162 7,4% 7,4% Nó c/ A17 (N) Marinha Grande Este 0,0 0,0 7 737 8 351 7,9% 7,9% Marinha Grande Este Leiria Sul 0,1 0,1 7 189 7 900 9,9% 9,9% A8 7,6 8,1 20 147 21 275 5,6% 5,6% a) Traffic in 108 veic.km 259 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY TRAFFIC STATISTICS CONCESSÃO ATLÂNTICO (AEA) A15/IP6 AUTO-ESTRADA CALDAS DA RAÍNHA-SANTARÉM v.kma) ADT Change SUB-STRETCH ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 v.km ADT Arnoia A dos Negros (Pagante) 0,1 0,1 3 945 4 169 5,7% 5,7% A dos Negros A dos Francos 0,2 0,2 4 855 5 118 5,4% 5,4% A dos Francos Rio Maior Oeste 0,1 0,1 3 917 4 129 5,4% 5,4% Rio Maior Oeste Rio Maior Este 0,0 0,0 3 789 3 909 3,2% 3,2% Rio Maior Este Malaqueijo 0,1 0,1 4 992 5 125 2,7% 2,7% Malaqueijo Nó A1/A15 0,2 0,2 5 036 5 171 2,7% 2,7% A15 0,7 0,7 4 615 4 797 3,9% 3,9% a) Traffic in 10 veic.km 8 v.kma) ADT Change SUB-STRETCH ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 v.km ADT Atlântico 8,3 8,8 15 810 16 674 5,5% 5,5% a) Traffic in 108 veic.km 260 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY TRAFFIC STATISTICS CONCESSÃO LITORAL CENTRO (BRISAL) A17/IC1 AUTO-ESTRADA MARINHA GRANDE (A8) MIRA v.kma) ADT Change SUB-STRETCH ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 v.km ADT Nó A8/A17 S Nó A8/A17 N 0,0 0,0 5 447 5 819 6,8% 6,8% Marinha Grande Leiria (Norte) 0,2 0,2 6 516 7 013 7,6% 7,6% Leiria (Norte) Monte Real 0,1 0,1 7 718 8 228 6,6% 6,6% Monte Real Monte Redondo 0,1 0,2 7 411 7 909 6,7% 6,7% Monte Redondo Guia 0,2 0,2 7 298 7 790 6,7% 6,7% Guia Louriçal (IC8) 0,1 0,2 7 047 7 524 6,8% 6,8% Louriçal (IC8) / Marinha das Ondas 0,2 0,2 6 495 6 973 7,4% 7,4% Marinha das Ondas / A14 0,4 0,4 6 198 6 680 7,8% 7,8% A14 / Quiaios 0,2 0,2 5 557 5 953 7,1% 7,1% Quiaios / Tocha 0,3 0,4 6 508 7 025 7,9% 7,9% Tocha / Mira 0,3 0,3 6 679 7 250 8,5% 8,5% Mira / Mira PV 0,1 0,1 7 023 7 653 9,0% 9,0% A17 2,2 2,4 6 598 7 097 7,6% 7,6% a) Traffic in 108 veic.km CONCESSÃO DOURO LITORAL (AEDL) A32/IC2 LANÇO OLIVEIRA DE AZEMÉIS / IP1 (S.LOURENÇO) v.kma) ADT Change SUB-STRETCH ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 v.km ADT EN 224 EN 227 0,0 0,0 1 970 2 208 12,1% 12,1% EN 227 Feira-Mansores 0,1 0,1 3 376 3 610 6,9% 6,9% Feira-Mansores Gião-Louredo 0,2 0,2 9 000 9 649 7,2% 7,2% Gião-Louredo Canedo 0,1 0,1 9 494 10 148 6,9% 6,9% Canedo A32/A41 0,1 0,2 12 527 13 454 7,4% 7,4% A32/A41 Olival 0,1 0,1 9 599 10 417 8,5% 8,5% Olival A32/A1 0,2 0,3 11 423 12 502 9,4% 9,4% A32 0,9 1,0 7 967 8 604 8,0% 8,0% a) Traffic in 10 veic.km 8 261 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY TRAFFIC STATISTICS CONCESSÃO DOURO LITORAL (AEDL) A41/IC24 LANÇO PICOTO (IC2) / NÓ DA ERMIDA (IC25) v.kma) ADT Change SUB-STRETCH ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 v.km ADT Gandra A4/A41 0,1 0,2 6 477 7 629 17,8% 17,8% A4/A41 Z.I.C. 0,1 0,1 10 116 11 520 13,9% 13,9% Z.I.C. Aguiar de Sousa 0,1 0,1 10 417 11 808 13,3% 13,3% Aguiar de Sousa A41/A43 0,2 0,3 10 379 11 754 13,3% 13,3% A41/A43 Medas 0,1 0,1 11 358 12 736 12,1% 12,1% Medas A32/A41 0,2 0,2 10 249 11 500 12,2% 12,2% A32/A41 Sandim 0,0 0,0 8 530 9 418 10,4% 10,4% Sandim Argoncilhe 0,2 0,2 8 677 9 601 10,6% 10,6% A41 1,1 1,3 9 306 10 520 13,1% 13,1% a) Traffic in 108 veic.km A43/IC29 LANÇO GONDOMAR / AGUIAR DE SOUSA (IC24) v.kma) ADT Change SUB-STRETCH ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 v.km ADT Gens A41/A43 0,1 0,1 3 736 4 171 11,6% 11,6% A41 0,1 0,1 3 736 4 171 11,6% 11,6% a) Traffic in 108 veic.km v.kma) ADT Change SUB-STRETCH ‘17 ‘18 ‘17 ‘18 v.km ADT AEDL 2,2 2,4 8 110 8 984 10,8% 10,8% a) Traffic in 108 veic.km 262 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY GLOSSARY ABBREVIATION MEANING ABBREVIATION MEANING ABBREVIATION MEANING A F IPAV Structural or functional indicator that characterizes the overall ACT Collective Bargaining Agreement Fatal Accident = Accidents with fatalities / Vehicle km travelled state of the pavement ADT Average Daily Traffic average daily number of vehicles recorded Rate IREG Functional indicator that characterizes longitudinal regularity, in the network, per year Fatality Rate = Fatalities / Vehicle km travelled i. e. driver’s comfort and safety APCAP Association of Portuguese Concession Companies of Toll Motorways EFR Family Responsible Company IRR Internal Rate of Return or Bridgess Frequency Index = No. of total accidents x 106 / No. Employee hours workeds IS Information Systems APS Accountability Principles Standard (occupational ISO International Organization for Standardization APSI Associação para a Promoção da Segurança Infantil accident indicator) IT Information Technology ASECAP European Association of Operators of Toll Road Infrastructures G ITF International Transport Forum A-T-P-M Automated Tolling Payment Machine GDP Gross Domestic Product IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature B GHG Greenhouse Gases K BCSD Business Council for Sustainable Development GNR Guarda Nacional Republicana (Police) K€ Thousand Euro BTE Work and Employment Bulletin GJ Gigajoules Km kilometres C GRI Global Report Initiative L CAPEX (Capital Capital expenditure or investment in capital goods Group Companies within the consolidation perimeter as described L-A-M Local Access Mediator Expenditure) in notes to the financial statements LDPE Low-Density Polyethylene CC Companies Code H M cc Cubic centimetres HDPE High-Density Polyethylene M&A Mergers and Acquisitions CGTP Confederação Geral dos Trabalhadores Portugueses (Union) HICP Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices €M Euro Million CH4 Methane HSHW Health, Security and Hygiene at Work m3 Cubic meters CIP Portuguese Corporate Confederation I MB Market-Based Clients Response to surveys carried out to customers calling the Hotline, IAS International Accounting Standards Minor Injuries Rate = Minor injuries / Vehicle km travelled Satisfaction on a scale of 1 to 4 ICAT Functional indicator that characterizes adhesion, that is the (Hotline) safety of the driver Minor Injury = Accidents with minor injuries / Vehicle km travelled Accident Rate Clients Response to surveys carried out to customers of BCR, Brisal, AEDL ICE Structure Indicator that characterizes the load capacity, that Satisfaction and AELO, on a scale of 1 to 4 is the useful life of the pavement MSST Ministério da Segurança Social e do Trabalho (Overall) ICNB Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Institute MW Motorway CMVM The Portuguese Securities Commission ICNF Nature and Forest Conservation Institute N CO2 Carbon Dioxide IFRIC 12 International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee N2O Nitrous Oxide D IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards NGO Non Governmental Organization DGEG Direção-Geral de Energia e Geologia (Energy and Geology General-Directorate) IMS Information Management System NOX Nitrogen Oxide DMA Disclosure on Management Approach IMT Institute of Mobility and Transports O E O&M Operation and Maintenance EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Taxes OBU On-Board Unit EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciations and Amortisations OC Operational Centre EBT Earnings Before Taxes OCC Operational Coordination Centre EIB European Investment Bank OHS Occupational Health and Safety 263 I . MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRAFFIC STATISTICS GLOSSARY GLOSSARY ABBREVIATION MEANING CONCESSIONS P AEA Concessão do Alântico PET Polyethylene Terephthalate AEBT Subconcessão do Baixo Tejo PP Polypropylene AEDL Concessão Douro Litoral PPE Personal Protective Equipment AELO Subconcessão do Litoral Oeste R BCR Brisa Concessão Rodoviária R&D Research and Development Brisal Concessão Litoral Centro ROA Return on Assests NWP NorthWest Parkway Road Accident Index = Fatal Accidents / Theoretical Time Road Accident Rate = Total Accidents / Vehicle km travelled ROE Return on Equity S OTHER GROUP COMPANIES SDG Sustainable Development Goals Severe Injuries = Accidents with severe injuries / Vehicle km travelled BCI Brisa Conservação de Infraestruturas Accident Rate BGI Brisa Gestão de Infraestruturas Severe Injuries Rate = Severe injuries / Vehicle km travelled BIT Brisa Inovação e Tecnologia Severity Index =No. Fatal accidents / 100 accidents with fatalities BNV Brisa Nedmobiel Ventures (labour accident BRISA O&M Brisa Operação & Manutenção indicator) CTA Controlauto Severity Index (road = No. Fatal accidents / 100 accidents with fatalities accident indicator) ITV Iteuve SGS Société Générale de Surveillance M Call M Call SOx Sulphur Oxides VVC Via Verde Contact SGTR Special Group Taxation Regime VVCS Via Verde Carsharing T VVP Via Verde Portugal t Tonne VVS Via Verde Serviços tCO2e Tonne of CO2 equivalent TJ Terajoules U UGT União Geral de Trabalhadores (Union) UTAP Unidade Técnica de Acompanhamento de Projetos (Technical Assistance Unit) W WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development Y YoY Year-on-Year 264 INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 www.brisa.pt Brisa Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A. Quinta da Torre da Aguilha, Edifício Brisa 2785-599 São Domingos de Rana PORTUGAL
