CSR Report 2018 Mission and Vision LibanPost is committed to providing high quality postal services and products exceeding customer expectations in reliability, accuracy, consistency, innovation and affordability, as well as generating profit and creating value for its shareholders. LibanPost has the vision to maintain the organization as one of the most developed, diversified and active postal operators in the Middle East and as one of the industry’s references around the world. Values People Leadership •T  he interests of the Company and •W  e all have a clear vision of the individuals working in it are where we are going inseparable. Doing what is right for the business, with dedication, •W  e focus our resources on integrity and in respect of the achieving our objectives and law, will lead to the success of are committed to delivering the LibanPost and its employees expected results despite any obstacles or challenges •W  e will identify, attract and retain the best people in their •W  e always strive to exceed the respective fields. We will reward expectations of our external and and promote individuals based internal customers on no other consideration than their performance •W e continuously search for better ways to do our job by •W  e value social, religious and increasing our efficiency and political differences in individuals productivity, improving our processes, and learning from our •W  e firmly believe that people are successes and failures and will always remain the most valuable asset of the Company Integrity •W e work together as one •W e always act as good citizens, team, in confidence, trust, contributing to the development cooperation and support of of our country and the each other, sharing the same communities in which we live vision and objectives across and work departments, units, businesses and geographies • We always try to do what is right •W e respect our colleagues and our customers and treat them as we would like to be treated • We are honest with each other Environmental Ongoing Activities Activities •R aising awareness and acting on the efficient use of water and electricity in all our offices • T  raining our employees on the importance and modalities of sorting in collaboration with Arcenciel •R  ecycling paper and plastic in our offices in partnership with Arcenciel 2018 Activities • D  espite the absence of any applied regulation, on non-smoking in working environments. We enforced • We  Partnered with the “Diane” such a measure in all its association, in 2018, to serve premises. as a pilot site for collecting used batteries. This initiative is now being extended to all •W e recycle paper, carton, its offices, and LibanPost will plastic and metal in our collect as well used batteries headquarters in collaboration from the various drop boxes with Arcenciel. placed across Lebanon, for proper recycling. •W e sponsored NGO events and communicated these events in our offices. A few examples of 2018: Saradar Foundation, Heartbeat, Red Cross, Yaduna, CAP Ho and Chance Human Rights Ongoing Activities Activities •We offer equal employment opportunities regardless of region, culture, religion, and gender •W e provide a cafeteria open to all employees with reduced and affordable prices •W e encourage gender equality by giving women access to positions that are traditionally reserved for men, such as female letter carriers. In addition, 45% of our Management are women. If we exclude the Operations Department, 60% of our staff are women.  All the proceeds went to the families of martyrs from the 2018 Lebanese Armed Forces. •W  e participated in a Christmas market, where we parked our mobile post office and offered Activities kids postal cards to fill with their wishes to Santa and taught them how to mail a card. •W  e participated in an event on •W  e Sponsored NGOs such as Ramadan for orphan children Heart Beat, and Children Cancer with “G Ramadan” to spread joy. Center The children enjoyed a day out followed by lunch, a movie and •F  or International Women’s gifts. Day, a special video was shot picturing LibanPost women •W  e issued a road safety stamp across all levels of responsibility, in conjunction with our efforts to promote gender equality to create awarness and in loving internally. For our efforts, we memory of a departed employee were invited at the UN for a special recognition in 2018. •W  e equipped our team with the latest biometric technology, to •T  o commemorate the 75th assist in handling Syrian refugees’ anniversary of Lebanon’s formalities, legalize their presence, Independence Day, we issued a establish an accurate database, stamp showcasing a painting by doubtlessly improving the national the world-renowned Lebanese security. artist Nabil Nahas, reinstating our national commitment to serving the citizens of Lebanon as well as celebrating our country’s independence. Following the issuance, an auction of the Labor Ongoing Activities Activities •W e progressively work on building a culture of citizenship among our employees •W  e encourage employees to interact with each other through football teams and other sports tournaments (marathons and corporate games) •W  e organize trainings and workshops on various professional and personal topics to build capacity and contribute to motivating employees 2018 • We served as one of three pilot sites to design a “gender Activities equality at work” questionnaire that was distributed to all employees. Results were analysed by LLWB and ILO, and proved to be satisfactory. •L  ibanPost Managing Director The study is now being scaled was selected by the UN, as the up to the whole country “SDG Pioneer”, for the company’s efforts on “Gender Equality and •W  ith the association Economic Inclusion”. In Lebanon, donnersangcompter, he was also endorsed with the employees’ awareness on the additional responsibility of “Goal importance of blood donation, Leader for Goal-17”. was raised in a country where •E  mployees participated in the volunteering is rare despite Beirut Corporate Games of the need. Blood drives are now 2018: 30 employees attended planned to take place on a bi11 medals won: 4 Gold, 2 Silver annual basis on-site. and 5 Bronze •E  mployees participated in the Beirut Marathon in November 2018: around 50 employees attended. We also had our Mobile Post Office at the marathon, offering free WiFi. Anti-corruption Ongoing Activities Activities •W  e are a trusted intermediary between the government and citizens, removing the need for other intermediaries and using monitoring tools to enhance the quality of service provided to citizens •L  ibanPost operates a quality management system which complies with the requirements of ISO 9001:2015 certified procedure and quality assurance •A nti-corruption workshops with UNGC and UNDP 2018 Activities well as on the physical printing, embossing and mounting ends and we opened 15 production centers and recruited more than 200 additional employees (20% increase) •L ibanPost is referred to as a successful Public Private Partnership, and is taken as a •W  e partnered with 17 NGOs to model for the implementation provide a transparent and easy of the upcoming PPP way to disburse cash funding to infrastructure projects requiring refugees, hence minimizing the foreign investments (CEDRE risk of fraud or theft to virtually Conference), given that it none. contributed to corruption mitigation and administrative reform.  •W  e signed an agreement with the Traffic, Truck and Vehicles Management Authority in Lebanon, to offer citizens the possibility to change their car plates as requested by the new legislation, to avoid forgeries on the formality execution end as
