Corporate Social Responsibility Report January December 2018 IDEMIA CSR REPORT REPORT SUMMARY CEO’S WELCOME 5 1. IDEMIA, WE STAND FOR AUGMENTED IDENTITY 6 1.1. About IDEMIA 6 1.2. Executive Committee 7 1.3. Our values 8 1.4. Awards 9 1.5. 2018 developments and highlights 10 2. APPROACH TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 12 2.1. A longstanding commitment to CSR 12 2.2. CSR governance 12 2.3. CSR Core Committee 12 2.4. CSR direction 12 2.5. Key pillars 13 2.6. Global policies 14 2.7. IDEMIA in the community 14 2.8. Performance scorecard 15 3. IDENTIFYING OUR IMPACTS 16 3.1. Stakeholder engagement 16 3.2. Materiality 17 3.3. Our material topics 18 4. BUSINESS CONDUCT 19 4.1. Business conduct background 19 4.2. Trade compliance 20 4.3. Anti-corruption 20 4.4. Guiding principles and reporting wrongdoing 21 4.5. Import and export control 21 4.6. Audit and risk management 21 4.7. Personal data protection and privacy 22 4.8. Human rights 22 2 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 5. PEOPLE 24 5.1. Labor practices background 24 5.2. Health and safety at work 25 5.3. Health & Safety monitoring 25 5.4. Business travel 27 5.5. Talent management and employee development 28 5.6. HR data 28 6. ENVIRONMENT 32 6.1. Environmental management background 32 6.2. Tracking our environmental performance 33 6.3. ISO14001 certifications 33 6.4. Climate change 34 6.5. Product compliance 34 7. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 35 7.1. Customer relations 35 7.2. Quality products and services 35 7.3. Innovation mindset 36 8. RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 38 8.1. Supplier management background 38 8.2. Assessing CSR performance of suppliers 38 8.3. Supplier quality 39 8.4. Supplier Code of Conduct 40 8.5. Monitoring our responsible sourcing 40 10. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE CONTENT INDEX 42 CSR Report 2018 | 3 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 4 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT CEO’S WELCOME At IDEMIA, we are the global leader in Augmented wellbeing of our most valuable asset – our employees Identity, empowering citizens and consumers alike to and to the precious resources and enduring health interact, pay, connect and travel in ways that are now of our planet. possible in a connected environment. We understand We value the opinions of our stakeholders including our that data, security and privacy have an essential role to customers, employees and partners, so, in consultation play in protecting peoples’ identities and private lives. with them, we have identified our significant material We have embraced this new reality and we understand corporate responsibility topics and have placed a spotthe security concerns that accompany advancement. light on addressing them, monitoring our progress We analysed the world around us and reinvented the through a set of performance indicators. These top concept of identity. This is what we call Augmented priority topics, always with due consideration of the leIdentity – an identity that ensures privacy and trust gislative landscape affecting our business, continue to and guarantees secure, authenticated and verifiable shape and focus our CSR agenda. transactions. An identity that is so enhanced, adaptable, strengthened and self-sovereign that it allows us to I am pleased to share with you in this report IDEMIA’s truly enjoy life – because securing our identity is key to corporate social responsibility efforts and achievements making our world a safer place. in 2018. This report also serves as our annual Communication on Progress to the Ten Principles of the United We are an industry leader, so it stands to reason that Nations Global Compact. we also set an example in our corporate responsibility journey. We are capturing opportunities to make a real difference, not only to society through our innovations, YANN DELABRIÈRE but also to our local communities across the world CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER through engagement activities, to the health, safety and CSR Report 2018 | 5 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 1. IDEMIA, WE STAND FOR AUGMENTED IDENTITY 1.1. About IDEMIA IDEMIA Group S.A.S., is a French Société par Actions platforms (including e-SIM platforms for mobile Simplifiée (Simplified Joint Stock Company). IDEMIA and M2M devices) and eKYC solutions. was formed from the coming together of Oberthur › Payment solutions: trusted by 1,800 financial Technologies and Safran Morpho in 2017, with an institutions including most of the world’s largest accompanying name change in December 2018. The banks, the segment offers a complete range of company’s registered office is: 2 Place Samuel de payments cards including personalization services Champlain, 92400 Courbevoie, France. for card issuers, mobile payment solutions and The Group develops, manufactures and markets platforms, as well as ID proofing and adaptive specialized security technology products and services authentication solutions. This activity is supported worldwide, mainly for the telecommunications, by high-level of innovation (dynamic CVV cards, payments, and public security and identity markets. biometric cards, metal cards…). The Group’s main customers are financial institutions, › Government solutions: the segment offers to telecom operators and governments. government / public sector solutions through IDEMIA’s operating segments are characterized by the Public Security & Identity and Identity Security, following activities: North America Business Units. The key expertise › Telecom solutions: trusted by 500 mobile operators areas are: identity solutions, public security including leading mobile operators worldwide, the (border security, threats detection), biometric and segment offers a variety of products and services document identification, and passengers flow for telecommunications companies, equipment facilitation. The Group is one of the world’s largest manufacturers and IoT (“Internet of Things”) service providers of secured electronic access and identity providers, in particular in the automotive industry. documents and related solutions. Moreover, it is a The main products are: SIM card technology trusted partner to U.S. government agencies for (including 5G SIM cards), secured connectivity more than 50 years. Key figures Well positioned in our markets › 13,000 employees › #1 in police biometric systems › 80 nationalities › Trusted by 1,800 financial institutions › €2.2 Billion in revenues › #1 in civil identity solutions › $200M+ in R&D in 2018 & over 1,500 active › Trusted by 500+ mobile operators patent families › Trusted by leading premium car makers › Large scale card production › #1 in US driver’s license issuance › 100+ major wins in eSIM subscription management platforms › 3B+ identity documents issued worldwide › 800M+ SIM cards shipped in 2018 › 800M+ payment cards produced in 2018 › 5M biometric terminals deployed worldwide Operating in more than 140 countries 6 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 1.2. Executive Committee Yann DELABRIÈRE CEO Pierre BARRIAL Secure Entreprise Transactions Marek Laurent Ed Philippe BARREAU Amanda JUDA LEMAIRE CASEY Public Security and GOURBAULT Digital Lab Chief Financial Identity & Security, Identity Financial Officer N.A. Institutions Jean-Christophe Jeremy Fabien FONDEUR ROFFE-VIDAL JAUTARD R&D CTO Human Resources Mobile Operators Matthew Yves FOXTON PORTALIER Communications Biometric Devices & Branding & Automotive Muzaffar KHOKHAR Digital CSR Report 2018 | 7 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 1.3. Our Values Curious We find inspiration from clients, colleagues, markets and friends Caring Together We care for our clients, our We can be #1 people stakeholders in all our efforts Trusted Daring We don’t ask for trust, We challenge we earn it the status quo 8 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 1.4. Awards Morphowave by IDEMIA recognized in three categories IDEMIA recognised by westpac for “PayWear”, the in the nail to nail fingerprint capture challenge. wearable enabling contactless payments. IDEMIA’s contactless fingerprint desktop scanner IDEMIA was awarded “Innovation Partner of the Year” MorphoWave was the only device winning an award in by Westpac, Australia’s market leader in point of three categories in The Intelligence Advanced Research sale consumer and commercial finance. The award Projects Activity (IARPA) Nail to Nail (N2N) Fingerprint was presented in recognition of the success that the Challenge. The three categories are Fastest Scan, Best PayWear product has achieved since it was launched Gallery Accuracy and Best Latent Accuracy. in late 2017. IDEMIA took top honors in ICMA Elan awards. IDEMIA’s biometrics and mobile-based CloudCard+ The International Card Manufacturers Association solution wins best payment authentication solution (ICMA) awarded IDEMIA best-in-class manufacturer of award from JUNIPER research. ID and Access Control Cards for its work redesigning CloudCard+, a Strong Customer Authentication solution, the California Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) based on mobile and biometrics, was recognized as a new, REAL ID compliant driver license (DL) and ID card. winner in the Best Payment Authentication Solution The award, presented at the 2018 ICMA Elan Awards, category of the 2018 JUNIPER research awards. Industry highlights excellence in the global transaction card Associations industry, honoring world-class achievements in card design and technological innovation. Top scores for IDEMIA in Department of Homeland Security biometric technology rally. IDEMIA’s contactless OneLook™ device for rapid capture, matching and processing of face and iris biometrics, earned top scores in all three performance categories in the 2018 Biometric Technology Rally, hosted by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Science and Technology Directorate (S&T). Biometric Capture and Identification systems from participating organizations were tested for user satisfaction, effectiveness (capture capability and matching capability) and efficiency (throughput). OneLook was the only face/iris system that scored among the top three systems tested at the rally. CSR Report 2018 | 9 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 1.5. 2018 developments and highlights January › IDEMIA, Network Interational and Mastercard › Announced a change in the IDEMIA top managepartnered to launch smartphone-turned POS ment team, with a view to building on its global terminals. leadership in Augmented Identity. › Delivery of the new metal HSBC Black Credit Card › Acquisition of Otono Networks and its industry – a dual interface (contact and contactless) metal leading eSIM orchestration solution announced. veneer card made to deliver unique travel and lifestyle experiences to its cardholders. › Laurent Lemaire’s appointed as new CFO. February › IDEMIA and JCB trialled the first F.Code payment › IDEMIA and the Alabama Department of card in Japan. Revenue announced the full-scale deployment of the electronic ID app (Alabama eID) to protect residents against state income tax refund theft. May › IDEMIA and Arkessa, a leading M2M/IoT connectivity › Appointed by SIX Payment Services as official service provider, announced the extension of supplier of EMVI’20 chips new generation. their partnership to deliver eUICC (embedded › Staples to rollout IDEMIA’s IdentoGO Enrollment Universal Integrated Circuit Card) and Subscription Centers. Management services to global Enterprise and Industrial IoT customers. › Announcement of Donnie Scott as Senior Vice President, Public Security for North America. › Appointment of Yann Delabrière as new Chairman of the Group. › IDEMIA’s Smart PIN made available to Ditto Bank, the next generation French bank specialized in › Avnet and IDEMIA developed highly flexible ‘Plug currency management. & Play’ cellular connectivity solution for IoT and Industry 4.0 applications. › IDEMIA and Octo Telematics reinvented car June sharing experience by adding facial recognition to › TIS and IDEMIA joined forces to provide biometric EasyOpen solution. digital identity solutions for financial institutions, › Actility and IDEMIA announced their collaboration using IDEMIA’s digital identity platform for research to deliver seamless, secure connectivity for LoRaWan and development. and LTE-based IoT. › Provided subscription management to TrueMove › Provided Sprint with eSIM subscription H in Thailand to activate the first eSIM connected management platform in North America. watch in the country. › Worldpay and IDEMIA introduced MOTIONCODE debit cards to financial institutions in the US. March › Selected to deliver Next Generation Fingerprint › IdentoGO program to be brought to Barclays Center. Matcher Engine as part of the UK Home Office › Partnering with Unisys to provide biometric Biometrics Programme. services for Home Affairs Department in Australia. › Karen Gregory announced as Vice President, Human Resources for North America. April › eSIM technology partnership announced with 10T › Announced the launch of MorphoWave Tech. Compact. Using IDEMIA’s patented, touchless July 3D fingerprint technology it delivers the field› Launch of IDEMIA Case AFIS, the most powerful proven performance of the award-wining latent examination application on the market. MorphoWave Tower in a stylish and compact reader, designed for wall-mounted access › IDEMIA provided Avinor Oslo Airport with its latest control and time & attendance applications. facial recognition technology. › First certified card manufacturer in India for 10 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT contactless RuPay chip cards, with the facility to load multiple payment applications on a single card. › IDEMIA WISE platform delivered contactless payments as confirmed by proof of concept. September › Télécom SudParis and IDEMIA presented BioDigital, a new biometric technology to combat identity spoofing. › IDEMIA presented IDEMIA 3D Face, the cuttingedge facial recognition technology. › Agreement was signed with Discover® Global Network, the payments brand of Discover Financial Services – a first of its kind agreement, aimed to ease and accelerate mobile and digital contactless payment adoption, and rollout by card issuers. › Partnership with Microsoft to facilitate eSIM management for Windows 10 Enterprise Devices. › Selected to provide Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation (OLG) with next generation lottery terminals in Canada. October › Launch of IDEMIA’s Asia Pacific headquarters and Innovation Centre in Singapore. › IDEMIA and JCB partnered to launch Google Pay in Japan. › Yann Delabrière appointed as Group CEO. November › Announcement of a new organization of IDEMIA’s business: the Citizen Identity and Public Security Business Units merged into a single Business Unit named “Public Security and Identity” (PSI). › Provided SK Telecom in South Korea with GMSA compliant smart connect solution to activate and manage eSIM device lifecycles. December › Delivered the first smart national identity card to the citizens of Nepal. › Provided subscription management platform to dtac in Thailand to offer eSIM connected watches to all its subscribers. CSR Report 2018 | 11 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 2. APPROACH TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2.1. A longstanding commitment to CSR 2.3. CSR Core Committee Since 2006, IDEMIA has been a signatory to the Ten At Executive Committee level, the main functions meet Principles of the United Nations Global Compact – the every quarter to drive CSR priorities and policies. This world’s largest corporate citizenship and sustainability CSR Core Committee is chaired by IDEMIA’s Branding initiative. The voluntary decision to sign up to these and Communications Executive VP and company principles, which are inspired by the Universal Declaration CSR sponsor, and gathers together top executives of Human Rights and embrace the values of respect from across the business, including: Communications, for labor law, protection of the environment and Procurement, Quality, Legal, General Management and combating corruption, illustrates IDEMIA’s enduring Global Operations. Experts from within the business commitment to promoting and embedding corporate collaborate on specific CSR agenda items. IDEMIA social responsibility, both within our organization and acknowledges widely accepted CSR best practice, throughout our sphere of influence. which demonstrates that CSR commitments are more Each year we communicate on our progress towards effectively implemented when driven by the company’s the Ten Principles. We upload our annual CSR reports top management. to the UN Global Compact to demonstrate the strides we are taking to embed the principles within our 2.4. CSR direction business. This year’s CSR report, covering the period The IDEMIA Code of Conduct is one of the key elements January to December 2018, is prepared in accordance of CSR and all employees joining the company must with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards sign their acceptance of the Charter’s terms. The Code for Sustainability Reporting. No external assurance has of Conduct informs and guides employees according to been conducted and there have been no changes in the our business culture and our fundamental expectations way we report or the reporting period. of them in all aspects of their working lives. IDEMIA has also established a CSR scorecard made of various indicators from all CSR pillars: global, environment, social, health and safety, and supply chain. A subset of these key performance indicators form part of the Generic Business Score Card shared by all managers: › Percentage of employees declaring SATISFIED or VERY SATISFIED in internal surveys › Number of employees completing the online CSR training module › Annual CSR performance assessment score by Our approach to corporate social responsibility is guided EcoVadis by our company values. In all our CSR business, we aim › Occupational Injury Frequency Rate (Lost Time to be caring, curious, together, trusted and daring. Injury) › Number of people having signed the Code of 2.2. CSR governance Conduct An executive management-led CSR Core Committee › Percentage of landfill waste (with a zero landfill defines our CSR Roadmap and priorities. On a day-to-day target) basis, IDEMIA’s CSR strategy is coordinated by a central › Number of internal audits controlling CSR issues CSR Team, within the company’s Quality, Security, and Corporate Responsibility function reporting directly to the CEO. The CSR Team is responsible for the harmonization and standardization of policies and objectives, including their effective adoption at IDEMIA sites worldwide. With employees in 62 different countries, across more than 200 sites and operating in excess of 140 countries, CSR implementation is supported by a network of local CSR, HSE and HR Managers, as well as Legal Correspondents and Trade Compliance Officers. 12 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 2.5. Key pillars In order to control, focus and monitor our CSR activities, we have split them into five key pillars: IDEMIA’S CSR KEY PILLARS › ETHICS › RESPONSIBLE SOURCING › PEOPLE › HEALTH & SAFETY › ENVIRONMENT CSR Report 2018 | 13 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 2.6. Global policies 2.7. IDEMIA in the community We have developed a suite of global policies, designed to Our corporate citizenship policy is to encourage IDEMIA support our efforts towards a joined up approach to the subsidiaries to engage with their local communities management of CSR across our business, irrespective of to effect positive change. We have established geographical location, size or nature of operations. We partnerships with local and national charities, we check the currency of our policies annually and update support our employees’ charitable activities, we work them as required, such as to comply with legislative with local education providers to offer training and changes. employment opportunities to the young generation, › H&S Manual: a commitment to safeguard the we promote environmental initiatives for the benefit health and safety of IDEMIA employees at their of our neighbours with the intention of reducing local place of work and during business travel. traffic and pollution, such as cycle to work and lift-sharing › Environmental Policy: a means to respect the schemes. environment and reduce any environmental In India, we collaborate with Akshaya Patra, a local impact of IDEMIA’s activities. association that fights against hunger, on a project › Code of Conduct: the principles of conduct with involving the provision of mid-day meals to more than which everyone at IDEMIA must abide. a thousand children studying in government and aided › Supplier Code of Conduct: a set of fundamental schools in the city of Bellary (India). This partnership expectations of our partners. goes under IDEMIA trade compliance procedure to › Whistleblowing Procedure: a formalized mechaprevent any risk of conflict of interests. nism for the reporting of misconduct, policy In the United States, we have developed specific actions infringement, crime or failure to meet legislative obligations. toward the nation’s Veterans, honouring them for their sacrifices and service to the country. The initiative › Conflict Minerals Policy: IDEMIA’s position statement on the ethical sourcing of minerals in started in 2015, and IDEMIA continues to actively recruit its products. and train Veterans for key roles in various business areas. In Brazil, we launched a program to increase reading among employees and work in partnership with universities to favour improvements in education: the partnership includes reduction of monthly fees (up to 25%) to employees or to their children. In the UK, we have an established community outreach program, including charities chosen each year by members of our employee forum. We also select long-term partnership charities that benefit our local community and our annual awards make a positive impact on the charities abilities to continue their services within our locality. The socially responsible efforts of employees are supported by IDEMIA. We strive to positively affect the communities in which we live and work 14 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 2.8. Performance scorecard Each year, IDEMIA participates in numerous CSR In its latest assessment, IDEMIA was once again awarded performance assessments, driven by customers’ desire a gold certification level by EcoVadis and is categorized to understand and score the CSR practices within as ‘Advanced’, meaning IDEMIA has a structured and their supply chains. Furthermore, IDEMIA’s global proactive CSR approach. EcoVadis also concluded CSR performance is assessed at least annually by the that IDEMIA has engagements/policies and tangible international CSR platform, EcoVadis. IDEMIA has a actions on major issues with detailed implementation twofold partnership with EcoVadis: on one hand, EcoVadis information, as well as significant CSR reporting on evaluates and scores our performance and shares it with actions and Key Performance Indicators. With this gold our customers; on the other hand, EcoVadis scores our award, IDEMIA is amongst the top 5% of companies own suppliers performance and shares it with us. assessed by EcoVadis. CSR Report 2018 | 15 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 3. IDENTIFYING OUR IMPACTS 3.1. Stakeholder Engagement We have identified the stakeholder groups to which we are accountable by the likelihood of them being significantly affected by our activities, products or services, or the potential for them to affect our ability to conduct our business. The main stakeholder groups are shown below. IDEMIA STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT METHODS FOCUS AREAS Employees › Employee surveys › Labor conditions, remuneration, › Internal communications via benefits, working hours, talent email, social networks, physical management, training communication (e.g. posters, employee › Health & Safety handbook, contracts) › Non-discrimination › Worker committees › Equal opportunities Customers › Annual customer survey › Quality products and services › Contracts › Business continuity › Service reviews › Code of conduct alignment › Tenders › Customer meetings Suppliers › Contracts › Code of Conduct adherence › Supplier Code of Conduct › No restricted substances › CSR performance audits and quality › Legal compliance audits › Modern slavery avoidance › Product streamlining and improvement › CSR performance collaborations › Avoidance of complicity in human › Supplier events rights abuses Shareholders › Annual general meeting › Sustainable business › Company financial report › Financial performance › Risk management › Trade compliance › Conflict of interest avoidance Competitors › Industry working groups › Harmonizing common activities, e.g. supply chain monitoring › Environmentally conscious products › Common solutions to industry-wide legal obligations › Fair competition Local communities › Employment opportunities › Providing employment in the › Outreach activities community › Consultation on business change › Charity partnerships › Encouraging employee philanthropy › Supporting communities following natural disasters Education › Recruitment fairs › Graduate traineeships establishments › Providing IDEMIA experts to support › Work placements educational events 16 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 3.2. Materiality In sustainability, materiality is the process of identifying employees, customers and external agencies, to tell us the topics, which reflect an organization’s significant “What are your expectations when doing business or economic, environmental and social impacts; or partnering with IDEMIA?” those that influence the assessments and decisions Our stakeholders informed us that twelve key material of stakeholders. It enables a company to understand topics most influence their assessments and decisions its impacts and streamline its efforts on CSR topics in relation to IDEMIA. These twelve priority areas are relevant to its business. helping to guide our CSR strategy and form the basis In 2016, we conducted a thorough materiality exercise of our corporate social responsibility reporting. with the support of an external consultant. From a list of 32 issues, we asked stakeholders, including suppliers, 4,0 Internal Important Anticorruption and business ethics Socio-environmental impact of the procurement Responsible relationships 3,5 with suppliers Transparency and dialogue with stakeholders Human Protection of personnal GHG emissions Waste and recycling Continuity of business and procurements Sustainable innovation Well-being at work rights data and privacy Quality of products Consumption of and services Customer relation natural resources Green IT Energy efficiency Export control 3,0 Corporate governance Intellectual property Human capital developpment and talent management Internal and access to technology Diversity and equal opportunities Local nuisances Social impact of technologies and services Socio-economic developpement Water consumption Partnership/Support for research Managerial relations 2,5 Social dialogue Support to local populations Image of the group, and employee engagement Compensation, employee attractiveness and in society benefits and social protection employement brand 2,0 Not important 1,5 Not important External Important External 1,50 2,00 2,50 3,00 3,50 4,00 CSR Report 2018 | 17 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 3.3. IDEMIA’s Material Topics Our stakeholders told us that twelve topics are crucially important to them. Therefore, we have focussed this 2018 CSR Report on these material issues. IDEMIA MATERIAL TOPIC GRI TOPIC SPECIFIC GRI TOPIC SPECIFIC DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE 1. Anti-corruption & business ethics GRI 205 10: Anti-Corruption 2. Personal data protection & privacy GRI 418 3. Human rights GRI 412 1, 2: Human Rights 4. Well-being at work GRI 403 3, 4, 5, 6: Labor 5. Customer relations GRI 206 6. Export control 7. Quality products & services GRI 417 8. Sustainable innovation 9. Green IT and environmental responsibility GRI 302-1, 306-2 7, 8, 9: Environment 10. Transparency & stakeholder dialogue 11. Responsible supplier relationships GRI 204, GRI308 12. Talent management & employee GRI 404 3, 4, 5, 6: Labor development 18 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 4. BUSINESS CONDUCT 4.1. Business conduct background conduct. It is no surprise that, due to the very nature of the industry we operate within corruption, ethics, Our business depends upon trust – trust in IDEMIA as a data privacy, human rights and export control are of chosen partner, supplier, customer or employer, trust in premium importance to our stakeholders. We take a our Augmented Identity products and services in an ever global overview of these matters, ensuring that we take more connected world. Without trust in us, our people account of the legislative demands, market risks, the and our technologies our business faces great risk. We are nature and size of operations, along with a sensitivity to a global company, with a complex network of operations cultural norms, at all of our sites. We have deployed an spanning the globe. In each country we operate, we organization, procedures and processes, and training, are bound to abide by local rules and regulations. to ensure that our operations meet the highest ethical What’s more, we must comply with all relevant regional requirements. laws and in addition, we have committed to abide by certain internationally recognised standards of business IDEMIA has a set of values and ethical standards that Internal communications to all employees support our are embraced by all of its employees and stakeholders. management’s commitment to ensuring that everyone Duty of care has been integrated into all of the Group’s at IDEMIA understands the ethical conduct standards, business processes and growth is carefully managed in trade compliance and export control guidelines and accordance with the highest international standards applies them in his/her everyday business lives and, at of business ethics, integrity and professionalism. These the very heart of these efforts, that integrity, honesty values and ethical behaviour are of critical importance and transparency should guide all employees in their to IDEMIA, in that they play a vital role in enabling it to work. earn and retain the trust of all of its stakeholders. CSR KPIs related to our ethical practices are established Competition, for IDEMIA, must be on the basis of its and figures are being monitored. These include: products, solutions and services and must not involve › Number of employees having signed the Code entering into any agreements with its competitors to of Conduct. illegally limit business and competition. Employees are expected to adhere to IDEMIA’s policies and requirements › Number of employees trained on CSR fundamentals. in respect of fair competition and conflict of interest. › Internal audits addressing CSR. We are rolling out ISO37001 Anti-Bribery certifications across our sites CSR Report 2018 | 19 IDEMIA CSR REPORT › Trade compliance The European Community Convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the IDEMIA trade compliance procedure contains the rules that European Communities or officials of Member must be followed by every director, officer and employee States of the European Union (1997), the Council of of IDEMIA and each of its direct or indirect subsidiaries Europe Criminal Law Convention on Corruption, and controlled affiliates wishing to establish a relationship against the active and passive corruption of with a partner for any purpose. This procedure applies foreign officials (1999), the Council of Europe Civil to any third party that is intended to assist IDEMIA in Law Convention on Corruption (1999). obtaining, retaining or conducting business (agent, broker, commercial firm, consultant or consultancy firm, expert, › The United Nations Convention against Transnadistributor, intermediaries, lobbyist, prime contractor, tional Organized Crime, signed in Palermo (Italy, public relations agency, supplier, sales representative, 2000). representative, reseller, subcontractor or co-contractor, joint › The United Nations Convention against Corrupventure partner, acting on behalf of IDEMIA). Employees tion, referred to as the “Merida” Convention or must strictly apply this procedure. “UNCAC” (2003). Our trade compliance procedures also include clear guidelines for the management of gifts and hospitality. IDEMIA has Trade Compliance Officers (TCO) and Trade Annual trainings are conducted by our Trade Compliance Compliance Correspondents (TCC) dedicated to its Team. countries of operation and relevant activities. An IDEMIA Anti-corruption Policy is established. 4.2. Anti-corruption The IDEMIA anti-corruption program covers the entire set of requirements from international conventions: the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions (1997): › The European conventions on anti-corruption: We have a Trade Compliance contact for each region In 2018, IDEMIA initiated a program of ISO37001 AntiBribery Management System certification at its sites. Certification is expected to be complete by the end of 2019. MEA HQ Paris Trade compliance training 2018 Europe › Each year, a trade compliance training program (excluding HQ) is defined, taking account of people previously Employees trained, the headcount of IDEMIA at its locations Trained on and the level of risk assessed for the different Trade regions. Compliance › Classroom training is targeted at sensitive (2018) personnel: group managers (CEO, CEO-1, CEO-2) NORAM and senior management of the subsidiaries, plus APAC sales and purchasing employees. India › The LATAM region formed part of 2017 training and based on 2018 training program definition, was not included. 20 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 4.3. Guiding principles and reporting 4.5. Audit and risk management wrongdoing We have processes and procedures to mitigate risks. IDEMIA’s Code of Conducts reflects senior management Our Audit Committee meets throughout the year to commitment to engage the Group in social responsibility monitor business risk and guide our actions. We have including corruption prevention and detection process. put in place worldwide insurance policies to protect our The Code of Conduct, endorsed by IDEMIA’s CEO and business, along with specific local policies at site level. General Counsel and after consultation with employee Internal audits take place regularly according to a strict representatives, is integrated into each facility operating screening of our subsidiaries. A pool of internal auditors procedures manual (Règlement Intérieur in France). tour IDEMIA’s entities overseas to achieve control Commitments expressed in the Code of Conduct missions, following an audit calendar, established well encompass compliance with laws and regulations in all in advance over 2 years. Our Internal Audit Charter, countries where we operate, fight against bribery and defining the roles, responsibilities and authority anti-corruption, import and export control, respectful of IDEMIA’s internal audit function, refers to the relationships to all stakeholders (customers, shareholders, International Standards for the Professional Practice of employees, trade unions, media, suppliers, partners…), Internal Auditing. CSR elements are taken into account safety of the workplace, and environmental stewardship. during the audit process and sites are expected to have The Code of Conduct is accessible to all in five key measures in place to address the fundamental CSR languages of IDEMIA: French, English, Spanish, Chinese expectations of the business with a route for follow-up and Portuguese. on any issues or non-conformances. It is the reference on how we should behave internally, Additionally, a program of focused CSR audits for sites toward partners and customers. In compliance with the was launched in 2018, to drill down on key CSR issues law, we also have implemented a whistleblowing procedure such as working conditions, environmental practices that allows questions about ethical matters, or reports of and H&S. Personal data protection & privacy misconduct to be sent. This procedure, can be found by employees in a language understandable to them via the company intranet. We also recommend that our suppliers implement their own whistleblowing procedure. 4.4. Import and export control Based on its Internal Export Compliance Program, IDEMIA complies, without exception, with all applicable regulations governing dual-use goods export, re-export and import operations. With a network of more than 40 correspondents around the world, IDEMIA’s export control expert reporting to the Legal Department: › Ensures that compliance standards are applied across the company, including KYC diligence. › Verifies the compliance of all business conducted by the companies within IDEMIA. › Participates in due diligence during mergers and acquisitions. › Verifies the compliance of all business conducted by companies subject to sanctions or embargoes. In addition, IDEMIA complies with all applicable customs legislation by deploying a suitable, effective system to ensure compliance in all of its international business transactions. 10 IDEMIA sites were audited against principles of good CSR practice in 2018 CSR Report 2018 | 21 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 4.6. Personal data protection & privacy develop products or solutions processing personal data. Advanced security solutions are at the heart of what we › Awareness for employees outside of Europe or those do and we are committed to protecting the personal whose position does not involve the processing of data and fundamental rights of all citizens. Indeed, European personal data with a personal invitation our trusted, secure technologies are enabling users to containing a link to an animated and commented connect in ever more frictionless ways. slide show that illustrates GDPR principles as well as why and how the GDPR impacts IDEMIA. We have pledged to protect the personal data of our employees, customers, suppliers and others we interact GDPR training 2018 with. Our dedicated, Group-level appointed Data Protection Officer has responsibility for this topic within IDEMIA took a twofold approach to GDPR training in IDEMIA. 2018: a mandatory training course for those likely to proOur data protection policies outline IDEMIA’s responsicess personal data of people residing in the EEA (EU + bilities to interact with personal data, HR-related data Iceland + Norway + Lichtenstein), and an optional inforand customer data in accordance with the following mation awareness course for all other employees with data protection principles: access to email. 1. The organisation processes personal data Not lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner. completed 2. The organisation collects personal data only for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes. 3. The organisation processes personal data only where it is adequate, relevant and limited to GDPR what is necessary for the purposes of processing. Training Figures 4. The organisation keeps accurate personal data, (August 2018) ensures that where necessary it is kept up to date and takes all reasonable steps to ensure that inaccurate personal data is rectified or In progress deleted without delay. 5. The organisation keeps personal data only for Completed the period necessary for the purposes for which the processing is taking place. 4.7. Human Rights 6. The organisation adopts appropriate measures IDEMIA respects the fundamental human rights laid to make sure that personal data is secure, and protected against unauthorised or unlawful out in the ILO Conventions, as well as the UN Business processing, and accidental loss, destruction or and Human Rights Principles. In 2006, we committed to damage. support the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. As part of our pledge, we undertook to respect Principles 1: We are serious about customer privacy, and have Businesses should support and respect the protection of established robust policies and processes to mitigate internationally proclaimed human rights and Principle any potential risk of loss of customer data and breaches 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human rights of customer privacy. For example, with our biometric abuses. We are taking action to address where we can access and time solutions we have developed a detailed impact human rights, both directly through our actions compliance guide, based on the tools recommended by and indirectly through our relationships. the French Commission Nationale de l’Informatique et des Libertés (CNIL). Discrimination During 2018, we engaged in a General Data Protection We believe in the fundamental dignity of every human Regulation (GDPR) compliance and information being and in respecting individual rights. In our recruitprogram, within and outside Europe, including: ment, career development and compensation practices › Mandatory information towards employees working/ we work against discrimination due to gender, sexual living in Europe, with a full GDPR e-learning and orientation, marital or civil partner status, gender reasawareness campaign as required by this Regulation. signment, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national The training was also targeted to all employees that origin, religion or belief, disability, medical status, age or 22 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT any other legally protected characteristic. The Code of Modern slavery Conducts reflects that each individual should be treated fairly, and recruited, selected, trained, promoted and We are committed to addressing the issue of modern paid based on merit, experience and other work-related slavery and human trafficking. A significant focus is criteria alone. placed each year on identifying risks of modern slavery We respect our employees’ lawful right to freedom in our supply chain, including an annual assessment of association. We compensate employees to ensure of their labor practices. In 2018, we published our that their needs are met and provide opportunities for annual Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement in them to improve their skills and capabilities. We strive compliance with our legal obligations under the UK to provide safe and healthy workplaces where free Modern Slavery Act. discussion is encouraged and discrimination is opposed. We have identified that, where we work with smallWe believe that our places of work and the conditions scale, local recruitment agencies, not co-ordinated at therein reflect our company ethos of mutual respect. a corporate level, we must ensure that we consistently share our Supplier Code of Conduct, educate those with Child labor responsibility for managing the relationships with local recruitment agencies on modern slavery risks and work We are strictly against the use of child labor, both within with suppliers to be reassured that all recruitment is our own organization and in our supply chain. We have managed according to our expectations. We have also policies in place to ensure that any work carried out incorporated screening questions related to corporate for IDEMIA by persons under the age of 18 and still in responsibility practices in our request for information compulsory education, such as trainees and work template. placements students, is specifically designed not to interfere with or impede the employee’s studies, should Conflict minerals not include overtime, night time working, hazardous tasks or any other work that is likely to jeopardize IDEMIA supports the efforts of human rights their health or safety. We ensure proper management organizations to end violence and atrocities in conflict of student workers through adequate support and affected and high-risk areas. It has been widely reported training, pay that is equal to workers at the same entry that the major driver of this violence is the natural level performing similar tasks, proper maintenance of abundance of the minerals tin, tungsten, tantalum and student records, due diligence of educational partners gold, known as conflict minerals. Armed groups fight for and protection of students’ rights in accordance with control of mines in this region and use forced labor to applicable law. We expect our suppliers to mirror our mine and sell the minerals, which in turn funds ongoing conduct in this regard. violence. We are guided by the recommendations of the UN Whilst IDEMIA is not currently subject to legal Global Compact to: obligations such as those of the US Dodd-Frank Act, we work with our supply chain to positively influence › Be aware of countries, regions, sectors, economic ethical behaviour through the application of a conflictactivities where there is a greater likelihood of free sourcing process. In compliance with the OECD child labor and respond accordingly with policies Guidelines on responsible sourcing, we control a full and procedures; list of mineral sourcing partners, to ensure that our › Adhere to minimum age provisions of national products and components originate from conflict-free labor laws and regulations and, where national smelters for gold, tungsten, tantalum, and tin (3TG). In law is insufficient, take account of international 2018, we supported more than 20 customers with their standards; conflict minerals reporting requirements, by the open › Use adequate and verifiable mechanisms for age sharing of information relating to minerals chain of verification in recruitment procedures; custody. Our actions follow the recommendations of the › Avoid having a blanket policy against hiring Responsible Minerals Initiative, including checking for children under 18, as it will exclude those above and requesting transitioning away from any identified the legal age for employment from decent work smelters not compliant with the Responsible Minerals opportunities; Assurance Process (RMAP). › Exercise influence on subcontractors, suppliers and other business affiliates to combat child labor. CSR Report 2018 | 23 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 5. PEOPLE 5.1. Labor practices background an “IDEMIA home” reflecting our corporate culture. IDEMIA home offers great installations to work, meet, The UN Sustainable Development Goal 8: Decent Work host meetings with customers and partners, demons& Economic Growth, calls for the promotion of inclusive trate our innovations (state-of-the-art showroom). Our and sustainable economic growth, employment and headquarters also deliver services for work-life balance, decent work for all. IDEMIA’s recruitment policies, and offer sport installations to enhance well-being at conditions of work and adherence to the laws in all its work. countries of operation uphold the ethos of UN SDG 8 and are respectful of the ILO Core Conventions. We Annual polls measure employee engagement, reflecting support the elimination of forced and compulsory labor the level of motivation of our employees based on and the abolition of child labor. We recognize the rights management quality, trust in the service delivered of employees to choose representatives and participate to customers, understanding of the company vision in trade unions. Our commitment is to provide work and pride in being part of IDEMIA. The answers on key environments that respect the dignity, safety and questions define the global “engagement” of employees. security of all employees, that is favourable to good job IDEMIA’s 2018 Pulse Check obtained a 74% response rate, performance and is free from all types of workplace with 91% of employees stating that they feel personally violence, bullying and harassment. Through mandatory responsible for the satisfaction of IDEMIA’s clients. 71% of Code of Conduct training IDEMIA’s employees gain respondents intend to still be with IDEMIA after two years. an understanding of the company’s entrustment of IDEMA pledges to be a responsible employer in the its people not to commit, tolerate, or ignore any form following ways: of unacceptable behaviour that negatively affects the › Train a large number of employees to maintain a right of us all to conduct our work in a safe, fair and nonhigh level of expertise in fast evolving technology discriminatory environment. Reporting mechanisms markets. are in place, in the main languages of IDEMIA’s workforce, providing employees with a secure channel › Attract new talents. to confidentially address experienced or witnessed › Motivate all employees whatever their role. incidents without fear of reprisal. › Protect employees through health, safety and Our social policy has three ambitions: environment action plans, certifications, social bargaining. › Create ONE social identity across the whole › Develop tools for better communication and IDEMIA group (which means achieve a unified decision-making. social model that goes beyond cultures, borders, and missions). Our CSR scorecard indicators measure progress on main labor-related topics, including: › Improve employee “engagement” through efficient management, training and goal sharing. 1. Number of employees answering IDEMIA internal › Grow skills and mobility through the creation “engagement” polls (Pulse Check). of the IDEMIA Development Team, a system to 2. Level of answers “would I recommend IDEMIA to plan for up to date resources, and the opening a third party”. of IDEMIA Institute (the central training hub for 3. Training (for men and women). IDEMIA). 4. Turnover. 5. Absenteeism rate. The IDEMIA “One People Identity” program was established to develop leadership, harmonize compensation and benefits policies and ensure integration from a culture perspective. In 2018, we continued to work on group wide initiatives so that all employees can feel part of one and the same company. In Paris, all teams are gathered in common headquarters in Paris La Défense. More than just offices, IDEMIA creates 24 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 5.2. Health and safety at work 5.3. Health and safety monitoring IDEMIA is committed to safeguarding the health and We are capturing and tracking the following data safety of its employees at their place of work and in the related to health and safety from IDEMIA sites, such as: course of business travel, and strives to create a strong › Number of injuries on the site. culture of prevention, ensuring the clear definition and communication of health and safety responsibilities. › Number of lost days during the month. › Number of minor accidents (accidents that do not Health and safety objectives are applicable to the whole translate into lost days). company, whatever the activity, wherever the facility, whoever the employee, those on permanent and fixed › Number of occupational diseases. term contracts, agency workers, temporary staff and › Number of injuries due to travel (home/work). contractors. Employees in all facilities share a number of common In 2018, there were 17 cases of recordable work-related health and safety objectives: ill-health. There were 41 reported injuries across IDEMIA’s › Preserve the health and safety of women and sites, for a Lost Time Injury (LTI) Frequency Rate of 1.55. men who contribute to IDEMIA’s activities, We have calculated that 26,534,171 actual hours were significantly reducing the risks of occupational worked in 2018. The health and safety rates that we diseases and accidents. report are based on 1,000,000 hours worked. › Introduce the evaluation of health and safety From 2019, we will begin to include sub-contractors in impact in the product development objectives and our health and safety H&S data capture. specifications. › Ensure continuous improvement of the health and safety management system. › Deploy and maintain ISO45001 (ex OHSAS 18001) certifications in our production sites. › Communicate to stakeholders and regularly publish actions and results on health and safety matters. › Comply with all local health and safety regulations. › Educate and train employees to make them aware of health and safety stakes and adherence to the company policy during induction and in CSR online training. CSR Report 2018 | 25 IDEMIA CSR REPORT LTIFR Manufacturing Sites 2018 12 11,04 10 8 6 8 6,69 6 4 4 3,39 3,15 2,75 1,41 1,13 2 1,80 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 AV IN RÉ M AG EX EN RY CO B O A T VI LE O TO ZH FA TI ST U -É T R TI N A M R R TIE O A N EN CTO YU O U NN VR E H A SA SH AY IDA SA D O N Number of injuries by activities 2018 Tertiary 3 Service center 12 Manufacturing 25 Data center 0 2018 LTI Frequency Rate Service Centers Middle East & Africa 0 0% NORAM APAC 10,79 46% 11,24 47% LATAM EUROPE 0 0% 1,74 7% 26 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 5.4. Business travel › 24/7 emergency alarm centre contact numbers. We recognize the need to protect our employees, both within their regular place of work and during the course › Travel risk summary. of business travel. In 2018, IDEMIA worked with a leading › Crime. international security services company, to provide › Terrorism. security risk information, advice, real-time tracking and › Local law. emergency support to IDEMIA’s international travellers. Through restricted access, all travellers are monitored › Travel by road. via the service, providing senior management with a live › Cultural tips. interface to know exactly who is traveling and where. The › Currency… service includes a pre-trip advisory bulletin, sent directly In the event of a serious incident, the traveller is advised to the traveller, containing all pertinent information on the appropriate course of action and should a critical regarding the route of travel and the countries to be event occur, travellers are supported to arrange removal visited. Updates and advisories continue throughout from the risk, such as medical treatment or repatriation. the duration of the trip. Important information is communicated, such as: IDEMIA’s Crisis Cell Policy, Security Travel Checklist and Guidelines provide support when there is a genuine business need to travel to high or extreme risk countries. Talent management & employee development Assistance cases – business travellers, 2018 2018 (32) 16 14 12 8 10 1 8 6 4 Medical assistance 4 Security assistance 7 2 2 4 4 Travel assistance 2 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 CSR Report 2018 | 27 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 5.5. Talent management and employee Skills development development The IDEMIA Institute was created to enable employees to learn, develop and share their skills through a single Onboarding platform. The mission of the IDEMIA Institute is to develop its employees for its clients, without exception. Our highly skilled international workforce is our greatest asset and because we know this, we are dedicated to The IDEMIA Institute offers different categories of providing the right tools and knowledge our people training to help employees, in their daily work, and need to be the best they can be, both in the jobs they develop their skills, for example: are hired to do, during their ongoing development and › An overview of IDEMIA products and services, its when applying for promotions or mobility opportunities. mission and global values, as well as its history To support the ONE IDEMIA model we aim, right of innovation. from the on boarding, to make our new colleagues › Productivity tools for work efficiency. feel welcome and ensure rapid understanding of role requirements. The following documents are provided to › Leadership and management development. the new employees: › A more digital, more innovative way of thinking. › Purple Rules (document containing major common › A certification roadmap for certain business HR values). functions. › Delegation of Authority. As the first brick of the IDEMIA Institute, we have launched an alliance with Udemy, one of the largest › Code of Conduct. MOOCs (Massive Open Online Course) in the world. › List of learning contents available (e.g. GDPR, etc.). The IDEMIA Institute is committed to offering different A mentor is assigned to support the new joiner’s forms of learning: plenary courses, computer training, integration, and make sure that training is achieved online or in collaboration. Regions and/or business units within the first month of arrival. There are checkpoints will continue to organize learning activities according with each new joiner at regular intervals during the first to their specific needs and will have resources to share year and one around the time of the first anniversary. their content with other regions and entities. HR information system NB: In some countries, the law prohibits the collection Communication and on line tools are key to achieve and publication of certain data. the unified ONE IDEMIA. Therefore we have our global HR information system called IDEMIA> Talents. This new single tool, available to all within IDEMIA, allows 5.6. HR data employees to: › Consult colleagues’ profiles, facilitating interactions Individuals within the extended COMEX by within our Group. gender and age › Have access to dynamic organization charts, enabling easier collaboration. IDEMIA’s extended COMEX is composed of 95% male › Consult and apply to job posts, encouraging representatives and 5% female. 50% are between 30-50 internal mobility within the company. years of age, 50% are >50 years of age, with currently no › Set individual objectives and manage performance, members under the age of 30. together with the managers. Grow skills and mobility IDEMIA Development Team has the mission to organize and plan people evolutions. Supported by an external consulting firm, this HR team helps employees and managers develop the right skills to grow from one mission to the next one, according to requirements and personal wishes. Inafastmovinghightechnologyenvironment,employees are interested in the future missions offered in their environment, and how they can access them. 28 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT Gender of individuals in the workforce Age of individuals in the workforce DIRECT WORKFORCE GENDER SPLIT DIRECT WORKFORCE AGE SPLIT >50 0-30 20% 23% M 39% F 61% 30-50 57% INDIRECT WORKFORCE GENDER SPLIT INDIRECT WORKFORCE AGE SPLIT 0-30 M >50 14% 28% 29% F 72% 30-50 57% Salary repartition Base Salary Ratio F/M 120,0% 100,0% 80,0% 60,0% 40,0% 20,0% 0,0% C ST R A B LIA R CA AZ C H INA C DA I ZE C DI ILE C OL RE N N IL A H H O C R M T EP B D UB IA EN L FI A M IC N RK L FR AN G AN D ER H MA E U N NY G A C R IN D N Y I O D N IA E AU N MM T ET O XIC LA SIA A IV L A IA M YSI H RO O ER C E A LA CO P HIL PE S IP R P INP U O E N D R LA S O N SI R NI SO N U A G SM DA U A SI TH PO A A RE FR SP AIC A U U IN A SAE CSR Report 2018 | 29 IDEMIA CSR REPORT Recruitment › Total number recruited in 2018 = 2,099 › 14.7% of total headcount. 2018 new hires: 2018 leavers: 2018 NEW HIRES BY GENDER 2018 LEAVERS BY GENDER F F 46% 45% M M 54% 55% 2018 NEW HIRES BY AGE 2018 LEAVERS BY AGE <30 yrs <30 yrs >50 yrs 35% >50 yrs 31% 27% 26% 30-50 yrs 30-50 yrs 34% 47% 2018 NEW HIRES BY REGION 2018 LEAVERS BY REGION NORAM APAC 20% 17% 17% 15% 13% 12% EUROPE MEA 7% LATAM FRANCE AP EURO IN LA M N AC PE D TA EA O FR IA M RA AN M INDIA CE Turnover › Total number 2018 leavers = 2,787 › 19.5% of total headcount. 30 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT Training and development Employees receiving a regular performance and career development review: OBJECTIVE PERFORMANCE 2018 2018 % of total workforce 76% 96% for which task completed Performance and career development forms were shared with 100% of the targeted male and female employees. Average hours of training undertaken by employees: › At IDEMIA’s French sites, 67% of the total population received training during 2018, with a total of 27,174 training hours recorded. Across the sites an average of 75% of men were trained, along with an average of 70% of women. CSR Report 2018 | 31 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 6.ENVIRONMENT 6.1. Environmental management What’s more, all around IDEMIA, our people are working background every day to better protect our environment. Examples of site initiatives include: Protection of the environment is one of our CSR key pillars, the cornerstone of how we conduct our business. › In Ostrava, Czech Republic, all office supplies are It is a shared responsibility to reduce energy sources 100% recyclable. dependency, and reduce consumption of energy, › In Cotia, Brazil, air conditioning water is reused carbon footprint, greenhouse gas emissions, water and for flushing toilets. waste. › In Brazil (Cotia) and India (Noida), air conditioning IDEMIA has establishments on all continents, with more water is reused for watering plants. than 200 sites including manufacturing plants, service › In Cali, Colombia, the replacement of halogen centres, headquarters, sales offices, R&D centres and lamps with LEDs has saved more than €3,200 in data centres. All these sites have different purposes, but electricity per year (23,600 kWh). serve the following common environmental objectives: › In Paris, France, the IDEMIA Tower is a HQE (High › Minimize the environmental impacts of processes Environmental Quality) building. and services by reducing or eliminating dange› In France, some entities develop solutions to rous substances, reducing energy consumption, facilitate employees’ commute. limiting emissions, managing waste recycling and › In almost all countries, regular lights are replaced disposal. by LEDs activated by presence detection. › Achieve our environmental goals through state› In headquarters, network and secure printing of-the-art, innovative, eco-friendly products and are chosen to reduce paper consumption. solutions by introducing the evaluation of environ› For electrical and electronic equipment, WEEE mental impact in the product development objec(Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment tives and specifications. Directive) third parties have been engaged to › Help our customers achieve their environmental collect and treat potential dangerous equipment. goals with our products offering and provide › IDEMIA is a member of the Association des suitable advice. Fabricants et Personnalisateurs de Cartes with a › Encourage environmental responsibility within special mission on sustainable development. the supply chain. › Waste is managed in all factories with the › Ensure continuous improvement of the Environsupport of recycling companies. Data relating mental Management System. to waste disposal methods are provided by the › Deploy and maintain ISO 14001 certifications at our waste disposal contractor. production sites (all manufacturing sites and the › In manufacturing, transportation solutions most important service centres, over 100 persons). of material are constantly challenged for cost › Communicate to stakeholders and regularly publish and energy reduction (this implies suppliers actions and results on environmental matters. reorganization to optimize routes). › Educate and train employees to make them aware › Procurement teams select partners to optimize of environmental stakes and compliance with the transportation and costs. company policy. We encourage all at IDEMIA to play their part in We measure progress regarding our main environmental becoming a green attitude ambassador. They know objectives: reduce energy consumption per person or that this can begin with very simple actions, such as: unit produced, and reduce carbon footprint, improve Turning off the light when leaving a room. energy mix, reduce water consumption per person, manage waste (paying specific attention to landfill), and Switching off the tap after washing hands. reduce VOCs (volatile organic compounds). › Turning off computers at the end of the day, As a Group, we support world Environment Day. which can reduce around 80kg of CO2. 32 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT › Think about using a mug or re-usable cup instead Energy Consumption of a plastic one for coffee or tea. In some sites there are money saving initiatives to incentivize 30 000 000 these actions. › Think twice before printing a document, and if it 25 000 000 is unavoidable always print double side. 20 000 000 IDEMIA’s management warmly welcome environmental initiatives and sites are invited to make their suggestions 15 000 000 through the IDEATION process. Best practice of the excellent initiatives at our sites is strongly encouraged. 10 000 000 5 000 000 6.2. Tracking our environmental 0 performance Manufacturing Manufacturing/ Service Service Center Center Together, the CSR Team and local sites control 1. Electricity kWh 2. Gas Consumption kWh (natural gas) environment progress through a number of Key Performance Indicators. In 2018, we had begun to gather, through a company-wide CSR reporting tool, data on the following: No significant spills were recorded in 2018 › Energy consumption. › Energy equivalent in tons of CO2. › Part of renewable electricity. 6.3. ISO14001 Certifications › Cubic meters of water consumed (per employee). › Volumes of waste (hazardous, non-hazardous, Our objective is to certify all manufacturing sites and landfilled, recycled, incinerated). large sites with more than 100 employees. › VOC quantities 100% of our manufacturing sites are covered by ISO14001 certifications, and 82% of our total production sites (including service centres). Total Weight and their Disposal Method (in tones) 6 000 5 351 5 000 4 373 4 000 3 000 2 000 1 000 825 153 0 Total Weight Total Weight of Total Weight of Total Weight of landfrilled waste recycled waste incinerated waste *Information pertaining to waste disposal methods is provided by the recycling contractor. Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) in 2018 amounted to 6,255 tons CSR Report 2018 | 33 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 6.4. Climate change goods. This included key EU directives, such as REACH (Registration Evaluation Authorization and Restriction Our environmental commitment includes action to of Chemicals) and updates to its list of associated fight global climate change, and control greenhouse gas substances of very high concern, RoHS (Reduction of (GHG) emissions: reduce energy dependency, encourage the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical renewable energies, improve waste management and and Electronic Equipment) and WEEE and its national restrict landfill, develop eco-designed products. transpositions. Working closely with suppliers and Although our main activities are not part of highcustomers, we took action to meet our legislative energy consumption sectors, for many years IDEMIA obligations and to help our customers meet their own. has declared its carbon footprint to Carbon Disclosure We use a range of methods to ensure that our products Project (CDP). The declaration is done in two categories, do not contain restricted substances under all relevant investors and supply chain, the latter meeting the legislation in excess of applicable legal limits, including request of a number of large customers (mobile obtaining certifications from our suppliers and third operators and banks in the USA, Brazil, Germany and UK) party laboratory testing of our products. Our Supplier asking for the energy spent through the manufacturing Code of Conduct contains provisions aimed at ensuring of their products in our plants. We monitor emissions of that suppliers comply with all relevant laws, regulations the gases CO2, CH4 and N2O. and customer requirements prohibiting or restricting the use of restricted substance. Following a program of eco-design, IDEMIA’s 1,400 IDEMIA’s 2018 CDP submission for Scope 1 R&D engineers analyse the environmental aspects shows 1,243 tons of CO2 equivalent, of raw materials, the manufacturing and assembly whilst gross location-based energy process, distribution, and end of life management, with attention on all phases of the product life. The IDEMIA indirect (Scope 2) emissions R&D team considers environmental aspects in both the were 26,273 tons of CO2 equivalent. technical specifications of the product and required manufacturing equipment, as well as the set-up of new 6.5. Product compliance associated production processes. In 2018, IDEMIA continued to focus its attention on product compliance, striving to ensure that its products EcoVadis classifies IDEMIA’s environmental complied with the applicable legislation of all countries, performance as ‘Advanced’ in terms of the manufacturing, sale and distribution of 34 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 7. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 7.1. Customer relations 7.2. Quality products and services Even with the best products, services, pricing, quality and cutting-edge technologies, a sustainable business Quality must ensure the ongoing confidence of customers to place their trust in it as an honest, transparent, reliable, IDEMIA knows the importance of trust to its stakeholders, ethical partner. At IDEMIA we want to be THE supplier in every interaction, product and service and we of choice for our customers, naturally on the basis of the recognize that our CSR and Quality work is crucial to innovations and services we offer, but also influenced by building and sustaining this trust. That is the reason the reassurance that our moral compass is fixed on doing why IDEMIA, in 2018, created its new Quality Manual, the right thing. For us, corporate social responsibility guides supporting everyone’s commitment to customer how we behave, constantly pushes us to be better and satisfaction, continuous improvement and compliance. because we have put in place the necessary resource and We shared the Quality Manual and related processes expertise, and continue to strengthen cross-departmental with employees through our intranet. collaboration on CSR-related topics we are seeing progress in our performance year on year. Where customers are Furthermore, in 2018, we passed our common certificafurther along their CSR journeys than us, we are keen to tion related to ISO 9001. Several sites around the world learn from them to support our continuous improvement were in scope, with local and corporate Quality teams efforts. working together for the success of the certification. Fundamentally, we are committed, at all times, to conducting our business with honesty and integrity in compliance with the laws of all the countries in which Ideation we are active. In 2018, we launched IDEMIA Ideation, opening the Technology is progressing faster now than ever before dialogue for employees to share their ideas on how to and with this comes new actors in the market and improve the workplace, reduce waste, do things faster positional shifts that we must prepare for and respond and more efficiently, etc. IDEMIA Ideation is intended to. Our competitors are amongst our key stakeholders for our people to share and implement all these ideas, and on certain subjects we work together in collaborative becoming a driver of change. groups to improve our industry conditions, including those relating to CSR, such as environmental legislation An IDEMIA Ideation contest is established to reward the and product compliance. We demonstrate, through our best ideas and most active sites. policies, procedures and training our intention to always do business within the law, including when seeking to win business. We are against price fixing, creating market restrictions, imposing geographic quotas or any other kind of anti-competitive behaviour with the effect of limiting the effects of market competition. Our Conflicts of Interest Policy ensures that potential risks are anticipated and managed. CSR Report 2018 | 35 IDEMIA CSR REPORT Compliant products 7.3. Innovation mindset At IDEMIA, we understand that customers and end users need accessible and adequate information about the positive and negative environmental and social impacts of our products and services. This is why, in compliance with applicable laws, we include information on the safe use of our products and how to manage it at end of life. We also communicate with our customers on the sourcing of components, with regards to specific social, environmental and ethical concerns they may have. We have not identified any non-compliance with applicable regulations concerning product or service information labelling. In 2018, IDEMIA continued to focus on product compliance, striving to ensure that its products complied with the applicable legislation of all countries, in terms of the manufacturing, sale and distribution of goods. This included key EU directives, such as REACH (Registration Evaluation Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) and updates to its list of associated substances of very high concern, RoHS We are committed to deliver future-proofed innovation, (Reduction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances which is: in Electrical and Electronic Equipment) and WEEE and › CUSTOMER-CENTRIC: We believe that its national transpositions. We also investigated product innovation should support clients and partners compliance in terms of California, US law, Proposition 65. to serenely apprehend the future. Working closely with suppliers and customers, we took › MEANINGFUL: We aim at having a positive action to meet our legislative obligations and to help our impact on peoples’ everyday lives in a concrete, customers meet their own. We use a range of methods ethical and useful way. to ensure that our products do not contain restricted substances under all relevant legislation in excess of › SCALABLE: We address the needs of billions applicable legal limits, including obtaining certifications of people from providing a whole nation with from our suppliers and third party laboratory testing of identities to enabling its citizens to get in touch. our products. › COLLABORATIVE: We believe that technology and skills are fed by external exchanges. Our Supplier Code of Conduct contains provisions aimed at ensuring that suppliers comply with all relevant laws, › ALL ALONG THE VALUE CHAIN: We deliver regulations and customer requirements prohibiting or vertical answers in the physical and digital restricting the use of restricted substance. worlds: from chip to Cloud. Our Conflict Minerals Policy ensures that we do not provide goods to customers that are complicit with human rights abuses. IDEMIA Motion Code falls within scope of the European WEEE Directive and our obligations are managed with the expertise of a third party. 36 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT We apply this innovation mindset to all our business Identity & Security, N.A.: providing identity activities: assurance to secure & simplify lives Financial Institutions: securing payment As a trusted partner to U.S. government agencies for diversity more than 60 years, our deep domain expertise in civil identity, public security, commercial markets and Our management of secret keys has become mission biometric identification and document authentication critical for the world’s biggest companies. We have is second to none. We aim to be the leader in providing worked to reduce payment fraud – both online and insecure, easy-to-use, integrated identity solutions that store and we are driving EMV, NFC and mobile payment enhance end-user experiences. migration around the world. We also help develop digital banking as well as secure mobile payment solutions relying on a combination of innovative payment services We stand for Augmented Identity: enhanced, and a set of digital authentication technologies, enabling adaptable, strengthened and self-sovereign us to create the payment solutions of tomorrow. identity that creates a safer world for everyone Mobile operators: securing mobility and beyond At the forefront of the digital revolution, we are committed to bringing protected and convenient experiences to our mobile operator customers. We designed tools to link strong authentication with secure elements and service platforms to guarantee simple connectivity and service access to endusers anywhere, anytime. Connected Objects: securing the identity of objects and users We make it our mission to securely manage the identity of users in different environments and to enhance their mobility. We tap into our expertise in biometrics, data security, connectivity and identity management to ensure that our clients as well as end-users can thrive in today’s hyper-tech era in total trust. Public Security & Identity: making citizens’ lives safer and easier Our solutions are inspired by citizens who are in constant motion, more connected than ever and increasingly aware of privacy and security concerns. In a fast-changing environment where governments and security professionals face growing challenges to protect people and places, we enable every individual to live in a secured, safe and convenient environment and to benefit from a unique, trusted and protected identity throughout their lives. CSR Report 2018 | 37 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 8.RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 8.1. Supplier management 8.2. Assessing CSR performance of background suppliers Partners and subcontractors play a pivotal role in Sustainable Supply Chain is among the key elements ensuring we make good on our commitments. In of IDEMIA’s CSR policy and IDEMIA has committed to order to build a chain of confidence, we aim to engage consider the social, environmental and ethical behaviour with third parties that share our ethical, social and of its supply chain in its business activities. environmental values. We welcome opportunities to share best practice and learning with our more mature CSR partners, whilst encouraging a focus on responsible To monitor the CSR performance of its suppliers and business in those who are less advanced. All third parties manage supply chain risk, IDEMIA has extended its with whom we engage must demonstrate that they are partnership with EcoVadis, which offers a simple, easy prepared to meet our fundamental expectations for to use service for suppliers to report and improve responsible corporate behaviour. their CSR performance through an online platform. The assessment addresses 21 CSR Criteria across four We have defined the framework for a trustworthy categories: supply chain in our Supplier Code of Conduct, to which we require our suppliers to sign their adherence. Key › Environment (ENV) CSR principles are also set out in our general purchasing › Fair Business Practices/Ethics (FBP) conditions. › Supply Chain/Sustainable Procurement (SUP) We work to positively influence CSR practices in our › Social/Labor and Human Rights (LAB) supply chain, including education and best practice sharing on conflict mineral sourcing, and demanding zero tolerance of child and forced labor. IDEMIA’s top spend suppliers and strategic partners are invited to be assessed via the Ecovadis platform. We expect our suppliers to confirm that their products adhere to all applicable legislation, for example EU Monitoring the CSR performance of the supply chain REACH, EU RoHS and the U.S. California Safe Drinking helps us to identify, address and avoid supply chain risks, Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986 (Proposition such as those associated with particular geographic 65). locations or types of industry, achieve compliance with legislation affecting our business and find opportunities We assess the ethical credentials of our suppliers to collaborate with suppliers on CSR. through the third party CSR performance assessment agency, EcoVadis. In a collaborative effort, IDEMIA’s CSR and Purchasing Teams support suppliers throughout the EcoVadis IDEMIA buyers consider CSR aspects when selecting assessment process, from first contact to postsuppliers and partners, and have formally incorporated assessment follow-up. CSR elements into our RFI template. Supplier scores are categorized from High Opportunity to High Risk. A supplier’s EcoVadis CSR Performance Score is integrated into the scorecard utilized during the annual Supplier Performance Evaluation. IDEMIA’s process to follow up on low scoring suppliers includes an extensive self-assessment questionnaire and on-site audit. Reports generated by this assessment help to identify strengths and weaknesses in supply chain CSR performance, both across the supply base and with individual companies: 38 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT IDEMIA SUPPLIERS: CSR ENGAGEMENT ACTIONS % COMPLIANT Policy on corruption 81% Reporting on health and safety indicators 71% Reporting on energy consumption and GHGs 68% Active whistleblowing procedure in place 68% ISO14001 certified 65% OHSAS 18001 / ISO45001 certified 52% Audit or assessment of suppliers on CSR issues 61% Formal sustainable procurement policy 45% Weaknesses form the basis of a corrective action plan, 8.3. Supplier Quality which provides suppliers with opportunities to improve their performance over time and enables IDEMIA to Our dedicated supplier quality teams, both local monitor and address supply chain risks. Suppliers are and corporate, collaborate with each other and with invited to engage in a reassessment once corrective suppliers in the following ways: actions have been addressed. If, following reassessment, › Qualification scoring has improved to an acceptable level suppliers › Monitoring (audits, complaints, quality & CSR will not be reassessed for another 12 months. However, inputs for scorecards) if scoring still does not meet IDEMIA’s expectations, be that the overall score or the subject score for a certain › Introduction of new products area of CSR performance, the next steps will be launched. › Incoming inspection management 87% of suppliers assessed have met IDEMIA’s threshold We have supplier quality members focussed on specific score for environmental practices. Those suppliers who products and supplier regions, and a dedicated supplier have scored below the acceptable limits are working quality team at each IDEMIA plant. on the agreed set of corrected actions and will be reIDEMIA’s supplier qualification and monitoring includes evaluated to ensure progress over time. corporate social responsibility criteria, with CSR performance integrated into supplier scorecards. Re-evaluated IDEMIA suppliers’ CSR 57 audits conducted by the supplier quality performance has improved by an overall team in 2018 included CSR criteria average of 4 points, with the greatest progress being made in ethical conduct CSR Report 2018 | 39 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 8.4. Supplier Code of Conduct 8.5. Monitoring our Responsible Sourcing The Supplier Code of Conduct, complementary to the IDEMIA Code of Conduct, the ethical framework IDEMIA has established a set of KPIs related to our within which IDEMIA conducts its business, is shared interactions with suppliers on matters of CSR. These with suppliers intending to partner with IDEMIA. The include: Code was developed with reference to prevailing › Total number of suppliers CSR performance international standards such as the ILO Codes of assessed. Practice, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Social Accountability International and the Responsible › % new suppliers screened using CSR criteria. Business Alliance Code of Conduct. The IDEMIA › % top spend suppliers screened by EcoVadis. purchasing department ensures that suppliers sign › Number of suppliers identified as presenting their acceptance of the expectations laid out within it a high actual or potential negative CSR impact. prior to the commencement of contract negotiations. › % of high risk suppliers with which corrective Data pertaining to supplier acceptance of the Supplier action plan implemented. Code of Conduct are represented on IDEMIA’s CSR scorecard. › % suppliers signing Supplier Code of Conduct. › Number of buyers trained on CSR. Coordinating essential CSR principles are mirrored in our general purchasing conditions, whilst the Supply Chain Quality Team controls that our CSR principles are effectively applied through on-site audits. IDEMIA expects its suppliers to uphold fundamental conduct principles 40 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT CSR Report 2018 | 41 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 10. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE – CONTENT INDEX In accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Standards for sustainability reporting, this table points readers to contextual information about IDEMIA GRI General Disclosures within the report. Links are provided to each disclosure topic. GRI GENERAL TITLE REPORT SECTION PAGE DISCLOSURE 1. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 6 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 6 102-3 Location of headquarters IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 6 102-4 Location of operations IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 6 102-5 Ownership and legal form IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 6 102-6 Markets served IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 6 102-7 Scale of the organization IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 6 102-8 Information on employees and other IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 6 workers 102-9 Supply chain IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 6 102-10 Significant changes to the organization Not applicable and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Environment Product Compliance 34 102-12 External initiatives IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 6 102-13 Membership of associations IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 6 2. STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision maker CEO’s Welcome 5 3. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 12 of behaviour 4. GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 6 42 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 5. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Identifying our Impacts 16 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements People 24 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Identifying our Impacts 16 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Identifying our Impacts 16 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Identifying our Impacts 16 6. REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Not applicable financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Identifying our Impacts 16 Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Identifying our Impacts 16 102-48 Restatements of information Not applicable 102-49 Changes in reporting Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 12 102-50 Reporting period Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 12 102-51 Date of most recent report Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 12 102-52 Reporting cycle Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 12 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding End of report 44 the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 12 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI Content Index Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 12 102-56 External assurance Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 12 CSR Report 2018 | 43 IDEMIA CSR REPORT This table points readers to Topic Specific Disclosures, identified by IDEMIA through stakeholder engagement, as being material topics for IDEMIA to address. Links are provided to each topic specific disclosure. GRI TOPIC SPECIFIC IDEMIA MATERIAL TOPIC REPORT SECTION PAGE DISCLOSURE GRI 200 ECONOMIC 204: Procurement practices Responsible supplier relationships Responsible Sourcing 38 205: Anti-corruption Anti-corruption and business ethics Business Conduct 19 206: Anti-competitive Customer relations Products and Services 35 behaviour GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL 302-1: Energy Green IT and environmental responsibility Environment 32 306-2: Effluents and waste Green IT and environmental responsibility Environment 32 308: S upplier environmental Responsible supplier relationships Responsible Sourcing 38 assessment GRI 400 SOCIAL 403: Occupational health Well-being at work People 24 412: Human rights assessment Human rights Business Conduct 19 417: Marketing and labelling Quality products and services Products and Services 35 418: Customer privacy Personal data protection and privacy Business Conduct 19 Comments on this report and about any aspect of CSR at IDEMIA may be directed to CSRTeam@idemia.com 44 CSR Report 2018 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT CSR Report 2018 | 45 IDEMIA CSR REPORT © Copyright 2019. All rights reserved. IDEMIA | EN 12/19 | Photo: iStock, IDEMIA IDEMIA Headquarters 2 Place Samuel de Champlain, 92400 Courbevoie, France Phone: +33 (0)1 73 60 20 20 Email : info@idemia.com All rights reserved. Specifications and information subject to change without notice. The products described in this document are subject to continuous development and improvement. All trademarks and service marks referred to herein, whether registered or not in specific countries, 46 are the property of their respective owners. CSR Report 2018 |
