RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Contents 01 Statement 02 Beyond 2020: bring the best together 04 People 16 Clients 22 Social impact 30 Sustainability HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Statement I am delighted to share with you our third communication on progress report, which describes some of the ways in which we have continued to pursue our commitment to the UN Global Compact ( UNGC ) and to the Sustainable Development Goals ( SDGs ) as part of our wider commitment to being a responsible business. Over the last three years, I have been proud to see the firm's commitment grow and I'm pleased that our responses to the challenges identified have developed positively. As one of the world’s leading law firms, we Lastly I am particularly proud of the partnership we wholeheartedly believe in our responsibility to have developed with the National Centre of Excellence contribute to a sustainable future. By leveraging the for Musculoskeletal ( MSK ) Health and Work. The skills, enthusiasm and insights of our people around Director of the Centre, Dr Karen Walker-Bone, came to the world, we continue to aim to make a sustained observe our people at work, reviewing the impact of positive impact on many of today's social and prolonged periods of time spent working at desks. We environmental challenges. are now working with her to engage our people globally, developing a campaign which focuses on physical Our approach to responsible business underpins our mobility and the potential impact of our working Beyond 2020 vision and strategy, directly supporting environment on MSK health. We are proud of the work key work streams and objectives through four we have done for many years now on lending focus on overarching pillars: People; Clients; Social Impact; mental health at work. Physical health is obviously also and Sustainability. We continue to seek to foster a vital and interconnects with mental health, and we will culture of responsible business which we know is a continue to focus on both. key motivation for so many of our people. Through that we continue to work at embedding these pillars in I hope you enjoy reading the case studies and updates our day to day work and activities to support which follow. positive change in sustainable business practices. There are three projects I am particularly pleased to report on from the last year. First, we continue to celebrate talent and merit rather than background and I was delighted our hard work in this area has been recognised. In 2019 we were ranked 19th in the UK Social Mobility Employer Index. However, there is still James Palmer more work to do here, especially in our offices outside Chair and Senior Partner of the UK. Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Second, we launched a major new focus behind our global commitment to health and wellbeing underlining our desire to help our people prioritise their health and wellbeing as well as reinforcing a supportive, respectful and inclusive culture. We are taking positive steps to raise awareness, promote greater health and wellbeing, including providing training and support. This involves recognising and seeking to address more openly some of the real challenges in managing the pressures and demands our work often involves. //01 OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Beyond 2020: UN Global Compact Principles bring the best together Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and Realising our vision, responsibly respect the protection of internationally Our Vision is to be a world class professional services proclaimed human rights; and business bringing together the best people to achieve the best results for clients. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Herbert Smith Freehills ( HSF ) is one of the world’s leading law firms with approximately 5,000 people in 27 offices across Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, the Labour Middle East and the US. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold We care deeply about the markets and communities the freedom of association and the we work in. Inspired by our clients, our people, and our effective recognition of the right to professional responsibility as lawyers, a sense of justice collective bargaining; underpins everything we aspire to achieve as a business, and we are proud to contribute to societal Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of progress through our pro bono practice, employment forced and compulsory labour; and community programmes. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child We are greatly concerned about climate change and labour; and other environmental issues at a local and global level, and continually strive to address our own impacts by Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination the way we work and manage our facilities. At the heart in respect of employment and occupation. all of our best efforts, of course, are our people, and we know that valuing diversity and inclusion, promoting leadership and providing holistic support for wellbeing Environment and personal development are not only the right things Principle 7: Businesses should support to do, but also essential for our long-term success. a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; As trusted advisors and legal experts to some of the world’s leading organisations, we are acutely aware that Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote we are in a unique position to support our clients as greater environmental responsibility; and they navigate a rapidly changing environmental, social and governance landscape. Our work is adaptive, Principle 9: encourage the development innovative and embraces today’s pace of technological and diffusion of environmentally change, recognising and harnessing its potential to drive friendly technologies. meaningful progress across our business and beyond. This report is the most ambitious review of our Anti-Corruption responsible business efforts to date. It aims to accurately reflect our current performance and our Principle 10: Businesses should work against personality as an organisation, weaving together some corruption in all its forms, including extortion of the most important stories of the last 12 months with and bribery. interviews, case studies and key data. By including a range of voices, we hope to give a flavour of the breadth and depth of our projects and commitments, which help make this such a special place to work. HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 UN Sustainable Development Goals We became a proud signatory to the United Nations We reflect regularly on the goals in the context of our Global Compact ( UNGC ) in 2016, agreeing to align responsibilities as a global citizen and within our sphere our strategies and operations with this set of universal of influence, and we use them as a lens through which principles on human rights, labour, environment and to focus our efforts as a responsible business. Due to anticorruption – and to respect and advance these the diverse nature of our operations and jurisdictions, principles through our supply chain and stakeholder we deliberately take a broad approach to the relationships. This report fulfils our 2019 commitment contributions that we strive to make. to Communication on Progress in implementing these principles and supporting broader UN goals. Throughout this report, we show how our work incorporates the 10 principles of the UNGC and the As a firm that operates globally and advises actions we are taking to advance societal goals, with major businesses in almost every economic sector, key SDGs highlighted where relevant. we recognise our contribution towards the achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals ( SDGs ). //03 OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 People business, clients and partners, looking at key demographic and macro-economic trends, and considering what all this might mean for our people. We’re in a good position, but we know we must keep challenging ourselves and looking ahead. We bring the best people together to deliver Driving an innovation culture differentiating results for our clients. This happens in an extremely competitive marketplace, so it’s crucial that we are able to attract and retain top talent and enable them to perform to their full potential. The nature of today’s workforce and their expectations are evolving and are very different to those of 10 or 20 years ago. In our high-pressured legal industry, our As trusted advisors to many in a time of extraordinary employer value proposition sets us apart; our values, change, we need to stay ahead of current thinking to our inclusive culture, our flexibility to differing ensure that we deliver the best outcomes for our clients life-needs, the emotional support we provide, and how and our people. A key part of our business strategy is to empowered our people feel. In turn, our workstreams embed a culture of innovation across our business, align with and contribute to the 2030 agenda for fostering a more curious and creative mindset and the sustainable development ( SDGs ) as we strive globally smarter use of people, processes and technology. This for good health and wellbeing, gender equality, decent investment in innovation and, in turn, the pioneering work and reduced inequalities – directly in our own solutions we can develop and scale for our clients, organisation and, more widely, because our people are are a key part of our contribution to progressing global empowered and enabled to have a positive influence sustainable development goals. through client work, our pro bono practice and community outreach. In Melbourne and London, we have ‘innovation leads’ to encourage and facilitate new client, business, services Our sector has specific challenges. Broadening the talent or product ideas. Globally, our data architects and data pool is a key area of focus, so that individuals who have scientists are capturing the potential of our pool of data, traditionally struggled to access the profession are given and artificial intelligence and machine learning are the opportunity to do so, and our business benefits from offering new insights and predictions. Our legal different demographics, perspectives and skills. engineers combine legal and technological expertise to anticipate or diagnose solutions to client needs, and our We must also recognise that legal work is often very automation experts focus on the implementation of demanding, with small teams working to tight tools such as automated documents and contracts and deadlines. This can take its toll on people, mentally and self-service offerings via apps. physically. We must be open about this, provide the right support, and try to strike the right balance. As well as these specialist roles, we continually appeal to our global network to share and develop ideas, both Through our Leading for Inclusion strategy, our aim is hand in hand with clients and also internally. Some to create a global culture that values our uniqueness brilliant initiatives have emerged. and differences. We also know that diversity – of backgrounds, characteristics and skillsets – drives “If data is the new oil and a lot of deal innovation, because it encourages different ways of thinking and working. This is critical as we prepare our activity and disputes on behalf of our workforce for the future. clients will therefore relate to data, we think that having lawyers who What our clients need, and our teams want, is ever-changing, requiring that we listen, stay open and understand science is going to be vital.” curious, and are prepared to continually adapt. In the PETER CHATER, GLOBAL DIRECTOR next 6-12 months we will begin a global future workforce OF RECRUITMENT project. This will mean consulting widely with our HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 PEOPLE Our Decision Analysis tool, developed in-house, is “The legal industry is in an interesting a great example. Using modelling and applying existing legal analysis, it identifies possible outcomes at each place in terms of the interaction of decision-point of a case, attributing probabilities to each technology in regards to what we do and of them and evaluating the possible financial how we do it. This has resulted in the consequences. These are visually represented and adjusted in real time, enabling our clients to make more need for new types of skill sets, a informed decisions. Our new predictive pricing tool broader range of roles and different leverages our extensive library of historic litigation cases people to fill those roles. Some call this to anticipate the costs, phase by phase, of new cases. innovation, for us it’s more a way of We’re also really excited about our new Innovation being, having adaption and change at the 10 programme, which gives every employee the chance heart of everything we do.” to spend up to 10 days per year working on innovation and technology initiatives. As part of the broader culture ANDREW PIKE, EXECUTIVE PARTNER change initiatives, we hope this will give people the AUSTRALIA time and space to be inspired; to think more like entrepreneurs and to create lasting benefits for our clients and people. //05 OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Leading for Inclusion This ensures our D&I strategy ties in with the firm's broader goals. Regional Diversity and Inclusion Groups then meet quarterly, to drive local leadership and progress against the global strategy, and to ensure what we set at a global level, is being interpreted regionally and across offices. At an office and regional level we have various networks representing different D&I characteristics: gender, LGBTI, social mobility, ethnicity, Interview with ability, and those with families or caring responsibilities. Anyone can be part of our networks and we proactively Liz Poulos, encourage allies. To us, building an inclusive culture Diversity & Inclusion Partner, Australia means everyone feels able to bring their authentic self to work because they feel psychologically safe and supported in their work and what they bring, whatever their background might be. How has the firm’s approach to D&I evolved and what are the trends driving those changes? When I first started as a graduate at the firm, the extent of D&I activities was a women’s network; the other lenses that we now look at D&I through were not even on the Can you tell us a bit about the firm’s radar. But the world has become a more sophisticated approach to Diversity and Inclusion place and quite rightly, businesses have been required by ( D&I ) and your new strategy? their people and society to be much more considered when putting together their workforce. There is also a We launched our new Leading for Inclusion strategy last strategic imperative, we need to attract great people to year, directly tied to our Beyond 2020 business strategy. work for us. The aim is to simplify what has become a much more complex area over the last decade or so, building an What kind of challenges do you face inclusive culture for everyone at Herbert Smith Freehills. The strategy has four main pillars: talent, innovation, integrating D&I across the business? values and clients, with strategic objectives related to There are very different cultural perspectives in each area. different regions. I’m based in Australia, but I’ve also worked in our Greater China offices. We have to Where does your role as one of the recognise that there are regions where, culturally, the firm’s D&I partners fit in? approach has to be quite different, and progress may be slower. But actually that’s where it can also be most I sit on the Global Diversity and Inclusion Group, rewarding. chaired by Alison Brown, an Executive Partner and a member of our Global Executive who reports into both the Global Executive and the Global Council. Talent Innovation Values Clients HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 PEOPLE How are your clients involved in automated, but we need deeper industry and sector knowledge. In Australia, for example, we’ve your strategy? developed a blockchain group to lead the development Clients have become a key part of our strategy over the of blockchain technology in the legal industry, and a last five years – and we know they are encouraged to digital law group focused on delivering legal services in see we share their values. By engaging with our clients the digital space to clients. This means we’re having to through D&I programmes and initiatives, we aim to identify and attract talent from our more junior ranks to ensure we’re best placed to meet their needs, but it also lead these initiatives and recruit people with different enables us to learn and share successes. For example, and diverse skills from non-traditional sources. we’re working with an analytics company to develop data around how we compile teams – including the How much can Herbert Smith Freehills diversity make-up of teams – and how our lawyers from push the boundaries of a sector issue like different areas contribute to the service we provide. So access to the profession? it’s not just a case of presenting a diverse team, we're also looking at the hours they spend on the matter and The easy answer is to say we can’t do anything, but what kind of work they’re doing. It’s very rare that we when you consider that a large global commercial firm would be asked to pitch for something now that doesn’t like ours traditionally recruits out of a small number of include some kind of explanation of what we’re doing in universities; we recognise that there are many other this space. universities in each region where there are students from a more diverse range of backgrounds. We’re also In your experience, what really works building initiatives specific to each market, for example, and has an effect? in Australia, providing indigenous law students opportunities to gain experience through an internship Broadly there are two types of initiatives that I think programme. We’re also pushing things like work really well. Those that happen at a strategic level contextualised recruitment, which has been incredibly for the business, and then the things that impact people successful in other offices daily in the workplace. Strategically, for us, gender targets have been critical to changing the way we think What are your plans for the future – about females in the workplace. We’ve just announced what do you want to achieve? new stretch targets for 2023 which is absolutely fantastic, but they’re not targets that we’re naturally and We’re seeing greater expectations in various regions easily going to achieve, so we’re going to have to give a around ethnic diversity. We face a real challenge lot of thought to how we change what we currently do. around meeting our clients’ and community Day to day, we have very friendly parental leave and expectations in this regard. There will be a lot of focus flexible work policies, so we encourage people to work on achieving our gender leadership targets. Whilst we agilely, which is attractive to so many people. The D&I have established policies and processes in place to committees and networks also play a really important improve the proportion of women in the partnership, engagement role in each office, organising guest leadership is a harder proposition and we’re going to speakers, discussion groups and celebrating significant need a really focused effort over the next three years to days culturally in each region – all sorts of things that achieve our target. We're also going to be even more ensure people feel that they’re part of a network that focused on proactively supporting the mental health supports them. and wellbeing of our people and looking at the way this interacts with diversity, there needs to be a greater What kind of challenges does the legal appreciation of how important this is to achieving a sector face around D&I and how is it high-performing culture. tackling them? Access to the profession is something the sector as Click here to read our Leading for Inclusion 2018-2021: a whole needs to focus. We've made good progress Global Diversity and Inclusion Strategy in full. in some regions, but there is still a lot of work to do globally. The second is around disruption to the profession, which requires us to have a diverse and inclusive workforce that can help us move with that disruption rather than resisting it. Clients increasingly see us as business partners and trusted advisors that add tangible value to their business. Technology means more of the process-based aspects of our work can be //07 OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Our gender Women in the partnership targets We set targets in 2014 in order to increase the proportion and number of women in our partnership and as part of our commitment to having a leading inclusive culture. In the five years since our first targets the number of women in the partnership has increased by over 50%. Our current targets By 1 May 2023 women will comprise 35% ••partners; and, of: EMEA ••partner leadership roles. 2014 2019 % 16% 21% Number 10 16 Our current status Global We have: 18% 18% 81 124 26% ••23% women in partner leadership roles. 2014 2019 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 PEOPLE UK/US 2014 2019 % 18% 22% Number 29 38 Asia 2014 2019 % 18% 33% Number 8 23 Australia 2014 2019 % 20% 30% Number 34 47 16% 25 Corporate 19% 29 27% 3 CRT 40% 8 22% 29 Disputes 28% 43 20% 5 EPI 39% 11 16% 18 FREP 27% 31 0% 0 ALT 100% 1 2014 2019 //09 OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 D&I recognition 2018/19 FINANCIAL TIMES AWARD FOR INNOVATION IN DIVERSITY & INCLUSION 2019 STONEWALL TOP 100 EMPLOYERS 2018 PRIDE IN DIVERSITY AUSTRALIAN WORKPLACE EQUALITY INDEX SILVER TIER EMPLOYER 2018 “Herbert Smith Freehills has “Working for a Top Global Employer demonstrated a real commitment to enables me to bring my whole self to ensuring that all their lesbian, gay, bi and work and feel supported and included at trans staff and stakeholders feel included the firm. I'm proud that the commitment at work and we are delighted to name doesn't stop there and that Herbert them as one of our Top Global Smith Freehills is committed to Employers for 2019. We are proud to partnering with LGBT+ community work with Herbert Smith Freehills, who groups to promote inclusivity and social operate in some extremely difficult change in communities across the world.” contexts, to create workplaces that are GEORGIA NICKSON, TRAINEE inclusive and supportive of LGBT people and equality.” RUTH HUNT, CHIEF EXECUTIVE, STONEWALL We recently launched our Asia Multicultural Network with a video series titled “Where are you from?”, celebrating cultural diversity. The network provides coaching, mentoring and training for our people as well as tackling hard issues such as unconscious bias and supporting diverse promotion and resourcing. Watch the videos here. HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 PEOPLE Case study: Standard Chartered Bank “In my role as CRP for Standard Chartered We received a request for information about our Bank, I am always looking for new ways approach to diversity and inclusion, including data to engage. As is the case for many of our relating to the client team who would be working with Standard Chartered Bank ( SCB ). We were clients, D&I is a topic high on SCB's subsequently asked to develop and present a proposal agenda. It is also an area where the firm's outlining how we might collaborate with them on thinking, in my view, is considerably diversity and inclusion. more advanced than many of our The bank’s priorities included working across cultures competitors. Therefore, engaging with throughout their global reach, building deeper knowledge of diversity and inclusion internally, and SCB on D&I provided a fantastic strengthening the relationship between the SCB legal opportunity to deepen the firm's team and our client team. We proposed a series of relationship. We have now opened up global inclusion workshops exploring diversity and a whole new area of dialogue and inclusion, intersectionality and the link to innovation, to be delivered across six key locations. engagement with a strategically important client.” The client was impressed by our proposal, and the leadership team has since approved an internal diversity RUPERT LEWIS, CLIENT RELATIONSHIP audit to provide diversity data, a necessary component PARTNER FOR STANDARD for the workshop series which will be delivered CHARTERED BANK throughout 2020. We are looking forward to continuing our work together. //11 OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Broadening our talent pool We’re also making lots of incremental improvements to the way we attract, recruit and retain talent from diverse backgrounds. These range from removing unconscious bias to working more closely with our recruitment partners; from using ambassadors to break down barriers, to the diversity of our recruitment panels and how we communicate at all stages of the process. Above all, we’re trying to build a culture of We have traditionally recruited many of our lawyers open discussion. from a select group of universities in each of our markets, which can mean that many of our candidates While there is much still to do, our approach is starting come from similar backgrounds. As we strive to build to unlock some exciting talent, and we’re beginning to an inclusive culture, as the sector continues to be see real changes. For example, in the UK around 10% disrupted, as client expectations evolve and as we of our cohorts were eligible to claim free school meals understand how we can contribute to global societal and our number of hires from BAME backgrounds has goals, it is imperative that we broaden the grown from 25% to almost 40% over a five-year period. demographics of our talent pool across our network. We have a longstanding commitment to social mobility and increasing access to the legal profession – “As a first-generation student with a state particularly in markets such as the UK where it is recognised as a mainstream issue. Here, we are proud school background, I wanted to join a to partner with some fantastic organisations, such as firm with a genuine commitment to Rare Recruitment, where we’ve been at the vanguard of diversity and inclusion. To me, diversity some of the new programmes and initiatives they have developed and piloted, such as working to target ethnic means encouraging, supporting and minority students and students from lower inspiring the best and brightest people, socio-economic backgrounds, and the use of contextual irrespective of their background.” recruitment data. This offers a much richer view of candidates’ circumstances growing up, and how well DEMI JOANNIDES, TRAINEE someone has performed within their peer group at A-level. We have used contextual data in about a quarter of our interview decisions over the last year. As far as possible, we seek to replicate successes and apply learnings from one market to others, but we also recognise that each market requires a unique perspective. In Australia for example, right now we’re focused on building relationships with a wider group of universities and in Hong Kong, we’re redoubling our efforts to target stellar students from the state school system. The results of a recent in-house data survey also revealed that retail work experience is a stronger indicator for high performance in-role as a graduate lawyer than legal work experience so we have now started to socialise this insight with partners all over the world. Elsewhere, we are constantly examining the skills we need as a business to add tangible value to our clients. As technology transforms every sector, including our own, we have begun to recruit people with a broader range of skills, and in certain markets are now looking for 20% of our graduate cohorts to comprise STEM students. HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 PEOPLE Case study: PRIME – improving access to quality work experience We are a founding member of PRIME, a collaborative law firm initiative which aims to improve access to the legal profession through work experience. Each year we offer placements to more than 25 talented, motivated and ambitious young people from backgrounds currently under-represented in the legal profession. The programmes include a blend of learning and development, work shadowing, a client visit and “Thank you for the support and your time spent gaining an insight into life at an involvement with the PRIME scheme, international law firm. it was really instrumental in getting me to Most work experience opportunities for young where I am today, with a training contract people are based in London, putting those in the offer at Herbert Smith Freehills!” rest of the UK at a disadvantage. That’s why every year we also host Summer PRIME, a residential MICHELLE NWAESEI, FUTURE TRAINEE programme for students living outside the capital. For every PRIME programme, we partner with one of our clients. It's an effective way of developing stronger relationships with our clients and supporting one another in the shared objective of ensuring fairer access to work experience. The feedback from students who participated in our 2018 summer programme was overwhelmingly positive, with 80% of participants saying that it increased their desire to enter the profession, and 100% feeling that it exceeded their expectations, helped them to network and increased their confidence. //13 OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Mental health and wellbeing Mental health is a big issue for us, just as it is for the entire legal profession. Legal work is demanding. A third of lawyers suffer from depression. So we must continue to do everything in our power to actively encourage our people to be aware of this and to look after their own and each other’s mental health. We are determined to create a culture that is free from stigma, where people feel that they can say if they are struggling and easily access support – not only in times of greatest need, but for their optimal wellbeing. As a firm, we've made considerable progress in supporting the mental health of our people. For several years, we have led the sector in raising awareness, reducing stigma and providing support. In 2018, our leaders made a global commitment to the health and wellbeing of our people, and this was followed by a new global wellbeing intranet hub to provide access to information and support in a more consistent and accessible way. But we can, and want, to achieve more. Our global approach to mental health and wellbeing, Thrive, sets out our approach to being a firm that values optimal mental health, where our people can choose to discuss their mental health without fear of stigma, know how best to support others, and can easily access support. It is a series of objectives delivered at a global, regional and local level that will support our vision across areas including education, role-modelling, everyday conversations, brand, accountability, and data. In London we signed up to the UK Mindful Business Charter. It is focused on simple and practical actions teams can take to reduce unnecessary stress at work and promote more efficient ways of working and makes the explicit link between a high performance culture and better ways of working. In addition, we have developed a range of resources on We've created global guidelines that incorporate coping with stress, anxiety, depression and other issues, the guidance of the charter whilst consolidating tips for healthy living and wellbeing, access to help if this with best practice already in place across the needed, and guidance on how to help others. We see firm, including promoting a feedback culture and mental health as inextricably linked to both physical and encouraging more flexible and agile ways of social health, and we take a holistic view of the health working. The guidelines are designed to be shared and wellbeing of our people, with firm culture at the and implemented at a regional or office level so very centre. In addition to mental health, we provide that teams can discuss and implement these in a support across a range of areas including physical, way that best works for them. financial, occupational and social wellbeing. HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 PEOPLE This is Me Our heartfelt campaign, This is Me, showcases a range of people from all levels in the business, including our Senior Partner, proudly opening up about the issue of mental health. You can watch the videos here Over the last year we have been developing a partnership with the National Centre of Musculoskeletal Health and Work. To better understand the impact of prolonged periods of desk work. This involved interviews and observations at our London offices, between November 2018 and March 2019. We are now working closely with the centre to develop a global survey for all our employees about mobility and the impact of the working environment on musculoskeletal health – the first of its kind to be attempted in a global law firm. //15 OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Clients It is well understood that we are operating in a world We work with clients on some of the world’s largest and that faces increasingly tough and complex most high-profile projects and disputes, to help them challenges. From rapid urbanisation and digitisation to manage and resolve complex social and environmental climate change and demographic and social shifts, this challenges. We also work with businesses, investors, evolving landscape is bringing with it new standards, governments and regulators to unlock the opportunities regulations and expectations. There is increasing of decarbonisation, decentralisation and digitisation, and public scrutiny around business practices that are on designing innovative legal structures necessary for responsible and understanding of how this drives the transformation to a low-carbon future. And more more equitable progress in our global society. This is recently, through our market-leading social finance and encapsulated in the UN Sustainable Development sustainable investment practice, Herbert Smith Freehills Goals which outline a blueprint for our world to develop Impact, we support entrepreneurs who have a social sustainably through to 2030. Throughout our global mission, and those that invest in their businesses, to practice and the advice that we give our clients, we play maximise social and environmental impact. a very important role in this. Across our network we develop unrivalled expertise in Commercial and regulated industries are faced with an understanding the complexities and implications of increasingly complex landscape of public sector law and global trends at a sector level. Our sector-specific governance. The risks associated with bribery and teams combine in-depth knowledge with an ability to corruption incidents and human rights abuses have manage and mitigate commercial, strategic, technical, dramatically increased in recent years. Meanwhile, high geographical and political risks. Alongside this, our on the agenda for governments and companies across passion for shaping the future of these sectors positions the globe, the renewables boom is seeing us at the forefront of developing innovative but unprecedented levels of growth. Added to this, our pragmatic solutions and advice that enables our clients clients are on their own sustainability journeys, and to navigate this changing landscape. recognising the need to build resilience in their business by adapting to emerging challenges and risks, while realising the significant business opportunities that sustainability can offer. HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Business and human rights Climate change and the environment CLIENTS As the issue of climate change becomes ever more critical and the world shifts to a low carbon future, we are increasingly engaged in, and passionate about, helping our clients to mitigate the risks while seizing the opportunities of this transition. As one of the first global law firms to establish a business and human rights practice, we seek to respect Although this is a global issue, its effects are not and promote the protection of human rights, and to help uniform across the world, with different threats and our clients to do the same. responses in different states and regions, contributing to a fragmented picture of climate and environmental Our Business and Human Rights Practice Group, law. Our practice has the advantage of being global, yet established almost a decade ago, has advised some of driven on the ground by local teams, who have the the world’s leading organisations on human rights knowledge needed to support our clients in the most issues. As due diligence, transparency and reporting effective way. requirements in this area become more prevalent, we help our clients to proactively identify and manage Our global environment team handle the environmental human rights risks as they evolve. aspects of corporate transactions across all sectors, providing cutting-edge, risk-focused, pragmatic We believe that respect for human rights is an essential advice on how to navigate this changing landscape. component of responsible and sustainable business According to Colombia University, the number of models. As trusted advisors to some of the world’s environmental laws globally has increased from 12,000 largest organisations, we are in a unique position to in 2016 to over 16,000 today. This increase in legislation raise awareness of human rights risks, as well as impacts on our clients from every sector, with evolving legal standards, policies and practices. In our environmental considerations playing a more prominent own business and in the advice that we provide to part in all our work. Environmental due diligence is clients, we seek to continually improve our human already a part of every project and transaction, and we rights performance. also advise clients more generally on their obligations to comply with environmental law, on requirements for As we strive to embed this thinking across our practices transparency and permits, and on potential for liability and the markets in which we operate, we also maintain an as a result of non-compliance. open dialogue with our colleagues, alongside training and awareness-raising, so we can continue to increase the Our most exciting and impactful work lies beyond knowledge and engagement of our people year on year. compliance, when we engage clients at the forefront of the transition to a low carbon world. We advise on high-profile projects and schemes spanning energy, infrastructure, automotive, disruptive technology, and “Our approach at Herbert Smith Freehills cities of the future. These are new areas and is to embed human rights across every cutting-edge technologies, where a regulatory practice area of our firm.” framework does not always exist. Our particular strength lies in supporting clients through this STÉPHANE BRABANT, PARTNER, CO-CHAIR uncharted regulatory environment to develop, OF BUSINESS & HUMAN RIGHTS implement, and scale-up the solutions necessary for a low carbon future. //17 OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Many of these projects have intrinsic positive of the world’s largest organisations. Internally, we are environmental benefits, such as electric vehicles and using this to highlight how climate change can be seen charge points, sustainable feedstock, tidal energy as both a risk and an opportunity, and how our people power generation, solar and wind projects, and can apply this mindset to their everyday work. We are addressing the plastics challenge. We also have a also connecting with our clients to discuss how climate leading financing practice in the energy sector, change will affect them, and how they may need to adapt CLIMATE CHANGE specialising in renewable energy, where we have in the coming years. To accompany these conversations, SUCCEED IN A LOWER-CARBON FUTURE advised on the financing of groundbreaking projects we have produced a climate change report, Climate such as hydropower generation projects in Nepal. Change: Succeed in a Lower Carbon Future, which explores the impacts, risks and opportunities of climate We have taken active steps to further integrate change across different sectors. environmental thinking throughout our firm. In September, we launched our first climate change campaign, aiming to raise awareness about the subject and our unique role as advisors in these matters to some Challenges in the consumer sector Moving towards sustainable plastic use In these complex and fast-changing times for retail and consumer sector businesses, the regulation of plastics is evolving at pace, particularly within the UK and the EU. The focus on plastics also comes at a time when there is increased scrutiny of companies’ wider environmental and sustainability performance from institutional investors and shareholders. In this report, Susan Black and Julie Vaughan of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP examine how the use of plastic is regulated in the UK and the EU, and the responsibilities of businesses in the retail and consumer sectors. HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Case study: success for the Republic of Costa Rica in high-profile arbitration case A team from our New York office, along with coThe tribunal concluded that there were wetlands and counsel from Costa Rica’s Ministry of Foreign Trade, forests in the Las Olas Project which were adversely secured a major victory for the Republic of Costa Rica impacted by the claimants and that the reaction that in arbitration proceedings concerning an investment Costa Rica took was merited according to its laws, in a tourism project in Costa Rica’s Central Pacific which were consistent with international law. Coast and a group of American investors. Therefore, it found that Costa Rica’s actions were not arbitrary or in breach of the obligations under the The dispute arose from an investment on parcels of DRCAFTA. land and a concession site in Costa Rica’s Central CLIENTS Pacific Coast: the ‘Las Olas Project’. Claimants Commenting on this result, Christian Leathley, Head alleged they had received all permits and approvals of the Latin America Group and US Head of from Costa Rica in order to commence the International Arbitration, said: “Given the significant development of the project, sales and marketing dependency Costa Rica has for its unique activities. However, after conducting inspections in environment, the protection of that is a key the project site, the Costa Rican authorities identified component of this award. We are very happy for wetlands and forest in the site, triggering Costa Rica in receiving a very clear and administrative and judicial actions that led to the comprehensive award that helps it protect its shut-down of the project. environmental rights.” The applicants claimed that Costa Rica breached its obligations under Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade Agreement ( DR-CAFTA ) and requested damages in the amount of US$95,400,000. //19 OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 “This has been a particularly unique and Case study: advising Total Eren on the largest solar farm in Victoria exciting transaction in the context of the In June we advised Total Eren on the equity current renewables landscape in Victoria sell-down, project financing and construction of and Australia. This is a significant Stage 1 of the Kiamal Solar Farm, located in Ouyen, milestone for Total Eren and we are Victoria with a generation capacity of 200MWac. pleased to have advised on the power Once completed, Stage 1 of the Kiamal Solar Farm will be the largest solar farm in Victoria. purchase agreements and the complex financing arrangements, which extend to During the project, it became evident that there were network system strength issues in norththe construction and maintenance of the western Victoria, which would have affected synchronous condenser.” connection of the Kiamal Solar Farm. Total Eren JON EVANS, PARTNER resolved these by investing in a large synchronous condenser, a first in the market, which formed a key part of the unique and complex financing arrangements for the project. The success of this project demonstrates the value of Total Eren’s innovative approach and commitment to overcoming the challenges facing renewables projects in the current environment. It is an example of our market-leading work advising on the equity and financial arrangements of major and groundbreaking renewable projects. HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Investing in the future: Case study: Sky Ocean Ventures Herbert Smith Freehills Impact Plastic pollution is one of the biggest issues facing All over the world, entrepreneurs are devising innovative our planet, and we are keen to be part of the commercial solutions to social and environmental solution. In partnership with Sky, our longstanding challenges. Supporting them to ‘do well by doing good’ is client, we have played a significant role in Sky something we get excited by. Ocean Ventures. This bold investment vehicle seeks to identify and invest in businesses and Through our market-leading social finance and people who are developing innovative ways to sustainable investment practice, Herbert Smith Freehills tackle the crisis in our oceans, such as plastic Impact, we support socially responsible founders, packaging alternatives, new recycling technology investors, asset managers and social finance for the home and alternative fibres for clothing. CLIENTS intermediaries to build global connections, maximise positive social and environmental impact and realise We are proud to have assisted Sky Ocean Ventures their growth potential. across its full life cycle, from advising on the initial structure and formation to supporting investments Our team operates across a variety of sectors, working in early stage companies. We were also pleased to on issues relating to education, energy, agribusiness, advise on Sky’s first two downstream investments financial inclusion, climate change, consumer products, in social enterprises: Choose Water and Skipping housing and healthcare. We cover the full range of legal Rocks Lab. issues, and regularly leverage our market-leading pro bono practice to deliver free legal support. //21 OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Social impact Whether we’re providing legal advice, partnering with community organisations, or developing our employment programmes, social impact is a common thread throughout our pro bono and community work. Meaningful change requires that all people and groups are enabled to actively participate and access support and opportunities that will improve their life chances; for example, access to justice and decent work. As a global law firm, we are well placed to respond to the range of needs that exist in the communities and regions where we do business. The UNSDGs help to focus and guide our efforts in our pro bono and community work, in particular the goals of ‘Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions’, ‘Reduced Inequalities’ and 'Partnerships for the Goals'. We recognise that ending poverty must go hand in hand with strategies that promote the rule of law, improve education and reduce inequalities while at the same time tackling climate change. While local contexts differ, a level of consensus runs through our work to promote a foundation of human dignity and opportunity in everything we do. Pro bono We have a significant history of providing pro bono legal services to clients including charities, NGOs, developing nations and vulnerable individuals. We are extremely proud of the outcomes our clients achieve for the communities in which we live and work, and of the relationships and reputation we have built along the way. We consistently exceed national pro bono targets, with staff this year contributing over 67,000 pro bono hours. From Kuala Lumpur to Kununurra, our people have been working to bring relief to some of the world’s most disadvantaged individuals. We undertake this work with the same high degree of competency, expertise and professionalism as all of our other projects. Our contribution would not be possible without the focus, skills and commitment of our people in every office across our network. HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Number of pro bono hours 2018/19 67,000 Case study: The Shopfront Youth Legal Centre The Shopfront Youth Legal Centre (The Shopfront), SOCIAL IMPACT a partnership between Herbert Smith Freehills, The Salvation Army and Mission Australia is our response to the Australian Human Rights Commission’s inquiry into youth homelessness in the late 1980s, which recognised that many Australian children were being denied fundamental human rights including the right to adequate legal representation. Since 1993, The Shopfront has provided a free legal service to homeless and disadvantaged young people aged 25 and under. In addition to providing legal services with a strong focus on defending clients who are charged with criminal offences, The Shopfront also provides legal support to young people in their capacity as victims of crime. Staff provide community legal education and work collaboratively with other youth services to deliver a holistic response to employment, housing and education needs. In addition to assisting around 600 cases each year, the centre advocates for systemic change that will benefit all homeless young people. The Shopfront is staffed by permanent employees including solicitors and support staff, as well as two mental health social workers employed by Mission Australia. We also second two lawyers to The Shopfront each year from our Sydney office. //23 OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 “MSF Australia is 100% supported by private Case study: Médecins Sans Frontières donations and we are highly appreciative of We play a crucial role in assisting multinational organisations who work on the front line of human the support we receive from our donors and need, such as leading humanitarian aid charity the relationships we develop with them. Médecins Sans Frontières ( MSF ), with whom we [Ours is] a multifaceted partnership based on have a longstanding partnership. trust and mutual respect for professionalism, MSF is the world’s leading independent and a collaborative outward focus on organisation for medical humanitarian aid. Every facilitating resource-efficient activities that day more than 24,000 of the charity’s field staff provide assistance to people caught in crises have a positive impact on people in need. around the world, including in conflict zones, I continue to be genuinely impressed by the refugee camps and natural disaster areas. breadth and depth of legal and other support Since 2012, we have worked with MSF to provide offered by Herbert Smith Freehills.” pro bono legal assistance, annual financial RUTH MOLLOY, MAJOR DONOR MANAGER, MSF contributions, information sessions for our staff, AUSTRALIA & MSF NEW ZEALAND meeting and libel training, ‘mapping’ events, and other in-kind support – combining fundraising with legal advice in order to have the greatest impact. “Having spent more than a few days with the Our relationship has always been characterised by MSF team in their office, it is fair to say that trust and transparency. We work together to find the team loved delivering this service to a solutions and ways of bringing positive experiences really great group of people and for a very back into our organisations. worthy cause.” PAMELA FLETCHER, HEAD OF INTERNATIONAL MOBILITY, HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Case study: MADE51 Case study: transitional justice and MADE51 is the United Nations Refugee Agency’s human rights in Sri Lanka ( UNHCR ) groundbreaking initiative that We are proud to have partnered with the Public empowers refugees by connecting them with Interest Advocacy Centre in Australia in relation to global markets, enabling them to use their skills its Sri Lanka transitional justice work. Our lawyers and heritage to earn a living by selling artisan assisted with a conflict-mapping project involving goods in the countries in which they find the review of secondary material including sources themselves displaced. from NGOs, United Nations agencies and new agencies, and adding relevant details of conflict and MADE51 has already directly impacted, human rights violations to a specially developed empowered and supported 1,000 refugees. By database for the Sri Lankan conflict. 2030 over 300,000 refugees will have benefited, with an estimated $30 million earned by refugee artisans. Not only have refugees been empowered by working on MADE51 products, their increased Case study: Sanctuary for Families, earnings have allowed the UNHCR to reallocate New York funds currently required for livelihood projects to Sanctuary for Families is New York’s leading emergency situations. service provider and advocate for survivors of domestic violence, sex trafficking and related Lawyers across our offices have worked closely forms of gender violence. Every year, the with the UNHCR on the formation of this initiative. organisation empowers thousands of adults and Our advice has enabled MADE51 to navigate the children to move from fear and abuse to safety and complex legal rights and obligations relating to stability, transforming lives through a range of refugees, and successfully develop the foundations comprehensive services and advocacy. for UNHCR’s first commercially focused endeavour, to create a sustainable livelihood Our New York office has supported Sanctuary solution for refugees. for Families for a number of years. We support the organisation by representing clients on a pro bono basis, through volunteer opportunities SOCIAL IMPACT such as helping clients prepare for job interviews and document translation services, and through fundraising. A highlight of the year came in July 2018, when a team from our New York office secured a victory in the US Immigration Court granting asylum to our pro bono client, an Indigenous woman from Ecuador. Our team received the case nearly two years ago from Sanctuary for Families, and over several months met periodically with the client to learn the details of her personal history. The team prepared the many submissions, identified and retained a superb country conditions expert, and obtained corroborating declarations from both expert and lay witnesses. The focus of the hearing proved to be the compelling and poignant testimony of the client. At the close of her testimony, the government counsel declined the opportunity to cross-examine the client. The judge then granted the client's asylum application from the bench. The government Médecins Sans Frontières nursing activity waived appeal, rendering the judge's order the final manager at Médecins Sans Frontières Health decision on the client's asylum application. The Centre in Kario Camp, Sudan is helping the client, the defence team, and others in the mother to feed her baby who is suffering from courtroom were visibly moved by the outcome. severe malnutrition, with therapeutic milk. ©Janine Saad/MSF, 2018 //25 OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Number of young people participating in our programmes UK 2017 2018 School Outreach 160+ 260+ Mentoring 90+ 110+ Work Experience 87 92 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Community Case study: Sufiyaan Osman, We are a global firm but our focus is also local – Networked Scholar alumni addressing local issues and supporting local beneficiaries. Our 27 offices around the world serve Our Networked Scholarship Programme is a communities and regions with varying social priorities. five-year, holistic programme of support, with For that reason, our community programmes balance places offered to five students a year. It includes strategic global and regional initiatives with local insight days, mentoring, networking, skills training, office-based committees, who are best placed to an internship and a financial bursary. Sufiyaan understand and respond to the priorities of our joined the scheme in the first year in 2010. Like communities in which they live and work. most sixth-form students, his future career plans were not entirely clear. Across our community work, and inspired by the Sustainable Development Goals, we prioritise long-term “Before the programme I assumed that maybe I’d partnerships and projects that promote equality and become a mechanic like my dad, or something social inclusion. Although the way our programmes similar. The programme really opened my eyes to address this varies according to specific local contexts the possibilities in the City and made me realise and needs, a drive to reduce inequality runs through this is what I wanted to do. It made me more everything we seek to achieve. confident to back myself.” In the UK for example, we have a longstanding “All of us who were on it had parents who were commitment to social mobility, offering personal and from lower socio-economic backgrounds, children professional development opportunities to young of immigrants to a certain extent. None of us on the people furthest away from the workplace. In Australia, programme had ever seen what it was like inside a we focus on national reconciliation with Aboriginal and corporate environment, it all seemed so far away. Torres Strait Islander peoples, seeking to foster a I’d describe it as shattering the glass around the culture of friendship and partnership and increase their city and making it attainable.” representation in the legal profession. Through a variety The programme also led to a unique mentor of programmes in Hong Kong we build relationships and relationship. As Sufiyaan explains “the first support for domestic workers, and in New York we memorable event of the programme was meeting work with survivors of domestic violence. We are also my mentor, Chris. Our relationship got so good that SOCIAL IMPACT very proud of our long-term global strategic partnership whether it was job interviews or applications, he with Medecins Sans Frontieres, which blends pro-bono would always take the time and effort to help me.” legal assistance with annual financial contributions and other in-kind support. “There was a point when I was looking at banking, and I didn’t know too much about this world. Chris Across our network, it is our people who make our thought the best way he could help me was to get programmes happen and we aim to provide every me really commercially aware, so I used to go in opportunity for them to actively engage with once every two weeks and speak for 10 minutes on community organisations that promote equality and a given topic. Chris would sit and listen, take notes, social inclusion. sometimes we’d do a Q&A or he’d film me. Other times it was just a case of catching up over lunch or dinner and talking about how things were going. He kept me on a very consistent basis, and I wouldn’t be where I am now had it not been for him.” Following his studies, Sufiyaan trained as an accountant with EY and today works as a Senior Associate at PwC. He credits this to the programme. “For sure, the programme changed my perspective and path in life. I’ve always had determination and a desire for self-improvement, but the programme really helped to hone these skills and provided me with the opportunity to get where I am now.” //27 OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Reconciliation Action Plan, Australia The Reconciliation Action Plan ( RAP ) programme In 2015, we were incredibly proud to be the first law provides a framework for organisations to support firm to receive an ‘Elevate’ RAP, the highest level. We Australia’s national reconciliation movement, adopted our second Elevate RAP 2018-2021 supporting them to develop respectful relationships in September. This RAP formalises our flagship and create meaningful opportunities with Aboriginal commitment to provide up to A$5 million of pro bono and Torres Strait Islander peoples. legal advice to Indigenous clients over three years. In that time, we also commit to: We seek to foster a culture of friendship and partnership between ourselves and Aboriginal and ••taking a lead facilitation role in the development of Torres Strait Islander peoples, organisations and an educational eco-system to nurture a pipeline communities. From our position as Australia’s leading of talent, to significantly increase employment commercial law firm, we aim to increase their outcomes for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander representation in the legal profession and reduce their peoples in the legal and corporate sectors; over-representation in the criminal justice system. ••providing access to justice through pro bono legal advice and representation, in particular for the most We launched our first RAP in 2011 and have since vulnerable young people at risk of incarceration; and developed internal protocols around acknowledgement of country, cultural competency training and ••advocating actively for justice reinvestment and supplier diversity. constitutional reform. This shows how great things happen when we work together, share our expertise, and strive to lead and empower others. By raising the bar of our RAP ambitions, we continue to lead national reconciliation action in the law and justice sector. HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Case study: CareerSeekers ••improve prospects of graduating students by internship programme providing a context and ‘sticking point’ for their studies, and; We provide pro bono legal support and in-kind support to CareerSeekers New Australian Internship ••improve financial independence. Programme. CareerSeekers is a non-profit social enterprise that works with leading organisations to At Herbert Smith Freehills, we are pleased to have create employment opportunities for asylum seekers hosted two CareerSeeker interns in our Melbourne and refugees who aspire to obtain professional and Sydney offices. Our first intern was placed with employment. the Disputes Team in Melbourne and, since completing her internship, has joined the Federal The programme supports two groups of participants, Government Graduate Programme. Our second mid-career professionals and university students intern, who completed placements in both our through a 12-week paid internship tailored to their Sydney and Melbourne offices, has recently applied specific needs. The programme for mid-career for a clerkship at our Melbourne office. professionals focuses on providing work experience for qualified professionals struggling to break into the job market, where not having work experience in the country is often the biggest barrier. The programme for university students places them with corporate partner organisations, to help build skills and confidence for a career in the private sector. It supports interns to develop the skills, experience and confidence to achieve their career aspirations in law. Both structured internships: ••improve academic performance and familiarity with the legal sector and thereby improve career prospects; Case Study: The Splash Foundation in result of this 'live-in' law, there have been many cases SOCIAL IMPACT Hong Kong of inadequate rest periods, lack of proper sleeping accommodation and even physical abuse. According to The World Health Organisation, there are an estimated 360,000 annual drowning deaths Through Herbert Smith Freehills Hong Kong office, worldwide. It is the third leading cause of we have been supporting Splash for the past three unintentional death, with low and middle-income years through our annual fundraiser, the ‘Splash Dash countries disproportionately affected. Relay’. Each year, two teams from the firm take part in the race, with many more employees volunteering In response, Splash was started in Hong Kong in 2015. on the day. All money raised goes towards growing It is Hong Kong’s only charity committed to teaching Splash’s domestic worker programmes. In addition, low-income communities how to swim, connecting we support the charity with invaluable pro bono people who know how to swim with those who want advice and guidance. to learn through a large network of professional coaches and trained volunteers. Participants not only learn a skill which might one day save their life, but they also develop their confidence, enhance their mental and physical wellbeing, and become part of a supportive community. It has now taught over 2,200 people how to swim and be water safe. A large number of Splash’s beneficiaries are migrant domestic workers, who under the terms of their employment contracts work six days a week and are required to live with their employer. Partially as a //29 OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Sustainability Our global sustainability strategy Our Global Sustainability Strategy, launched in 2016, focuses on four areas: environmental impact, people engagement, leadership, and pro bono and community. We apply these principles internally and externally, throughout our entire practice. We already measure, manage and report on our most significant environmental impacts, such as our energy The impact of climate change at both a local and global use and waste. We also recognise that our clients are level is deeply concerning, and we are committed to on their own sustainability journeys and make the creating a business community that operates in an most of our unique and trusted position to support environmentally sustainable, economically feasible and them in these. socially responsible way. As part of our Global Sustainability Strategy we We manage, and strive to reduce, our impacts by developed headline targets for 2020, based on a developing sustainable business practices, based on 2016 baseline: a comprehensive action plan with measurable goals and targets. It is ongoing work that we undertake with pride, 15% care and diligence, and in a spirit of collaborative learning with our clients, our suppliers, our partners and employees, and across the legal sector. reduction in global carbon pro bono and community footprint % leadership people engagement environmental impact in energy REDUCTION use reduction 30% in paper consumption Over the next year, we will be evaluating our progress and performance over the last four years of consulting with our stakeholders and establishing our priorities and targets for the next phase of our journey. HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Reducing our emissions Energy use in our offices is our biggest source of carbon Technology has significantly changed the way we emissions. From investment in new energy-efficient understand and manage many aspects of our day-to-day equipment to LED lighting upgrades, we know that operations. A centralised online global management tool every saving we can make is important. Our approach has allowed us to better monitor our travel and identify is three-pronged: we encourage energy-saving areas for improvement. Video conferencing has enabled behaviours, we implement energy-saving projects, a personal approach to our client work while reducing and we identify and implement energy-efficient emissions associated with travel to meetings. Internally, products. We have been certified to Energy we have implemented Skype for Business to cut Management System ISO 50001 in the UK non-essential inter-office travel. since November 2015. We now use 100% renewable electricity in our offices It is disappointing for us to report that energy use in our in London, Belfast and Brussels, and we’re making offices has yet to see a downward trend. We face progress across our global network, with almost 50% ongoing challenges here, but we know that it is of our electricity from renewable sources. something which needs further scrutiny and which may require changes to our current strategy. Despite this, we are encouraged by a fall in total emissions per person, reflecting the broader picture. 2018 2017 -34% Our target -15% CO2e reduction per person % -20% -0.9% Energy reduction -10% per person % 0.1% -37% Paper consumption -30% reduction per person % -16% -40 -35 -30 -25 -20 -15 -10 -5 Baseline 0 5 year 2016 SUSTAINABILITY //31 OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 “The main reason for building a Case study: the Sichuan digester is that it helps save Household Biogas Programme money. But it has also a lot of The nature of our business makes travel additional benefits: our home unavoidable in some cases, and while is now free of smoke, flies and low-emission alternatives to aviation are not yet available, this results in significant smells. It is also much more carbon emissions. These emissions convenient for me to manage contribute significantly to global climate our family business while taking change, so, in support of our goal to reduce our global carbon footprint by 15% care of the cooking. With more by 2020, we encourage individuals to pigs we would even be able to use offset their associated travel emissions. the biogas for lighting and heat As a firm, we follow a project-based approach to carbon offsetting, supporting water for the shower.” initiatives that bring socio-economic HUANG MINGYING, RESIDENT benefits to local communities. OF A SMALL VILLAGE IN THE SICHUAN REGION In 2017 we made the decision to offset all carbon emissions associated with travel to our Global Partners Conference in Hong Kong, by supporting the Sichuan Household Biogas Programme. This ingenious programme aims to install 1 million biogas digesters – which recover methane emissions from manure to provide clean, free fuel – to improve lives in one of the poorest regions in China. Each digester reduces carbon emissions by 20 tons and reduces indoor air pollution, helping to improve the respiratory health of residents in a region that relies heavily on coal. Last year a number of our people, including partners and our CEO, volunteered to offset their annual business travel using the scheme, and committed to do so each year. We also offset all flights associated with the Global Partner OFF Conference in Sydney and the Global Divisional Conferences. All of our offsetting is currently made via the Biogas programme and by 2026 we aim to have helped over 5,000 impoverished families (more than 10,000 people). in 2018 we reduced our travel by 22% HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Waste and resource use “One of the big challenges in Asia is that Eliminating waste and improving our recycling rates is environmental issues are not necessarily on an important area of focus, and we encourage our people’s radar the way they are in Europe people to take an active role in identifying opportunities for ongoing improvements. or Australia. Single-use plastics, paper waste, carbon footprint – these are already The phasing out of single-use plastic in all our offices hot topics but in Asia you do sometimes has been a major priority, and after months of hard work we are pleased that 80% of our network have get some push back, it is a different culture. entirely removed single-use plastics from their offices. The Asia Pacific and Australia This has been achieved through a coordinated drive by Sustainability Action Group has been all our staff and suppliers to identify opportunities for reduction and replacement with alternatives. For instrumental in highlighting the importance example, our dry cleaners in London have replaced of environmental issues and positive work disposable plastic suit covers with reusable ones, and in done elsewhere in our network, and Bangkok we have introduced reusable food containers, glass straws and paper cotton buds. encouraging our people here in Asia.” MIKE MCCLURE, HEAD OF DISPUTES KOREA Reducing our paper consumption is another AND PARTNER CHAMPION FOR THE APAC commitment, with a current target to reduce usage by SUSTAINABILITY ACTION GROUP 30% by 2020 across our network. We have already met this target, thanks in large part to new technologies which have allowed us to minimise unnecessary use. Case study: Go Green! Hong Kong Engaging our people This initiative came about through a discussion between three founding members (Nicole Schlaikier, We have two Sustainability Action Groups: Gigi Cheng and Michael Thillaivasan) about ••the Asia Pacific and Australia Sustainability minimalism and the amount of rubbish people Action Group and generate. The group felt passionately about doing something locally and wanted to learn more about the ••the UK, US & EMEA Sustainability Action Group environmental issues affecting Hong Kong and do their part to help. They wondered whether their colleagues They work together to ensure that we operate were having similar thoughts and conversations, and consistently and in a socially responsible and the idea to get together to share ideas, raise awareness environmentally sustainable way across our entire and encourage actions came about. global network. Members of the groups are partners, senior management and office managers. Since first getting together, the group has grown rapidly and is constantly generating more ideas, In addition, we have Green Teams across our office interest and actions. Staff have taken part in network who are responsible for local engagement. documentary screenings, presentations, visits to We support events and use opportunities such as Earth rooftop gardens and more recently a beach clean-up Hour, UN World Environment Day and the UK’s Cycle to day which removed over 50 bags of rubbish from Work Day to raise awareness of environmental issues Tung Wan Beach. and our responsibilities. This year we used Environment Week to run a series of “The Green Team in the Hong Kong office events and campaigns in Bangkok, Belfast, Brisbane, Germany, London, Madrid, Perth, Seoul and Sydney. was launched in June 2018 and since then A highlight of the week was a global photography their enthusiasm and passion about the SUSTAINABILITY competition ‘The World I Want’, which displayed environment has had a snowball effect, photographs and murals across our offices reflecting the global climate emergency. Each office also led their encouraging our people across the own engagement initiatives, with our office in Belfast network to follow their example. The running a daily questionnaire with prizes such as awareness and engagement in Asia has KeepCups and Bamboo toothbrushes up for grabs, and our German office encouraged team members to walk increased considerably thanks to the or bike 5km to raise donations for OceanCare. initiatives of the team.” JUSTIN D'AGOSTINO, EXECUTIVE PARTNER //33 OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Sustainability leadership We play an active part in business networks seeking to address the challenges of climate change and sustainable development. In 2008, we became a founding member of the Legal Sustainability Alliance ( LSA ), a collaborative industry effort to address climate change by reducing our carbon footprint and adopting environmentally sustainable practices. In 2014 we also joined the Australian Legal Sustainability Alliance. In addition to our own activities, we contribute to wider efforts to promote environmental sustainability by providing pro bono legal services on key initiatives and other forms of community investment. For example, we are a founding member of the Legal Response Initiative ( LRI ), which provides free legal support to the least developed country delegations and NGOs in relation to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change ( UNFCC ). The international negotiations under the UNFCCC are among the most complex multilateral law and policy making processes ever undertaken. Industrialised nations can afford huge teams of dedicated, specialist lawyers, giving them an advantage over less developed countries who, in a double injustice, are often most at threat from climate change. Through our work with the LRI, we seek to create a more level playing field. “The LRI provides vital legal support to the poorest countries in the UNFCC negotiations at international level and more locally through assistance with national legislation and capacity building. I encourage anyone who has an interest in climate change to get involved it is a fantastic opportunity for lawyers to be part of this amazing initiative and know that your advice will really make a difference.” SILKE GOLDBERG, PARTNER Our suppliers As a professional services business, our supply chain predominantly consists of goods and services that enable our people to deliver these services. Our global procurement team, based in London, supports responsible sourcing and purchasing across the firm. We know our social and environmental responsibility extends beyond our own business to all those we choose to work with, and we do everything in our power to minimise our indirect impacts through our Global Responsible Procurement Policy, developed in 2015. HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 The Living Wage and beyond The Living Wage is an hourly rate of pay, set independently and updated annually, based on the real cost of living in the UK, versus the legal minimum. We were proud to be one of the first 90 employers to have been accredited in the initial wave of Living Wage Employers in 2012 (the total is now over 5,000). This applies to every member of staff in our organisation – including individuals who work on a regular basis at our premises, such as security staff. Additionally, our third-party contractors such as our caterers and cleaners ensure their own staff are paid the real Living Wage too. In July, we spoke to employees from our third-party contractors about how the real Living Wage has impacted them. We were encouraged to hear that their quality of life is better, they are able to work fewer hours than friends to achieve an equivalent salary, and as a result they have increased the amount of time spent with loved ones. Inspired by the success of the Living Wage campaign, and in response to the number of workers who face financial insecurity and in-work poverty, we are in the process of working with the account managers for our third-party contractors on any changes we need to make in order to support the Living Hours initiative. This initiative was launched in June 2019 and requires organisations to provide workers with at least four weeks’ notice of shifts, a contract that accurately reflects hours worked, and a contract with a guaranteed minimum of 16 hours a week. SUSTAINABILITY //35 OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 Modern slavery We take our responsibility to respect internationally Our Responsible Procurement Policy applies to all our recognised human rights very seriously and we seek to suppliers. In the UK we have met with key suppliers to conduct our activities in a manner that supports their discuss the key concepts within the policy and to protection. As a signatory to the United Nations Global understand their approaches, while encouraging Compact, we have explicitly committed to this, and to change and innovation initiatives which align with ours. ensuring that we are not complicit in human rights In early 2016 we also began issuing all our major abuses through our business operations, supply chain suppliers globally with Procurement Compliance or stakeholder relationships. Standards, setting out our expectations of them. We continue to analyse our global suppliers annually so We have conducted an initial assessment of the firm's that we can understand the extent of our supply chain own business and supply chain and consider that there is and inform our risk-assessment with up-to-date, minimal risk of modern slavery or human trafficking. We accurate information. have also introduced a procurement platform to ensure parties who work with us adhere to our high standards and policies. This uses a gated approach to assess the We hope this report gives a flavour of the breadth due diligence of our suppliers on an ongoing basis, in and depth of our passion for and commitment to order to identify where modern slavery and trafficking responsible business. This commitment is ongoing risks lie. In the event that we become aware of a case of and we welcome any comments and feedback from modern slavery or trafficking in our supply chain, we will our stakeholders. Please contact our Head of work to remediate this through legitimate and Citizenship, Emma Cooke on emma.cooke@hsf.com proportionate processes as swiftly as possible. HERBERTSMITHFREEHILLS.COM BANGKOK HONG KONG NEW YORK Herbert Smith Freehills (Thailand) Ltd Herbert Smith Freehills Herbert Smith Freehills New York LLP BEIJING JAKARTA PARIS Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Hiswara Bunjamin and Tandjung Herbert Smith Freehills Paris LLP Beijing Representative Office (UK) Herbert Smith Freehills LLP associated firm PERTH BELFAST JOHANNESBURG Herbert Smith Freehills Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Herbert Smith Freehills South Africa LLP RIYADH BERLIN KUALA LUMPUR The Law Office of Mohammed Altammami Herbert Smith Freehills Germany LLP Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Herbert Smith Freehills LLP associated firm LLP0010119-FGN BRISBANE SEOUL Herbert Smith Freehills LONDON Herbert Smith Freehills Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Foreign Legal Consultant Office BRUSSELS Herbert Smith Freehills LLP MADRID SHANGHAI Herbert Smith Freehills Spain LLP Herbert Smith Freehills LLP DUBAI Shanghai Representative Office (UK) Herbert Smith Freehills LLP MELBOURNE Herbert Smith Freehills SINGAPORE DÜSSELDORF Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Herbert Smith Freehills Germany LLP MILAN Herbert Smith Freehills Studio Legale SYDNEY FRANKFURT Herbert Smith Freehills Herbert Smith Freehills Germany LLP MOSCOW Herbert Smith Freehills CIS LLP TOKYO Herbert Smith Freehills © Herbert Smith Freehills LLP 2019 3475A/251019 2019 UN Global Compact report digi
