UN GLOBAL COMPAC T Communication on Progress 2019/ 2020 INTRODUCTION 3 FOUR DECADES OF DESIGN 6 BEING A CERTIFIED B CORP 14 FSC TM 17 AMFORI AND CODE OF CONDUCTS 22 GIVE BACK MORE THAN WE TAKE 26 1. INTRODUC TION statement by Jesper Panduro The last 12 months have been exciting for us in (CoC). That means they pledge to live up to the We realize that it takes much more than just one Skagerak, and we are honored to wrap up this highest standards of labour rights and environresponsible design company to make a change season with a nomination for Denmark’s “green mental protection agreed upon by more than and part of being responsible is to share our brand of the year” at Design Awards. 2000 european businesses. beliefs and practices with as many as possible. I believe this nomination is a great sign that With this great progress in mind, we are now Lastly, this year we finally got to see the reopenwe’ve come far with our ambitions for what ready to start our process of being re-certified as ing of the iconic Svinkløv badehotel that burned Skagerak is and should be a design company a B Corp a movement we joined in 2017 for down in 2016. We helped them keep some of that crafts long-lasting furniture with respect for the sake of using our business as a force of good. their old DNA by restoring a batch of their old, people and the planet. With a current score on 87,7 out of 200, we aim original Skagerak outdoor furniture that was for going above 100 this time as improvements badly damaged by the fire. Since last year, we’ve increased our share FSCTM has been made on a long range of initiatives to certified wood from 61 to 71% and are now track and reduce our energy and water usage, A classic example of how restoring and reusing more confident that we will reach our goal of CO2 emissions and waste management. and old product makes so much sense in terms becoming 100% certified before 2025. of both material and non-material value someWhile focusing on improvement our business thing we seek to do even more so in the years to In the same period, we’ve managed to carry out and impact abroad, it’s equally important to come for Skagerak. audits on 12 out of 15 of our manufacturers maintain a positive impact at home, in our local with the last two scheduled in beginning of 2020. community and general. That’s why I’ve been To our big satisfaction, we’ve also made sure that spending more time than ever on taking part in those suppliers we have a significant influence on discussion, interviews and workshops on sustainYours sincerely // Jesper Panduro, have all committed to our new Code of Conduct able design and circular economy in Denmark. Owner and CEO in Skagerak Skagerak’s FSCTM certification number: NC-COC-012993, license number: FSCTMC004462 1 .1 H I G H L I G H T S 2018 /2019 FSCTM wood Supplier signing Code of Conduct Supplier Amfori auditet Non FSC 20% 29% FSC 100% Audits 71% 80% 1 .1 H I G H L I G H T S 2018 /2019 Being part of the B Corp movement and a fi rm supporter of The Number of chairs recovered from the FSC scheme, Skagerak actively seeks to voice its vision Svinkløv Badehotel. We repaired the damages and opinions about sustainable design on various platforms. Selandia chairs and tables. Read more on p. 27. Read more on p. 26. 6 tables 11 debates 40 chairs 2. FOUR DECADES OF DESIGN four decades of sustainable thinking Skagerak is a family-owned furniture maker from Denmark with a long tradition for good craftsmanship and design-thinking. Since 2005, the company has been owned and managed by Jesper and Vibeke Panduro. Together with their two children and little dog, they live in the harbour city of Aalborg. This is where Skagerak was founded back in 1976, when the first dreams of making long-lasting design took form. From the very beginning, Skagerak was founded on a strong belief that quality should be measured in three different aspects. Quality in its design, quality in its production, and quality in its relation to the people and environment that surround it. 1) Quality in design, because we need products that people want to use and care for, for generations. 2) Quality in production, because we need long lasting products that are easy to repair and maintain for generations. 3) Quality in the relation to people and planet, because we need to sustain a healthy environment socially as well as naturally where we can continue doing business for generations to come. Those beliefs are still at core in Skagerak’s DNA and culture. 2 .1 F O R T H I N G S T O R E M A I N THE SAME, EVERYTHING MUST CHANGE The name “Skagerak” comes from the historically important strait that connects the three Scandinavian countries; Denmark, Norway and Sweden. To Skagerak, the strait represents the ability to remain the same while constantly moving forward and bringing about change. Something both Jesper and Vibeke wish for Skagerak to comply with. Today, the company finds itself in highly globalised market where its products are both manufactured and traded across regions and continents. While this globalisation of the economy has pushed through development and helped building a strong, global middle-class it has not been without sacrifices. For ever since the first wave of industrialisation came around, consumption and growth have been equal to rising emissions of CO2, overexploitation of natural resources and staggering amounts of waste. Now, more than ever, we are feeling the consequences of this. Consequences so big that we have to rethink the way we do business the way we produce and consume if we are to sustain our high living standards for a growing, global population without causing any further damage that cannot be revoked. 2.2 UN SUS TAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL S Part of that realization made the world’s leaders G OA L 0 1 : N O P OV E R T Y G OA L 1 2 : R E S P O N S I B L E come together in 2015 and agree on a set of Because being involved in some of the countries CONSU M P T ION A ND 17 new goals on sustainable development the with the highest levels of poverty, Skagerak PRODUC T ION today well-known SDGs. The goals are adopted can influence the way we talk wages, welfare Because Skagerak can help promoting a smartand shared by all the United Nations Member and economic security. This directly through its er resource use both in its way of designing, States 193 independent nations states. To suppliers, but also indirectly through sourcing sourcing and marketing its products. achieve these ambitious goals before 2030 it its materials legally and with focus on paying requires genuine collaboration across governrespect to smallholders and community foresters. G OA L 1 3 : C L I M AT E A C T I O N ments, civil society and not least the private Because Skagerak can actively support mitigatsector. G OA L 0 8 : D E C E N T W O R K ing climate change by endorsing the usage of A N D E CONOM IC GROW T H renewable resources and supporting ecosystems For Skagerak, to keep its strive for quality in Because Skagerak can influence working conthat helps taking out CO2 of the atmosphere design, production and relations to people and ditions in the regions where its supply chain and storing it. planet, it is only natural to implement these reaches. Done right, local jobs can be created goals in its business model. To lessen its negand sustained while improving labour standards ative impact and help future-proofing both and opportunities for an inclusive economy. natural and human resources for generations to come. Out of the 17 SDGs, these are the ones Skagerak has chosen to focus on. 2.3 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPAC T Even before the 17 SDGs were articulated and put into system, Skagerak has been an active supporter of pursuing sustainable development. In 2010, Skagerak signed up to the UN GLOBAL COMPACT initiative committing to help pursue the then UN agenda by implementing a set of universal sustainability principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. HUMAN RIGHTS PR INCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PR INCIPLE 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses — Business and human rights are deeply interconnected for good and for worse. That’s why Skagerak firmly believes that promoting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is nothing but one of the most important corporate responsibilities. This implies not only to avoid being complicit in human rights violations but also to spread awareness and encourage change in the communities it operates in. Locally as well as globally. LABOUR PR INCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining PR INCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour PR INCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour PR INCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation — As a global design company with a diverse supply chain including the South American, African and South-east Asian continents much of Skagerak’s actual work to ensure a positive relation between business and human rights is found in its engagement in sustaining just and fair labour rights. That implies working towards more transparency, fair wages and safe work environments through long-standing partnerships as well as international standards and conventions. ENVIRONMENT PR INCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges PR INCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility PR INCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies — In the entire history of mankind, the levels of CO2 in our atmosphere has never been higher than right now. Yet, we still overexploit the earth’s resources to such an extent that in 2019, we had already spent the entire year’s budget of materials by July 29. This means we’d need 1,7 planets to keep up our resource use as of today. Now imagine what we’d need by 2050 when our population is no longer 7,5 billion but almost 9,7 billion and much more belong to the strong middle-class? We obviously need to reduce this overexploitation in one way or the other if we want to turn around the risks of climate change and resource scarcity we are already experiencing now. That’s why Skagerak strives to minimise its environmental footprint by optimising its procurement, handling, transportation and disposal of resources. ANTI-CORRUPTION P R I N C I P L E 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery — Corruption, extortion and embezzlement are often linked to economic underperformance, inequality and violation of human rights. That’s why we need to break down the longtime taboo of corruption by engaging in open, constructive dialogue across industries and regions. By at all times speaking against and backing away from any form of corruptive activity, Skagerak wishes to set an example and help establishing a business environment where anti-corruption is the norm, no matter which country is in question. In the following sections, we go through the most important actions, initiatives and focus points in Skagerak, in working with 10 principles and achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals. 3. BEING A CERTIFIED B CORP when business is more than just profit In 2016, Skagerak joined the B Corp movement – looking for new ways to use its business as a force of good. B Corps are certified ‘benefit corporations’ meeting the highest standards for social and environmental performance, accountability and transparency. Together with 2.900 companies across 150 industries and 64 countries, Skagerak works towards 1 common goal to redefine success in business realizing that social and environmental achievements are just as important as profit. And that these three elements are not necessarily going against each other, but can actually strengthen one another if done right. And that’s the philosophy behind becoming a certified B Corp. In order to join to the movement, all companies go through a thorough assessment of more than 150 questions divided into 4 areas: 1. Governance 2. Workers 3. Communities 4. Environment The assessment is an attempt to conceptualize the idea of a triple-bottom-line; to put a standardised number to a company’s impact on social and environmental aspects. Out of a total score of 200, one need at least 80 points to achieve a certificate. On its first assessment in 2017, Skagerak scored 87,2 points. G OV E R N A N C E 10 , 7 P O I N T S difference between the highest paid and the compared to last report, and Skagerak will take Under the theme of governance, Skagerak is lowest paid worker in the company is very low. new measures to organize such activities in the rewarded for having KPIs for its social and future. At last, Skagerak ranks high based on environmental performances as well as yearly C OM M U N I T Y 2 4 ,1 P OI N T S its long-standing partnerships with the most impact reporting such as the UN global comIn terms of community, Skagerak gets its significant suppliers in South East Asia having pact CoP (Communication on Progress). score from having a focus on gender equality, worked together with some for more than 2 supporting the local community and civil society, decades. This gives a great base for Skagerak in Furthermore, having clear policies of financial as well as showing strong bonds and responsiimproving its environmental and social impact. controls, financial audits, financial transparency bility towards its suppliers. Nearly half of the and not least whistleblowers adds to the score. employees are women, between 25-50 % of the board members are women, and 80 % of all WOR K ER S 25 P OI N T S management positions are occupied by woman. Under the category of workers, Skagerak scores The company is likewise ensuring an equal pay high on providing supplementary healthcare for men and women in comparable managing insurance for its employees as well as a wide and non-managing positions. range of health and wellness initiatives such as fitness gear, co-running events and the opporFor the local community around Skagerak, the tunity for receiving physiotherapeutic treatment. company pays donations to a wide range of Furthermore, Skagerak ensures that more than cultural institutions and NGOs such as Kunsten, 75% of its employees takes part in both profesSkagen Museum, Aalborg Teater, Aalborg Zoo, sional as well as personal skill training. Røde Kors and Børnefonden. On top of that, all employees are allowed to carry out three Lastly, Skagerak ranks high on its high to low days of paid volunteer work. As the number of pay-ration which is 1x5 meaning that the volunteer hours dropped significantly this year E N V I R O N M E N T 2 7, 4 P O I N T S When it comes to environment in the B Corp assessment, Skagerak is scoring high on having installed programs on recycling programmes, incentives to decrease its emissions by travelling and monitoring of both water and energy use. The same goes for its suppliers, where +75% are likewise monitoring water and energy, and 50% monitoring waste output. Skagerak is about is fill out its next assessment required to receive a new certification from 2020 and 3 years ahead. Having been part of the B Corp movement for almost 3 years now has been a great experience for the company. Being one of the first established businesses in Denmark to receive the certificate has given plenty of opportunity to communicate the messages and visions behind the movement and we are now seeing more and more companies ready to join forces. For the next assessment, Skagerak aims at scoring above 100 points. This seems realistic as the company has been working strategically on improving its local involvement in community building at home and abroad, its tracking of CO2-emissions and plans to reduce these, as well as sourcing of certified materials and phasing out of non-renewable resources. 4 . F S C TM making a difference through sustainable wood sourcing One important step towards a more sustainable design industry is to Th is year, the company is one step closer to achieve this goal as the share support responsible wood sourcing and forest management. That is why of FSCTM -certified wood in its collection has risen from 61% to 71% over Skagerak endorses the Forest Stewardship Council™, and have long been the last year. Since last year, Skagerak has been able to source 100% of its working towards the goal of only using wood with a 100% FSC™-certioak from FSCTM -certified forests. fication in its collection. 4 .1 S U C C E E D I N G T H R O U G H N E W COLL ABOR ATIONS The reason for the increase this year is to be found in Skagerak’s determination on finding new suppliers of FSC TM -certified teak for its production in Indonesia. The change involves the production of some of the company’s larger outdoor collections which is why it has triggered a 10% increase in the total share of certified wood. On the short run, the manufacturing costs might increase a bit but that’s a compromise Skagerak is willing to adjust to. If going as planned, the share should increase further in 2020 until reaching 100% share of FSC TM -certified wood in 2025. 4.2 BRINGING TOGETHER ENVIRONMENTAL , SOCIAL , AND ECONOMIC INTERESTS By supporting the FSC TM certification, we help making sure that no more trees are felled than the forest can reproduce – and that local communities, biodiversity and forest workers are treated with respect. In fact, FSC TM is now the one of the world’s leading systems for promoting sustainable forest management a strong and recognizable brand that helps mobilising consumers through its chain of custody and labelling schemes. The effects of this are vast and contributes directly to 11 out of the 17 SDGs and 35 direct sub-targets. With a starting point in the four SDGs specially related to Skagerak, this means the following: G O A L 0 1 : N O P OV E R T Y conventions of the ILO (International Labour procurement and business-to-business activities. Around 1.6 billion people’s livelihoods are Organization) as well as gender equality at the somewhat relying on the existence of forests, workplace, health and safety practices, profesOn the production side, FSC TM ensures and more than 300 million people live in the sional training, conflict resolutions and damage sustainable forest management and efficient forested areas. Needless to say, this fact proves avoidance and compensation. resource utilization while giving manufacturers the importance of responsible forestry. the opportunity to choice responsibly sourced Secondly, FSCTM foresees wood overtaking the materials in their collections. Through the FSCTM-certification, forest owners role of many non-renewable resources such as are obliged to hire local workers and provide concrete, steel and oil. However, and increase G OA L 13: CL I M AT E them with proper education, healthcare, and salin demand for wood worldwide will put pressure Forests are key to the ecosystem and climate as ary. In some cases, they also commit themselves on the forestry and FSCTM thus acknowledges they function as important CO2-containers – to support local communities – for example the need for better recycle systems for wooden absorbing the carbon dioxide from the atmosthrough development of schools, hospitals and materials. That’s why they have created the phere and storing it in trees and soil until the access to clean water. This is greatly contributing “FSCTM recycle” label. day it decays. The burning and destruction to the empowerment and protection of workers’ and forests accounts for 16 % of the global and Indigenous’ rights in the forestry industry. G OA L 1 2 : C O N S U M P T I O N CO2-emissions. A N D PRODUC T ION G OA L 0 8 : D E C E N T W O R K FSCTM is a tool to promote responsible That’s why the FSC TM scheme works towards The FCSTM system is set up to use wood as an consumption and production worldwide. ending logging and sustaining the growth of environmentally and socially sound resource On the consumer side, the system helps people forest areas all over the world. This includes that contributes to sustainable economic growth. choosing sustainably designed products and slowing down the deforestation by restoring First off, FSCTM is dedicated to ensuring spread awareness of the features of wood as a degraded forests and increasing the establishment decent worker’s rights and labour conditions, renewable resource. This both for private conof new forestlands. requiring employers to applicate the core sumers but especially with a focus on public G L O B A L S U P P LYC H A I N 5. AMFORI AND CODE OF CONDUCTS responsible production in a global supply chain As a global design brand with a wide variety today – all based on international standards T H E 11 P R I N C I P L E S A R E of different types of collections, Skagerak’s and conventions formed by the UN, ILO and A S F OL L OW S business model involves a supply-chain with OECD amongst others. production in more than 10 countries. To 1. The Rights of Freedom of Association ensure that Skagerak’s values are understood Today, 12 out of 15 significant suppliers have and Collective Bargaining and practiced throughout the chain, a Code accepted Skagerak’s new CoC. The three sup2. Fair Remuneration of Conduct (CoC) is a vital tool! pliers that have not accepted yet are relocating 3. Occupational Health and Safety facility or new to doing business with Skagerak 4. Special Protection for Young Workers The CoC is an agreement between Skagerak and are now in the process of being implemented 5. No Bonded Labour and its suppliers which contains a multitude in the system. As such, they are all expected to 6. Ethical Business Behaviour of requirements which they, their employees sign off over the next 12 months. 7. No Discrimination and sub-suppliers are expected to meet. Back 8. Decent Working Hours in 2017, Skagerak joined Amfori’s Business In the Amfori system, Skagerak is only obliged to 9. No Child Labour Social Compliance Initiative (Amfori) – a comget acceptance and compliance from those of its 10. No Precarious Employment mon CoC shared amongst more than 2.000 suppliers whom they are “responsible” for. While 11. Protection of the Environment European businesses. The motive was to obtain several Amfori can do business with the same an even stronger and more consistent voice in producer, it is only the RSP holder that is expecsecuring proper labour rights and environment ted to have leadership of upcoming audits etc. policies. The Code of Conduct from Amfori is founded on internationally recognised standards and principles such as the UNGP, OECD and the UN Global Compact as well. The CoC was renewed in 2014 and contains 11 principles 5 .1 A Z E R O T O L E R A N C E P O L I C Y Violations of principles and legislations should always be taken seriously – never tolerated. But the response to a violation might not always be the same. In most cases, if Skagerak finds that a supplier is violating the principles, collaboration will be terminated immediately. However, the aim with the CoC is partly to help suppliers improve social and environmental standards. Therefore, some cases of non-compliance are approached by creating an individual development plan in cooperation with the supplier in order to bring things up to standard and achieve full compliance with the violated principle(s). 5.2. AUDITING SUPPLIERS AND MAKING PLANS FOR IMPROVEMENT To make sure that suppliers meet the requireplan was created in close dialogue between the ments of the CoC, they are being audited at supplier and Skagerak. In addition, the last regular intervals and are furthermore required missing supplier will have its audit carried out to perform self-assessments. Audit procedures in the beginning of 2020. are performed by independent, third-party Audit results organizations approved by Amfori – all with In an audit, the suppliers is usually asked to experience in the industry and geographical account for wages, pay slips, labour contracts, area and partnering with local specialists. general conditions and rights at the workplace, as well as the overall level of information and Over the past 12 months, 12 out of Skagerak’s education amongst the staff. On top of that 15 significant suppliers have been audited. will an audit typically look as safety measures, Those with a D or C score are expected to go machine handling, usage of PPE, fi re safety, through a new audit during the coming 12 toilet facilities, canteen facilities and cleaness months. Two suppliers scoring either A or B in general. are not required auditing until 2021. Th ree suppliers pending are either relocating or new. It is Skagerak’s clear goal to reach a point where it will be able to publish summaries or For Skagerak’s biggest supplier, a pre-audit has extracts of these audits directly on its website been carried out recently in collaboration with in terms of enhancing transparency and the an external consultant. The pre-audit functions dialogue with its customers and stakeholders. as a dry run and helps preparing the producer for the real audit scheduledin September 2019. The rehearsal turned out well and an action 5.3 MAKING THINGS 5.4 LIVING WAGES 5.4 ANTI-CORRUPTION RIGHT FROM THE S TART In the beginning of the 2019, one of Skagerak’s When the legal wage is too low it can have a In practice, Skagerak’s adoption of Amfori’s suppliers have decided to move its factories damaging and repressing effect on local comCode of Conduct – shared by more than 2.000 from China to Vietnam. The first new factory munities and families, leading to a long string European companies – has made it easier for is expected to open up on full capacity in late of negative side-effects. Even a standardized Skagerak to deal with corrupted behavior if 2019 already. minimum wage might be too low at times, not relevant. covering the costs of basic needs in certain areas Skagerak carried out an audit on the supplier’s or seasons. For example, the audits now carried out in factory in China to prepare the management of collaboration with Amfori and Skagerak’s supwhat conditions would be required of them on This challenges can be solved by looking at pliers are based on a method of ‘triangulation’ the new factories as well. Thus, the audit and the concept of “living wages” based on a local where several sources and data-sets are used to following action plan have helped the supplier calculation of the costs of basic needs such as confirm the truth of information and the hongreatly in making a lot of conditions and decihousing, food, transportation and clothes in a esty of operations. sions right from the beginning saving them specific area. Living wages are standard topic of from further actions and remediations on the interest in Amfori and are as such addressed in long run. every audit carried out. Skagerak is recommending its suppliers to sign up to free seminars provided by the Amfori on the topic amongst others. At the seminars, representatives from the supplier are trained in fair remuneration, basic management systems an how to draft remediation plans. 6. GIVE BACK MORE THAN WE TAKE LOC AL ENGAGEMENT After having been located in the same city for more than 40 years, Skagerak has built up strong bonds to many different business partners, areas and local enthusiasts. The company takes a special pride in keeping these relations as an opportunity to give back more over time than they have taken. 6 .1 T H E H I S T O R Y O F S V I N K L Ø V BADEHOTEL Svinkløv Badehotel sadly burned down in 2016. For the reopening of the iconic hotel, we repaired the damaged Selandia chairs, that had been with the seaside hotel for many years. We tried to preserve as much of the original as possible, only replacing the badly burned parts and sanding down less damaged areas. They almost look new but still tell the story of Svinkløv Badehotels sad history. The hotel is now open again and the Selandia chairs have returned to their original spot and will now again serve guests for years to come. 6.2 AN ACTIVE VOICE FOR SUS TAINABLE DESIGN Being part of the B Corp movement and a firm supporter of the FSC scheme, Skagerak actively seeks to voice its vision and opinions about sustainable design on various platforms. During the past year, Skagerak CEO and Owner, Jesper Panduro, has taken part in 11 public debates and given lectures on subjects such as circular economy in the design industry, sustainable wood sourcing, sustainability in family-owned companies and so forth. A recurring topic in Jesper’s talks is how he has changed his view on what “good business” is over the years – moving from profit-driven to purpose-driven, and how that has transformed his way of running the company. On top of this, Skagerak has opened up for its own flagship-store as platform for various meetings, events and debates around sustainability and B Corp in Denmark.
