IMPLATS UN Global Compact 2019 1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ON THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary global initiative that addresses human rights, labour, environmental and corruption issues through a commitment to 10 principles derived from authoritative sources of international law, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the core declarations of the International Labour Organisation, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Implats became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in July 2008. The following table provides a brief overview of our implementation of the 10 principles. More detailed information is available throughout our sustainable development report. Global Compact Reference in Implats’ Principle Brief COP statement sustainability report Businesses should Our commitment to human rights is described in the Company’s A general overview of our support and code of ethics and our values. Our human rights policy, which was approach to human rights respect the approved in 2013, commits us to striving for full compliance with is provided in our review on protection of applicable legislation in the regions in which we operate, as well as to Respecting Human Rights international human implementing the human rights principles in the United Nations (Sustainable development rights within their Global Compact. (SD) report page 21). sphere of influence Employees are trained on the code of ethics through our intranet and all new employees are trained as part of the induction process. Specific provision is made for human rights-related issues in our formal agreements with employee union representatives. While our contractor agreements do not specifically contain human rights clauses, contractors are expected to abide by our Company policies, practices, standards and the law of the countries in which they are operating. We track implementation of human rights issues through monthly reports. Procedures are in place to ensure that channels are available to deal with unfair practices. One case of discrimination was reported in the year under review. Upon investigation, the allegations were determined to be unfounded. Businesses should We strive to uphold this principle through our focus on ensuring A general overview of our make sure their compliance with all applicable legislation and by encouraging approach to human rights own corporations implementation of the Company’s code of ethics. is provided in our review on are not complicit in Respecting Human Rights human rights We recognise the increased importance of adopting proactive (SD report, page 21). abuses measures to identify and address areas where the potential for complicity in human rights abuses may arise. Managing this risk will require greater focus on developing and implementing human rights awareness-raising, communication, monitoring and assurance systems, particularly among those vested with managing security and public order issues. To mitigate this risk, we have committed to and are implementing the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. The principles focus on three spheres of security management: risk assessment, interactions with the South African Police Service, and interactions with private security. We will be using this framework to guide and train our security contingent. Businesses should As outlined in our SD report, we recognise the right of employees to Details on our labour uphold freedom of collective bargaining and freedom of association in accordance with relations activities are association and the all relevant local labour legislation, and we strive to provide an provided in our review on effective environment that fosters open, honest and effective relations between Investing in employee recognition of the management, employees and elected union representatives. We relations right to collective monitor labour relations in our operations; and monthly labour (SD report pages 50 to 52) bargaining relations reports are submitted from our operations to the EXCOM. Businesses should All our labour is sourced from the open labour market and all Details on our labour uphold the employees are provided with contracts in accordance with local relations, activities are elimination of all labour legislation; they are free to resign at any time in accordance provided in our review on forms of forced and with legal processes. Investing in employee compulsory labour relations (SD report pages 50 to 52) IMPLATS President’s Framework Agreement 2019 2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ON THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT CONTINUED Global Compact Reference in Implats’ Principle Brief COP statement sustainability report Businesses should Implats does not make use of child labour in any of its operations. A general overview of our uphold the effective We monitor and ensure our compliance with the labour legislation in approach to human rights abolition of child the two countries within which we operate. We have not detected is provided in our review on labour any significant risks of child labour being used. Respecting Human Rights (SD report page 19) and the age profile of employees engaged and terminated in the year is given on pages 107 and 108 of the SD report. Businesses should We strive to eliminate discrimination in all forms throughout our A review of our employment uphold the workforce, and are committed to promoting employment equity and equity performance and our elimination of diversity. initiatives on this issue is discrimination in provided in Promoting respect of We have made valuable progress in promoting diversity across most diversity and transformation employment and levels of management throughout the Group. We have maintained a (SD report pages 53 to 57). occupation strong focus on employing women in core positions throughout the Group, and we are well positioned relative to our competitors. Our performance and prospects on employment equity and indigenisation are outlined in more detail in our SD report. Businesses should As a Company involved in the exploration, extraction and processing Our approach to promoting support a of mineral resources, we inevitably have an impact on the natural environmental stewardship precautionary environment. We believe, however, that through our responsible is described in Conserving approach to environmental management practices, and through the nature of our natural resources and environmental resulting investments in social and human capital, we have a net mitigating impacts challenges positive impact on society. This contribution is further enhanced by (SD report pages 84 to 99). the role that PGM metals play in the move to a greener economy. The extent to which we have adopted a precautionary approach to managing environmental challenges is reviewed in our SD report. Businesses should As outlined in more detail in our report, we have adopted numerous Our approach to promoting undertake initiatives aimed at promoting environmental responsibility. These environmental stewardship initiatives to include programmes relating to: optimising energy usage; promoting is described in Conserving promote greater sustainable water use; reducing our atmospheric emissions; natural resources and environmental responding to risks and opportunities brought about by climate mitigating impacts responsibility change; ensuring effective land management and promoting (SD report, pages 84 to 99). biodiversity; managing our waste streams; and striving to reduce environmental incidents. Businesses should As outlined in our report, the Group has implemented various energy Our work in developing encourage the conservation initiatives. These include installing underground energy environmentally friendly development and efficient lighting, optimising the use of underground compressed air technologies is described in diffusion of systems, installing power factor correction equipment and improving Conserving natural environmentally diesel performance management. resources and mitigating friendly impacts (SD report, technologies page 90). Businesses should Implats has a zero tolerance stance on fraud and corruption. We A general overview of our work against require our employees, business partners, contractors and approach to addressing corruption in all its associates to conduct themselves in accordance with the Implats corruption is provided in our forms, including code of ethics and our fraud policy. review on Promoting ethics extortion and and good governance bribery Our fraud policy outlines conflicts of interest, the prevention of (SD report, page 19). dissemination of Company information, the acceptance of donations and gifts and the protection of the intellectual property and patent rights of the Company. The policy outlines the disciplinary action (including dismissal or prosecution) that will be taken in the event of any contravention. An independently managed “whistleblowing” toll-free helpline is in place to facilitate the confidential reporting of alleged fraud and corruption.
