CSR Report 2018 Report target period Jan 2018 to Dec 2018 Report publication date July 2019 Editorial policy Contents Editorial policy ................................................ 1 This report is prepared as an annual report of Terms included in this report .......................... 1 non-financial information about the Messages from the top of company ............... 2 environmental and social efforts of Rubycon Corporate Philosophy (Foundation Spirit) ..... 3 Group Companies. Overview of Rubycon Group Companies ........ 4 Listed items are summaries of concrete CSR policy and System ................................. 5 examples of activity policy and actual results Consumer Safety and Protection ............... 5 in 2018 concerning the important issues we Fair Business Practices .............................. 9 are working on. Organization Governance ........................ 10 In addition, information related to CSR Rubycon CSR Procurement Guidelines ... 11 activities is also posted on the website, for CSR Plan in Rubycon ............................... 12 your convenience. CSR Promotion System ........................... 12 Performance Data ................................... 13.14 Terms included in this report CSR Activities ............................................... 15 Security of Product Safety ........................ 15 Report Target Period Response to Product Accident and Failure . 15 This report basically covers activities between C0C: Claim 0 Campaign ............................ 16 January and December 2018, but some Factory Recognition Commendation ........ 16 activities of 2019 may be included partially. ISO/IATF Audit and Internal Audit .............. 17 On the other hand, the performance data are, in Improvement of Customer Satisfaction ...... 17 principle, summarized in the period from April Green Procurement .................................. 17 2018 thru March 2019. Compliance Training ................................. 17 Environmental Measures ............................. 18 Reduction of Environmental Burden ........ 18 Environmental Clean-up Activity .............. 19 Human Right Protection, Labor Practices ..... 20 Target Organizations Respect of Human Rights ........................ 20 Rubycon and Company refer to Rubycon Human Resource Development ............... 20 Corporation, and Rubycon group or group Creation of Comfortable Workplaces ........... 22 companies primarily mean Rubycon Child-raising and Nursing Care ................ 22 Corporation and it's domestic affiliates. Occupational Health and Safety ............... 22 Baseball Team Activities ........................... 23 Relation with Labor Union ............................ 24 Labor-Management Council ..................... 24 Summer festival ........................................ 24 Bus Tours hosted by the Labor Union ...... 25 Participation in Community and Development .............................................. 25 Social Contribution Activities ...................... 25 Contribution to Revitalization of Community ............ 27 Major Performances in 2018 and Goals and Plans in 2019 ........ 28.29 Send inquiry to: Rubycon Corporation General Affairs Department Tel：0265-72-7112 web: http://www.rubycon.co.jp/en 1 Messages from the top of Company Founding spirit Tradition and Enterprise, Effort and Study, and Faith and Trust These words are included in the phrases of our company song. The word tradition can only be used when a company has advanced and become recognized by society. To pass down good traditions, it is necessary to have an enterprise spirit in which all employees think positively and take actions. It is also important to effort on a daily basis and to study with each other. Furthermore, Trust can only be created by contacting faithfully with customers, suppliers, shareholders, and the local communities in which we operate. A passage from our company song that conveys these meanings can be called a Spirit of establishing the company and I feel it represents Rubycon's corporate culture that has been handed down from generation to generation. We have been providing products under the spirit over 67 years since the foundation in 1952. Also in the future, we will continue to hold the spirit as our origin, so as to provide reliable and satisfactory products with our experience on technology and quality, and to contribute to creation of affluent society. Aiming at contribution to better and sustainable society Social environments in our country are radically changing such as the falling birthrate and the aging population, information-oriented society and globalization. In this era of rapid environmental change, we value our ties with local communities, and will work diligently and steadily to move forward with local communities, so that each of Rubycon group companies can be proud of in each region. We are also promoting CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) activities by setting compliance, environmental initiatives, reform of working style, rasing employees' awareness of occupational health & safety, participation in communities, support for the development of the next generation, human rights and labor practices as priority areas. We will continue to create new value necessary for society, to develop products that make people happier, and to contribute to a sustainable society, so that customers and local communities always talk to us. We appreciate your continued great support and cooperation to Rubycon Group Companies. Koichi Sato, President and C.E.O Rubycon Corporation 2 Corporate Philosophy (Foundation Spirit) Company Creed Let's be the No.1 in Japan in all aspects! Employees' Motto 5 Corporate Philosophies 1. Be honest and faithful in daily living 2. Work and live properly 3. Be loving in all aspects 4. Self examine today's deeds and be grateful of no regrets 5. Believe in yourself and believe in hopes Rubycon Company Song Supervised by Teruo Tonouchi (Founder) Lyrics by Sen Kinoshita Composed by Yoshihiro Nishimura Arranged by Akira Sakashita 1. Shinano surrounded by many mountains Senjo in the east, Komagatake in the west covered with virgin snow for thousands years tradition and enterprise, Oh! Rubycon strive together hand in hand 2. Water going away to the south eternal Milky Way in the center of the sky washing out rocks without standing still efforts and training, Oh! Rubycon study together hand in hand 3. Thousands of flowers on the ground brilliant Big Dipper in the sky swear to Home Town Ina faith and trust, Oh! Rubycon advance together hand in hand 3 Overview of Rubycon Group Companies Japan Production Bases Overseas Production Bases Japan Sales Bases Overseas Sales Offices 4 CSR policy and System Consumer Safety and Protection Rubycon products contribution to society << Rubycon products contribute to society through lectronics technologies >> Today, various devices around us are computerized, and electronic devices are indispensable to the world.Capacitors are also indispensable in the electronics field, and Rubycon contributes to society through electronics technology by proposing and supplying capacitors, which are its main products, to various electronic devices. << Conductive Polymer Aluminum Solid Electrolytic Capacitor >> Conductive polymer aluminum solid electrolytic capacitors have a wider temperature range, are more compact, have lower ESR, and higher resistance to ripple current than other aluminum electrolytic capacitors. These features enable high-efficiency power supply design and can contribute to the reduced number of parts. The net result of this capacitor technology is energy savings improved efficiency. 5 << Example of parts reduction with conductive polymer aluminum solid electrolytic capacitor >> << Thin film Polymer Mult-Layer Capacitors, PMLCAP >> PMLCAP, developed with our proprietary technology, achieves extremely ideal characteristics and contributes to the high performance of electronic devices. PMLCAP is a surface-mounted film capacitor that achieves a significant reduction in size compared to conventional film capacitors by adopting a revolutionary technology in which electrodes and dielectrics are formed by vacuum evaporation. Compared with high dielectric constant multilayer ceramic capacitors, which have excellent frequency characteristics and temperature characteristics, they have superior bias characteristics , beat sound characteristics , harmonic distortion ratio , etc. Its characteristics were found among developers and adopted for Mars exploration / seismograph. Currently (2018/11 ~), we are contributing to seismic exploration on Mars. 6 << Aluminum Electrolytic Capacitors for Automotive Use >> With C (Connectivity) A (Autonomous) S (Shared & Service) E (Electric), the number of electronic parts installed in vehicles is increasing year by year. The electronic parts cost ratio of vehicles was about 3% in the 1980s, but increased to about 40% in 2015. At Rubycon, in addition to conductive polymer aluminum solid electrolytic capacitors, we are promoting development of products for automotive aluminum electrolytic capacitors. 7 << Electric Double Layer Capacitor >> Electric double layer capacitors use electric double layer produced on the boundary between the electrode and electrolyte (as dielectric) for storing electric charges. This capacitor realizes quick charge-discharge cycles as well as long life since there aren't chemical reactions to store charges. This capacitor is ideal for applications requiring momentary large current such as power assist and energy regeneration. If the capacitor is used as the main power for rechargeable equipment, maintenance is reduced. 8 Fair Business Practices We are compliant regarding relevant statutes, internal regulations, social norms and ethics, and excluding relations with antisocial forces, so as to promote business activities through fair and good competition and to secure safe and ease of customers in consideration of views and positions of ordinary citizens. Compliance We are observing all statutes relating to business (labor, environment, public welfare, trade, industry, commerce, national tax and civil affairs), and as well as conducting fair business and transactions. On the basis of our internal regulations, we are developing such activities to our group companies through mutual improvement. We have published Rubycon Group Code of Conduct conforming to EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition), and are providing it to all employees and group companies. If any compliance violation is found, we will seek accurate facts to determine the cause followed by strict action to prevent recurrence. Internal Audit We have a designated audit department under the president's direct supervision to audit fair and proper performance of internal activities in accordance with relevant statutes, operation policy and internal regulations. The department will further provide advice to improve and correct our business as well as the risks for compliance in organizational activities. This audit covers all organizations in each company group. Risk Management In addition to Risk Management Activities conducted since 2012, we are strengthening internal systems and reviewing relevant internal regulation since inquiries from customers on code of conduct and ethical risk management are increasing. We will also assess effectiveness of disaster contingency plan as well as reviewing BCP (Business Continuity Plan) for disaster and unexpected contingency. Protection of Intellectual Properties (Measures against Counterfeit Products) We are promoting the appropriate intellectual property formation such as acquisition of patent rights and trademark right to contribute to sound development of business activities. We are also working to protect our customers' interests by enhancing brand value through activities of eradication of counterfeit products. Furthermore, we strive to respect and not to interfere intellectual property of other companies, as well as to protect our own intellectual property. Protection and Control of Information Misuse of information important to corporate management will have significant impact on relations of trust with partners and their management. We have established security policy and privacy policy recognizing importance of information assets. We give the first priority in risk management and BCP to the policies. We are protecting and controlling information assets through education of employees and various security measures and activities. Protection of Personal Information Recognizing that the protection of personal information in today's advanced information society is an urgent issue, our company has developed a management system to comply with Japanese Personal Information Protection Act. In the meantime, the European General Information Protection Regulation (GDPR), that has come into effect in May 2018, imposes strict requirements for the transfer the personal information located in Europe outside the region. In response to the requirements of the GDPR, we have implemented various measures. At the same time we have used this opportunity to conduct a general review of our management system with the aim of further enhancement. 9 Organization Governance CSR Policy Rubycon's CSR System to accomplish corporate social responsibility is shown at the right. Decision-making is performed referring to the vision, the employees motto and the Global Compact, on the basis of the foundation spirit. All of these support us to remain a reliable company to stakeholders such as customers, partners, stockholders, employees and the community, and to drive steady CSR activities. Rubycon Group Code of Conduct The purpose of Rubycon Group's Code of Conduct is to define business activities of our employees complying with laws and observing environmental responsibility and corporate ethics under a safe labor environment. It complies with the EICC Code of Conduct. << Fair Trade and Ethics >> << Human Rights and Labor >> 1. No corruption or bribery 1. No forced labor 2. No abuse of dominant bargaining position 2. No inhumane treatment 3. No improper advantage 3. No child labor 4. No anticompetitive act 4. No discrimination 5. Provision of accurate information on 5. Reasonable wage product and service 6. Working hours 6. Respect to intellectual property 7. Right to organize of employees 7. Appropriate export control 8. Disclosure of information << Safety and Health >> 9. Prevention and early detection of 1. Machine Safeguarding irregularity 2. Workplace safety 10. Prohibition of reprisal 3. Workplace sanitation 11. Responsible mineral procurement 4. Occupational injury and illness 5. Emergency preparedness << Quality and Safety >> 6. Physically demanding work 1. Security of product safety 7. Facility safety and sanitation 8. Health of employees 2. Quality management system << Environment >> << Information Security >> 1. Product content restrictions 1. Safeguarding for threat to computer 2. Chemical materials to be used in network production process 3. Environmental management system 2. No leakage of personal information 4. Minimal impact on environment (e.g. waste 3. No leakage of confidential information of water, sludge, exhaust gas) customers and third parties 5. Environmental permits and administrative approval << Social Action >> 6. Effective utilization of resources and energy (3R) 1. Contribution to society and community 7. Reduction of greenhouse gas emission 8. Waste reduction 9. Disclosure of environmental preservation activities 10. Preservation of biodiversity 10 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact In October 2011, Rubycon Corporation expressed the support for the universal principles about Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption upheld by United Nations, and officially joined the UN Global Compact. Rubycon Corporation contributes to society thru business activities, by supporting 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact «Human rights» Principle 1 ： Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 ： make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. «Labor» Principle 3 ： Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 ： the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 ： the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 ： the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. «Environment» Principle 7 ： Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 ： undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 ： encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. «Anti-corruption» Principle10 ： Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribe Rubycon CSR Procurement Guidelines Rubycon Group is striving to strengthen supply chain management with a view to business continuity and sustainable value creation. We have established the Rubycon Group Procurement Policy based on our management philosophy, and we are striving to strengthen compliance with laws and social norms as well as showing our basic stance on procurement inside and outside the company through our website. Based on the objective of this procurement policy, Request to valued Suppliers was established by emphasizing compliance with laws and social norms such as respect for human rights and rejection of anti-social forces, prohibition of corruption and bribery, promotion of fair and impartial businesses, and consideration for the environment. With these two guidelines as the two driving wheels of procurement activities, we are working on building and strengthening relationships based on equitable, fair and transparent transactions with suppliers. Rubycon Group Procurement Policy << Compliance with laws and social norms >> We will comply with laws and social norms (Respect for human rights such as prohibition of child labor and forced labor, laws, standards, treaties, etc. of various countries including prevention of corruption etc.), and conduct sound and fair corporate activities. Suppliers of materials and services necessary for the production of Rubycon products are also requested to comply with laws and social norms. << Green procurement and environmental consideration >> In line with the Rubycon Environmental Policy, we established green procurement standards, we continue the environmentally friendly materials procurement activities, and we strive to realize a sustainable human society and sound environment. 11 << Promotion of equitable and fair business transactions >> We open widely to both domestic and international suppliers (including candidates of suppliers), and conduct fair and impartial business transactions in accordance with established policies and procedures. << Supplier selection policy >> In selecting suppliers, we are committed to make complehensive judgement among the following factors: compliance with laws and social norms, environmental consideration, ensuring stable quality and safety, stable and reliable supply, stable management foundation, superior technical capability, appropriate information protection, respect of other companies' intellectual property, compliance with the designated delivery date, appropriate price, etc. << Enhancement of partner relationship with suppliers >> We strive to build and maintain trust relationship based on mutual understanding with suppliers. << Prohibition of giving and receiving of private benefit >> We prohibit employees from receiving inappropriate personal benefits (including entertainment and gifts) from suppliers without exception. CSR Plan in Rubycon CSR Promotion System CSR activities are positioned as the business itself, and awareness of all employees to CSR is raised under instruction of the president. Each of the conferences and councils is regularly held, and decisions are penetrated into the whole group including divisions and affiliated companies to share problems. CSR management is promoted, emphasizing interaction with customers, partners, stockholders, employees and the community. We are securing compliance under the spirit that a corporate is a public institution. We provide proper feedback of requests from stakeholders. 12 Performance Data Corresponding GRI standard # Classification Items Boundary Unit 2016 2017 2018 Company Size Number of establishments Consolidated Japan 17 15 15 102-7 Consolidated Abroad 13 12 12 Total Consolidated 30 27 27 Number of employees Male Consolidated Japan persons 1,430 1,406 1,343 102-7 Female Consolidated Japan persons 426 430 417 Japan Total Consolidated Japan persons 1,856 1,836 1,760 Male Consolidated Abroad persons 327 328 306 Female Consolidated Abroad persons 692 694 681 Overseas Total Consolidated Abroad persons 1,019 1,022 987 Total Consolidated persons 2,875 2,858 2,747 Net turnover Consolidated billion yen 49 49.9 54.5 102-7 Labor Practices Number of regular employees Male Rubycon Corp. persons 533 522 495 102-8 Female Rubycon Corp. persons 162 164 165 Total Regular Rubycon Corp. persons 695 686 660 Number of temporary employees Male Rubycon Corp. persons 0 0 0 102-8 Female Rubycon Corp. persons 0 0 0 Total Temporary Rubycon Corp. persons 0 0 0 Ratio of temporary employees out of total employeer Rubycon Corp. % 0 0 0 102-8 Number of newly hired employees Rubycon Corp. persons 23 38 16 Ratio of new employees Rubycon Corp. % 3.3% 5.6% 2.4% Number of people leaving (excluding retirement age) Rubycon Corp. persons 21 15 20 401-1 Ratio of people leaving Rubycon Corp. % 3.0% 2.2% 3.0% Ratio of reemployed employees (at the retirement age) Rubycon Corp. % 100% 78% 78% Ratio of handicapped employees Rubycon Corp. % 2% 2% 2% Working hours (per employee per year) Rubycon Corp. hours 2,023.5 1,982.2 2,047.9 Annual paid holidays taken per employee per year) Rubycon Corp. days 8.44 8.55 8.6 Average overtime working hours (per employee per month) Rubycon Corp. hours 7.97 7.01 7.3 Childcare leave Male Rubycon Corp. persons 1 1 1 401-3 Female Rubycon Corp. persons 6 4 14 Total Rubycon Corp. persons 7 5 15 Childcare leave restoration rate Rubycon Corp. % 100% 100% 100% 401-3 Family care leave Male Rubycon Corp. persons 0 0 0 Female Rubycon Corp. persons 0 0 0 Total Rubycon Corp. persons 0 0 0 Shortened working hours for Male Rubycon Corp. persons 0 0 0 childcare or family care Female Rubycon Corp. persons 24 28 29 Total Rubycon Corp. persons 24 28 29 Labor union Number of unionized employees Rubycon Corp. persons 377 387 385 Ratio of unionized employees Rubycon Corp. % 54% 57% 58% 102-41 Number of incidents resulting in lost-time injuries Rubycon Group Companies cases 5 3 3 Infrequency rate of lost-time injuries Rubycon Corp. 0.76 0.75 0.00 Rubycon Group Companies 1.45 0.85 0.86 13 Corresponding GRI standard # Classification Items Boundary Unit 2016 2017 2018 Participation in Education Accepted interns Rubycon Corp. cases 4 5 5 community Rubycon Corp. persons 10 9 7 Improvement of the Cleaning activities Rubycon Corp. cases 6 1 3 environment around the worksites Rubycon Corp. hours in total 95 70 55 Promotion of arts, thousand Cooperative contribution Rubycon Corp. 317 387 213 culture & sports yen Exchange with local Guided plant tour Rubycon Corp. persons 121 51 31 communities communities Facilities rented Rubycon Corp. hours 8 4 0 Number of attending events Rubycon Corp. persons 51 34 40 Community Visiters to clock museum Rubycon Corp. persons 2,511 1,805 1,565 development & social thousand welfare Contribution to local economy Rubycon Corp. 416 167 234 yen thousand Contribution to local organization Rubycon Corp. 340 415 412 yen Total energy Environmental Non-renewable energy source Rubycon Corp. TJ 117 128 109 302-1 consumption Conservation Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan TJ 1,935 2,102 2,105 Renewable energy source Rubycon Corp. GJ 0 0 0 Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan GJ 267 268 258 Total electricity Total Rubycon Corp. GWhr 11.4 11.7 11.0 302-1 consumption Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan GWhr 173.8 195.1 200.2 Greenhouse gases Scope 1 Rubycon Corp. kt-CO2 0 0 0 305-1 discharged Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan kt-CO2 0 0 0 Scope 2 Rubycon Corp. kt-CO2 6.08 6.27 5.35 305-2 Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan kt-CO2 21.37 20.24 19.54 Water used Rubycon Corp. million ㎥ 5.8 4.8 4.7 303-1 Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan million ㎥ 23.8 23.8 25.4 Waste water Rubycon Corp. kt 5.8 4.8 4.7 306-1 Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan kt 36 37 40 Discharged industrial waste Rubycon Corp. t 368 273 177 306-2 Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan t 1,717 1,544 1,314 Final landfill of industrial waste Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 306-2 Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan t 0 0 0 Release of PRTRinto air Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 305-7 listed substances Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan t 0 0 0 into water Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 306-1 Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan t 0 0 0 Total Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 Rubycon Group Co.s in Japan t 0 0 0 Harmful atmospheric pollutants released Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 305-7 Discharged SOx Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 305-7 substances with atmospheric impact NOx Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 Soot and dust Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 Discharged COD Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 substances with water quality impact Total phosphorus Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 Total nitrogen Rubycon Corp. t 0 0 0 Environmental Capital investment (total) Rubycon Group Companies million yen 141.62 42 0 accounting Expenses (total) Rubycon Group Companies million yen 9.5 5.6 0.0 Economic benefits Rubycon Group Companies million yen 0.91 0.57 0 Compliance Number of requests for consultation received by corporate ethics window Rubycon Group Companies cases 4 5 6 14 CSR Activities Security of Product Safety We closely check compliance and non-use of banned substances in planning phase of product development, in order to secure product safety. We also describe safety instructions in our catalog and delivery specifications. We perform reliability tests with various processes to secure safety of products to be manufactured. We conduct reliability tests in various phases, including process design phase to secure correct materials, specifications and production conditions. During the mass production phase we check reliability of all products through regular sampling, also during the product development and planning phases. Such tests include reliability and the general process is confirmed in addition to safety, so as to maintain the reliability of Rubycon products. We are striving to supply safe and reliable products now and in the future. Response to Product Accident and Failure Quality Assurance Center (QA Center) receives complaints and investigation requests for accident and failure from customers through each sales office. QA Center uses special equipment for the primary investigation of returns and notifies complaint information to the concerned factory on the current day. Then the center starts investigation of production record and the root cause of the failure. Quality Control Section in the concerned factory performs expansion estimation and prepares measures to report to QA Center. QA Center reports the measures to each customer. QA Center further performs validation and horizontal development of the measures through internal audit, so as to confirm the change. Under the motto I guarantee the quality, all of Rubycon's members are aiming to win customer satisfaction as well as addressing quality improvements. 15 C0C: Claim 0 Campaign We accept every complaint from customers with sincerity in order to improve customer satisfaction and quality related with product safety. We have started quality improvement activities as the manufacturer responsible for our products, so as to attain our goal Claim 0. We started Claim 0 Campaign (C0C) in May, 2012. In the result of the seventh year, 71% reduction in the complaint rate (number of complaints/output) has been kept. We are addressing to C0C activities to attain Claim 0. Factory recognition commendation In 2018, we received factory awards from two major customers. We will continue our efforts on review of work procedures, activities to prevent recurrence (C0C), and preventive measures, with the aim of further improving the quality of Rubycon group companies and product. 16 ISO/IATF Audit and Internal Audit We have acquired ISO9001, IATF16949, ISO14001 and OHSAS18001 are engaged in production activities based on internal regulations and standards. As well as receiving audits by third-party organizations in order to confirm whether the production actvities are conducted firmly in accordance with the standard requirements, we are also promoting interconnection among various sections in the company and working on improvement of mutual levels, by conducting internal audits by the auditor team whose representatives are selected from each division . Improvement of Customer Satisfaction We have the quality policy of manufacture to win customer satisfaction that provides customers with relief and trust through 5 pillars of cooperation power, promptness, analyzing ability, quality control ability, small group activities. We are addressing Customer Satisfaction through quality to contribute to the society and the future. We conduct customer questionnaire every year including cost, delivery and service as well as quality, so as to improve customer satisfaction. Green Procurement We are purchasing materials, parts and components for Rubycon products from partners who are proactively reducing environmental burdens and addressing to reduce substances in the Environmentallycontrolled Substance List, and observing statutes and social norms of each country. We will continue such activities in the future. Control of Banned and Hazardous Substances We have specified our Banned and Abolished Substance List for banned and hazardous substances and are continually updating it according to customers' requirements of green procurement including RoHS and REACH regulations. We have a check system for RoHS regulated substances in material reception stage through regular XRF analysis for samples and inspection of high-precision analysis data. We also have a material tracing system to prevent reception, incorporation and contamination of banned and abolished substances. In the system, a barcode is used to identify all materials under cooperation of suppliers to establish material traceability. We have a database to trace material information within 24 hours to prevent environmental defects from being released. We are continually striving for preserving the comfortable environment with the catchphrase I preserve the globe. Compliance Training We conducted in-house training for competition low compliance. General employees training in Apr-Sep.2018 : 1,218 attended (Headquarters: 454 and affiliates: 764) Sales Training in. Nov.2018 : 91 attended (Headquarters: 44 and affiliates: 47) Executive Training in Dec.2018 : 10 attended Managers Training in Dec.2018 : 40 attended 17 Environmental Measures Reduction of Environmental Burden Energy Saving Rubycon has been designated as a specific proponent according to the Act on the Rational Use of Energy in 2010, and have been addressing to annual energy saving rate more than 1% , working on measures of saving energy of lighting, air-conditioning, and production equipment. Energy saving achievements in recent years are as follows: (Conversion per unit consumption) Reduction of CO2 emission We strive to achieve annual 1% reduction of CO2 emission. Achievements in recent years are as follows: We achieved size & weight reduction and performance improvement of our products through R&D to respond to customers requests. We continue further improvement in size reduction to reduce CO2 emission and contribute on energy conservation. Promotion of Recycling 1. Waste Vinyl We maintain 100% recycling of waste vinyl 2. Paper We are working to recycle paper and reduce the amount of paper that is treated as combustible materials. The current recycling rate is 54%. 3. Miscellaneous We are committed to recycling by thoroughly sorting waste. We aim to achieve zero emissions. 18 PRTR（Pollutant Release and Transfer Register） We prepare annual report according to the PRTR Act. The achievements in recent years are as follows: Reduction of waste generation We are working on the reduction of waste generation. Recent achievements are as follows: Environmental Clean-up Activity We, at Rubycon, are operating research, development and production in natural blessings. As expressed with our environmental catchphrase I preserve the environment, we are continually striving for cleaning on and around our premises by preserving nature, in order to make visitors comfortable. << Voices >> Participation in Environment Clean-up Activity /Takeo Kinoshita, Sample Group of Manufacturing Department Our company is in a beautiful natural environment surrounded by many flowers and trees, where we work. I began participating in clean-up activities in the hope that we could be of some help in maintaining this blessed environment. We wipe off the dust and dirt in the hallways, on walls and glasses, or other places that we don't usually clean. Also, I think we can create a clean workplace by thinking about the cause of dirt and improving it. It's a small thing we can do, and I will continue to participate in the clean-up activities. 19 Human Right Protection, Labor Practices Respect of Human Rights Our employee regulations specify equal opportunity such that employees are not discriminated by their nationality, religion, sex or social position. These regulations also specify strict compliance of prohibition of forced labor , prohibition of inhumane treatment , prohibition of child labor , restriction of dangerous and harmful work and restriction of dangerous and harmful work for pregnancies as stipulated by law. We are further addressing control of working hours to prevent overwork. We have also formally participated in UN Global Compact proposed by the UN in October, 2011, and put up our original poster in each of our departments including our group companies and overseas distributors in order to comply with the 10 rules. We are thoroughly instructing the importance to respect and cooperate with each other for pursuing work through personnel training courses described below. Human Resource Development Employee Training << Hierarchy Courses >> ・ Intensive Fresh Recruit Training (April, every year) Intensive training for 10 days is provided to fresh recruits to build up basic skill as an employee of Rubycon. Group discussion over hours is included to fully communicate each other. Afterwards, all newly hired employees will conduct hands-on training at the manufacturing site for half a year to acquire the basics of monozukuri, and then will be assigned to the intended sections. ・ Fresh Recruit Follow-up Training (at 6 to 12 months from employment) Fresh recruit follow-up training is provided at a certain period after assignment. In the training, each trainee reviews his or her acts in the initial period to determine the extent of accomplishment of the target set at the time of employment, and sets a new target for the next step. ・ Young Employee Training (4th or 5th year after employment) This training is provided to motivate each young employee to proactively expand his or her work scope beyond his or her duty, so as to grow into mid-level employee. ・ Class 1 Employee Qualification Training (for mid-level employees 7-10 years from employment) We have an ability-based grade system, and Class 1 employee corresponds to mid-level employee. This training is aimed to improve awareness of responsibility as mid-level employee, so as to pursue work in wider viewpoint. 20 ・ Beginning Supervisor Training (for beginning chiefs, leaders and managers) We provide beginning management with training of role and responsibility of management, labor management, understanding of Company counts, goal setting, and communication with staff. ・ Beginning Management Training (for beginning general managers) We provide beginning management with training of role and responsibility of management, labor management, understanding of Company counts, goal setting, and communication with staff. << Language Courses >> ・ English Course We provide primary English course every week to develop global persons with external native speaking instructors. Also, a TOEIC certification examination is held at the company once a year to selfevaluate own English skills. ・ Chinese Course Employees of Chinese origin teach Chinese to other employees once a week, since Chinese market is huge and attractive for us. << Correspondence Courses >> ・ We update the brochure for correspondence courses every year so as to promote self-development of each employee. We prepare e-learning courses compatible with smart phone and tablet, so as to establish environment for easy learning. We have further compulsory courses as a promotion requirement for comprehensive-work employees. << Other Professional Courses>> ・ Mental Healthcare Course We believe that physical and mental health of employees is the first step to create dynamic workplace. Then we invite an instructor from Nagano Industrial Health Promotion Center or else once every few years to hold mental healthcare course. ・ Telephone Manners Course We have telephone manner training for personnel with frequent telephone response each year. Such personnel participate in a telephone manners competition. 4 employees participated in the contest in Ina and Komagane area last year, and one of them won the second place with a right to participate in the prefectural competition. She demonstrated her performance backed up by her exercize as well there. 21 Creation of Comfortable Workplaces Child-raising and Nursing Care Establishment of Child-raising and Nursing Vacation Regulation We have Child-raising and Nursing Vacation Regulation complying with the Child Care and Family Care Leave Act. Many of our employees use child-raising vacation to return to work. To support child-raising, employee raising a child up to the first grade of primary school can select working hours 2 hours shorter than regular at most. Establishment of Healthcare Vacation Healthcare vacation system is our original one to accumulate annual paid holidays not used up to 10 days for a year with the retention of 2 years at most. This system helps need of long cure due to accident, injury or disease. Hourly Paid Holiday We also have an hourly paid holiday system in which an employee can have hourly holiday up to 3 days in a year. It is useful for late attendance or early leaving due to going to a hospital for one's own or a family's sake. Acquisition of Kurumin Mark We have been addressing to the next-generation development support, and approved Kurumin Mark by Nagano Labor Bureau on August 29, 2008 according to the Act for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. We have been awarded the second approval in 2015 for the activities conducted between 2011 and 2015. Mothers' Meeting We gather female employees in child-raising vacation and working raising children, so as to exchange child care information. It is a good opportunity to consult childcare problems. Occupational Health and Safety We carry out various activities toward Creating a healthy and comfortable workplace . As part of such efforts, we maintain OHSAS 18001 certification, an occupational health and safety management system. In improvement activities, we are working to raise awareness of employees' occupational health and safety. ・ Health and Safety Committee meetings (12 times a year) ・ Health and safety Patrols (Twice a year) ・ Health and safety patrols [Factory] (6 times a year) ・ Patrol of Occupational Environment by Health Representative (Weekly) ・ KYT Activity (Once a year) Kiken Yochi Training meaning the foreseeing danger situations training. ・ Hiyari-Hatto Proposal Activity (Once a year) ・ Internal Health & Safety Audit (Once a year) ・ Factory Environment Survey (Twice a year) ・ Office Environment Survey (Twice a year) ・ Stress Check (Once a year) ・ VDT (Visual Display Terminals) Operation Survey (Once a year) Photo of Disaster Drill ・ Risk Assessment and Improvement Activities ・ Young Drivers Club Activities ・ Disaster Drill ・ Safety and Health Education 22 Address to Mental Healthcare As described in the section of professional training, we provide mental healthcare training with external instructors. We take appropriate actions for persons of mental disorder in cooperation of personnel section, company nurse and company doctor. Health Consultation Company nurse picks up 3 to 4 persons every month from long-hour workers and employees with findings in medical check, to consult company doctor on monthly visit. Stress Check We conducted a stress check with the scope of all emp-loyees in October 2018. 375 employees took the examination of stress check, and several of them chose to take an interview with industrial doctors. The company-wide health risk was almost at the national average level. KYT (Danger Prediction Training) activities KYT activities are conducted at each section of the company once a year, by having section members think about what kind of dangers exist in the workplace, decide important issues among them to work on, study how to resolve them, and set the goals by when to resolve them. By doing it, we encourage them to have a habit looking around for searching potential dangers in the workplace. Hiyari-Hatto(Near miss) suggestion activities Hiyari-Hatto (near miss) is literally a thing that makes you feel emotion of fear in an unexpected event by a step before a serious accident. Heinrich's is one of the empirical rules, and the content is that there are 29 minor accidents and 300 near-miss incidents (hiyari-hatto) exist behind one serious accident. According to such rule, we collect from each section reports about such incidents once a year, and take appropriate measures to eliminate risk of accidents. Baseball Team Activities Rubycon's soft baseball club, one of the most powerful teams in the prefecture, has been very active although with only 12 members. They achieved remarkable results in 2018, e.g., they won the best 4 position at 73rd Emperor's Cup Nagano Prefecture Tournament, the best 8 position at 73rd National Sports Festival Nagano Prefecture Tournament, and the championship at 63rd Central Japan Toshi-taiko Baseball Competition Nagano Prefecture Tournament. We expect that they keep up their best as a representative of the community. 23 Relation with Labor Union Labor-management Council We have labor-management council with labor union of the company, for the common purpose of development of company and happiness of employees. The council is held as necessary at any time to find resolution through discussion, including the regular Spring Labormanagement Negotiation in every spring. Summer festival We co-host summer festival together with the labor union, in the time of Ina-matsuri Festival in August. Section managers make food and drinks to serve to employees, and the union organized an entertaining event to liven the atmosphere up. We had a big lottery this year, and it was more exciting than usual. << Voices >> << Voices >> Participation in Summer Festival / Hideyuki Sumida, Design Department I participated in the summer festival with my family for the first time. My son was first overwhelmed by a lot of people and the crowd, but soon he was engrossed in the game at the food stall and seemed to enjoy himself. He was so happy that he won a prize in the lottery that he asked Aren't we going to the festival? on many weekends afterwards. My whole family is looking forward to the next summer festival. 24 Bus Tours hosted by the Labor Union As part of welfare programs, we hold several bus tours a year for employees. Destinations are various, including cultural heritage, factory tour, theme park, etc. Normally about 40 people participate in a tour. By doing one day activity together with people in other departments who are less involved in daily work, it helps revitalize communication beyond the fences between departments. June 30, at Kamakura October 1, at Tokyo Skytree (tower) Participation in Community and Development Social Contribution Activities Acceptance of Internship and factory tour In the view of social service and youth development, we accept the requests of internship for students of junior high-school, high-school and university, businesspeople and disabled people as much as possible. Such requests are increasing year after year, and we are going to accept to the utmost extent. 《Track Record of Internship and Factory Tour in 2018》 HeadMonth Subjects Duration count March Children of employees who are entering Primary School (Tour) 11 1 day May Student of Harutomi junior high school (Internship) 1 3 days May Student of Minami-Minowa junior high school (Internship) 1 2 days May 3rd-grade students of high schools in Kami-ina area (Tour) 20 1 day August Students of Komagane industrial high school (Internship) 2 2 days September Students of Ina-Tobu junior high school (Internship) 2 2 days October Student of Ina junior high school (Internship) 1 2 days 25 Participation in Clean-up Activity around Tenryu River Area We are participating in clean-up activities around Tenryu River Area (Tenryu River Environmental Picnic) every year to cooperate with community residents, as a part of Local Beautification Activity. The activities work as parent-child communication, as children of employees participate in them. Promotion of local firefighting activities and Japanese Red Cross Service activities We promote cooperation with and participation in community activities. Local firefighting activities and local Red Cross service activities are especially important for local active disaster prevention and local welfare. We treat absence due to participation in such activities as paid holidays. Participation in Ina-matsuri Festival We participate in Ina-matsuri Festival every year with a dancing team, as one of regional contributions. The dancing team performs powerful dance in gratitude for the community, in order to encourage the festival. << Voices >> Participation in Ina Matsuri Festival / Koki Fujibe, Production Engineering Group I participated in Rubycon dance team last year. It was my second participation, and it was an opportunity trying the Dragon Dance with a year blank. I had a hard time learning the choreography because I was working at Seibu Rubycon as a helper, and I could have participates in the lesson only once. On the day of the Ina Festival, I was able to dance all right thanks to my own personal training. I would like to paticipate again this year and promote lively Rubycon by interacting with people from other departments and local communities through Ina Matsuri Festival. 26 Contribution to revitalization of community Tonouchi Clock Memorial Museum Approximately 250 mechanical clocks mainly from Europe in the 18th to 19th century are exhibited at the Museum, all of which are still counting time. Deceased Mr. Teruo Tonouchi used to wish that people sympathize with the passion for the science of the predecessors and children foster interest in science through complicated mechanical clocks, and wish to give some help to improve regional culture. The museum was built with such his wishes, and it is quietly standing in a grove in which more than 1,000 rhododendrons were planted. The clock museum that is maintained with the consideration to the preservation of natural environment, and that with the carillon's bell ringing in the forest, is a well-known cultural facility of the area. Tonouchi Memorial Park In the park within the Company campus, more than 100 cherry trees were planted, of which majority are turmeric cherry trees carried from Yuri-honjo City of Akita Pref., and as well some red peony cherry blossoms and weeping cherry trees. It has been open to the community and has become a place for relaxation. Lending the baseball stadium We have a Rubycon stadium equiped with lighting for night games. While the company baseball team is away from hometown due to expedition or else, the stadium is open to community. It is used by various organizations, including local youngstars baseball team practices. 27 Major Performances in 2018 and Goals and Plans in 2019 Major Minor Item Goal and Plan in 2018 Major Performances in 2018 Goal and Plan in 2019 Item CSR Management Policy to comply with EICC Submitted COP to the headquarters of UN Global Compact on July 14, 2018 Code of Conduct, Support of To promote priority themes 10 rules of UN Global in the group Corporate Governance Interaction with Compact, and develop them Declared our policy to comply with EICC Code of Conduct and support of 10 rules of UN Stakeholders to business activities Global Compact on Rubycon Website. Promotion of transparent Creation of CSR report and Made out CSR Report 2018 and published on our website including Code of Conduct. publication on our website. management Compliance training to Corporate continue at all divisions of Governance the company. Improvement of compliance Compliance training was extended to all divisions. Continuation of internal and internal control Internal Audit was conducted at 22organizations of Rubycon group companies. audits. Promotion and continuation Respect of Human Promotion of human rights of human rights Rights / No Human rights education was conducted to all employees in the CSR training. enlightenment enlightenment activity Discrimination Performed Chinese and English language courses once a week. April 2018: Conducted by management training on management system and personnel system for managers. August 2018: Conducted by an outside lecturer training on mental health. October 2018: Conducted skill-up training for 20 mid-level employees. Improvement and Human Resources Improvement of employee March 2019: Conducted by a Certified Social Insurance and Labor Consultant the practical performance of training Development training training on work style reform . program 4 employees participated in the telephone manner contest in September, and one of them won the 2nd place (ability to participate in the prefectural convention). She won the excellent award at the prefectural convention as well. Continued employment Revision of extended according to motivation and Continuance of extended employment system employment system ability of each retired employee Support to Work Diversity Human Rights / Labor Practices Expansion of reduced Support to childcare Support for employees who wish to extend childcare leave. working hours for childcare Measures for lifestyle Continuation of health Health consultation diseases consultation Risk assessment and improvement activities (monthly review by safety and health committee) Promotion of safety and health in workplace Performed safety and health patrols in the National Labor Health Week and the National Continuation of workplace Safety Week twice in a year, together with indoor environment clean-up activity, evacuation safety and health activity drill, sheet-belt use rate survey. Safety and Health of Employees To obtain OHSAS18001 We passed the OHSAS 18001 maintenance examination in January 2019. certification Rubycon's soft baseball club, one of the most powerful teams in the prefecture, has been very active although with only 12 members. They achieved remarkable results in 2018, e.g., they won the best 4 position at 73rd Amendment of Labor Activation of internal circles Emperor's Cup Nagano Prefecture Tournament, the best 8 position at 73rd National Sports Regulations Festival Nagano Prefecture Tournament, and the championship at 63rd Central Japan Toshi-taiko Baseball Competition Nagano Prefecture Tournamaent. We expect that they keep up their best as a representative of the community. Summer Festival (held on Aug. 4). As part of welfare programs, several bus tours a year for employees are managed by labor union. Destinations are various, including cultural heritage, factory tour, theme park, etc. Cooperation with Promotion of joint events Normally about 40 people participate in a tour. Kamakura walking tour and Tokyo Skytree Continuing promotion of Labor Union with labor union tour were held, and the participants had a good time by deepening the exchange among joint events with labor union employees in 2018. Held labor-management council regularly to exchange opinions and to share information. 28 Major Performances in 2018 and Goals and Plans in 2019 Major Minor Item Goal and Plan in 2018 Major Performances in 2018 Goal and Plan in 2019 Item Environmental Continuing approval and Maintenance all over the To maintain all over the group Management compliance of ISO14001 group Management of banned Chemicals control WG to penetrate instructions into the group Continuing management of substances and banned substances and hazardous and toxic hazardous and toxic materials Instruction of Green Procurement to suppliers materials Reduction of industrial Attained 100% recycle of waste vinyl Reduction of industrial waste and promotion of waste and promotion of recycling Attained 54% recycle of industrial waste A (paper) recycling Environment Environmentfriendly Business To reduce energy To reduce energy Process consumption in consumption in convertion convertion per unit Achievement in conversion per unit consumption between April 2018 and March 2019 was per unit consumption by 1% consumption by 1% or 12.8 % reduction against the prior year. or more compared to the more compared to the prior year prior year To reduce CO2 To reduce CO2 emission 1% emission 1% or more CO2 emission between April 2018 and March 2019 was 5,352t-CO2, resulting 14.6 % or more compared to the compared to the prior decrease from the prior year. prior year year Launch of compact and The following series were marketed as miniaturized and high-ripple product: Development of Environmenthigh-ripple products to 5 series of non-solid aluminum electrolytic capacitors, 3 series of conductive polymer miniaturized products as compatible help protecting aluminum solid electrolytic capacitors (hybrid type), and 1 series of electric double layer environment-friendly Products environment capacitors. (Upgrade from the existing product is included) products Continuance of risk Risk Management Risk reduction activities Conducted risk reduction activities on CSR items. reduction activities To carry out the CSR Sent to suppliers (January 2019) the information Contact point for reporting from CSR in the supply chain questionnaire with business partners . suppliers. Fair Competitions Compliance in and Trades Continuing compliance in transactions with A seminar on the subcontractors protection laws was conducted on February 14, 2018. transactions with suppliers suppliers Fair Business Practices Continuing compliance in Compliance in trading Reviewed trading examination system. trading Reviewed security control regulations and performed training and measures. Promotion of Information information security Continuing promotion of Protection and control (critical in risk GDPR response (Conclusion of contracts between European sites and subcontractors information security control Control management items) providing personal information, creation of information management policies for European sites, review of privacy policies, review of website contents, etc.) Protection of company's Formation of appropriate intellectual property such as acquisition of patent right and Continuation of protection and others' intellectual Protection of trademark right of intellectual property and property Intellectual Protection of brands and protection of customers' interests through activities such as promotion of antiPromotion of antiProperties eradication of counterfeit goods counterfeit product counterfeit product Respect and protect other companies' or persons' intellectual property measures measures Continuation of registration Performed FMEA deployments from the past trouble list including safety aspect. Design considering of the past troubles and Automotive quality was restructured. Operational procedures for automotive requirements capacitor safety FMEA deployment. were reviewed. Promotion of automotive quality improvements. Improvement of Consumer Safety and Protection product quality/safety Continuing promotion of improvement in product Promotion of quality Claim 0 Canpaign was conducted. Audit for prevention of recurring problems and longquality in Rubycon Group improvement in term support for C0C activities were provdied to Indonesia plant. compamies by conducting Rubycon Group audit for prevention of recurring problems in C0C activities. To reduce number of Continuing reduction of Product days to deal with defect number od days to deal Accident/Failure The target within 6 days of reporting was maintained. The emergency reporting system reporting and to with defect reporting. To Plan was maintained. promote prompt actions. maintain the emergency reporting system. Improvement of Conducted a questionnaire to major customers on quality, time of delivery, price and Customer satisfaction Continuance of customer Customer service. Attained 93% of customer satisfaction in quality, and the Complete Satisfaction survey satisfaction survey Satisfaction was 67%. An environmental picnic in the Tenryu River aqueous system was held on May 19, and about 60 Rubycon employees participated for garbage collection activities in the Tenry Participation in Community / Community River basin. Promotion of social service in each location 40 employees participated in Ina Matsuri Festival (Aug. 4). Continuing promotion of Social Service Continued public exhibition of Tonouchi Memorial Museum. social service activities in Program Development each location Promotion of local fire fighting activity and Handled all of the activities as special paid holidays. Japanese Red Cross activity Acceptance of Accepted 9 persons (including students, business people and handicapped) for internship. internship 29 ≪MEMO≫ 30
