CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2018 2018 ANNUAL REPORT www.lewiegreenery.com / +047 886 123120 3183 / info@lewiegreenery.com Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 02 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. Corporate Profile 2. President’s Statement of Continued Support 3. Brief Support Statement 4. Introduction 5. Communication on Progress report 6. News Section CCC Bulletin 7. Appendixes Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 03 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 CORPORATE PROFILE Consolidated Contractors Company (CCC) is a leading contracting company formed in 1952 and incorporated under the laws of Lebanon. The managing office is presently located in Athens, Greece. In more than 60 years of operation, CCC has grown to become a company transcending geographical and cultural borders with a distinctive competence for challenging projects and remote areas. CCC currently operates in 40 countries across 5 continents and it is the largest construction company in Gulf Cooperation Countries and ranks among the top 25 international contractors, building some of the most challenging and complex facilities. Drawing on its long and successful experience, CCC which has always remained in private ownership with a family culture, can provide a full range of projects services, from Project Development, through detailed Engineering, Procurement and Construction, to Start-Up, Operation and Maintenance pertaining to the following: · Buildings and Civil Engineering Works · Oil and Gas, and Water Pipelines · Oil and Gas, and Petrochemical Plants and Refineries · Power Plants · Marine Works · Offshore Installations · Maintenance of Mechanical Installations and Underwater Structures Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 04 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Management Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility and UN Global Compact I am pleased to confirm that the Consolidated Contractors Company (CCC) supports the United Nations Global Compact and its 10 principles, with respect to Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-corruption. CCC is committed to integrating those principles into our daily operations, strategies, and policies and procedures. Since its founding, CCC’s approach towards its stakeholders is based on core values and principles of integrity, transparency, accountability, business fairness, and ethical behavior which are expressed in its Core Values, Guiding Principles and Code of Practice and Ethics and the Anti-Corruption Program Manuals. We believe that by instituting a culture of integrity within the company and with our partners, clients, subcontractors, suppliers and society at large is the way to flourish and succeed on the long-term. CCC is committed to carrying out its projects in an environmentally friendly manner by reducing the environmental burden as per its Sustainability Policy Statement, and conducting its business in a manner that will benefit the local and global communities. CCC is committed to giving back to society by carrying out social development initiatives based on the needs of the communities where CCC conducts its business and in line with the UN Social Development Goals. I am pleased that our Company remains dedicated in its commitment to contribute to the global effort for human and labor rights, environmental protection, and anticorruption measures, and I will ensure that CCC continues to advance the principles in everything we do. Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 05 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 WE SUPPORT THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT’S TEN PRINCIPLES Brief support statement As part of the requirements of the UN Global Compact’s Initiative, submission of an annual Communication on Progress report is needed. CCC has approached this response in relation to the following four key areas – Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. CCC’s ongoing commitments display constant focus on core values and principles such as the development and growth of staff on all levels, the sense of belonging and harmony for all manpower, continuous propagation of innovation, sustainable commitments to the environment and anti-corruption ideals as well as the utmost respect of cultural identities on company projects. This report was created and developed by a select task-force composed of staff stemming from diverse departments such as human resources, renewable energies and innovative solutions, construction support and development, health and safety and corporate social responsibility. The objective of this task-force is to examine and access the sustainability impact of the company across all facets of its operations. Meetings are held every month in order to conduct discussions and assessments of various parameters in order to constantly filter information that will eventually be utilized to compile the report using the contribution and input on all members of this task-force. Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 06 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 INTRODUCTION In CCC we closely follow the global discussion and developments in CSR and Sustainability. We realize that the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for 2030 expect private businesses to play a major role in global issues and that previous models of demonstrating corporate social responsibility through philanthropy and charity have been unable to eradicate the root causes that made philanthropy and charity necessary in the first place. We recognize that our responsibility towards society is ultimately demonstrated by the way we go about performing our main business activities. We comprehend that our social license to operate comes from integrating social and environmental considerations into all aspects of business operations, as well as into relationships with stakeholders such as employees, suppliers, clients (in the B2B context we operate), end users of our projects, and local communities. We appreciate that CSR policy functions as a self-regulatory mechanism whereby a business monitors and ensures its active compliance with the spirit of the law, ethical standards and international norms in Human Rights, Labor Standards, the Environment and Anti-Corruption. Labor Rights are widely understood as Human Rights, Environmental Degradation and Global Warming have created climate refugees, while the negative footprint of corruption on Human Rights has been substantiated beyond doubt. The injunctions of Global Compact’s 10 principles are designed to safeguard and respect fundamental Human Rights from the business world. The GC’s principles are in accordance with CCC’s core values as established by our founders, which place paramount importance on respecting and supporting human rights, and this greatly facilitates the alignment of our business practices with civil society’s demands and supports our strong commitment to doing good in the world. Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 07 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 HUMAN RIGHTS UN GC Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Honoring our commitment to respect and support human rights starts from investigating our corporate impact on human rights issues. Measuring our performance against our social performance goals using the GRI Sustainability Reporting framework permits us to swiftly act upon and constantly improving those metrics and preventing or mitigating potential impacts. As a company that provides housing, food and water for its workers on many project sites in various parts of the world, CCC follows and gives attention to the safety, and occupational health of its workers. CCC insures that its procedures regarding these are in line with human rights articles, such as: Article 6 the “Right to Life” of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Article 12 the “Right to Health” of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR), Article 7 of ICESCR, the “Right to enjoy just and favorable conditions of work” , and Article 11 the “Right to an Adequate Standard of Living”, which incorporates the “Right to Adequate Housing”, the “Right to Food” and the “Right to Water” which are salient human rights for CCC. CCC firmly believes that dignified living and working conditions including improved standards of health, safety and welfare are essential to unlocking human potential and indispensable to its mission of raising the quality of life for all its employees and stakeholders. CCC always ensures that adequate arrangements are in place to safeguard the health, safety and welfare of all employees in its projects and operations. Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 08 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 Health and Wellbeing of Employees CCC recognizes that quality welfare facilities are essential to achieve Target Zero Harm goal and helping our clients to build a better and more sustainable world. CCC strives to be in full compliance with all client HSE and welfare requirements as well as all local regulations and international best practices that aim to protect and preserve the dignity of workers throughout the entire service cycle which includes recruitment, mobilization, living and working conditions. CCC achievement of “world class” welfare management is demonstrated through several themes and practices: CCC ensures the availability of potable water, sanitary facilities (toilets and washrooms) and welfare facilities (rest facilities, protection from sun/rain and changing rooms) throughout the project sites and during all working hours. CCC provides the workers with a high standard accommodation, catering and recreational facilities, easing the harshness of living in remote locations. We ensure that all workers have access to proper relaxation and rest which is fundamental in maintaining safety as tiredness or exhaustion have been proven to be major contributors to LTIs. CCC offers in-camp entertainment facilities. CCC ensures that all it workers shall be compensated on time for all efforts exerted in the execution of the work and never deprived from any entitlements for benefits or subsidies in full compliance with the Client HSE requirements as well as CCC’s HR procedures. CCC ensures that adequate medical and emergency facilities are operated within the project facilities and that all labor laws governing health and medical treatment for workers are fully enforced on our construction sites. CCC’s welfare arrangements and accommodation are of high standard and well regarded by its clients as CCC has implemented the clear guidelines and procedures stipulated in the Corporate Camp Sanitation and Hygiene Manuals as well as in our Welfare Management Plan and Health Management Plan. The above-mentioned plans define the specifications and procedures of Camp and Welfare in our company. Pertinent standardized procedures that detail our action plans include: Camp hygiene Pest control Welfare specification Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 09 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 Catering Food safety Potable water Camp medical facilities Indoor and outdoor recreation facilities Camp services Our relevant manuals also address Food Handling and Preparation: Food hygiene training Duties of food handlers Routine inspection and reporting Cleaning temperature control Kitchen cleanliness Refrigerators and cold stores Freezers Defrosting Cold buffet display units Dry goods store Mess area cleanliness Medical/Health Culture CCC has made great strides in introducing the concept of a “Culture of Health” at its projects and areas of operation. The HSE Group well realizes that the main approach to excellence is through an empowered workforce that achieves and sustains optimal levels of health and well-being. One of the main tools in achieving this is raising awareness of occupational health hazards by assessing associated risks and promoting actions to improve employees’ general health. CCC’s “Culture of Health” initiative aims at the creation of a working environment where employee health and safety is valued, supported and promoted through workplace health programs, policies, benefits, and environmental supports. Building a Culture of Health involves all levels of the organization and establishes the workplace health program as a routine part of business operations aligned with overall business goals. A Wellness Lifestyle is a positive lifestyle for achieving wellness. The target is for our employees to be in good enough shape to do what they like without difficulty, to manage stress without being overcome by it, to understand food as a healthy pleasure and not a daily obsession, to maintain physical activity and exercise as an integral part of our week. Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 10 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 To achieve the above goals, CCC has a Health / Medical Policy that might be concisely outlined as follows: 1. Prevention: Weekly occupational health and hygiene inspections (including catering facilities food safety inspections and audits). Monthly water tests. 100% of CCC staff must be appropriately vaccinated. 100% of CCC staff must be screened and their “medical fitness to work certificates” must be up to date. 1% of CCC staff in safety-sensitive positions undergoes random testing for alcohol on a weekly basis. Zero tolerance alcohol and drugs policy. 100% of CCC staff is trained in first aid. 2% of CCC staff is trained in advanced first aid. 2. Health Reporting: Zero occupational illnesses and injuries policy. Zero infectious diseases policy. Health report is submitted to top management on a monthly basis. 3. Health Management: Weekly medical equipment maintenance checks. Monthly medical emergency drill. 4. Health promotion: Weekly health awareness sessions. The above is achieved through proper implementation and full compliance with CCC Health / Medical Procedures like:” Medical Fitness to Work, Pre and Post Employment Medical Examinations”; “Influenza Management Procedure”; “HIV/AIDS Management Procedure”; “Human Resources HIV/AIDS Procedure”; “Malaria Management Procedure”; “Medical Case Management Procedure”; “Medical Emergency Evacuation Procedure”; “Management of Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Procedure”; “First Aid and Medical Facilities Procedure” and others. Please see Appendix 1 for various photos showing an example of CCC's accommodation, recreation, and health facilities in one of its Camps. Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 11 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 Wellness Program In line with our commitment to CCC Family Culture and our continuous efforts to establish a strong bond with each and every employee, CCC initiated the “Wellness Program”. It was launched to explore ideas aiming at improving the welfare of CCC employees, to ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for every one of its employees. Wellness programs include activities such as company-sponsored exercises, weightloss competitions, educational seminars, tobacco-cessation programs and health screenings that are designed to help employees eat better, lose weight and improve their overall physical health. Employees can benefit from wellness programs through lower health insurance premiums, decreased out-of-pocket medical expenditures and an increased sense of well-being. Worker Welfare Plan CCC has established a Worker’s Welfare Plan that focuses on the well-being of every employee. The implementation of this plan plays an essential role to the successful delivery of our projects by inviting and retaining the right people. Eventually, it will enhance the efficiency and quality of the work and will result in better HSE performance. CCC Social and Welfare Arrangements are always of a high standard and well regarded by our clients. CCC has implemented comprehensive guidelines and sets of procedures stipulated in the Corporate Occupational Health Management Plan and Workers Welfare Adherence Plan. The above-mentioned plans define the minimum criteria, specifications and procedures of employees’ health and medical requirements, as well as camp and welfare related aspects. CCC believes that there is direct correlation between the productivity and harmony on site with the contentment of workers. CCC shall ensure that provision of adequate maintenance of welfare facilities that fully complies with the minimum requirements of the Client, and these are: Protection from the weather and adverse environmental effects of wind, rain and extreme temperatures for site personnel Mid-day rest facilities for all site personnel in the immediate area: Facilities to allow consumption of food protected from environmental elements Supply of drinking and fresh water for workers Hand washing and toilet facilities for work crews Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 12 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 Emergency first aid equipment and trauma packs Drinking water will be provided in hygienic water containers delivered by dedicated trucks to all work sites Chemical toilets will be provided during the mobilization stage. They will be continuously cleaned and maintained during the working hours. They will be relocated to suit the site requirements Provide appropriate messing, housing, working and living conditions for laborers as and in accordance with the minimum requirements of the Client and CCC. Provide all transportation as required Provide necessary medical facilities (Please see Appendix 2 for photographs of medical facilities) Catering, food will be prepared according the culture and nationality of workers News sheets with news from home countries will be printed weekly At recreation facilities, videos and music are provided for all nationalities Sporting and recreational competitions with its incentive awards will be encouraged between different nationality and groups to facilitate healthy relationships amongst all employees. HSE Awards and Achievements CCC excellence in construction is accompanied by an equivalent excellence in the preservation of Health, Safety, and Environment. CCC is highly concerned with the health and safety of its employees, and extremely values the environment in which it operates, and strives relentlessly to protect it. In this regard, CCC has obtained various awards for the outstanding HSE Performance and job well done in protecting our employees’ health and wellbeing of not being hurt or injured during the constructions and operations of the projects. The HSE milestones and millions of hours free of lost time injuries are the best proof and reflection for CCC commitments towards its employees' health and wellbeing as well as protecting and preserving the surrounding environment. As an example, CCC in Qatar was awarded the Best Company in Qatar for Occupational Health Award in April 2018. The award selection committee that selected CCC as its winner includes engineers from the Ministry of Administrative Development, Labor and Social Affairs (ADLSA), the Public Works Authority (ASHGHAL) and is chaired by the Vice President of Qatar’s Chamber of Commerce. Competing for the award were all registered companies in Qatar. One can only begin to grasp the importance of this award after taking into consideration the vast construction activity that is currently taking place in Qatar in the preparations for the 2022 World Cup. Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 13 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 This activity is not only centered on building new stadiums, but extends to massive and complex infrastructure projects many of which are executed by CCC. The award was presented by the Minister of Administrative Development, Labor and Social Affairs HE Dr. Issa Bin Saad Al Jafali Al Nuaimi and HE Mr. Muhammed Bin Ahmed Bin Towar Al Kuwari; Vice President of Qatar Chamber of Commerce, and was received on behalf of CCC by Mr. Oussama El Jerbi, Qatar Area Managing Director. The Award was presented during the opening ceremony of the Second Conference for Occupational Safety and Health that coincided with the International Labor Organization’s World Safety and Health Day. In attendance were high level executives from the private and public sectors in the State of Qatar. This Award comes in the wake of recent Health and Safety achievements by CCC Projects in Qatar that were recognized by CCC Clients and the Ministry. (Please see Appendix 3 for photographs of the Award Ceremony) While it is critical that safety is maintained at the forefront and throughout all what we do, occupational health is its enabler. Any successful HSE management system should have an effective occupational health component. The occupational health programs implemented on the projects in Qatar involves strict compliance with the country laws, the various clients’ requirements, and CCC’s HSE Management System requirements. It includes the following key elements: Establishing licensed site based medical facilities that provides treatment to the workforce maned 24 hours, 7 days a week by qualified medical staff. 100% post-employment and pre-deployment medical screening for all workers and staff to ensure medical fitness and establish a baseline. Periodic medical screening as part of the health surveillance for all the criticalto-safety positions on the project including welders, scaffolders, riggers, drivers, operators, personnel using breathing apparatus and others as identified by the project specific risk assessment (Examples include workers inside special confined spaces and personnel assigned for handling chemicals). Establishing audiometric baselines for workers exposed to high noise activities and introducing adequate engineering and administrative controls. Noise and dust monitoring on weekly basis. Ergonomics and monitoring (examples include work benches, manual handling training and selection of power tools with ergonomic design). Working in confined space programs. This includes continuous monitoring of atmospheric gases to ensure the safety of the air quality for entrants. Fit testing for workers using respirators. Comprehensive, site specific heat stress prevention plans. Radiation protection plans for those workers carrying out NDE works. Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 14 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 Welfare facilities provided for the workers at the work locations that are maintained in good working conditions (sufficient and close to work location toilets, rest shelters, drinking water stations, cool down rooms and first aid stations). Monthly health education programs run by the projects’ HSE and medical teams whereby health educational topics are discussed with the workers to raise awareness. Examples include: diet control (for hypertensive and diabetic patients), health precautions for working in hot weather, importance of exercise, importance of health monitoring and surveillance among others. The Projects also utilize the weekly mass toolbox talks to disseminate frequent messages about occupational health to the workforce. The programs are frequently audited by various clients and have always been commended for being thorough and in most cases exceeding expectations. Another example of CCC’s attention for its employees welfare, is the site for the Water Mega Reservoir Project which has been recognized by the Qatar General Electricity and Water Corporation (Kahramaa) as a role model. Other contractors working on the Water Mega Reservoirs Program for Kahramaa have been invited by the Client to CCC’s site to learn about the occupational health program being implemented. The Water Mega Reservoirs Project – Package A achieved more than 29 million safe man-hours, and Package C achieved more than 26.5 million safe man-hours. (Please see Appendix 4) Another example is the Msheireb Doha Downtown– Phase 4 (MDP4) project that was commended by the MADLSA inspectors for its occupational health program implementation. MDP4 Project achieved more than 15 million man-hours safely. In addition, some of the HSE Staff in Qatar have been recognized by clients for their contributions to the occupational health programs implementation on projects. The Award came as a recognition of all those efforts demonstrating that CCC’s commitment to the health, safety and the overall well-being of its workers is an unwavering one. For more HSE Awards please see Appendix 5 Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 15 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 UN GC Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Wanting to address the risk of having our business partners expose us to human rights violations we are using a “Suppliers and Subcontractors Sustainability Assessment Form”. The scope of the assessment form is appropriately wide, spanning across a wide range of indicators that reflect human rights, accommodation, health and safety, labor practices, environmental management and bribery and corruption. By introducing an assessment of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have increased our confidence in our capacity to avoid being complicit to human rights abuses. Ethical sourcing is paramount in our efforts to comply with this principle. Ethical sourcing means ensuring that the products being sourced out are created in safe facilities by legal working age workers who are treated well and paid fair wages to work legal hours. It also implies that the supplier is respecting the environment during the production, manufacture and transportation of the products. Understanding the importance of ethical sourcing we intend to explore our company’s relevant practices further in the immediate future. Please see Appendix 6Supplier Subcontractor Sustainability Assessment. Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 16 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 LABOUR UN GC Principle 3: The support of freedom of association and the recognition of the right to collective bargaining. CCC employees’ performance objectives are fully aligned with the company’s goals. All staff have clear areas of accountability and understand how each job impacts business results. Regular check-ins take place between employees and their line managers to align execution and to allow managers to observe and develop their teams. Open, timely and constant feedback is key to a strong performance culture which is facilitated through the annual performance appraisal system as well as the employee satisfaction & wellness initiative questionnaire. UN GC Principle 4: The elimination of all forced and compulsory labour. As a devoted upholder of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) CCC adheres to the international labor laws of each country and provides its staff with the relevant and applicable compensation. UN GC Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor. CCC is adamant in the international directives of not employing persons below 18 years old at all projects, areas and offices. This notion has been a core ideal and procedure of the company since its inception. UN GC Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. At end 2018, the company employed over 108,000 staff from over 85 nationalities around the world, showcasing a 9 percent reduction compared to the end of the previous year. This was predominantly due to projects reaching finalization and handing over to clients and to a lesser extent, releasing extra manpower that was not needed in certain areas. The reduction was observed across a multitude of disciplines including commercial and technical staff as well as total daily employees. Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 17 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 The distribution of work force for 2018 is shown below: Similar trends are observed in the male/female ratios in areas of operation where social setups allow for female employment, in a total of 15 countries in Europe, MENA and CIS regions. 2018 was once again a slow year due to the fact that not many new projects were awarded to the company and that had an immediate effect on manpower trends, as the company “recycled” existing staff members in vacancies that opened rather than commence sourcing new staff. It is the company’s aim to commit to retaining as many staff members as possible on board to keep ongoing projects viable and to be delivered in a timely fashion. Staff that may have been released are kept on record for reemployment upon new project awards. CCC consistently invests in improving existing programs and approaches when it comes to leadership development, staff engagement and training using current practices and adopting new schemes. The wide range of technical and leadership training programs are tailor made to disciplines that are utilized in the company and are updated on an annual basis to include new and improved trends, ideals and information. Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 18 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 ENVIRONMENT UN GC Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Sustainability Education Enhancing employees’ sustainability knowledge and skills is essential in fulfilling our commitment towards the environment. As a result, a knowledge framework has been established to promote greater sustainability understanding, drive behavior change among CCC employees and provide them with valuable skills. Our approach to sustainability education is diverse and thorough. It encompasses an awareness outlook as well as a more focused perspective offering practical tools on embedding sustainability in everyday activities. In all cases, the underlining notion is to integrate sustainability in our construction operations. Below are some examples of how CCC’s workforce becomes equipped with the necessary skills and encouragement for the consistent application of environmental responsibility throughout the company: Green Building Experts Webinars Training in green building standards is high During 2018, we continued conducting on our agenda. For this reason we either sustainability themed webinars. These organize relevant in-house introductory webinars are training opportunities, featuring training or assist in covering the exam fees market leading experts who share with CCC for specialized courses. The sponsored their insights on sustainable solutions related certification program we have developed to the construction industry. All webinars are apart from improving employees’ recorded and upon completion posted online professional development also increases on CCC’s Knowledge Management platform CCC’s expertise and domain knowledge in “Fanous” for all interested users to better sustainable construction. understand the content. CCC’s sponsored Green Building The latest topics presented include: certification program covers all types of LEED Workshop for Contractors credentials. Our employees traditionally Economics of Renewable Energy: The pursue the below qualifications: Shams Ma’an’ solar project Green Building Certification LEED by Eco-friendly Construction Methods USGBC Environmental Solutions for Food Waste Pearl Qualified Professional (PQP) by Abu 3D Printer Technology for Affordable Dhabi Urban Planning Council. Housing Global Sustainability Assessment System Circular Economy (GSAS) by Gulf Organization for Research Sustainable Construction and Development High Efficiency HVAC units Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 19 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 Sustainability Competition We launched our first annual internal Sustainability Competition, aiming to further integrate sustainability across CCC. The target was to recognize best implemented sustainable practices that showcase innovative, cost effective and exemplary measures carried out throughout our company locations and incentivize the winners with significant awards to spur further innovation. We envision that acknowledging best practices and innovation will manifest a positive impact across CCC. The criteria set for evaluating the entries considered all three dimensions of sustainable development – environmental, economic and societal. As a result, submissions were expected to demonstrate applications under the below categories: Energy Efficiency Water Efficiency Waste Management Transportation Management Renewable Energy Economic, Behavioral and Environmental Impacts The evaluation process focused on the efficacy of implemented initiatives in delivering sustainability objectives and savings in energy, water and greenhouse emissions, clearly supported by facts and figures. Several submissions were made by CCC teams from various locations (Egypt, Kazakhstan, Qatar and Saudi Arabia) presenting various practical sustainability success stories. The competition granted the winners and their projects prestigious prizes and broad recognition across the group for their best practices. The teams involved in the winning activity were dispatched to famous green topics conferences to scout out for more such innovative solutions. These specialized conferences were: 50th Waste Expo 2018, Las Vegas, USA Urban Mining and Circular Economy Symposium, 2018, Italy World Waste to Energy and Recourses Summit 2018, London, UK Smarter E Europe 2018, Munich, Germany Water Technology and Environmental Control (WATEC) Exhibition & Conference 2018, Italy. The best practices captured from the competition process and the cutting edge international conferences were shared and disseminated throughout CCC. This was done with the intention of keeping sustainability at high momentum within the organization and catalyzing innovative ideas and strategies applicable to CCC and the Engineering space. The table below presets the environmental and financial benefits achieved as part of the competition: Water conserved 155,000 m3 Electricity savings 300,000 Kw Emissions reduced 20,000 Co2 emissions tons Financial gains 1,3 $ Million Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 20 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 Sustainability Training Initiative of the Year The confirmation for our achievements typically comes from the outside. CCC has participated in many open international sustainability competitions and has been repeatedly recognized and awarded several prestigious awards. Specifically in recognition of CCC’s clear commitment to the sustainability skills of their workforce, we were awarded the Sustainability Training Initiative of the Year at the MENA Green Building Awards 2018. CCC won this award for internally promoting an advanced understanding of sustainability issues relevant to the construction industry. The awards were held by Emirates Green Building Council and endorsed by the World Green Building Council in partnership with the Green Building Councils in the MENA region. Our sustainability education efforts not only encourage sustainable behavior but have helped in establishing an in-house resource for sustainable best practices. Also, CCC was praised for sponsoring Green Building certification programs to create a pool of qualified Green Building professionals. CCC Executives receiving the Award on behalf of CCC Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 21 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 UN GC Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Construction Waste Management The confirmation for our achievements typically comes from the outside. CCC has participated in many open international sustainability competitions and has been repeatedly recognized and awarded several prestigious awards. Specifically in recognition of CCC’s clear commitment to the sustainability skills of their workforce, we were awarded the Sustainability Training Initiative of the Year at the MENA Green Building Awards 2018. CCC won this award for internally promoting an advanced understanding of sustainability issues relevant to the construction industry. The awards were held by Emirates Green Building Council and endorsed by the World Green Building Council in partnership with the Green Building Councils in the MENA region. Our sustainability education efforts not only encourage sustainable behavior but have helped in establishing an in-house resource for sustainable best practices. Also, CCC was praised for sponsoring Green Building certification programs to create a pool of qualified Green Building professionals. 2017 2017 2016 2016 2015 2015 2014 2014 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 0% 25% 50% 75% Project Specific – Waste Management Results Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 22 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 Case Study Al-Zahia City Center Project (Sharjah, UAE) Information: Project: CCC’s careful planning and The project Al-Zahia City Center, is a retail mall management has ensured that a major developed to be a primary regional shopping and portion of the projects’ construction entertainment center in the Emirate of Sharjah UAE. The project is being developed to achieve a GOLD waste is recovered for reuse and rating based on LEED™ requirements. recycling. Target: According to the project’s LEED Reuse and recycle at least 75% of the projects requirement, the objective is to reduce materials. the waste directed to landfill by 75%. CCC’s waste management strategy has Result targeted to exceed this project By the end of 2017, 99.6% (12,535.18 tons) of the requirement. project’s materials were reused and/or recycled. Construction Contractor: Consolidated Contractor Company (CCC) Recycling of Construction Waste Client: With the assistance of a local recycling Majid Al Futaim Properties L.L.C. facility, CCC achieved the following results by the end of 2017 Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 23 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 UN GC Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Capitalizing on our Green Building expertise, culture of innovation and experience in proven sustainability business cases we focus on adopting environmentally friendly technologies. We apply a combination of responsible material procurement, advanced technology use and community engagement to alleviate our projects’ environmental impacts. Examples of the technologies applied include onsite sewage treatment systems, solar-powered systems and energy efficiency infrastructures (AC units, appliances, LED lighting). For evaluating these technologies, the approach we follow in CCC is to examine the life cycle parameters. We apply life cycle cost analysis tools to assess the economic and environmental benefits and then decide on the feasibility. Considering the trade-offs between capital and operating costs and environmental factors we invest accordingly. Our specific and measurable actions minimize our environmental impacts, as an indication of our latest reporting cycle, we highlight that: 9.8% of carbon footprint was reduced 26% of on-site water consumption was sourced from recycled water content 42% of construction waste was reused or recycled Wastewater treatment plant (Saudi Arabia) PV solar lights (Saudi Arabia) Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 24 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 Case Study Jebel Ali Camp, UAE When CCC’s management decided to expand the accommodation facilities of an existing company-owned labor camp in Jebel-Ali (Dubai, UAE) it was an opportunity to integrate sustainable principles in the design and build process. The expansion included additional buildings designed to accommodate 1,264 users in different sections. The buildings consist of 3 stories with a floor area of 11,440 m2 and 192 rooms. They are equipped with free Wi-Fi, central satellite dish and an external gym area. Starting with the design, the approach was to develop high efficiency buildings and apply green construction practices. As a result, all bulk materials were locally sourced including the green concrete and insulated precast concrete building envelope as well as the finishing materials. Regarding site operations, a construction waste management program was applied and diligent efforts were made to minimize overall waste. Also, low volatile organic compound (VOC) emitting materials were used to improve indoor air quality (IAQ) and promote occupants’ comfort. To enable the procedure and keep track, a sustainability design checklist was prepared for all incorporated measures. Additionally, high performance construction details were designed to be achieved by CCC‘s skilled labor. Moreover, to reduce the water consumption and energy intensity the following were installed: High efficiency HVAC system (consists of four outdoor units and seventy indoor units). Efficient LED Light fixtures Motion sensors for the corridor lights Low energy appliances Solar Water Heater Programmable thermostats to control indoor temperature Low flow fixtures at toilets and kitchen Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 25 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 ANTI-CORRUPTION UN GC Principle 10: The promotion and adoption of initiatives to counter all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. The following information outlines the development and progress of activities related to the Company’s Ethics Compliance Program: CCC's Ethics Compliance Program was developed and launched as a Quality Management Procedure at the end of 2008. The Quality Management Procedure QMP-MOA-029 was subsequently revised, re-issued and distributed in February 2018. Implementation of the Ethics Compliance Program is mandatory to all the areas, projects, employees and external parties (external parties include: subcontractors, suppliers, vendors, distributors, accountants, lawyers, agents, consultants, joint venture/consortium partners) who should all adhere to strict ethics compliance and enforcement of the procedure's terms and directives. CCC's Ethics Compliance Program is based on the Company’s “Core Values, Guiding Principles and Code of Practice” which was revised in April 2018. In addition, Ethics Compliance Program complies with the Company’s existing Procedures as detailed in the context of the Program. Bearing on the ongoing global changes applicable to compliance laws and regulations, revisions of EACP were issued in 2014 (Revision 2), 2016 (Revision 3) and 2018 (Revision 4) to meet the respective changes. In line with the requirements of the Ethics Compliance Program, periodical reviews have to be conducted to ensure the currency of the Program. In November 2018, Ernst & Young were commissioned to undertake this review which was completed and the report was submitted to Management. Other reviews are in the works for 2019. In line with the Ethics Compliance Program, ongoing training workshops and face-to-face awareness sessions are regularly conducted to senior staff in positions of authority and those who are exposed to compliance situations. Completion Certificates are issued to each participant, copies of which are filed in their respective personal files with HR Department. From 2014 till today, close to 450 Senior Staff have been trained by a Certified Ethics and Anti-Corruption Compliance Trainer. Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 26 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 In order to expose the highest possible number of employees to the Ethics Compliance Program, two Online Ethics and Anti-Corruption e-Learning Program were developed and launched in 2018 in cooperation with two International Specialist Consultants (Idox Compliance and Pohlmann and Company) that was tailored specially for CCC. 6,500 Employees were invited to participate in the training with more than 90% of employees completing both training programs and receiving their individual completion certificates, copies of which automatically were sent to their respective personal files with HR Department. Both the Classroom Training Workshops (introductory, advanced and refreshers) and the Online Training Program are ongoing. Induction Training Course: A strong set of values is integral to the long-term success of CCC. Ethics Compliance Induction Training is provided as part of the induction process for all employees on new projects and for periodically refreshing employees' memories at all locations. The purpose of this Compliance Induction Training course is to provide employees with the main aspects of CCC's Ethics and Anti-Corruption Program. The Compliance Induction training covers the following topics; CCC Ethics Statement and President's Statement, the Compliance Team composition at all CCC Areas/Projects, Whistleblowing Channels, Gifts and Entertainment, CCC Core Values, Guiding Principles & Code of Practice Booklet, Ethics and Anti-Corruption Program Procedure. Survey Training: CCC promotes high standards of business behavior, and in order to achieve our goals we have developed an Ethics Training course presented in the form of a survey questionnaire. The Ethics Survey Questionnaire consists of a few simple questions that can be completed in a relatively short period of time and revives employees memories of our existing code of conduct, procedures, whistleblowing channels and other main elements of out Ethics Compliance Program. Revised and re-issued the Subcontractors Procedure (QMP-GEN-012Subcontracting) to include a section on monitoring of third parties after carrying out a due diligence and after signing a contract. Monitoring, after the initial due diligence, enables management to continually review third parties for adherence to CCC Ethics compliance Program. Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact 27 Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 The “General Risk Register” and Risk Manual were revised to expand the Compliance Risks; Bribery, Corruption, Fraud, Theft section and to add a new section covering Child Labour, Compulsory Forced Labour, Slavery and Human Trafficking that addresses the requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. The new register was distributed for immediate implementation in all CCC projects worldwide. A Vendors’ Online Registration Portal was developed and launched using IBM Maximo system. Third parties are able register and fill out a compliance due diligence form online. The term “Vendor” includes Subcontractors, Suppliers, Vendors, Distributors and other third parties. Tone from the Top CCC Founders and Senior Management have set the “tone at the top” through a visible and active leadership commitment to zero tolerance for corruption in all its forms. A few of their long term commitments and support are demonstrated by being members and supporters of the following international organizations: Founding One of the member of the Founding first 50 Initiative when member & members to launched in 2011, active active participant join the launch participant of and board of the the Forum member of the Compact in since 2004. Founding 2001. Committee. CCC’s BULLETIN Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainability News Section January December 2018 bulletin 1st Quarter 2018 Issue 125 Quarterly Magazine of Consolidated Contractors Company Trends in Project Development & Finance R. Nasser “To Do Well, You Need To Do Good.” The What and the Why of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) “CSR….Simply because we Care” is not just a catchy slogan, but a genuine belief, translated into real action by CCC. Throughout the history of the company and even before the concept of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) became popular in the business world, CCC’s philanthropy was embedded in the founders’ Corporate Social Responsibility beliefs and values. To them, as to the 92% of people who believe that business success should be measured by more than profit1, it was and still is a conscious effort to give back to society. Maximizing the company’s profits always came in second to human development, employee wellbeing and social investment in the communities where CCC conducts its business. While there is no universal definition of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), the World Business Council for Sustainable Development described it as “the business contribution to sustainable economic development”. Indeed, CSR is a broad concept used to describe a company’s efforts to improve society. These efforts range from donating funds to charities to implementing environmentally-friendly policies in the workplace. According to statistics from Double the Donation Research, corporations donated $17.8 billion to charities last year, 55% of consumers are willing to pay more for products from socially responsible companies, and 93% of the world’s largest 250 companies now publish annual CSR Reports. Despite the fact that some critics have described CSR as a fad, a type of public relations tool, these statistics indicate that CSR has become a vital component for succeeding in our ever changing business world. Furthermore, in the global business world, stakeholders, in the general sense of the word, are becoming highly attuned as to whether a business is socially responsible, as they prefer to be associated with companies who engage in programmes and projects that have a positive effect on communities. A company’s ability to practice social responsibility can be the difference between a potential client choosing CCC over a competitor. To give an example, according to the Nielsen Global Survey on Corporate Social Responsibility “55% of global online consumers across 60 countries say they are willing to pay more for products and services provided by companies that are committed to positive social and environmental impact.” Accordingly, effective CSR can improve qualified personnel. More than two-thirds (67%) a company’s operations, cut costs, make it of respondents in Nielsen’s third annual global competitive with other peer companies, and online survey on Corporate Social Responsibility boost employee morale. It has been shown say they prefer to work for a socially responsible that companies with an active and effective company. Employees have also been shown to CSR policy enhances employees’ engagement be more engaged and to perform better when and assists companies to attract and keep C C C Bulletin Issue 125 | 1st Quarter 2018 “To Do Well, You Need To Do Good.” The What and the Why of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) they feel good about their company’s CSR South Korea, Indonesia, India and Vietnam. The Corporate Social Responsibility involvement. According to a study by Society employee volunteers dug foundations, stacked for Human Resources Management, companies bricks and applied coats of paint by hand to build with strong sustainability programmes had 55% safe and clean homes and schools with working better morale, 43% more efficient businesses restrooms and running water. processes, 43% stronger public image and 38% At CCC, the management’s commitment to better employee loyalty. making social responsibility a core component of The benefits for employees themselves are CCC’s operations is by itself one of the described equally important. When employees contribute prerequisites for improving the company’s their time to worthy causes and engage in corporate responsibility practices and succeeding beneficial social activities, such as skillat it. CCC’s corporate giving strategy as based volunteering projects, they develop envisioned from the top is to improve the social professionally and personally by furthering and economic livelihood of marginalized and their technical expertise, and enhancing their underprivileged communities. Its strategy and intrapersonal skills. Participants in volunteering community development will include financial programmes report that leadership, innovation, support for impactful projects and in-kind communication, collaboration and teamwork contribution in the form of volunteerism. are some of the main skills developed and most The decision to establish a CSR Department importantly volunteering gave them a sense of at CCC underpins the CCC founders’ belief in purpose and pride. “to do well you need to do good”. The mission After carrying out a thorough review of 21 of the CSR Department is to build on CCC’s companies’ CSR activities selected from philanthropic culture and promote it within the Engineering New Records’ (ENR) 2017 top 250 company, improve the welfare of its employees contractors, the following similarities were and enhance the long term economic and apparent. The majority of companies: social sustainability of communities where CCC conducts its business. With focus on themes of 1. Have a giving strategy or a CSR policy crucial importance such as 1. Education (formal framework in place. and vocational training); 2. science, technology 2. Invested largely in impactful projects versus and innovation; 3. Health, and 4. Humanitarian philanthropic donations. aid and relief, CSR plans to assess the needs of marginalized communities in which CCC 3. Have built successful relationships with grass operates, and build partnerships with local, root non-governmental organizations with public and private institutions to design, plan, whom they cooperate to implement CSR and implement impactful projects that address activities, and those needs. 4. Publicized their CSR projects on their website Internally, CSR plans to inform, motivate and which includes a press section where they engage employees in addressing challenges post their press releases. and societal needs, as well as encourage the Their CSR projects ranged from water safety, culture of giving and volunteerism among CCC climate change, to education, skill development staff. In achieving its mission, CSR will look to the and employment creation, and in some cases support of its volunteer CSR Lead Coordinators even bringing electricity to villages. For example, in the CCC project areas, and the CSR Committee. Bechtel rated number five on ENR’s list focuses There is a long road ahead of us to reach our its CSR on access to clean water and disease destination and to see our positive social impact, prevention. In its effort to prevent water-borne but the vision of bringing a smile to a refugee illnesses in Weledi Village in Ethiopia, the child, or improving the livelihoods of vulnerable company cooperated with Engineers without families makes it worth taking the trip. The Borders to build latrines and hand-washing way to improving the living conditions of needy stations at the public marketplace. The project people and to addressing inequalities is when will impact nearly 10,000 people as the latrines more and more individuals and corporations and will enable market vendors to keep their stores NGOs join together and embrace giving as the open longer, increasing their income to support normal thing to do. their families. Another example is Samsung Engineering & Construction Group’s flagship programme called “Samsung Villages”. Through this programme, a team of the company’s staff was directly engaged in building five villages in Bulletin Issue 125 | 1st Quarter 2018 C C C 25 D. Ntalachani CSR News Contribution to CSR Initiative CCC Staff are encouraged to come up with ideas and activities related to CCC’s CSR Initiatives including Going Green and community involvement events. Please send your ideas, initiatives and achievements to “CSR-CCC” email address csr@ccc.net. Corporate Social Responsibility Jordan Train the Trainers in Advanced Welding Technology A training course in Advanced Welding Technology was offered to 19 trainers of the government owned Vocational Training Corporation. The course ran for 65 hours and it featured training on: 1. Gas tungsten arc welding bead weld straight line free weld on 6mm thickness plate. 2. Pipe welding technical knowledge 6g position gas tungsten arc welding penetration technology. 3. Gas tungsten arc welding external weld 5g position (pipe diameter 2”). 4. Gas tungsten arc welding butt weld and penetration and hot pass. 5. Shielded metal arc welding 3g position external weld on 8mm plate. 6. Shielded metal arc welding and gas tungsten arc welding butt weld 6” pipe 6g position. The course was delivered in Sahab Training Center by our trainers Mohammad Abu Atieh, Ziad Daraghmeh (Welding Trainers) and Mahmoud Al Zeirini (Safety Officer) under the supervision of Radwan Al Shammas (Training Supervisor). C C C Bulletin Issue 125 | 1st Quarter 2018 W. Arafeh Al Mouj Muscat Marathon 2018 Oman Corporate Social Responsibility For the second consecutive year CCC participated The table shows the First place results. in the Muscat Marathon, but this year more effort was put into its organization. 1st Place Event Location Although the usual closing date for registration was 31 December 2017, we started the registration for the marathon ahead of time Stefan Mueller Full Marathon AMO in order to give a longer period of time for the employees to enroll. The end of October 2017 was the registration deadline we set in order Ahmed Nigm Half Marathon RHOP to give enough time to start the training of the runners for the race. 35 staff members registered for the race and they started training every Friday under the supervision of Stephan Hussein Taha 10K MOO Mueller, the Area Contract Manager who is also an experienced long distance runner. Special T-shirts were made and distributed to the Ali Khalfan 5K RHOP running participants. The Marathon Day was set for 19 January 2018 and 35 employees participated. While only one of the CCC team members ran the full marathon, four ran the half marathon, 14 members participated in the 5km and 16 members in the 10km races. All the team members completed the races with good results, considering that for some this was their first experience of the kind. Everybody in the team enjoyed the event and expressed their interest in participating again the following year. The positive outcome of employees’ participation in the marathon race is that they continued to meet every Friday for a morning run, which is in line with our goal to encourage employees to follow a healthy life style. Bulletin Issue 125 | 1st Quarter 2018 C C C 27 D. Mahboobeh American University of Sharjah (AUS) Visit to Project Site Corporate Social Responsibility As part of CCC’s Sustainability and Corporate In the presence of our client (MAF) and Social Responsibility Programme, we are glad to consultant (K&A) we started the programme by inform you of the Al Zahia City Center Project’s welcoming the visitors. Samer Haddad, Project latest initiative which we carried out on the Director, gave a speech and then a video about project site. CCC’s core business, principles and methods was shown. Subsequently, the MAF Civil Project On Thursday, 15 February 2018 we received a Manager gave a presentation addressing the delegation of civil engineering undergraduate project scope of work, stakeholders and project students and three professors from the American details. University of Sharjah. Their visit was part of CCC’s ongoing community outreach programme, Our guests were given a site visit to the project the aim being to introduce them to our project, to observe the structure works that include piles, show the progress so far, explain the structure pile caps, beams, hollow-core slabs, rafts and works and how this development will benefit the columns. The visit ended with a question and community and the surroundings. answer session, refreshments were served and the attendees were thanked for their visit. C C C Bulletin Issue 125 | 1st Quarter 2018 S. Thabet, L. Aggelopoulou CCC’s First Annual Sustainability Competition Results In August 2017, CCC’s first annual Sustainability Competition was launched, striving to further promote sustainable behaviour across operations. The target was to encourage the implementation of internal best practices and recognize efficient and cost effective measures carried out at offices, projects and camps. The submissions made by the CCC teams included various practical sustainability success stories, as shown in Table 1. Sustainability # Name Country Category 1 Bausher Waste Water (Madinat Sultan Qaboos) Oman Project 2 City Center Almaza Egypt Project 3 EPIC for Hamad International Airport Jet A1 Supply (JSPP) Qatar Project 4 Jazan Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle -Sulfur Recovery Unit (JIGCC-SRU) Camp KSA Camp 5 Jazan Refinery Utility (JRUP) Camp KSA Camp 6 Kazakhstan Camp Kazakhstan Camp 7 PEO Camp Qatar Camp 8 Riyadh Metro Project Camps KSA Camp 9 Water Mega Reservoir (WMR-C) Qatar Project Table 1 Project and Camp Participants The criteria set for evaluating the entries considered all three dimensions of sustainable developmentenvironmental, economic and societal. As a result, submissions were expected to demonstrate applications under the following categories: • Energy Efficiency. • Water Efficiency. • Waste Management. • Transportation Management. • Renewable Energy. • Economic, Behavioral & Environmental Impacts. Additional significant evaluation criteria included: • The use of facts and figures to support environmental reductions. • Indication of financial savings (ideally through analysis such as a lifecycle cost assessment). • Plans for the continuous improvement of applied initiatives. Based on these criteria, the winners are as shown in Table 2. Camp Category Country Score (%) Rank Jazan Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle -Sulfur Re-covery Unit KSA 87.2 1st (JIGCC-SRU) Camp Riyadh Metro Project Camps KSA 86 2nd Kazakhstan Camp Kazakhstan 70.2 3rd Project Category Country Score (%) Rank Water Mega Reservoir Project (WMR-C) Qatar 73 1st Bausher Waste Water (Madinat Sultan Qaboos) Oman 57 2nd Table 2 Winning Projects and Camps Bulletin Issue 125 | 1st Quarter 2018 C C C 29 CCC’s First Annual Sustainability Competition Results Sustainability First place-winning camp JIGCC-SRU (KSA) First place-winning project WMR-C (Qatar) Initiatives Initiatives Energy Efficient A/C Units Water Solar Water Heater System Dewatering water for dust control Solar Street Lights LED Lights Water Materials Pressure Reducing Valves Advanced formwork system Reverse Osmosis Water Treatment Plant (technopolymer-based instead of plywood) Efficient Laundry Equipment Sewage Waste Sewage Treatment Plant Reuse of construction waste Adjustment of Toilet Flush Recycling Estimated Annual Savings of 900,000 USD Estimated Annual Savings of 400,000 USD Table 3 Estimated Annual Savings (per participants’ calculations) The winners’ allocated prizes are participation in the following prestigious conferences: Camps: • JIGCC-SRU Camp: 50th Waste Expo, 23-26 April 2018, Las Vegas, USA. • Riyadh Metro Project Camps: Greenbuild Europe, 16-18 April 2018, Berlin, Germany. • Kazakhstan Camp: SUM 2018/4th Symposium on Urban Mining and Circular Economy, 21-23 May 2018, Bergamo, Italy. Projects: • Water Mega Reservoir Project (WMR-C): World Waste to Energy and Recourses Summit, 23-24 May 2018, London, UK. • Madinat Sultan Qaboos (& Bausher Wastewater): Intersolar Europe, 19-20 June 2018, Munich, Germany. These specialized conferences are training opportunities, offering the winning teams exposure to trends that CCC can capitalize on. With the intention to keep sustainability at high momentum within the organization, the above conventions will help to spur innovative ideas and best practice strategies applicable to CCC. WMR-C Project Management Team, from feft to right: A. Shkokani, N. Did, K. Hayek, N. Gaya, A. Eid, Ziad Kamel: Project Director, Talal Mhanna: HSE Manager, Rabih Rouwadi: Project Manager: MEICA, Mohamad Afroz: HSE Coordinator, Khaled El Cheikh: Section Engineer. C C C Bulletin Issue 125 | 1st Quarter 2018 CCC’s First Annual Sustainability Competition Results Sustainability WMR-C Project Advanced formwork system JIGCC-SRU Camp-Sewage treatment plant JIGCC-SRU Camp-Sewage treatment plant (Control) RJIGCC-SRU Camp-Reverse Osmosis Water Treatment Plant Bausher Waste Water (MSQ) Project-S. Al Jayyousi, H. Al Masri and the Off-grid Solar Cabin Bulletin Issue 125 | 1st Quarter 2018 C C C 31 bulletin 2nd Quarter 2018 Issue 126 Quarterly Magazine of Consolidated Contractors Company Transition from Wellness to Wellbeing In the Corporate Environment B. ABU GHANNAM Measuring Wellness in CCC As per CCC’s Employee Wellness Initiative, this Interpreting the Results: So Are We Well? year a new section covering the employees’ wellness was introduced in the annual employee Yes we are, but there is a lot of room for satisfaction survey. The goal of this new section improvement! Based on the individual’s height (i.e. survey) is to capture the “wellness” status and weight, the Body Mass Index (BMI) is of our employees across our operation areas in calculated. The results for the BMI were mostly order to identify any shortfalls and to provide the good, meaning the BMI scores fall within the FEATURE needed information and statistics for tailoring normal ranges, with the exception of a few the CCC wellness program. projects where the average employee has the status of underweight or obese. Measuring the Unmeasured: How to Aside from weight, our locations with the highest smoking percentages have been identified. Measure “Wellness” Across CCC Possible campaigns to reduce smoking may take In social sciences, “wellness” is a typical place at those locations in order to improve the unmeasured concept similar to “satisfaction” or employees’ health, but it is worth mentioning “quality of life” which means there is no perfect that even CCC’s highest smoking percentages or direct measure to fully capture such concepts, were way less than the publicly listed national yet we can develop a set of questions that will smoking percentages in those locations! collectively lead to measuring “wellness”, and The stress which our employees face while this is exactly what we did in CCC. performing their duties and during their daily life, Multiple questions measuring stress levels, is an important factor affecting the employee’s physical activity, physiological status, smoking wellbeing as well as his/her productivity. patterns, stress levels and diet were developed According to the results of the survey, the and presented to 8500 employees through our majority (90%) of the respondents reported in-house surveying system iSurvey through having various levels of stress, with 1/5 reporting which we got a remarkable 72% response rate. serious levels of stress. A positive relationship The illustration explains how those questions was found linking stress and smoking, having a captured the “wellness” of our employees. high level of stress was found to cause a smoker to smoke a higher quantity of cigarettes per day. Nature of work, Physical Most of the respondents reported having little Gym visitation… Activity to no lower back pain. Moreover, the majority of those who filled the survey declared they exercise at least once a week. Last, a good Previous Diet portion of the respondents show general success, level of awareness… Diet awareness regarding diet and healthy eating, where 2/5 declared they are following / have followed a diet. BMI, Back pain… Physiological Status Wellness Re-Measure and Quantify: So We Put a Wellness Program in Place, but What Will Be the Impact? A 5 point scale measuring stress Stress Levels As the wellness survey will be conducted levels annually, we will be able to compare results across time. Accordingly, we have tailored the analysis to capture such changes and identify Narghile, cigarettes Smoking positive or negative trends, that is to say that and their frequency Patterns after the next round of data collection we will be able to pinpoint and quantify the impact of the wellness programs on each of the influencing All of the above contribute to wellness in constructs (refer to the illustration) and measure different ways, depending on the individual and its success. Such feedback will play an integral his/her environment, but by grouping the results role in designing and redesigning the wellness based on age, location and other demographics program in CCC. they gave us enough insights on the status for each country and age group. Those analytics will pave the way for designing strategies and programs to enhance CCC’s employee wellness. Bulletin Issue 126 | 2nd Quarter 2018 C C C 11 B. Alhusseini CCC Moving from Wellness to Well-being While wellness has a long history in the CCC Smoking Habits workplace, only recently have organizations begun to consider the whole picture which is Situation and trends: termed “Holistic Ergonomics”. By incorporating One person dies every six seconds from a the physical, mental and social aspects of work, tobacco related disease; that is ten people this results in organizations moving towards per minute. Equally alarming is that more workplace strategies that focus on the overall than 600,000 non-smokers die each year from Feature well-being of their employees. (footnote1) secondhand smoke worldwide. Consolidated Contractors Company (CCC) is Many people do not realize the negative impacts now, more than ever, planning to invest in their smoking has on our overall well-being. Smoking employees’ well-being. Supporting our people not only disrupts our physical health, but it also and creating happy, healthy and engaged negatively affects our emotional, environmental, employees, is what CCC aims to do with its financial, intellectual, occupational, social and workplaces and practices. It’s all about our spiritual health. people and supporting an ecosystem that enhances our employees’ wellbeing which will in turn positively benefit our organizational structure. Since 1948 the World Health Organization has defined health as “a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity”. Our first step towards this direction was measuring our employees’ health and physical wellbeing through the “Employee Satisfaction Survey 2018” which included a section specifically on ‘Employee Wellness’. The survey was completed by approximately 70% of CCC employees; the questions included addressed health, diet, stress, smoking habits and exercise frequency. Figure 2 CCC group results on Smoking, from 2018 Wellness Survey Figure 1 Workplace Strategy in Employee Well-Being 1 C C C Bulletin Issue 126 | 2nd Quarter 2018 CCC Moving from Wellness to Well-being Smokers often report that cigarettes help relieve Our CCC survey results have shown that the Feature feelings of stress. However, did you know that majority of respondents have reported having the stress levels of adult smokers are higher various levels of stress. CCC is now studying than those of nonsmokers? Adolescent smokers future plans to help employees better manage report increasing levels of stress as they develop their stress. Stress management tools we are regular patterns of smoking. Smoking cessation researching include a combination of mindfulness has been proven to reduce stress; far from acting and meditation, healthy living, goal mapping and as an aid for mood control, nicotine dependency approaches in establishing work/life balance. seems to exacerbate and intensify mood swings and stress. CCC’s Physiological Status CCC’s survey results indicate that approximately Situation and trends: one fifth of employees are cigarette smokers with the majority being in their 20’s (Figure 1). Worldwide, at least 2.8 million people die each CCC is currently looking into ways to establish year as a result of being overweight or obese. smoke-free policies and offer plans to support Being overweight and obese can lead to adverse our people in their journey towards greater metabolic effects on blood pressure, cholesterol, happiness and enhanced well-being. triglycerides and insulin resistance. Risks of coronary heart disease, ischemic stroke and CCC Stress Levels type 2 diabetes mellitus increase steadily with increasing body mass index (BMI). Raised BMI Situation and trends: also increases the risk of cancer of the breast, colon, prostate, endometrium, kidney and gall It has been long established that our minds and bladder. To achieve optimum health, the median bodies are closely connected. Now, research BMI for an adult population should be in the has found that the way we think about stress range of 21 to 23 kg/m2. On a positive note, our could add decades to our lives. Research from CCC survey results that the majority of our staff Harvard University has found that viewing stress fall under the healthy normal weight bracket and as helpful rather than harmful can improve the majority of CCC employees report having no performance and reverse the physical changes pain to little lower back pain (Figure 2). caused by stress. Researchers found that those who reported experiencing high stress levels and who also believed that stress negatively affected their health had a 43% increase risk of premature death. On the other hand, those who experienced high stress and didn’t believe it to be harmful were at the lowest risk of dying, even compared to people who didn’t experience high levels of stress. Stress alone isn’t dangerous, but perceiving it to be is critical. Researchers from the University of California have found that some stress is good for you, as it keeps the brain more alert and improves performance. During times of physical or psychological stress, oxytocin is Figure 3 CCC group results on Back pain, from 2018 Wellness Survey released, which influences the social centers of the brain, encouraging you to connect with other On a CCC group level, CCC is currently people and strengthens relationships. During researching methods to achieve optimal times of stress, oxytocin acts as a natural antiwellness for our staff worldwide. CCC has inflammatory: it helps blood vessels stay relaxed always promoted health and wellbeing through and it helps heart cells heal from any damage its sports activities, awareness campaigns and done to them by stress. Under certain conditions, training courses and intends to intensify these short term stress prepares the immune system activities to achieve optimal wellness to wellfor assault from environmental stressors such being. as wounds, medical procedures, infection, vaccination, or a hard fought stint on a sports 1 https://www.knoll.com/knollnewsdetail/movingfield. from-wellness-to-well-being-infographic Bulletin Issue 126 | 2nd Quarter 2018 C C C 13 Dr. V. Karam Prevention & Treatment “An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure” is an old saying which holds true in daily life and is applicable in almost every field. Prevention is always better than cure, if we know that something might become dangerous with time, then it is better to halt the danger by combating it now. We used to hear this from our parents and grandparents and we are saying this to our children and grandchildren. We must not give our problems a chance to grow. Better work now and take precaution instead of fixing the damage in the Feature future. A student must study every day not only during exams. Ignoring studying in the early stages leads to very hard work during exams and to risking one’s success. When it comes to health, we should immediately seek medical advice if there are certain visible symptoms of a disease, before getting diagnosed with that disease. There have been many cancer cases where the patient did not take his health seriously and later on with further deterioration of his health, he comes to know that he is suffering from cancer and is at the second or third stage. Had he been to the doctor earlier and diagnosed with his disease then he could have been easily cured in the first stage. Even in the case of other diseases early detection helps in taking better preventive measures. Thinking that the disease will cure itself or avoiding a visit to the doctor may result in an increase of the problem and expenses and may even endanger your life. We can take precautionary methods by choosing a healthy diet and making it a point to exercise regularly. Regular exercise and good nutritious food will make us less prone to diseases, and will also result in a healthy heart, mind and body. Preventive measures taken in work areas also lessen the intensity of suffering. Wise men always use this formula for success: they never wait for the deadline to come near to start their work, instead they finish their work before the deadline. This gives them time to solve any unseen problem that might occur during the process of their work. No man is perfect: we all make mistakes. But with the help of a preventive act one can avoid many disasters, complexities, confusion and destruction. Health Maintenance & Disease Prevention Preventive medicine can be categorized as primary, secondary, or tertiary. Primary prevention aims to remove or reduce Table 1-1 disease risk factors (e.g., immunization, Category Estimate giving up or not starting smoking). Secondary All causes 2,472,699 prevention techniques promote early detection Diseases of the heart 617,527 of disease or precursor states (e.g., routine Malignant neoplasms 566,137 cervical Papanicolaou screening to detect Chronic lower respiratory diseases 141,075 carcinoma or dysplasia of the cervix). Tertiary Cerebrovascular diseases 133,750 prevention measures are aimed at limiting the Accidents (unintentional injuries) 121,207 impact of established disease (e.g., partial Alzheimer disease 82,476 mastectomy and radiation therapy to remove Diabetes mellitus 70,601 and control breast cancer). Influenza and pneumonia 56,335 Tables 1-1 and 1-2 give leading causes of death Nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, and nephrosis 48,283 in the United States and estimates of deaths Septicemia 35,961 from preventable causes. (Numbers given in the Source: National Center for Health Statistics 2010 thousands). Many effective preventive services are underutilized, and few adults receive all of the most strongly recommended services. The three highest-ranking services in terms of potential health benefits and cost-effectiveness include discussing aspirin use with high-risk adults, tobacco-use screening and brief interventions, and immunizing children. Other high-ranking services with data with substantial room for improvement in utilization are screening adults aged 50 and older for colorectal cancer, immunizing adults aged 65 and older against pneumococcal disease, and screening young women for Chlamydia. C C C Bulletin Issue 126 | 2nd Quarter 2018 Prevention & Treatment Table 1-2 Feature Risk Factor Male (95% Ci) Female (95% Ci) Both Sexes (95% Ci) Tobacco Smoking 248 (226-269) 219 (196-244) 467 (436-500) High Blood Pressure 164 (153-175) 231 (213-249) 395 (372-414) Overweight-Obesity (High BMI) 114 (95-128) 102 (80-119) 216 (188-237) Physical Inactivity 88 (72-105) 103 (80-128) 191 (164-222) High blood glucose 102 (80-122) 89 (69-108) 190 (163-217) High LDL cholesterol 60 (42-70) 53 (44-59) 113 (94-124) High dietary salt (sodium) 49 (46-51) 54 (50-57) 102 (97-107) Low dietary omega-3 fatty acids (seafood) 45 (37-52) 39 (31-47) 84 (72-96) High dietary trans fatty acids 46 (33-58) 35 (23-46) 82 (63-97) Alcohol use 45 (32-49) 20 (17-22) 64 (51-69) Low intake of fruits and vegetables 33 (23-45) 24 (15-36) 58 (44-74) Low dietary polyunsaturated fatty acids (in replacement of 9 (6-12) 6 (3-9) 15 (11-20) saturated fatty acids) Prevention of Infectious Diseasess Table 1-3: Prevention Cardiovascular Diseases Prevention Method Recommendation Much of the decline in the incidence and fatality Screening for abdominal Recommends one-time screening for abdominal aortic rates of infectious diseases is attributable aortic aneurysm aneurysm (AAA) by ultrasonography in men aged 65 to 75 who have ever smoked. (B) to public health measures—especially No recommendation for or against screening for AAA in men immunization, improved sanitation and better aged 65 to 75 who have never smoked. (C) nutrition. Immunization remains the best Recommends against routine screening for AAA in women. (D) Aspirin use Recommends the use of aspirin for men age 45 to 79 years means of preventing many infectious diseases. when the potential benefit due to a reduction in myocardial Recommended immunization schedules for infarctions outweighs the potential harm due to an increase in gastrointestinal hemorrhage. (A) children and adolescents can be found online at Recommends the use of aspirin for women age 55 to 79 years www.cdc.gov/vaccines/rec/schedules. when the potential benefit of a reduction in ischemic strokes outweighs the potential harm of an increase in gastrointestinal Substantial vaccine-preventable morbidity and hemorrhage. (A) mortality continue to occur among adults from Current evidence is insufficient to assess the balance of benefits and harms of aspirin for cardiovascular disease vaccine-preventable diseases, such as hepatitis A, prevention in men and women 80 years or older. (I) hepatitis B, influenza and pneumococcal infections. Recommends against the use of aspirin for stroke prevention in women younger than S5 years and for myocardial infarction Strategies to enhance vaccinations include prevention in men younger than 45. increasing community demand for vaccinations; Blood pressure screening Recommends screening for high blood pressure in adults aged enhancing access to vaccination services; and 18 and older. (A) Serum lipid screening Strongly recommends screening men aged 35 and older for provideror system-based interventions, such as lipid disorders. (A) reminder systems. Recommends screening men aged 20 to 35 for lipid disorders if they are at increased risk for coronary heart disease. (B) Strongly recommends screening women aged 45 and older for Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease lipid disorders if they are at increased risk for coronary heart disease. (A) Cardiovascular diseases, including coronary heart Recommends screening women aged 20 to 45 for lipid disorders if they are at increased risk for coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke, represent two of the disease. (B) most important causes of morbidity and mortality. No recommendation for or against routine screening for lipid disorders in men aged 20 to 35, or in women aged 20 and older Several risk factors increase the risk for coronary who are not at increased risk for coronary heart disease. (C) disease and stroke. These risk factors can be Counseling about healthy Evidence is insufficient to recommend for or against routine divided into those that are modifiable (e.g., lipid diet behavioral counseling to promote a healthy diet in unselected patients in primary care settings. (I) disorders, hypertension, cigarette smoking) and Recommends intensive behavioral dietary counseling for adult those that are not (e.g., gender, age, family history patients with hyperlipidemia and other known risk factors for cardiovascular and diet-related chronic disease. Intensive of early coronary disease). Impressive declines in counseling can be delivered by primary care clinicians or by age-specific mortality rates from heart disease referral to other specialists, such as nutritionists or dietitians. (B) and stroke have been achieved in all age groups Screening for diabetes Recommends screening for type 2 diabetes in asymptomatic during the past two decades, in large part through adults with sustained blood pressure (either treated or improvement of modifiable risk factors: reductions untreated) > 135/80 mm Hg. (B) Current evidence is insufficient to assess the balance of in cigarette smoking, improvements in lipid levels, benefits and harms of screening for type 2 diabetes in and more aggressive detection and treatment asymptomatic adults with blood pressure of 135/80 mm Hg or lower. (I) of hypertension. Key recommendations for Counseling to promote Evidence is insufficient to recommend for or against behavioral cardiovascular prevention are shown in Table 1-3. physical activity counseling in primary care settings to promote physical activity. (I) Screening for smoking and Recommends that clinicians ask all adults about tobacco use counseling to promote and provide tobacco cessation interventions for those who use cessation tobacco products. (A) Bulletin Issue 126 | 2nd Quarter 2018 C C C 15 Prevention & Treatment Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Feature One-time screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) by ultrasonography in men aged 65-75 years is associated with a significant reduction in AAA-related mortality. Women do not appear to benefit from screening, and most of the benefit in men appears to accrue among current or former smokers. Recent analyses suggest that screening men aged 65 years and older is highly cost-effective. Cigarette Smoking Cigarette smoking remains the most Table 1-4. Actions and strategies for the primary care clinician to help patients quit important cause of preventable morbidity smoking. and early mortality. In 2000, there were an Action Strategies for Implementation Step 1. Ask-Systematically Identify All Tobacco Users at Every estimated 4.8 million premature deaths Implement an officewide Expand the vital signs to include tobacco use. in the world attributable to smoking, 2.4 system that ensures that Data should be collected by the health care team. million in developing countries and 2 million for every patient at every The action should be implemented using preprinted progress note clinic visit, tobacco-use in industrialized countries. More than threestatus is queried and paper that includes the expanded vital signs, a vital signs stamp or, for computerized records, an item assessing tobacco-use status. quarters (3.8 million) of these deaths were documented1 Alternatives to the vital signs stamp are to place tobacco-use in men. status stickers on all patients’ charts or to indicate smoking status using computerized reminder systems. The leading causes of death from smoking Step 2. Advise Strongly Urge All Smokers to Quit were cardiovascular diseases (1.7 million In a clear, strong, and Advice should be personalized manner, urge deaths), chronic obstructive pulmonary every smoker to quit Clear: “I think it is important for you to quit smoking now, and I will help you. Cutting down while you are ill is not enough.” disease (COPD) (1 million deaths), and lung Strong: “As your clinician, I need you to know that quitting smoking cancer (0.9 million deaths). Cigarettes are is the most important thing you can do to protect your current and future health.” responsible for one in every four deaths in Personalized: Tie smoking to current health or illness and/or the the world. Fortunately, smoking rates are social and economic costs of tobacco use, motivational level/ readiness to quit, and the impact of smoking on children and declining worldwide. others in the household. Encourage clinic staff to reinforce the cessation message and Nicotine is highly addictive, raises support the patient’s quit attempt. brain levels of dopamine, and produces Step 3. Attempt-Identify Smokers Willing to Make a Quit Attempt withdrawal symptoms on discontinuation. Ask every smoker if he or If the patient is willing to make a quit attempt at this time, provide Smokers die 5-8 years earlier than nevershe is willing to make a quit attempt at this time assistance (see step 4). If the patient prefers a more intensive treatment or the clinician smokers. They have twice the risk of believes more intensive treatment is appropriate, refer the patient fatal heart disease, 10 times the risk of to interventions administered by a smoking cessation specialist and follow up with him or her regarding quitting (see step 5). lung cancer, and several times the risk of If the patient clearly states he or she is not willing to make a quit cancers of the mouth, throat, esophagus, attempt at this time, provide a motivational intervention. pancreas, kidney, bladder and cervix; a Step 4. Assist-Aid the Patient in Quitting twofold to threefold higher incidence of A. Help the patient with a Set a quit date. Ideally, the quit date should be within 2 weeks, quit plan taking patient preference into account. stroke and peptic ulcers (which heal less Help the patient prepare for quitting. The patient must: well than in nonsmokers); a twofold to Inform family, friends, and coworkers of quitting and request fourfold greater risk of fractures of the hip, understanding and support. Prepare the environment by removing cigarettes from it. Prior to wrist, and vertebrae; four times the risk quitting, the patient should avoid smoking in places where he or of invasive pneumococcal disease; and a she spends a lot of time (eg, home, car). Review previous quit attempts. What helped? What led to twofold increase in cataracts. Smoking has relapse? also been associated with increased risk of Anticipate challenges to the planned quit attempt, particularly leukemia, of colon and prostate cancers, of during the critical first few weeks. breast cancer in postmenopausal women, B. Encourage nicotine replacement therapy except Encourage the use of the nicotine patch or nicotine gum therapy osteoporosis and Alzheimer disease. in special circumstances for smoking cessation C. Give key advice on Abstinence: Total abstinence is essential. Not even a single puff Both active smoking and passive smoking are successful quitting after the quit date. associated with deterioration of the elastic Alcohol: Drinking alcohol is highly associated with relapse. Those who stop smoking should review their alcohol use and consider properties of the aorta (increasing the risk limiting or abstaining from alcohol use during the quit process. of aortic aneurysm) and with progression of Other smokers in the household: The presence of other smokers in the household, particularly a spouse, is associated with lower carotid artery atherosclerosis. The children success rates. Patients should consider quitting with their of smokers have lower birth weights, are significant others and/or developing specific plans to maintain abstinence in a household where others still smoke. more likely to be mentally retarded, have D. Provide supplementary Source: Federal agencies, including the National Cancer Institute more frequent respiratory infections and less materials and the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research; nonprofit efficient pulmonary function, have higher agencies (American Cancer Society, American Lung Association, American Heart Association); or local or state health departments. incidence of chronic ear infections than Selection concerns: The material must be culturally, racially, children of nonsmokers, and are more likely educationally, and age appropriate for the patient. to become smokers themselves. Location: Readily available in every clinic office. C C C Bulletin Issue 126 | 2nd Quarter 2018 Prevention & Treatment Smoking cessation reduces the risks of Table 1-5. Common elements of supportive smoking treatments. Feature death and of myocardial infarction in people Component Examples with coronary artery disease; lessens the Encouragement of the patient in the Note that effective cessation treatments are now risk of stroke; slows the rate of progression quit attempt available. Note that half the people who have ever smoked have of carotid atherosclerosis; and is associated now quit. with improvement of chronic obstructive Communicate belief in the patient’s ability to quit. pulmonary disease (COPD) symptoms. On Communication of caring and Ask how the patient feels about quitting. Directly concern express concern and a willingness to help. average, women smokers who quit smoking Be open to the patient’s expression of fears of quitting, by age 35 add about 3 years to their life difficulties experienced, and ambivalent feelings. expectancy, and men add more than 2 years Encouragement of the patient to Ask about: talk about the quitting process to theirs. Smoking cessation can increase Reasons that the patient wants to quit. Difficulties encountered while quitting. Success the patient has life expectancy even for those who stop after achieved. the age of 65. Concerns or worries about quitting. Provision of basic information about Inform the patient about: Although tobacco use constitutes the smoking and successful quitting The nature and time course of withdrawal. most serious common medical problem, it The addictive nature of smoking. The fact that any smoking (even a single puff) increases is undertreated. Almost 40% of smokers the likelihood of full relapse. attempt to quit each year, but only 4% are successful. Persons whose doctors advise them to quit are 1.6 times as likely to attempt quitting. Over 70% of smokers see a physician each year, but only 20% of them receive any medical quitting advice or assistance. Factors associated with successful cessation include having a rule against smoking in the home, being older, and having greater education. Several effective interventions are available to promote smoking cessation, including counseling, pharmacotherapy, and combinations of the two. The five steps for helping smokers quit are summarized in Table 1-4 and the common elements of supportive smoking treatments in Table 1-5. Bulletin Issue 126 | 2nd Quarter 2018 C C C 17 T. Mhanna CCC, Winner of the Best Company in Qatar for Occupational Health On the 28 April 2018, CCC was awarded the “Best Company in Occupational Health in Qatar”. The award selection committee that chose CCC as its winner Feature combines engineers from the Ministry (ADLSA), the Public Works Authority (ASHGHAL) and is chaired by the Vice President of the Qatar Chamber of Commerce. Competing for the award were registered companies in Qatar. The award was presented by the Minister of Administrative occupational health is its enabler. Any successful Development, Labour and Social Affairs HE HSE management system should have an Dr Issa Bin Saad Al Jafali Al Nuaimi and HE effective occupational health component. The Muhammed Bin Ahmed Bin Towar Al Kuwari Vice occupational health programmes implemented President of the Qatar Chamber of Commerce on the projects in Qatar involve strict compliance and was received by Oussama El Jerbi, Qatar with the country laws, the various clients’ Area Managing Director, on behalf of CCC. requirements and the CCC HSE Management System requirements. It includes the following The award was presented during the opening key elements: ceremony of the Second Conference for Occupational Safety and Health that coincided • Establishing licensed site based medical with the International Labour Organization’s facilities that provide treatment to the World Safety and Health Day. In attendance workforce, manned 24 hours, 7 days a week by were high level executives from the private and qualified medical staff. public sectors in the State of Qatar. This award • 100% post-employment and pre-deployment comes in the wake of recent health and safety medical screening for all workers and staff achievements by CCC projects in Qatar that were to ensure medical fitness and establish a recognised by CCC’s clients and the ministry. baseline. While it is critical that safety is maintained at • Periodic medical screening as part of the the forefront and throughout all that we do, health surveillance for all the critical-to-safety C C C Bulletin Issue 126 | 2nd Quarter 2018 CCC, Winner of the Best Company in Qatar for Occupational Health positions on the project including welders, toolbox talks to disseminate frequent Feature scaffolders, riggers, drivers, operators, messages about occupational health to the personnel using breathing apparatus and workforce. others as identified by the project specific The programmes are frequently audited risk assessment. (Examples include workers by various clients and have always been inside special confined spaces and personnel commended for being thorough and in most assigned to handling cases exceeding expectations. chemicals). • Establishing audiometric baselines for workers exposed to high noise activities and introducing adequate engineering and administrative controls. • Noise and dust monitoring on a weekly basis. • Ergonomics and monitoring. (Examples include work benches, manual handling training and selection of power tools with ergonomic design). • Working in confined space programmes. This includes continuous monitoring of atmospheric gases to ensure the safety of the air quality for As an example, the CCC site for the Water entrants. Mega Reservoir Project has been recognised by • Fit testing for workers using respirators. Kahramaa (the Electricity and Water authority in • Comprehensive, site specific heat stress Qatar) as a role model. Other contractors working prevention plans. on the Water Mega Reservoirs Programme for Kahramaa have been invited by the client to • Radiation protection plans for those workers CCC’s site to learn about the occupational health carrying out NDE works. programme being implemented. The Water Mega • Welfare facilities provided for the workers Reservoirs Package A Project achieved more at the work locations that are maintained in than 29 million safe man-hours and Package C good working conditions (sufficient and close achieved more than 26.5 million safe man-hours. to work location toilets, rest shelters, drinking Another example is the Msheireb Doha water stations, cool down rooms and first aid Downtown Phase 4 (MDP4) Project that was stations). commended by the MADLSA inspectors for its • Monthly health education programmes run by occupational health programme implementation. the projects’ HSE and medical teams whereby MDP4 Project achieved more than 15 million health educational topics are discussed with man-hours safely. In addition, some of the HSE the workers to raise awareness. Examples Staff in Qatar have been recognised by clients include: diet control (for hypertensive and for their contributions to the occupational health diabetic patients), health precautions for programmes implementation on projects. working in hot weather, the importance of The award came as recognition of all those exercise, the importance of health monitoring efforts demonstrating that CCC’s commitment to and surveillance, among others. the health, safety and the overall wellbeing of its • The projects also utilize the weekly mass workers is an unwavering one. Bulletin Issue 126 | 2nd Quarter 2018 C C C 21 F. AbidRabbu Jazan Projects Employee Wellness Programme Jazan IGCC Project SARU (PKG 1) & JSRU (PKG 2) Introduction Wellness is the integration, balance and harmony of mind, body, spirit and emotions where the whole is always greater than the sum of the parts for optimal health. In some cultures the focus on wellness tends to place the greatest Feature importance on physical health, because this is the easiest to measure. Yet, by ignoring one or more of the other components we do a great injustice to our overall well-being. Simply stated, we compromise our quality of life. Unsound and risky advice on different dimensions of wellness, especially on diet and exercise are aplenty on social media. There is growing concern that too many people are opting for the current buzz on social media and are not after scientific thinking and advice. From crazy diets to risky gym routines, the web is awash with pseudo experts offering advice with potentially dangerous consequences. Everybody is concerned about their health and searches for the right means of achieving wellness. However, seeking professional advice is not always feasible for the vast majority of us given the modern mode of living. Definition of Wellness Wellness is “an active process of becoming aware of and learning to make choices (healthy choices)”, says Wellness Proposals, an independent wellness consultant. Wellness means more than simply not being ill; it focuses on keeping your body in good condition so it runs more efficiently and you stay well longer. True wellness is proactive; recognize that you have mental, physical and social needs to operate at top functionality. Definition of a Wellness Programme A wellness programme is any programme implemented by an employer to improve the health of its labour force. A good wellness programme also helps individual employees overcome specific health-related issues. You can provide mandatory staff training, employee seminars or even operate through a third-party provider with a range of programmes. Often, employers are willing to foot the bill because health and wellness directly affect productivity and profits. C C C Bulletin Issue 126 | 2nd Quarter 2018 Jazan Projects Employee Wellness Programme wherein employees receive large discounts Feature on membership and services. A fit workforce can result in improved job satisfaction and a feeling of well-being among workers. These programmes often include a nutritional advice component where employees have periodic access to a registered dietitian. A dietitian can design a nutritional programme that helps employees more effectively achieve fitness goals. Employee Health and Wellness Programme ‘‘Weight Loss’’ Obesity causes lower productivity and higher absenteeism in the work place. Because of Why Should We Care its link to diseases, such as cardiovascular disease, hypertension and joint pain, employee About Wellness? wellness programmes focusing on weight loss Wellness programmes include activities such have become a popular addition to the benefits as company-sponsored exercises, weight-loss package of many businesses. These programmes competitions, educational seminars, tobaccoconsist of counsellors and registered dietitians cessation programmes and so on, and health who advise employees on the best nutrition screenings that are designed to help employees strategy and exercise programme for them. Some eat better, lose weight and improve their overall have an online component where participants physical health. Employees can benefit from can track their progress and receive confidential wellness programmes through lower health feedback and support. Employees learn how to insurance premiums, decreased out-of-pocket plan menus and choose foods that augment their medical expenditures and an increased sense efforts to lose weight rather than hinder them. of well-being. Besides the moral obligations People with normal weight and good nutrition and social responsibility, there is proven ROI for reduces the health care costs of a business and businesses in terms of reduced healthcare costs, increase overall productivity. market differentiation and higher employee productivity and retention. Employee Health and Wellness Programmes Employee Health and Wellness Programme ‘‘Fitness’’ 1. Arranging outdoor games tournaments among the employees. Company-sponsored fitness programmes 2. Health awareness weekly classes by the clinic encourage employees to live more active lifestyles. Some programmes involve on-site doctor. fitness instructors and trainers that conduct 3. Employee regular health and fitness checkfitness classes before or after work hours or ups by camp clinic. during the lunch break. Other programmes 4. Open areas for jogging and running. partner the company with a local fitness facility 5. Gymnasium for the project employees. 6. World Diabetes Day 14 November. Bulletin Issue 126 | 2nd Quarter 2018 C C C 23 A. Nakhoul Wellness Telegrams from the Construction Site Preamble Trainer Identification As per CCC policyand of our Regional Manager, • Name: Ismail and in support of the welfare of our employees • Family Name: Boumasaoud on the TGPC EPC03-1151 Project in Algeria, • Profession: Police and Self Defense Trainer the site management arranged for a wellness • Qualifications: A former world champion programme on site, and a specialist dietitian/ in mixed martial arts who has won several Feature trainer was brought to site for one week to Algerian tournaments in Kickboxing and perform a body mass index test for selected Brazilian Jujitsu heavy weight staff and labourers, followed by a tailored training programme and a diet menu. Fitness Programme The specialist visited the site on a weekly basis over a period of three months in order to monitor • Sunday, 18 February 2018: Muscle formation and support the workforce who joined the for 45’ wellness programme. • Monday, 19 February 2018: Cardio + burn fat for 45’ A group of 30 staff and labourers was therefore • Tuesday, 20 February 2018: Jump created and divided into subgroups of 10 employees to attend the programme on a daily movements + flexibility + fat burning for 45’ basis throughout three training sessions from 7 • Wednesday, 21 February 2018: The speed of to 10pm. the cardio is 45’ • Thursday, 22 February 2018: Build muscle for 45’ • Friday, 23 February 2018: Cardio + fat burning + flexibility movements 45’ Employees during the training sessions. C C C Bulletin Issue 126 | 2nd Quarter 2018 Wellness Telegrams from the Construction Site Diet Healthy food Feature A cup of warm water first thing in the morning. At the beginning of the week, each member receives his share of oats, skimmed milk and The First Meal apple. • 05 egg whites; 50g oats; a cup of skimmed And the remaining meals are prepared milk; a green apple. specifically for the programme members and distributed on time. The Second Meal • 150g scallops; a green apple. The Third Meal • 200g rice; 250g scallops; salad. The Fourth Meal • Five egg whites; tuna tray; a green apple. The Fifth Meal • 250g of purified vegetables; 200g scallops. Note: 4-5 liters of drinking water per day. Employees during the training sessions. Employees during the last training session with the specialist. Bulletin Issue 126 | 2nd Quarter 2018 C C C 25 Samer S. Khoury CCC Volunteering Program I ask you all to sit back and think how happy you Please find below the Facebook links to our were when you helped someone in need or when two newly launched CSR projects in Greece and you visited a sick person in a hospital or when Lebanon: you simply gave a kind smile to a suffering soul. Inclusion of Refugee Children through Art CCC is starting this Volunteering Program with a Education; Everyone together at the Museum – set of policy and procedures to try and encourage Greece our workforce to do more volunteer work in an Corporate Social Responsibility organized and more efficient way. In turn, CCC will https://www.facebook.com/ provide both the necessary time and resources. ConsolidatedContractorsCo/photos/rpp.2710631 76673225/541370299642510/?type=3&theater Some of the programs we have chaired in Greece and other CCC areas of operation are: Photography Training; Building a Better Future for Palestinian Youth – Lebanon • Youth Training • Refugee Assistance https://www.facebook.com/ • Innovation ConsolidatedContractorsCo/ • Restoration posts/533897763723097 • Hygiene This is also to let you know that the inauguration • Forest Cleaning and Reforestation. of CCC’s Pilot Volunteer Program is taking place I urge you all to be part of this initiative. As a in Athens on October 19, 2018. wise man once said: “Those who are happiest In addition we are in the process of developing are those who do most for others”. two new CSR projects one for the MENA and the Gulf Region and one for Africa (Mozambique). R. Nasser CSR News Contribution to CSR Initiative CCC’s corporate giving strategy is to improve the social and economic livelihood of marginalized and underprivileged communities. CCC staff are welcome to suggest activities that are in line with CSR’s theme priorities: 1) education (formal and vocational training); 2) science, technology and innovation; 3) health; 4) humanitarian aid and relief. CSR can be contacted via email at csr@ccc.net. CSR Has a New Logo & Slogan The new logo and slogan represent CCC’s genuine belief in caring and giving back to society and to its employees. Throughout the history of the Company, CCC’s philanthropy has been embedded in the founders’ beliefs and values. To them, business success was measured by more than growth and profits and always came in second to employee wellbeing and social investment in the communities where CCC conducts its business. The new CSR logo and slogan stem from CCC’s core values, the human element of caring, team building, communication, and the connection between CCC and communities. Kazakhstan CCC donated 1 million Tenge to the Gymnastics Federation in Atyrau which was used to buy special gymnastic swimsuits for the regional team. The head of the gymnastics federation in Atyrau was deeply grateful to Hisham Kawash and CCC for their donation. Bulletin Issue 126 | 2nd Quarter 2018 C C C 29 R. Nasser CCC & Its Staff Help the Poor & the Disabled Oman During Ramadan, CCC Oman in coordination with “Ithar for Volunteering” and “Basmat Amal” associations organized a fundraising campaign to collect donations from employees. 30 CCC volunteers purchased, packed and labeled Corporate Social Responsibility the boxes of food supplies before distributing them to 513 needy families living in different neighborhoods of Muscat. Through this successful initiative the 30 volunteers spent in total 237 volunteering hours and had the opportunity to establish relationships with the charitable societies for upcoming events. Greece Spring Cleaning and Much More: the CSR Team in cooperation with ‘Desmos’ organized a second food and clothing drive in the beginning of June under the theme “Spring Cleaning and Much More”. Through this successful initiative all the donations provided much needed assistance to vulnerable groups and welfare organizations that are in a time of great need. CCC staff donated summer clothing, non-perishable food, cleaning supplies and baby equipment and food. All the donated goods were distributed by Desmos to certified organizations and institutions. Kazakhstan During the month of Ramadan, CCC with the help of Atyrau Association for Disabled People organized a charity event for pensioners, disabled and low-income inhabitants of the Atyrau region. The first part of charity event took place on 18 May, in Balykshy city, where CCC Deputy Director Amin Mushtaha and Executive Director Ryskali Sisatov gave 75 vouchers worth 1,125,000 KZT to people who are in great need. The second part of the event took place on 26 May in Qulsary city, where an additional 75 vouchers were given to poor people. With these vouchers many people had the opportunity to purchase basic supplies such as milk, meat, rice, and so on from a local grocery store. The charity event was covered by the media for local newspapers and local national channels. An article in “The Caspian Commune” newspaper stated that Consolidated Contracting Engineering & Procurement SAL – Offshore was one of the first companies that responded to the request and provided such tangible support immediately. Furthermore, this charity event was posted on Instagram, where several people were able to express their great appreciation. C C C Bulletin Issue 126 | 2nd Quarter 2018 A. Mushtaha Cultural Diversification & Tolerance in Kazakhstan Corporate Social Responsibility The core values of CCC were highlighted during The concluding speech was delivered by Samer a staff Iftar in Kazakhstan which was held and Khoury who talked about CCC’s values and gave attended by Samer Khoury and Hisham Kawash. his best wishes. The Head Imam of Atyrau Imanghali Mosque and The gathering encouraged team spirit among Head Priest of Atyrau Church were also invited. the employees while the management talked During the gathering, the Imam spoke about the about the bright and positive perspectives of meaning of fasting, the strong bond between God CCC’s future. The mission of the Iftar gathering and his followers, and the importance of unity of was to embrace cultural diversification, tolerance the human race despite their cultural, racial and and respect of other religions and opinions and religious differences. to motivate staff to reach the goals and the objectives of CCC. The Head Priest of Atyrau Orthodox Church advised the audience to have tolerance towards other religions and to learn to respect representatives of other faiths. W. Arafeh Employee Appreciation in Oman During Labour Day, 1 May 2018, Bassam Addada, “This recognition stems from the management’s Oman Area Managing Director, sponsored an annual keenness to recognize outstanding employees celebration to honour and acknowledge CCC’s and appreciation for their efforts to provide appreciation of 27 outstanding employees for the the best services and urge them to exert more year 2017. diligence to improve the level of service.” The recognition comes as an appreciation of the He stressed the importance of developing the skills company’s management for the efforts exerted by of the Omani staff to enable them to take more these employees during the past year in various leadership positions. administrative and technical departments of the Engineer Bassam Addada honoured the employees company. with certificates of appreciation for their efforts in Engineer Bassam said: various aspects of professional practices. Bulletin Issue 126 | 2nd Quarter 2018 C C C 31 bulletin December 2018 Issue 127 Quarterly Magazine of Consolidated Contractors Company Health, Safety & Environment Honoring CCC’s Commitment to People & Nature P. SCHAEFER Introduction Health, Safety & Environment FEATURE The ultimate goal for CCC is to be recognized The HSE Group has met and often exceeded as the best contractor in the Middle East in the expectations of clients, projects, other CCC terms of HSE performance and ultimately, in the departments, and operating companies by the world. Our employees and stakeholders not only continuous evolving of its services and placing support this goal but have high expectations that a strong emphasis on internationally accepted we will achieve it and we are determined not to professional HSE standards to ensure a safer disappoint them or ourselves. and healthier work environment for all CCC employees and all CCC projects. The HSE Group Our HSE Management System continues to be remains highly flexible in order to meet the needs certified and accredited by Bureau Veritas to the and requests of clients, projects and senior OHSAS 18001 (soon to become ISO 45001) and management. ISO 14001 Environmental Standard. These are very important and prestigious certifications for The strong reputation that has been earned CCC and were acquired after the great efforts of by the HSE Group is due to a professionally the CCC HSE Corporate Department (HSE Group). equipped and capable staff who are knowledgeable and experienced in successfully The HSE Group is diversified, multi-disciplined supporting projects and internal departments and engages in a wide range of activities. within CCC to their satisfaction. This is further The group is based in Abu Dhabi and offers enhanced by the innovative ideas of senior professional HSE support, direction, guidance, management who strive to create awareness and solutions and assistance to all CCC projects and ensure CCC stays competitive as the business operations worldwide. environment changes worldwide. Project support and coordination service is We strive to keep CCC on top as a leading HSE an important contribution to the HSE Group. organization. Our goals and expectations for We are involved from the project tender CCC in terms of HSE performance is that of stage all the way through to project closeout. continuous improvement with the goal of having Services provided include tender clarifications, the highest standards and expectations in the developing project HSE management policies construction industry. Our clients, employees and procedures, providing training modules, and other stakeholders not only expect this but audits, investigations, temporary site support, deserve it as well. newsletters, quarterly safety campaigns, posters and many other value-added services. Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 C C C 7 A. EDUARDO HSE Auditing FEATURE Ensuring CCC’s Excellence through Monitoring Our company operates in some of the fastest developing regions in the world. In recent years, Africa and the Middle East have seen an impressive development in infrastructure, technology and welfare. As far as competitiveness goes, organizations and clients are stricter on safety and demanding the full implementation of Health, Safety and Environment standards at a level that could never be imagined a few years ago. Contrary to past notions, in this new world HSE is no more a cost, but an important investment if a construction company wants to keep doing business. Continuously improving HSE to international levels of excellence will help our company achieve even greater positions among the world’s biggest operators. Besides the benefits of economic development, there are social and environmental costs to such a rapid change. Regulatory measures, with particular respect to HSE and sustainability, have advanced equally as fast to prevent negative and lasting impacts in the communities CCC operates. A surprising amount of investment has been made in HSE legislation in the Middle East and Africa. Each country has its own keystone environmental and health and safety laws. These laws provide the purpose and institutional framework for all subsequent legislation which in turn provide the executive regulations necessary for implementation. Supported by the growth in the oil and gas sector, industry and infrastructure has expanded rapidly, requiring companies to act accordingly and introduce a full range of HSE legislation covering such things as: hazardous waste disposal, air and water quality standards, equipment safety and hazardous chemicals. HSE has become a critical business issue, but this field is still relatively new and continuing to evolve. It is important to note that a recent drop in worldwide oil prices has obliged some businesses to look for financing and projects are increasingly turning to international banks for funding. With international financing come stringent requirements with regard to HSE as a condition of investment. Thus, the need for international investment will continue to play a role in strengthening HSE performance in the region. An international organization requires recognition and CCC’s HSE management system is certified by ISO, the International Organization for Standardization, proudly holding the certifications on Environment (14001:2015 Environmental Management System) and Health and Safety (OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems) awarded by Bureau Veritas (BV). In order to ensure CCC is up to date with the continuous improvement demanded by ISO and BV and to provide a safe workplace for our employees, CCC has developed strong, safe work procedures for all its projects world-wide and monitors their implementation on every work site. Regular safety audits are carried out to ensure compliance with the client’s requirements, laws, regulations and international standards. Audit findings can also include how an organization can remediate potential threats to direct employees and subcontractors. When an organization follows through on the findings of a safety audit, the workplace will be safer, and there will be a reduced likelihood of worker injury, illness and death. C C C Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 HSE Auditing How Does CCC Do It? FEATURE A systematic approach is a vital ingredient for a safety audit process. CCC’s PP701 Health, Safety and Environment Management Plan outlines the following components: Internal HSE Audits Internal HSE audits are carried out by the project HSE manager in order to evaluate the implementation and effectiveness of the HSE management plan, policy and procedures and recommended corrective actions. Corporate Group HSE Audits Are carried out by an HSE Group corporate representative in order to evaluate the effectiveness of the Health, Safety & Environment Plan and Procedures and their implementation in line with corporate HSE minimum expectations. In addition, the audit evaluates the implementation of any HSE action plans or HSE recommendations proposed by the Corporate HSE Group. These are conducted on a scheduled basis in normal conditions, while it will be more frequently upon special circumstances, such as low training records, increasing incident rates, exceeding target goals (a red flag condition) lost time or fatality incidents or reaching unacceptable KPI – Key Project Indicators. Analysis of collected data from regular inspections and audits is used to generate weekly HSE reports used for feedback and discussion with management to identify trends and initiate improvements. Third Party Audit When a certification audit is conducted at the project, the project management and the HSE Department are obligated to facilitate the audit and to close all findings resulting from the certification audit. Objective evidence to prove the closure of the finding is sent to the Corporate HSE Group in a timely manner and will be forwarded to the certification body. Cold-Eye Review (CER) The HSE Group adopted the Cold-Eye Review (CER) process as one of the methodologies for proactive monitoring on projects. CER involves a visit by the HSE Group to a project in order to identify shortfalls in compliance with the management system and recommended preventive measures based on the observations at an early stage of the project (preparedness or initial phase) or whenever requested by a client or another shareholder representative with the objective to boost or improve the project’s HSE performance. Here are some reasons why we conduct regular safety audits: • To determine if safety and health programs and procedures are working. • To verify that employees and management are engaged in safety programs. • To verify that processes are in compliance with company policies and regulations. • To verify compliance with applicable standards (i.e. OSHA, HSE Executive and so on) or best practices. • To determine if the project is documenting safety and health program activities properly. • To discover and manage potential hazards. • To evaluate the effectiveness of existing management controls. • To check the workplace overall safety. • To check the equipment safety. • To evaluate the adequacy of supervisors’ and employees’ safety training and performance. Wherever there’s smoke… Although by definition an accident or incident can be described as an “unexpected” event, it actually sends ‘smoke signals’. Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 C C C 9 HSE Auditing Through auditing activities, an HSE professional is able to make use of ‘trend analyses’ over repetitive FEATURE problems (findings) to identify where and when a certain type of accident is most likely to occur. Then, it will be his responsibility to advise the project management to take quick and efficient actions to eliminate or control such hazards. Safety audit and inspections have been shown to reduce the number of accidents, so it is something that benefits most employers. It’s recommended that we are proactive with safety, rather than waiting for accidents to happen without notice or indication. The health and safety needs of a small or large business can change over time and it is important that audits are carried out on a regular basis. This will ensure the continued welfare, health and safety of employees within an organization, via the systematic appraisal of on-site procedures and processes. An audit will find specific areas in which improvements need to be made for the benefit of a business and its employees, and help companies to comply with legal duties and promote wellbeing. Why is it Important? Once you have health and safety procedures in place, there may be the temptation to think that you have done all you need to and that your business is set for the future. However, an audit is important and essential because it will help to: • Reduce the risk of personal traumas or injuries. • Prevent material loss. • Promote employee morale. • Ensure customer confidence. What are the Other Benefits? Credentials: a contractor bidding for clients or looking into new business will find that the majority of companies expect to have proper health and safety procedures in place. Having high standards of HSE in the industry will ultimately benefit its business goals. Save money: A health and safety audit provides a calculated analysis of procedures and provides fact-based changes to be implemented. This saves time and money on what may be little more than second guesses about procedures and benefit areas such as employee sick leave. Law abiding: There are different regulations and laws in place to ensure safety within different industries. If the contractor is not abiding by these laws, it can lead to projects getting in trouble with the authorities or possibly being shut down by authorities. Avoiding any kind of incident that may lead to disastrous accident, illness and loss should be the top most priority of any business. To achieve this, audits shall be carried out to regularly check the documented safety measures are in place to protect all employees from harm. Our Numbers and Results Due to its oversized dimension and dynamics, it would be hard to get to an accurate number of internal HSE inspections carried out by CCC HSE officers and supervision in our projects. However, an approximate figure could easily get to 50,000 internal HSE inspections conducted annually. On a corporate level, with a considerable number of construction projects world-wide, making sure they all abide by the company’s expectations toward HSE takes a lot of effort to put together a one-team approach to verify their compliance to the established policies. Senior management are encouraged to commit themselves to the process and play an important role in the development of the company’s HSE culture. Projects are selected based on priorities such as KPIs, critical path, serious incidents or shareholders concerns. In 2017 alone, the CCC HSE Group conducted 25 corporate audits, CER and investigations in 21 projects in 7 different countries. This makes a total of 258 corporate audits, CER and investigations conducted since early 2011. These activities have helped the company maintain the HSE international certifications (ISO) and CCC’s position among international construction key-players. C C C Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 H. DEEB HSE Project Site Support Visits FEATURE One of the most important HSE Group responsibilities is to ensure the continual development and improvement of HSE programs and performance at CCC projects. The HSE group provides high quality HSE support, direction, guidance, assistance and solutions in terms of project visits, meeting with project management, project staff and the client in addition to making sure that competent and qualified HSE personnel are provided who are capable of addressing and helping to solve project HSE site issues. The HSE group also supports projects by providing interim HSE managers, specialized HSE training programs, HSE audits, Cold Eye Reviews, incident investigation, project mobilization phase support, development of project specific HSE procedures, and so on. Interim HSE Manager The HSE provides an interim HSE manager based on the project management request, client request or both. During the visit the corporate HSE representative acts as project HSE manager and performs all HSE roles and responsibilities until a permanent HSE manager joins the project. He conducts daily site HSE inspections and participates in the management walkthroughs, meetings with the client’s HSE team and discusses with them the project HSE concerns, the HSE challenges on site, the HSE requirements and ways of improving the safety culture on the project. In addition, regular meetings with the CCC project management team and HSE staff are held during these visits to discuss site issues and plans for improving the overall project HSE performance and compliance. HSE Training Support The CCC HSE Group provides world class HSE Training and Certification courses. The following in-house HSE training courses are provided to any CCC project that requests such training. • NEBOSH International General Certificate (IGC). • OSHA 10 and 30 hour training. • HSE leadership and management training for all levels of management and supervision. • Train the Trainer. • Incident investigation training. • Injury record keeping and classification training for key management, safety and medical staff. • Fire safety and fire warden training. • Risk assessment training for HSE staff, managers and engineers. • Hazard identification training for all levels of supervision. • First Aid/CPR/AED (Adult/Pediatric) Level 3. • H2S & Breathing Apparatus. Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 C C C 11 HSE Project Site Support Visits HSE Audits FEATURE HSE auditing is a proactive and structured process of collecting information on the efficiency, effectiveness, implementation and compliance with the HSE Management System. It determines whether activities and the related outcomes are in compliance with the HSE policies and procedures with the goal of achieving organization HSE objectives and goals. Not only does auditing evaluate the overall implementation of the HSE management system, it also helps examine the integrity, consistency and applicability of the HSE plan and procedures and determine if it achieves the desired HSE results. Audits and other HSE surveys are proactively conducted before accidents and incidents with the goal of preventing them from occurring. The process aids in identifying high risks that have the potential to lead to serious accidents resulting in property damage, harm to the environment, harm to the public, personal injury or death. The HSE Group has competent and well trained HSE lead auditors that conduct numerous audits on CCC projects and operations worldwide. HSE auditors schedule audits for all projects and the frequency depends on the project complexity, scope, client requirements, number of incidents, last HSE audit and other relevant factors. The goal is to audit every active project at least once per year. Audits and surveys contribute significantly to identifying major HSE nonconformities, HSE shortfalls and areas for improvement. The audit and survey process provides valuable information to enable the HSE Group to address HSE shortcomings, improve HSE performance with the ultimate goal of protecting people and assets from serious incidents. Following each HSE Audit, a dedicated team analyzes the audit findings utilizing a trend analysis tool that highlights frequent and repetitive HSE shortcomings. This information is in turn used to develop HSE drives, improve training, develop safety alerts and information, lessons learned, and so on. HSE Incident Investigation Incident investigation is a reactive process that is initiated after the occurrence of incidents or injuries. Incident investigation is a thorough analysis of the events, actions and work processes that resulted in the incident or injury in order to determine root causes, contributing factors and where the breakdown in the HSE management system occurred. An effective investigation requires a methodical, structured approach to information gathering, evaluation and analysis. The findings of the investigation will form the basis of an action plan to prevent the accident or incident from reoccurring and improving the overall management of risks. The desired outcome is to provide an accurate description of the accident, identify direct and underlying (root) causes and remedial actions (corrective measures) that prevent recurrence of similar events. Conducting HSE investigations provides a deeper understanding of the risks associated with work activities, highlight where breakdowns in the safety management system occurred, why existing control measures failed and the contributing factors leading to the undesirable events: this is very important and vital for developing and refining HSE risk management systems. HSE Group investigators carry out HSE investigation after the occurrence of serious accidents including fatalities, lost time incidents, property damage, and so on. The investigator is dispatched immediately to the project site to gather and analyze information, identify implemented risk control measures, identify possible solutions, corrective actions and develop an action plan that will prevent or avoid recurrence. In 2016, the HSE Group launched the HSE Investigation Team Initiative requiring all projects to allocate and train personnel as key HSE investigators to tackle HSE investigations for lost time incidents, near misses and medical treatment cases that occur on their respective projects. The initiative was successfully implemented and resulted in active involvement of the construction team helping to promote HSE ownership and accountability for the various disciplines on CCC projects. The HSE Group is continually engaged in efforts to prevent and reduce work related incidents and injuries. Outcomes of accident and incident investigations will be effectively communicated to all projects and areas of operations. C C C Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 HSE Project Site Support Visits Following each investigation, the HSE Group generates and distributes HSE Alerts that share lessons FEATURE learned and corrective actions. These are sent to all projects worldwide to increase awareness and strengthen HSE compliance among the CCC workforce. The common concerns and the areas of improvement noticed during HSE support visits which need proper and adequate attention from the project management and projects HSE teams could be summarized as below: 1. HSE Planning Proper and adequate HSE Planning (3 weeks to 3 months look ahead planning), to identify and prepare in advance for the HSE resources and requirements for future scheduled project activities so they are conducted in a safe manner with proper coordination with project planning team. 2. Hazard Identification a. The activity risk assessment is completed and method statement prepared with participation of the construction team and HSE team to ensure all activity hazards are properly identified and adequate control measures are in place. b. All subcontractors are required to complete risk assessments and method statements for their activities and these must be reviewed by the concerned CCC team. c. The Safety Observation Card (SOC) or similar process should be implemented on each project to encourage identification of unsafe actions and unsafe conditions and also enhance the construction team’s hazard identification skills. d. Construction supervisors and workers should be involved in the SOC and the hazard identification process. SOC can be a criteria upon which they may be eligible to receive a safety award. e. Utilizing the Safety Observation Register (SOR) to log all observations (including observations from safety observation cards, site management walkthrough observations, camp & food safety inspections, internal audits, client inspections, client audits, and so on) will categorize hazards based on location, group, activity, potential injury, and so on Such trend analysis will provide a strong indication of the risks and worker behavior on site and assist in identifying preventative actions based on specific locations, activities and groups to avoid incidents and facilitate decisions regarding improvement of risk control and the HSE management System. f. Complete the monthly project trend analysis which will help to achieve the goal of being “Proactive” in eliminating hazards and eliminating unsafe acts and conditions before incidents occur as well as being a good benchmarking tool. 3. HSE Communication Effective “Communication” is an important part of the HSE Management System to facilitate safe construction operations a. Job Safety Task Instruction (JSTI) • The main objective of the JSTI is to identify potential hazards and Control Measures associated with each step of the task and communicate that information to workers. It should be delivered prior to the commencement of any task by the activity foreman or charge hand or at any time of the day should a new task begin. • Supervisors who deliver the JSTI should be competent to do so. They should understand the language, the content of the JSTI and establish two way communication with their workers. • The HSE training team shall provide a JSTI training course to all site supervisors (Site Engineers, FM, CH) to instruct them on how to deliver effective JSTI’s. b. Toolbox Talks (TBT) • It shall be prepared weekly by the HSE Manager and shall address a specific safety topic to the entire workforce. It shall be delivered on a weekly basis by a competent person in charge (Supervisor, Foremen, Charge Hand, and so on). • It addresses the repetitive and identified hazards utilizing the trend analysis developed from the safety observation register to foster a pro-active HSE attitude and take appropriate measures to prevent incidents. Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 C C C 13 HSE Project Site Support Visits c. Weekly Safety Supervisory Management Meeting (SSMM) FEATURE In this meeting the HSE Manager shall present HSE statistics, trend analysis, important hazards identified during the week, preventive measures that are needed to be taken, Safety Alerts, Safety control measures for coming activities, Lessons learned from incident-Investigations, Good Practices and Initiatives, and all HSE issues necessary to be discussed. d. Weekly Charge-Hand Meeting (CH-Meeting) Every Engineer, Superintendent and Section Head shall meet on a weekly basis with their own line supervisors (FM and CH) to communicate HSE Issues that are discussed during the Weekly Supervisory Safety Management Meeting. The HSE Manager or Safety officer shall attend, monitor and report on the meeting for evaluation and continual improvement. e. Weekly Safety-Officers Meeting The HSE Manager shall meet with his Safety Officers and Staff members in order to update and discuss with them the performance of the department and the recent safety issues on the project. 4. HSE Officers Support a. Improve their performance through coaching, training, monitoring and continual assessment of their performance. b. Weekly Safety-Officer Meeting shall be conducted through which the HSE Manager meets with all HSE staff to update them and discuss any pressing HSE issues. c. Provide a clear roles and responsibilities to all safety staff. d. Provide a Special HSE Induction for Safety Officers . e. Develop specific “Daily Checklist for Safety Officer” to check their assigned areas to ensure that basic safety control measures are in place. f. Safety Officers shall be encouraged to use their authority to stop work in case of dangerous unsafe acts, unsafe conditions or IDLH (Immediately Dangerous to Life and Health) situations. g. Safety officers shall be required to use the SOC system to identify and report all hazards in their prospective areas. They shall be responsible and accountable for identifying and reporting all hazards in their assigned areas. h. The HSE Manager, deputy and senior safety staff shall support safety officers and support their decisions and findings. 5. Accountability for HSE Performance a. An accountability process toward safety shall be enhanced focusing on two major concepts which shall be implemented by project management and supervisors. • Senior Management (project director, manager, construction managers, engineers, section heads, line supervisors, foremen and charge hands) are RESPONSIBLE and ACCOUNTABLE for the safety of their crews and activities and will be held accountable for safety violations committed at their work location or by employees in their workforce. • Safety Performance is a fundamental criteria used in performance evaluation, promotion and bonus process for personnel at all levels. (Managers, Engineers & Supervisors) b. Project senior management shall communicate the ACCOUNTABILITY process by focusing on the two concepts that managers and supervisors are responsible and accountable for the safety of their workers and safety performance is a fundamental criteria of their evaluation and promotions. c. A statement of accountability may be developed and signed by all project management team members and supervisors and submitted to HSE Department 6. Safety Management Walkthrough (SMW) a. The SMW shall be conducted on weekly basis with participation of • Project Director, Project manager, project HSE manager, Site Construction Managers site Construction Engineers and HSE officers . b. The SMW shall cover all site and project facilities and the team may be divided in order to cover all locations. c. The SMW shall be documented and the findings shall be follow up and closed on time. C C C Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 HSE Project Site Support Visits 7. Supervision Improvement on Site FEATURE a. All site activities should be conducted in presence of the activity site supervisor otherwise the activity will be suspended (for the safety of workers) b. The site supervisors and line management (F/M & C/H) shall show adequate visibility on site c. The site supervisor shall conducted a daily JSA /JSTI and sign the attendance sheet. d. Supervisors and engineers shall lead by example using the proper and required PPE to encourage workers and to create a proactive safety culture and work safely e. Proper and adequate participation in the safety observation cards (SOC) by line management f. Every construction crew in each area shall improve the safety on site by providing barricades, accesses, housekeeping, de-nailing, and so on g. The best crew in the area may be receive an award to motivate safe behavior with (safety certificates, cards, money, and so on) and their names and photos will be posted on the safety boards including the site foremen and charge hands. h. The site supervisors and line management shall attend HSE training courses identified by the HSE training team related to their site activities 8. HSE Training program a. A project specific “Training Matrix” shall be prepared to specify the training courses required to each target group of the workforce. b. A “Training Schedule” shall be prepared and announced to the workforce so personnel can plan their training based on the schedule. c. A “Training Register” shall be developed to keep records of HSE Training for personnel and to keep records of all HSE Training Activities. 9. Incentive Scheme a. Implementation of a generous incentive scheme to reward those who show strong commitment to Safety. b. Candidates for safety awards shall be selected fairly and based on good safety performance. Candidates may be selected by construction supervisors, project management team members and HSE officers. c. Safety incentives can include the following categories: • The Driver of the month based on the IVMS monthly report • The best SOC (Safety Observation card) for the month • The best JSTI for the month • The Safety Officer of the month • The best TBT for the month • The best Near Miss for the month d. Publicize the winners of safety awards and incentive schemes through meetings, TBT’s and safety bulletin boards in order to raise safety awareness and to discourage future violations. e. One of the most important concepts of an incentive program is to reward the actions that you want repeated by the workforce. 10. Disciplinary Action Disciplinary action should be used as a last resort and it needs to be implemented after careful thought and it should be implemented consistently, fairly and to all levels of workers. a. Disciplinary action is usually a four step process starting with a verbal warning, then a written warning, than a salary deduction and finally termination. Disciplinary action is not reserved on for workers who may commit willful safety violations but also toward their supervisors, line supervisors (CH & FM), engineers and managers as they are accountable for the safety and the behavior of their crews. b. Disciplinary action may be necessary for individuals and supervisors of all levels based on the results of incident investigation that indicate violations or shortcuts to safety procedures. c. Publicized disciplinary actions taken through meetings, TBT’s and safety bulletin boards in order to raise safety awareness and to prevent future violations. d. Implement disciplinary action for drivers and machinery operators who willfully violate traffic and vehicle safety regulations. The monthly IVMS report must be used to spot driving violations in addition to site monitoring. Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 C C C 15 H. ABUTAHA Does Safety Cost Money? Do Not Pay More Money, Pay More Attention and Commitment to Improve Safety The good news is that good safety performance does not cost any additional money. We need to PAY more ATTENTION and COMMITMENT rather than to pay more FEATURE money to achieve better safety records and performance. Do not believe the false slogan “Safety Costs Money” which is used frequently by some individuals as an excuse for poor safety performance and who do tend not to study safety problems objectively. Such a slogan is not based on fair and scientific analysis and it is used as a quick ineffective solution for safety failure. We can never succeed in improving safety performance if we believe and stick to such incorrect sayings as “Safety Costs Money” because it implies the attitude of a blamingculture (safety versus construction), pointing fingers, the incapacity to solve problems Looking at the results of investigations and professionally and objectively, the absence of audits, the most common root causes of a vision and strategic thoughts and a serious incidents and most common issues and nonmisunderstanding of the whole concept and the conformities are listed below. Such root causes nature of the construction business. and NCRs have formed a trend-type pattern “Money can neither solve all problems in life and they are too repetitive that they have nor can it solve safety challenges on site” is become strategic issues; therefore, they must be the true or what it seems to be the true theory seriously considered and resolved strategically based on experience and fair-minded judgment. by senior management and all levels of CCC Based on field experiments and objective studies employees. of the recent audits, incident investigations, The most common root causes of incidents and site visits and Cold Eye Reviews, the lack of safety NCRs are the following: resources has never been a root cause of any 1. Poor site line supervision especially incident which has occurred on CCC sites for the (charge-hand and foremen): fortunately, last four years. Very few NCRs (nonconformities) most if not all our CCC senior and middle and observations have been issued because management including project managers, of a lack of resources and if it was a concern, construction managers and project engineers it is mostly not using the resources which are indicate serious concern and commitment already there, such as not wearing the personnel to safety but unfortunately such awareness protective equipment (PPE) although it is and commitment does not trickle down provided and available and not using the grinder to our site line supervisors especially the guard; not because grinders do not have guards, charge-hand who is the most important it is only because workers remove the guard for man to achieve the goal of better safety as comfort and due to complacency. he is in direct contact with our main target The issue is not a lack of resources; rather it which is the workforce on site. There is is poor management and ineffective usage of an obvious and serious gap between the the existing resources. senior management and line supervisors in terms of level of commitment, realizing the It is important that we clarify and eliminate this importance of safety and sharing the vision. misconception, that safety costs money, so that 2. Poor sense of accountability of most failure in safety cannot be easily and falsely employees, especially engineers and site justified. Elimination of this slapdash slogan will line supervisors; charge-hands, foremen and guide us to work in the right direction instead of therefore of the workforce. pouring money in the wrong direction. It will help 3. Poor enforcement by engineers and us look objectively and scientifically for the true supervisors of safety issues which leads to root causes of incidents and the reasons for poor carelessness and complacency. safety records and performance. 4. Subcontractors: lack of control, poor monitoring and ineffective integration. C C C Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 Does Safety Cost Money? a. Do we need to spend more money, or what FEATURE does it take to have a worker wear his safety glasses and gloves when they are already there in his pockets or thrown next to him? b. Does it cost more money, or what does it take to improve our site line supervision? How much does it cost if our engineers and supervisors stay closer to their workers and spend more time on site monitoring production, quality and safety performance as well? c. Does it cost more money, or what does it take to place barrication which is already in stacks around a crane and lifting operation to stop workers from working under hanging loads? d. Does it cost more money, and how much if yes, when we start to enhance the sense of accountability among managers, 5. Poor hazard identification and reporting engineers, supervisors and safety process: safety officers do not report personnel by implementing disciplinary hazards adequately and construction crews action toward safety violations and are not effectively involved in the hazard rewarding good safety practices? reporting process. Efficient and accurate e. Does it cost more money, or how many hazard identification and reporting is the first minutes does it take to instruct our step to solve problems, and it would ensure workers to perform good housekeeping that the effort made is in the right direction. and provide safe access to their work 6. Poor Hazard Communication: The RA places? (Risk Assessment) and MS (Method f. Does it cost more money, or what Statement) which are mostly available at does it take to assess and improve the the projects and for which substantial time performance of the safety officer who and effort made by the engineers to develop, identifies and reports an average of only usually are not communicated or poorly two unsafe observations per day (10 communicated to the workforce. The JSTI working hours)? How much more money (Job Safety Task Instruction) which has does it cost if we encourage construction been recently developed as a simple form of supervisors to participate in hazard the RA is still poorly communicated to the reporting? workforce. g. Does it cost more money, or what does 7. Poor hazard rectification and follow up it take for our project management and process. engineers to focus more on foremen 8. Poor performance of safety officers due to and charge-hands to share awareness incompetence, poor monitoring and lack of with them and bring their level of safety support. commitment up to expectations? h. Does it cost more money, or what Two facts could be concluded based on the root does it take to monitor and supervise causes and safety concerns listed above: subcontractors more closely on site 1. A lack of resources is not proven to be a and integrate them in safety meetings, root cause of incidents or even among the walkthroughs and all elements of the HSE top 10 safety failings. This may guide us to management system? set up our priorities and work in the right i. Does it cost more money, or how many direction to improve our safety records and minutes does it take to deliver the JSTI performance. or the content of the RA to workers every 2. Resolving and rectifying these repetitive morning? Effective Tool Box Talk or JSTI root causes and strategic safety issues do not only improves safety performance but not require any additional cost. To examine also it enhances job planning, encourages if spending more money would solve these closer relationship between workers and issues, we would ask the following basic their supervisors and contributes to better questions: quality and higher productivity. Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 C C C 17 O. REED The Importance of HSE Training In the early years of HSE there were safety reduce the high number of fatalities and injuries laws, standards, requirements, policies, and so occurring on worksites all across America. When on but there were no requirements for training. the first standards were written, none of them How could employees be expected to follow said anything about mandatory training on how laws, standards and procedures without a full to comply with the standard. It was assumed understanding of what those laws, standards that companies would do that because it made and procedures contained or what to do to sense but in reality training was only seen as FEATURE comply with the requirements? There is a an additional cost, so very little training was reason people attend school from a young age conducted. through early adulthood. Education enables As time passed, numerous work-related us to understand how things work, how to be tragedies occurred and when OSHA investigated, successful and how to interact with others. one of the key findings was almost always a HSE training is no different as it teaches us lack of training or understanding of policies, how to perform our work safely, use tools procedures, requirements and how to comply and equipment safely, protect ourselves and with them. As a result, OSHA began revising others around us, protect the public and the their standards and today almost every OSHA environment and identify hazards or hazardous standard has a mandatory requirement for conditions. awareness training for anyone performing work Let’s take one of the earliest set of regulations that is affected by that standard. OSHA has even associated with workplace safety, the United advanced to the point where they now have an States Occupational Safety and Health OSHA training institute with resources available Administration (OSHA). Signed into law in for awareness training on the standards. December of 1970, OSHA 1910 General Industry safety standards went into effect in March of Another important lesson that occurred as time 1971. Industry received these standards with passed was the realization that there were mixed reactions. Many felt the government specific industries that had unique hazards and should not be involved in how people do their tasks associated with them. As a result, three jobs or how companies instruct people to do additional standards were created to address their jobs. Others felt it was a necessary step to those industries. The first was Part 1926 aimed C C C Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 The Importance of HSE Training exclusively at the construction industry and training is very effective in that the student FEATURE it was introduced in 1993. This was followed can actually be shown how to do something by standards specific to the maritime and and then demonstrate that he has learned the agricultural industries. These newer standards task properly. Sharing lessons learned from all have awareness training requirements past incidents is a form of training. Essentially incorporated into them. anything that helps improve an employee’s knowledge, skill and attitude in terms of HSE During this period of time employers also can be considered training. HSE training is the learned that training is an important part of process of enhancing the skills, capabilities and the HSE management system and contributes knowledge of employees for doing a particular significantly to good HSE performance and a job in terms of how to do it safely. Some common strong HSE culture. Many studies concerning the ways that HSE training can occur are as follows: benefits of training have all come to basically the same conclusions – a well trained workforce • Classroom is a safer workforce. The same studies also • On The Job emphasized that training in fact saves money • Mentoring / Coaching versus costing money. Training improves HSE • Situational performance, creates a strong positive feeling • Seminars / Conferences about the work environment, which results • Cross Training / Job Rotation in increased productivity. Today companies • Hands On strongly support HSE training not because it is • Lessons Learned a requirement but because they have seen the • Tool Box Talks / Job Safety Task Instruction (JSTI). positive results and enjoyed the benefits. Training is given for one or more of four important On the other hand, companies have also learned reasons: some very hard lessons related to HSE and 1. New candidates who join an organization are training. During past economic downturns many given training. This training familiarizes them companies have chosen to significantly reduce or with the organizational mission, vision, rules, even eliminate training programs and cut back on regulations and work conditions. safety as well. It is no surprise that companies 2. Existing employees are trained to refresh who chose this path very quickly saw an increase and enhance their knowledge. in incidents, injuries, near misses and a decrease 3. If any updates or changes take place in in morale among employees. Those who stayed technology, training is given to cope with the course and continued to provide training and those changes such as purchasing new emphasize HSE not only maintained a high level equipment, changes in production technique, of performance but were much more successful changes in work processes, and so on. winning new contracts than those companies 4. When promotion and career growth become that chose to save money by cutting training. In important, training is given to prepare fact some companies did not survive because employees for higher levels of responsibility. their HSE performance was so weak that they could not get enough work. Advantages of Training Training is crucial for organizational development and success. It is beneficial to both employers According to numerous studies and insurance and employees. An employee will become safer, company records, the following benefits result more efficient and more productive if he is well from quality HSE training: trained. 1. Improves morale of employees. Training helps the employee in terms of job security What exactly constitutes training? Training can and job satisfaction. The more satisfied the take place in many ways. The most common is employee is and the higher his morale, the the classroom and is much more formal. The more he will contribute to organizational use of videos, visual aids, hands on, discussion, success and employee absenteeism and problem solving, interaction, larger numbers, turnover will be lower. and so on makes the classroom a much more 2. Less supervision. A well trained employee useful format. However, training can also take will be familiar with and understand his job place on the work site. A supervisor stopping and need less supervision. Thus, there will work that is being done in an unsafe manner and be less waste of time and effort. showing the workers the correct way to do it is 3. Fewer accidents. Errors are likely to occur a form of training. Tool box talks, job safety task if employees lack knowledge and skills instructions, reviewing a method statement, required for doing a particular job. The more and so on are all forms of training. Hands-on Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 C C C 19 The Importance of HSE Training trained an employee is the less the chances 10. Trained employees become more proficient FEATURE of having work accidents and the more and their earning potential increases. proficient the employee becomes. 11. Trained employees have fewer accidents and 4. Chances of promotion. Employees acquire incidents. skills and efficiency during training. They 12. Trained employees improve the safety become more eligible for promotion and an culture in the organization. asset for the organization. 13. Trained employees will not take shortcuts. 5. Increased productivity. Training improves 14. Trained employees watch out for one other. efficiency and productivity of employees. 15. Trained employees more readily Well trained employees show both quantity communicate concerns and ideas for and quality performance resulting in less improvement. waste of time, money and resources. Reasons Training Is Not Conducted Objectives of Employee • Perceived to slow down production. Training Programs • Perceived as unimportant. 1. To prepare employees to meet the varying • No understanding of the benefits. and challenging needs of the job and • Fear of employees leaving for a better job organization. after they are trained. 2. To provide knowledge and skills to new • Perceived as an unnecessary cost. entrants and to help them to perform their • Too time consuming. role and job well. • No provision of resources 3. To coach employees for more complex and • Lack of management support higher level jobs. 4. To teach employees new and innovative Consequences of No Training ways and techniques of performing job. • Poor HSE performance. • Increased Injuries and incidents. Benefits of Trained Employees • Increased turnover. Training is an important tool for employee • Lower productivity development. Training is becoming increasingly • Increased absenteeism. important because of rapid changes in the • Shortcuts taken. internal and external organizational environment. • Weak HSE culture. The importance and benefits of trained personnel • Poor HSE communication and feedback. towards organizational development are: 1. Trained employees do not require tight Why HSE Training Fails control and supervision as they are well • No management support. aware of how to perform a job. • Unqualified trainers. 2. Trained employees are higher performers by • Failure to customize training modules. making optimum utilization of the materials, • Failure to update training modules. tools, equipment and other resources • Poor training skills. provided to them. • No performance based training. 3. Trained employees minimize waste of • No evaluation of training effectiveness. resources and work efficiently and effectively. • Lack of consistency. 4. Training makes employees more committed • Get it over with approach. to an organization as the employees are provided with growth, advancement and learning opportunities. Different Learning Styles 5. Training develops proficient, skilled and One of the most important aspects of training is responsible employees for complex and to recognize the learning styles of employees. higher level tasks. Research says there are three main learning 6. Trained employees adjust to the job better styles and the challenge for those developing and absenteeism and turnover is lower. training materials is to try and address all three 7. Trained employees produce quality and as there is very likely to be a mix in each training quantity output. session. The three main learning styles are 8. Trained employees enable the organization “Auditory”, “Visual” and “Kinesthetic”. Here is a to face competition from rival firms. brief description of each learning style. 9. Trained employees can respond and adapt well to changing technology. C C C Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 The Importance of HSE Training 1. Auditory learners often talk to themselves 3. Kinesthetic learners need to touch things FEATURE and they may move their lips and read out and move around. They tend to lose loud. They may have difficulty with reading concentration if there is little or no external a writing task and they often do better stimulation or movement. They will often talking to a colleague and hearing what was take notes during training just to be able to said. To address this learning style a brief move their hands. When reading they like explanation of the material to be covered is to skim the material initially (get the big needed, questions during the course of the picture first) and then focus on the details. training is necessary, small groups work well They typically use color high-lighters and (brainstorming) and at the end a brief review take notes by drawing pictures, sketches, of the main points of the training. diagrams, and so on. To address this 2. Visual learners like to learn through written learning style, include activities, use color to language such as reading and writing tasks. emphasize key points, incorporate frequent They remember what has been written down. stretch breaks, helps them visualize complex They pay attention to the instructor, watch tasks or incorporate hands-on exercises them closely and write down important during the training. information. They like charts, videos, demonstrations and other visual materials. Training in CCC They can easily visualize faces and places but using their imagination and seldom get Training in CCC has become increasingly lost in new surroundings. To address this important with significant emphasis from learning style the use of graphs, charts, senior management over the last several years. videos and other visual aids is important. Numerous memos and emails have been issued Use role playing exercises, outlines, concept to projects emphasizing the importance of HSE maps, flow charts, agendas, handouts and training to enhance HSE knowledge, reduce pads for taking notes and minimize potential incidents and develop competent workers. distractions. Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 C C C 21 The Importance of HSE Training Not only has HSE training become FEATURE increasingly important internally but the past four to five years have seen a significant increase in the emphasis on HSE training from clients. Almost every tender we evaluate now have very specific requirements for HSE training. With a robust internal HSE training program, it makes it much easier for CCC to comply with client HSE training requirements. Another challenge is the increase in requirements from clients to utilize third party HSE training for some types of training, particularly in the past two years. There could be a number of reasons for this including easier for the client to manage training, clients’ training requirements are consistently presented to all contractors, easy to maintain records, and so on. However, the bottom line question is whether or not paying the • Train the Trainer. high cost for a third party HSE training results • In addition to the above courses, the following in better HSE training. The opinions are split in are under development and planned to be terms of whether you get a better product from available in 2019: a third party versus an in-house program that • HSE staff development course. provides the same level if not better quality HSE • ISO 45001 awareness (this is taking the place training. It may be easier for the client to manage of the existing OHSAS 18001). in terms of consistent content, records, and so on but usually third party training is a very packaged By request, projects can be assisted in or generic approach and HSE often has very developing specific HSE training programs to specific activities associated with the training address a specific need or to avoid utilizing a that is done. It is much more effective to provide third party. Both of these have been done on HSE training specific to the activities occurring numerous occasions in the past few years. on the project versus a generic approach. Also, having knowledgeable instructors within the company is much more effective and adds to the company’s credibility in the eyes of its employees. In terms of specific types of training that have been developed internally in CCC in order to avoid the cost of third party training, the following training programs are now offered internally: • Internally approved provider for the NEBOSH International General Certificate. • OSHA 10 hour and 30 hour courses. • H2S (Hydrogen Sulfide) safety awareness and H2S train the trainer. • Safety Management & Leadership. • Incident Investigation. • Hazard Awareness & Risk Management. • Lead Auditor. • Fire Warden & Fire Safety. • Safety Workshops & Safety Goal Setting. C C C Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 The Importance of HSE Training A quick look at training statistics for CCC in 2016, 2018 FEATURE 2017 and 2018 reveals the following: • 42 CCC staff attended the NEBOSH IGC course for the first time and 48 total sat for 2016 the examination including new students and • 76 CCC staff attended the NEBOSH IGC course retest students. for the first time and all 76 total sat for the • 140 CCC staff completed the OSHA 10 hour examination. training. • 56 CCC staff completed the OSHA 10 hour • 337 CCC staff completed Safety Management training. & Leadership training. • 109 CCC staff completed the OSHA 30 hour • 76 CCC staff completed Hazard Awareness training. training. • 46 CCC staff completed Safety Management • 80 CCC staff completed Risk Assessment & Leadership training. training. • 93 CCC staff completed H2S (Hydrogen • 58 CCC staff completed Incident Investigation Sulfide) Safety Awareness training. training. • HSE Project Training Man-hours = 1,510,611 • 20 CCC staff completed Train the Trainer (79 active projects) (94% of goal). training. • 23 CCC staff completed Injury Classification 2017 training. • 38 CCC staff completed Fire Warden and Fire • 22 CCC staff attended the NEBOSH IGC Safety training. course for the first time and 48 total sat for • HSE Projects Training Man-hours = 1,843,146 the examination including new students and (65 active projects) (100% of goal). retest students. • 417 CCC staff completed the OSHA 10 hour As competition increases, the importance of HSE training. training cannot be overemphasized. Maintaining • 107 completed the OSHA 30 hour training in a robust training program will always result 2017. in numerous benefits including being more • 61 CCC staff completed Safety Management competitive. Make HSE training a priority in your & Leadership training. department or on your project in order to create • 61 CCC staff completed Hazard Awareness a strong safety culture with knowledgeable, training. competent, safe and productive employees. • 51 CCC staff completed Risk Assessment training. • 58 CCC staff completed Incident Investigation If you think training is training. expensive, try ignorance! • 20 CCC staff completed H2S (Hydrogen Sulfide) Safety Awareness training. • HSE Project Training Man-hours = 2,424,242 (76 active projects) (>100% of goal). Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 C C C 23 E. DIAB IPLOCA HSE Award Participation It is with great pleasure we feature the IPLOCA A portable power cabin is an efficient tool 2018 Environmental Award CCC received for that CCC seeks to implement and utilize on its innovation in Sustainability and Eco-friendly newly awarded projects, especially in remote Initiatives. The Portable Power Cabin initiative areas. Not only will it save the excessive use was the latest innovation that CCC created inof fuel powered generators but will also save house from recyclable materials to set up a solar a lot of time required for power and energy energy system that generates clean energy and units to be transferred to the work locations. FEATURE an alternative source of power at CCC projects in The time needed to mobilize an office, set up remote areas. electrical connections and energize the office from a generator will be saved as the cabin can The idea was to use solar technology and generate its own needed energy. recyclable eco-friendly material to set up a mobile cabin that is used as part of site The concept was presented at the IPLOCA establishment activities to power communication Annual Convention in September 2018 and and mobile equipment for offices and camps. It was well accepted and admired by IPLOCA is fully equipped, furnished and used with high members and for which the selection committee availability, efficiency and dependability as offices decided to award CCC as a leading organization on project sites. in preserving the environment and providing sustainable solutions for smooth operations and The initiative was given the name CCC’s Goprojects execution. Green 100 % Off-Grid Portable Power Cabin using an existing cabin as a basis where several It’s worth mentioning that the IPLOCA modifications to transform it into a power environmental award in 2018 was not the first for cabin were performed. The modifications and CCC. CCC has received six awards since 2012 in adjustments included: recognition of its vital role in innovative health, safety, technology, project execution excellence • Dismantle wood from the original cabin to and sustainability solutions. clean and reuse. • Remove chemical paint. CCC’s efforts have resulted in the IPLOCA awards • Weld battery boxes and PV module frame since 2012 as shown in the photographs. mounts. The initiative emphasizes CCC’s visible • Prepare and place cellulose insulation. commitment to the sustainability requirements • Paint. of minimizing our carbon footprint and emissions • Install PV modules. to the environment. • Experiment with external design options. The CCC Corporate HSE Group is constantly The efforts made as well as the generous looking for and reviewing new concepts in resources provided by the project management technology, sustainability and safety to assist and the sustainability team resulted in an CCC in operating in a diligent, professional and idea whirling around the minds of employees responsible manner consistent with world-class becoming a reality and enabled scrap materials companies and aligned with its stated HSE to be recycled in a very efficient way. business goals and policy. The outcome was very impressive and the energy CCC senior management’s true commitment is produced from one unit was sufficient to power demonstrated through their visibility in HSE and the office appliances, ventilation and lighting. sustainability conferences, resource allocation, C C C Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 IPLOCA HSE Award Participation incentive programs and recognition for those that Despite restrictions posed by the current market FEATURE put forth innovative ideas as well as their review fluctuations in the construction industry, CCC and follow up on implementing innovative work will always allocate the required resources, programs across CCC projects worldwide. incentives, budgets, manpower, technology and facilities for creativity, innovation and CCC is looking forward to expanding the improvement. initiatives and transferring best practices and successful innovations to all areas of operations. CCC will remain a leading company in preserving the environment, maintaining the health and wellbeing of its people and advancing sustainability. 2016 Excellence in Project Execution Award Winners McConnell Dowell Constructors (Aust) Pty Ltd and Consolidated Contracting Company Australia Pty Ltd (CCC) JV, represented by Mark Barrows and Zahi Ghantous, for the Australia Pacific LNG Pipelines Project, one of the largest, longest, and most complex pipelines constructed in Australia. 2018 Environmental Award Winners The Environmental Award Selection Committee awarded Consolidated Contractors Group S.A.L., represented by Najib Khoury, for their Go-Green 100% Portable Power Cabin. Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 C C C 25 F. AMARIN Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) Community Fall Meeting USA The World Economic Forum (WEF) based in Switzerland is an International Organization for Public-Private Cooperation. The forum engages political, business and other leaders of society to shape global, regional and industry agendas with the aim of improving the state of AREA NEWS the world. Every year, WEF brings together top business leaders, international political leaders, economists, journalists and celebrities for up to four days to discuss the most serious issues facing the world. The organization also provides a platform for its members in sector-specific initiatives. One such initiative, of which CCC is a founding member, is the Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI). In an effort to combat corruption, PACI was launched by CEOs from the engineering and construction industries and from energy, metals and mining industries during the annual Speakers included: meeting that was held in Davos in January 2004. • Neil Bruce, President and Chief Executive Presently, approximately 140 top companies are Officer, SNC-Lavalin, Canada. members of the PACI initiative. PACI has become • David Cruickshank, Global Chairman, Deloitte, the prime business channel on transparency and United Kingdom. anti-corruption. • John Scudder, Vice President, Chief Ethics and CCC participated in PACI’s Fall Meeting, which Compliance Officer-Latin America, Walmart, took place on November 6, 2018 in New York, Inc., USA. USA. The meeting, held under the Chatham • Ian Gorst, Minister for External Relations, House Rule, focused on: Government of Jersey, United Kingdom. • Tarek Helou, Assistant Chief, FCPA Unit, Fraud • Sharing insights on the latest political and Section, Criminal Division, USA. economic challenges that are influencing the global anti-corruption agenda and exploring Participants included: new strategies and challenges for breaking the corruption cycle as the world moves to a • BT Group new global architecture. • Citibank • Exploring how does the risk of corruption • Consolidated Contractors Company influences investment decisions and the • Dell Technologies role of decision makers in promoting • Deloitte improvements in anti-corruption and • Fluor Corporation collective actions. • Glencore International • Solutions to the most pressing challenges on • HSBC Holdings the global anti-corruption agenda key steps • Nokia Corporation for rebuilding trust and integrity into the • PwC system. • Siemens • The Fourth Industrial Revolution the threats • SNC-Lavalin Group to integrity posed by technology and how • SNC-Lavalin Group digital solutions can be used to expose and • Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson deter corruption. • The Coca-Cola Company • Exploring challenges and collaborative • Total international approaches to anti-corruption • Transparency International within the shifting global environment. • Walmart. Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 C C C 37 D. NTALACHANI Race for the Cure Athens, Greece Contribution to CSR Initiative CCC staff are encouraged to come up with ideas and activities related to CCC’s CSR initiatives including Going Green and community involvement events. Please send your ideas, initiatives and achievements to CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY the CSR-CCC email address csr@ccc.net. On October 7, 2018, ninety-six CCC employees participated in the Race for the Cure event which took place in the centre of Athens. The annual race was organized by the Hellenic Association of Women with Breast Cancer “Alma Zois” in collaboration with the Susan G. Komen Organization. CCC has been one of the sponsors of the event since 2009, and its employees have been participating since then. The race is one of the most popular races for breast cancer awareness in Europe and is the largest sports event with a social purpose in Greece, bringing together more than 150,000 participants throughout the history of the event. The goal is to raise awareness about early detection methods and guidelines for safety as well as to raise funds for the implementation of programs by Alma Zois. R. NASSER CCC Launches its Volunteering Program On October 19, 2018 CCC launched its Volunteer several others which were invited to display their Program at an event held at its premises in work and their volunteering activities and mingle Athens. The program aims to engage employees with staff members. in volunteering activities that support and During his speech, Mr. Samer Khoury, CCC’s address issues that impact the quality of life Engineering & Construction Chair, said: “CCC’s of disadvantaged people. In support of CCC’s corporate and family values are based on three commitment to serve those in need, the newly pillars: integrity, sincerity, and humility. The best issued volunteering policy provides employees definition of humility is to help our fellow human with 20 hours of time off work to use in providing beings through volunteering. Recently, I have their expertise, talent and time to help a worthy endorsed a new volunteering policy to encourage cause, or in the betterment of life conditions of everyone who wants to volunteer. The company’s the needy. Volunteer Program serves as a basis for CCC’s The launching ceremony was attended by CCC commitment to improving people’s quality of life employees and various NGOs such as Amnesty and to ensure that the core values of CCC align International and Doctors of the World among with a balance between improving the company’s C C C Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 Sub Title CCC Launches its Volunteering Program areas such as education, health, environmental CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY sustainability, human rights, poverty reduction, refugees and vulnerable groups in general.” In Athens, the CSR Department will be collaborating with Ethelon to carry out a selection of group volunteering activities which include beach cleaning, school restoration, STEM Education for school students, preparation of hygiene kits for socially vulnerable groups, and restoration of public spaces. All these actions address one or more of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations. The business and improving the quality of life of its 17 Goals adopt a holistic approach and respond workforce, families, communities and societies to the global challenges we face, including where we operate. “ poverty, inequality, environmental degradation, prosperity, quality education and sustainable Ms. Rosie Nasser, CCC’s Corporate Social cities. Responsibility Consultant, spoke at the event, stressing that: Kostapanos Milliresis, General Manager and CoFounder of Ethelon talked about the important “CCC’s humanitarian giving started even role that businesses should play in the social before the concept of Corporate Social sphere and the importance of CCC’s initiative. He Responsibility became a thing in the corporate said: world, in good times and bad times; CCC never stopped giving back and contributing to the “It is our great pleasure to participate in and communities in which it conducts its business. support CCC’s Volunteer Program. It is very Its contributions range from building a house important to see such big companies as CCC for a disadvantaged family in Botswana, to offering their employees the opportunity to play empowerment and capacity building of youth an active role in society. To dedicate one’s own and women in Lebanon, Jordan and Palestine, time to the needs of one’s fellow human beings and to establishing vocational training programs is also the reason for the existence of Ethelon, and centers in Kazakhstan, Saudi Arabia, Oman so that all this will to offer will have the greatest and Jordan. In Greece, CCC’s efforts range from impact.” reconstructing a playground for a day care The program will be run and managed by nursery in Kypselli, to providing relief assistance the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) after the earthquake of Kefallonia, to the delivery Department whose role is to facilitate and of sleeping bags to the refugees at Eleona organize the volunteering process and support Camp.” She went on to add that the employees by disseminating group or “CCC’s Volunteer Program in Athens aims to individual volunteering activities and matching contribute to the socio-economic development their talents and expertise with appropriate of Greece and to use time and talent in many volunteering jobs. Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 C C C 39 H. ZAHRAN Breast Cancer Mobile Clinic in the West Bank of Palestine Over the last two years CCC in cooperation The pink mobile clinic is equipped with new with the Bank of Palestine has been committed technologies to detect this disease in its early to supporting this project in order to serve stages and follow up the progress of the Palestinian ladies living in hard-to-reach areas. treatment later in coordination with the Ministry CCC supports many wellness programs that of Health. The success of this initiative keeps operate among different countries. growing despite the difficult circumstances we live in. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY On Thursday 27 September, 2018 Dunya Women’s Cancer Clinic officially launched the mobile clinic for early detection of breast cancer: this event came following two years of efforts and process of preparing and supporting. The breast cancer mobile clinic will reach ladies cut off from access to health checkups. For many ladies, this mobile clinic may be their only source of health care. R. NASSER Photography Training Building a Better Future for Palestinian Youth In partnership with Zakira, the Image Festival prospective careers like commercial photography Association, CCC launched a capacity building (studio, events photography, wedding project for Palestinian youth of Ain el Helweh photography, portraits, documentaries, and Refugee Camp in Lebanon. photojournalism). The project’s objective is to provide nine-month The young people will be requested to choose professional photography and videography a topic of their interest to photograph, and the training and career development programs for project will be concluded in July 2019 with a Palestinians aged between 15 and 18 years. photography exhibition featuring their best The goal is to empower them with a skill, images and photographic skills learned. a professional tool that they can employ in C C C Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 R. NASSER Visual Art Training for Refugee Children On October 1, 2018 the CSR Department in cooperation with the Museum of Cycladic Art in Greece launched a program that aims to bring together refugee children with Greek speaking students to attend visual art training workshops on how to use the Cypro-Minoan language as a common code of communication through art. The CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY project will bring together children from different nationalities and backgrounds to work together, intermingle and enhance their creativity. Samer Khoury, President, Engineering & Construction, said: “We actively support the societies in which we operate and especially vulnerable groups. As a model of social responsibility, we in CCC consider it necessary to give the next generation the opportunity to start an amazing journey of knowledge and art. Thanks go to the Museum of Cycladic Art, which gives us the opportunity to become a facilitator of the Everyone, together at the Museum program. The program is particularly important as it provides children with the platform to exercise their fundamental right platform for the smooth integration of refugee to self-expression through art and to have the children into the Greek society, to enhance their opportunity to communicate and interact without creativity and communication skills, and to help discrimination and stereotypes.” them develop relationships with other children. The program will be completed in June 2019 with The on-going program will be implemented an exhibition showcasing the children’s works of in three cycles, each cycle will include five art. workshops and will bring together 20 children 10 Greek students and 10 refugee children, aged 13-18. Children will learn how to use ideograms to write words and sentences in their own language. Then they will use this newly learned language to communicate with each other. The program aspires to provide the necessary Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 C C C 41 R. NASSER CCC Volunteers Restore Agias Eleousis Square in Maroussi Athens On October 26, 2018, Samer Khoury and around 40 CCC employees and their families volunteered to restore Agias Eleousis Square by painting the walls, artistically designing images on park benches and planting flowers. The volunteers worked in three groups, the first CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY group worked on painting the walls and waste baskets, the second group planted flowers and the third group restored the park benches using special material. The aim of the action is to protect public spaces of the urban environment by promoting sustainable development and green areas within the city. Following the completion of the first action of the program, Mr. Khoury, said: “I am very happy to have participated today, inaugurating the first action of our Volunteer Program in Greece. By faithfully serving the principles and values of the company, our contribution to the local communities we live in is our priority.” C C C Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 V. MANOURA Wildfires in Athens Volunteerism in Emergency Situations to drop off whatever supplies they thought would be helpful for those affected by the fires. One of the many non-governmental organizations (NGOs) which were taking part in providing their help was the Scouts Club founded in Kifissia (a northern suburb of Athens). Scouts Club is an NGO whose mission is to contribute to the education of CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY young people through a system of values helping build a better world where they develop as individuals and play a vital role in society. On Thursday, July 27 with the help of CCC employees Bruce Richardson, Pavlos Kamitsakis, Darryl Goringe and Vanessa Manoura, the Scouts Club helped to transfer hundreds of boxes which The tragedy of the Greek fires all began on contained water bottles, baby wipes, clothes, Monday, July 23, 2018 when the first fire alarm shoes, food, medicine, food for animals, and much sounded in Kineta, a town about an hour west more. These boxes were loaded into two trucks in of Athens. Later on, the authorities received which we all helped whether it was bringing the calls reporting flames near Rafina, east of the boxes outside from the storage room, helping pass capital. Just about an hour later, the wildfire had them in the “chain line” we had created, lifting reached Neos Voutzas, to the northeast, and then, them into the two trucks and finally wrapping the powered by strong winds, it moved fast down the area where the boxes were stored in the truck hill to the seaside town of Mati where the biggest with a cloth to prevent anything falling off or in tragedy happened. case of rain when transported to Nea Makri. Greeks a couple of days later were still piecing Finally, when the boxes were taken to Nea Makri together one of the nation’s worst disasters in many volunteers who had followed the truck with recent memory. Many scattered fires had broken their cars helped unload the boxes off the trucks. out in a very short span and spread with a fatal The experience was extraordinary. Everyone was velocity. Suspicion of arson combined with grief friendly, cooperative, and there was a lot of team and recrimination shattered the Greeks as they work. The feeling at the end after helping for a went through the ruins of fires that killed at least cause was beyond words. You really feel like you 91 people and burned thousands of homes. have contributed to a cause and you can’t help but Almost immediately after the fires, many smile when you say “I too helped in the wildfires volunteers stepped forward to help those of Attica”. We all should at least take part in one affected. Dozens of people, mostly teenagers and volunteering event, if not only for the experience, young adults, queued patiently to register for but most importantly to help for a cause. For volunteering duties to help out pack into boxes those who want their children to take part in food, water, medicines, clothes, shoes, hygiene any of the Scouts Club’s causes and events, the products, and so on. Many schools, town halls, organization’s address is Charilaou Trikoupi Street gyms and many other places were open for people 73, Kifissia. Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 C C C 43 M. AJOUZ The Center for the Disabled Reopens its Doors CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY A cooperation agreement for the reopening of • a special educator who will ensure the the Center for Creative Activities for People individual education of children with with Disabilities of the Municipality of Maroussi disabilities on self-care issues and the training (KDAP-AMEA) was signed between the of their family members in the appropriate Municipality of Maroussi (a northern suburb of treatment of their specialized care needs. Athens) and CCC. This cooperation will ensure that people with disabilities continue to receive During the signing ceremony of the cooperation the care they need for the year 2019. agreement by the Mayor of Maroussi George Patoulis and CCC’s President of Human Taking into consideration the need for our fellow Resources Suheil Sabbagh, Mr. Patoulis said: citizens who suffer from disabilities to be creative and active members of our society, both parties “In order to offer equal access to entertainment, agreed to re-operate the premises located at creative expression and engagement for all our Zinonos Eleatou Street, where the municipality’s fellow citizens, we are cooperating with the center for the disabled is located. CCC’s support productive forces of our city who share the same will go towards operational costs and the social sensitivity with us, in order to re-operate employment needs of the required staff, namely: the care home for people with disabilities in our city”. • a social worker who will be in charge of the creative engagement of the children and The signing of the cooperation agreement young people with disabilities, by developing was attended by the General Secretary of the personal or group activities. Municipality of Maroussi, George Didaskalou. C C C Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 O. MAWED Blood Donation in Abu Dhabi CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY On December 5, 2018 56 employees of EPSO, CCC Underwater and CCC Area and Project staff braved the needles to save lives. At least 56 blood bags were collected during the blood donation day organized by EPSO in partnership with the Abu Dhabi Blood Bank, Sheikh Khalifa Medical City. For the fifth time in a row, CCC received a certificate of appreciation for its continuous support of this life saving initiative from the Abu Dhabi Blood Bank. Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 C C C 45 R. NASSER STEM Course for Refugee Children at Athens Office On December 19, 2018 CCC volunteers provided Science, Technology, Math and Engineering (STEM) education to 26 refugee children aged between 6 and 12 years old from Elefsina Refugee Camp. This volunteering activity took place at CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CCC’s premises in Athens and was organized by the CSR Department, Ethelon and the International Organization for Migration. STEM education is based on the idea of educating students in four specific disciplines science, technology, engineering and mathematics in an interdisciplinary and applied approach, rather than teaching the four disciplines as separate and disconnected subjects. Before the volunteering activity, the CCC volunteers attended a 3 hour training course delivered by professional trainers from the World Robot Olympiad Association; a nonprofit organization which promotes robotics in STEM education for children and develops their creativity and problem solving. Naim Trabelsi, one of CCC’s ambassador volunteers who participated said: “The training made us realize how through brick building and coding such education can refine talents and skills of kids in complex problem solving, critical thinking, creativity and even project management.” The children were taught the basic steps of robotics, and that each construction has “artificial intelligence” that is the product of students’ algorithmic thinking and is realized through a digital program, which they drew themselves on a touch screen of a wireless tablet connected to the robotic structure. C C C Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 L. AGGELOPOULOU CCC’s Sustainability Competition Winners’ Feedback In late 2017 CCC launched its first annual Sustainability Competition, aiming to further integrate sustainability within our organization’s culture. The competition granted the winners and their projects prestigious prizes and broad recognition across the group for their best practices. The teams involved in the winning activity were dispatched to important green topics conferences to scout out for more such innovative solutions. The winners of the competition contributed their feedback on the conferences attended in a brief commentary: SUSTAINABILITY Omar Abdel Qader and Ziad Abu Sharar • Jazan Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle Sulfur Recovery Unit (JIGCC-SRU) Saudi Arabia Camp Category • WasteExpo 2018, Las Vegas, Nevada, USA, April 23-26. WasteExpo’s conference program was a valuable professional development opportunity. The education and training we received as participants sharpened our skills and has enabled us to better perform our work. WasteExpo’s conference program was unparalleled. We attended several presentations and visited various booths investigating products or ideas that would suit the needs of sustainable camp operations. We made contact with exhibitors focusing on recycling: machinery, waste control and transportation solutions. These topics were on the top of our agenda, since they are major concerns in camp operations. Through our discussions with exhibitors, we realized that CCC’s waste management and recycling practices are in accordance with the global approach of the field, the only difference being the use of large scale modernized facilities which are non-applicable in our areas of operation. Abeer Afshi and Aravind Narayan • Riyadh Metro Project, Saudi Arabia Camp Category • Water Technology and Environmental Control Exhibition & Conference 2018 • Cremona, Italy October 24-27. We attended this conference as a prize for winning (2ndplace) of the 2017 CCC Sustainability Competition. This year’s conference topics included: sustainable agriculture, drug pollution and chemicals, water transportation and storage, waste management and more. The exhibition featured specialty water products, water technologies and innovations covering multiple applications, including desalination, water distribution, water management and wastewater treatment. Water today is a critical resource since many of the water systems that keep ecosystems thriving and feed a growing human population have become stressed, and the concept of a “Water Footprint” is becoming an important parameter in the industry. Such exposure/experience introduces CCC employees to the latest water technologies and innovations, hence enhancing the company’s knowledge base in water-use efficiency and its applications on projects, camps and offices. Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 C C C 47 CCC’s Sustainability Competition Winners’ Feedback Khaled Hamaideh and Sharif SUSTAINABILITY Abdelrazeq • Kazakhstan Area Camp Category • Urban Mining and Circular Economy Symposium, 2018 • Bergamo, Italy, May 21 23 The convention was a valuable experience that focused on the theoretical and educational aspects of a “Circular Economy” (a methodology developed to maximize the utility function of raw materials and increase Opening Session of the Urban Mining and Circular Economy Symposium, 2018 their life cycle) and “Urban Mining” (a process assuring full utilization and maximum reuse of the product prior to disposing to landfill). Being the only representatives from the construction industry we made a point of highlighting our experiences to help connect research and theoretical concepts with real-life examples and application. The two day intensive sessions were wrapped up with a workshop and a technical tour allowing us to better understand the practical aspects of adopting circular economy and urban Site Visit at the Viscolube Oil Refining Facility mining approaches. We visited the facility of Viscolube a company active in refining used lubricant oil regeneration to produce high quality regenerated base oil, group I+ and II+, and industrial waste solvent recovery and valorization. In thinking how urban mining and circular economy correlates with CCC’s business, some examples are: • Cost saving through material efficiency. • Procurement teams can identify suppliers who provide circular economy solutions. • Through Building Information Modeling (BIM) and advanced technologies waste is reduced during construction. • CCC can leverage this knowledge in the estimation process through employing value engineering. Talal Mhanna and Nabil Gaaya • Water Mega Reservoir project • Package C, Qatar Project Category • Waste to Energy and Resources Summit 2018 • London, UK, May 23-24 The summit we attended was very informative, hosting waste-to-energy industry leaders from all around the world who provided insights and a comprehensive outlook on the current affairs of this emerging industry. Overall, the waste to energy and resources industry has a bright future. C C C Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 CCC’s Sustainability Competition Winners’ Feedback The world will continue to produce waste and although regulations, policies as well as technologies SUSTAINABILITY will reduce the amount of waste being produced, a significant portion of waste will not have a final destination other than landfills or incineration. This waste with a relatively high calorific value exists in enormous amounts particularly in oceans around the world. With technological advancements that allow treating inert fly ash and other gaseous emissions, waste to energy resources seem a likely solution. This would mean a new market and more future projects for CCC. Another opportunity for CCC is to start considering the potential for investing in a waste to energy modularized (power) plant that can be moved around projects, the same way an asphalt plant or a concrete batching plant is set up. It can for example serve a main power house for a project’s main facilities. Saif Jayyousi • Bausher Waste Water (Madinat Sultan Qaboos), Oman Project Category • Smarter-E Europe 2018 • Munich, Germany, June 19-22 The convention I attended took a comprehensive approach to the topics relevant to the energy world. Cross-sector energy solutions and technologies were presented focusing on generation, storage distribution and use of energy and how these aspects interact. Smarter E-Europe included a series of different events. I focused on Intersolar Europe and EES Europe since they were more applicable to CCC construction activities. Intersolar Europe focuses on photovoltaic, solar thermal and solar power plants. It has become the most important industry platform for manufacturers, suppliers and distributers in the global solar industry. EES Europe presents innovative battery technologies and future-oriented solutions for storing renewable energies. The exhibition is considered as one of the world’s leading exhibition series for the solar industry hosting more than 1,177 exhibitors from 155 countries. Through my exhibition tour it was made clear that all manufacturers are aiming to increase the output and efficiency of solar panels while compacting the frame size. Several techniques are used such as the bifacial panels that produce solar power from both sides of the panels. Also, the simplicity, availability and affordability of PV systems have increased the market demand for photovoltaics. In summary, my findings from attending the Smarter E Europe are below: • Major manufacturers, investors and suppliers are joining the renewable energy industry which reflects future growth in the sector. • Governments globally support renewable energy. More funding is provided for solar plants installation, development and R & D. • In the exhibition, lithium-ion battery technology was the visitors’ main attraction compared to other storage solutions. This indicates an increased number of off-grid installations in the future due to the affordability, durability and reliability of lithium-ion batteries. Bulletin Issue 127 | December 2018 C C C 49 Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 APPENDIXES Appendix 1 Photographs from representative CCC accommodation camps that showcase our care towards the well-being of our employees. ____________________ PEO CAMP CCC RENTED BUILDINGS IN DOHA REAL ESTATE Page 1 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY OVERVIEW Page 2 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY CAMP ROAD MAP Page 3 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY ACCOMMODATION (ROOMS & ABLUTIONS) Page 4 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY Page 5 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY PARKING MESS HALLS Page 6 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY GREENERY AREA Page 7 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY Page 8 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY INDOOR RECREATION & TV HALL Page 9 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY Page 10 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY OUTDOOR RECREATION Page 11 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY WIFI INTERNET CAFÉ Page 12 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY GYMNASIUM Page 13 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY SOCIAL ROOM MEDICAL Page 14 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY Page 15 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY LAUNDRY (OUT SOURCED – 3RD PARTY) MAGIC LAUNDRY BY NAAAS Page 16 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY MOSQUE Page 17 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY SECURITY MINISTRY OF INTERIOR BLDG. (CID) LINKED WITH MAIN POLICE STATION Page 18 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY CCTV DESIGNATED SMOKING AREA Page 19 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY ACTIVITIES & EVENTS CRICKET (SPONSORED BY NAAAS) Page 20 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY QSL & SC WORKERS CUP 2019 Page 21 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY EID AL FITR 2019 MUSICAL CONCERT Page 22 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY EID AL ADHA 2018 MUSICAL CONCERT Page 23 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY QATAR NATIONAL DAY 2018 (PARADE) Page 24 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY BETTER CONNECTION PROGRAM BY (MOTC, ICT & ROTA) Page 25 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY QATAR NATIONAL SPORTS DAY 2019 Page 26 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY Page 27 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY RETAIL TELEPHONE KIOSK Page 28 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY NATIONAL / INTERNATIONAL MEDIA & FIFA The following below photos were taken during FIFA visit FIFA & PEO plus journalist, visitors were gathered upon their arrivals to labor city. Visit conducted by 200 FIFA & PEO visitors while surveying PEO COMPOUND VIA CCC buildings in labor city. Page 29 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY Visitors while checking rooms & buildings Visitors while questioning workers internally about their own satisfaction Page 30 of 30 PEO CAMP – LABOR CITY CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR SHEEHANIYA CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR SHEEHANIYA CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR SHEEHANIYA CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR SHEEHANIYA CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR SHEEHANIYA CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR SHEEHANIYA CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR SHEEHANIYA CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR SHEEHANIYA CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR SIMAISMA CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR SIMAISMA CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR SIMAISMA CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR SIMAISMA CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR SIMAISMA CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR SIMAISMA CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR SIMAISMA CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR SIMAISMA CAMP Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 Appendix 2 Worker Welfare Plan Medical Facilities & Muster Point Appendix 3 Appendix 4 CCC was awarded the “Best Company in CCC site for the Water Mega Reservoir Project Occupational Health in Qatar”. has been recognised by Kahramaa (the Electricity and Water authority in Qatar) as a role model Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 Appendix 5 HSE Awards Recognition for achieving 3 million Man hours without Lost Time Incident This certificate is presented to: Al Ghandi & Consolidated Contractors International Company LLC on Opera Grand Project for successfully outstanding Health, Safety and Environmental awareness whilst working on the Emaar Boulevard Towers Program, Downtown Burj Khalifa, Dubai Given this day of January 15th, 2018 James Marsh Sean Lee Dimitri Fiorini Program Director Senior Project Manager HSE Manager September Golden Helmet Award This certificate is presented to: Al Ghandi & Consolidates Contractors International Company LLC on Opera Grand Residence for successfully outstanding Health, Safety and Environmental awareness whilst working on the Emaar Boulevard Towers Program, Downtown Burj Khalifa, Dubai Given this day of 11th October 2018 Copyright © 2017 Holfords, an Arcadis Company. Leo Solomon Dimitri Fiorini All rights reserved. Senior Project Manager HSE Manager Consolidated Contractors Company | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 Appendix 6 Supplier Subcontractor Sustainability Assessment Consolidated Contractors Company Doc. ID: CCC-SUS-FRM-SCA-001 Revision No. 00 Suppliers & Subcontractors Sustainability Assessment Revision Date: Form Page 1 of 3 Assessment Comments & CCC Category Indicator Description Score Yes No N/A Evidence Comments Does the company have a management person responsible for Sustainability? If Yes, please provide name Yes 1. Company & e-mail. 1.1 General Management Does the company publish a Sustainability Report / Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report? If yes, please N/A provide web link or copy of the report. Does the company have a defined Environmental Management System, including (Recycling, Waste, and YES Hazardous Materials Management)? 2.1 Does the company have a written Environmental Policy Environmental Management with objectives that identify the environmental impacts of YES the business? Is there a training program for employees regarding Environmental Awareness? YES Does the company have programs to conserve Energy & Fuel? N/A 2.2 GHG & Energy Usage Does the company have Energy, Fuel & Greenhouse Gas 2. ENVIRONMENT Emissions Reporting Programs in place? YES Does the company have programs to conserve water and reuse/recycle water? N/A 2.3 Water Does the company have water consumption reporting programs in place? YES Does the company have Procurement Plans identifying the use of Green Products (recyclable, reusable, non-toxic, 2.4 Materials bio-degradable, and post-consumer recycled materials) N/A and locally manufactured products? Does the company have research and awareness about identifying Green Products (recyclable, reusable, non2.5 Waste toxic, bio-degradable, and post-consumer recycled NO materials)? Does the company have a proven experience in using and 2.6 Green implementing green solutions in sites & camps (examples Solutions in either: renewable energy, energy efficiency, water NO conservation, or waste management? Consolidated Contractors Company Consolidated Contractors Company Doc. ID: CCC-SUS-FRM-SCA-001 Revision No. 00 Suppliers & Subcontractors Sustainability Assessment Revision Date: Form Page 2 of 3 Assessment Comments & CCC Indicator Description Rating Yes No N/A Evidence Comments 3.1.1 Do you abide with the legal requirements of local quota Employment hire, medical insurance, and benefits regulations? YES practices Does the company have a certified Health and Safety 3.1.2 Health and Safety Policy in place, that addresses fire protection, first-aid, YES relevant training and recording work related accidents? Does the company have a system in place that ensures that employees understand their employment conditions, including the terms of their payments prior Yes to entering into employment? Does the company provide employees with regular 3.1.3 Wages and written information (e.g. Pay slips) showing how their compensation pay is calculated, including basic, overtime, other Yes benefits/bonuses and deductions? Does the company demonstrate compliance with national laws on the payments it makes to its employees Yes for standard time, overtime, and employment benefits? Does the company have a written Code of Conduct for its employees, which it also enforces? Yes 3.1 Labor Practices 3.1.4 Does the company have a procedure in place to ensure Disciplinary employees are free from physical or verbal abuse, or 3. SOCIAL other harassment or threats, or any other forms of Yes Practices intimidation? Do workers have a mechanism to express grievances? Does the company have a guideline to comply with national laws on the working hours of its employees? Yes 3.1.5 Working Hours Does the company have records to demonstrate compliance with national laws on the overtime hours of Yes its employees? 3.1.6 Training Does the company has Training Programs for employees and Education and records it? Yes Does the company provide all employees with a safe and healthy living environment in company provided Yes accommodation? 3.1.7 Company Do all employees who reside in dormitories have access Provided to clean toilet facilities, running water, safe drinking Accommodation water, sanitary cooking facilities, and adequate private Yes showers? Does the company provide appropriate health and safety information and equipment to employees who live in the Yes accommodation facility? Consolidated Contractors Company Consolidated Contractors Company Doc. ID: CCC-SUS-FRM-SCA-001 Revision No. 00 Suppliers & Subcontractors Sustainability Assessment Revision Date: Form Page 3 of 3 Assessment Comments & CCC Category Indicator Description Rating Yes No N/A Evidence Comments Does the company have a written Child Labor Policy stating that it will not employ workers below the legal minimum age for employment? The policy should comply with the national laws and conforms with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, ILO Convention No No 182, on the Worst Forms of Child Labor and ILO Convention No 138, on the Minimum Age of Admission 3.2.1 Child Labor to Employment and Work. 3.2 Human Rights Does Management verify the age of workers and establish minimum age restrictions for relevant work categories, paying particular attention to hazardous Yes work? Does the company regularly monitor its business to ensure that no child labor is used? Yes Does the company have a written procedure stating that 3.2.2 Discrimination its employees are treated free from all negative Yes discrimination? Does the company a training program addressing 3.2.3 Training Yes 3. SOCIAL awareness on aspects of Human Rights Core Values? Evidence for Community Investments &Engagement Programs (scholarships, sponsorships, donations, N/A 3.3.1 Local philanthropy, and habitat projection & restoration etc.) Communities Evidence of hiring of locally based supply chain (suppliers & subcontractors) N/A Does the company have a written policy stating that it will not tolerate bribery and corruption and will not Yes 3.3 Society 3.3.2 Individual accept improper offers of payments to or from its Conduct (Bribery employees or agents? & Corruption) Does the company have a system in place that ensures its employees understand its policy against bribery and Yes corruption? Has your company ever been cited for non-compliance 3.3.3 (Fines & Sanctions) of an environmental, safety or ethical Compliance issue (within the last three years)? If yes, please describe. No (5 points for clean record, 0 points otherwise) Consolidated Contractors Company
