Annual Report 2018 NOTES TO THE READER Unrounded figures The management report uses unrounded figures and the total amounts may deviate from the sum of the parts. Percentage changes are based on these unrounded figures. Disclosure of Non-financial Information Act The Disclosure of Non-financial Information Act is a Dutch regulation that made reporting on a number of non-financial themes compulsory for companies that qualify as large public-interest entities (grote organisatie van openbaar belang) with more than 500 employees. These themes comprise environmental, social and employee issues, as well as anti-corruption, bribery and human rights. For each of these themes, companies are obliged to report on the relevant policies, results, risks (including management of these risks), and non-financial key performance indicators. The regulation also requires companies to describe their business models in their annual reports. We provide all of the information required in the relevant parts of this annual report. For transparency purposes only, the reference table in our CSR Supplement provides additional guidance on where to find this information. Global Reporting Initiative Communicating transparently on our policies and results is an important element of CSR. To ensure this, our annual report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option . See the GRI table on our website for further details: vanlanschotkempen.com/ responsible/external-assessment. External assessment Van Lanschot Kempen’s CSR performance is assessed by a variety of external organisations. For more information, see vanlanschotkempen.com/responsible/external-assessment. Contents 4 Chairman’s message About Van Lanschot Kempen 6 Who we are and what we do 9 How we create value in the long term 11 2018 highlights Our strategy 12 Our strategic transformation 13 Trends and developments 16 Stakeholders’ expectations and our dilemmas 18 Next phase in our strategy Our business themes 23 Economic and regulatory environment 24 Solutions for clients 25 Digitalisation and advanced analytics 27 Responsible business 29 Our people Progress report 33 Performance 46 Van Lanschot Private Banking 49 Evi van Lanschot 52 Kempen Asset Management 56 Kempen Merchant Banking 59 Private equity investments 62 Risk and capital management 72 Remuneration 76 Report of the Supervisory Board 83 Corporate governance Our Executive and Supervisory Boards 90 Personal details of members of the Executive Board 93 Personal details of members of the Supervisory Board 96 Van Lanschot Kempen shares 99 Reconciliation of IFRS and management reporting Financial statements 101 Consolidated statement of financial position 102 Consolidated statement of income 103 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 104 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 106 Consolidated statement of cash flows Notes 108 Summary of significant accounting principles and policies 126 Risk management 155 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position and income 188 Related parties 191 Disclosure of interests in other entities 199 Commitments 201 Segment information 205 Company statement of financial position and income 207 Profit appropriation 208 Remuneration of the Statutory and Supervisory Boards 211 Events after the reporting period Other information 213 Independent auditor’s report 221 Assurance report on the sustainability information 223 Articles of Association on profit appropriation 224 Stichting Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen 227 Stichting Preferente aandelen C Van Lanschot Kempen 228 Glossary 233 Ten-year figures CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE Dear shareholders and other stakeholders, I’d like to start by thanking you for your continued support during the reporting year. We are very grateful. We have had a reasonably good year in terms of our performance and our ability to pursue our goals with respect to wealth management. Like most financial institutions operating in our space, we felt the impact of market volatility, particularly towards the end of 2018, on our earnings. We were, however, able to mitigate some of the market impact through a very rigorous cost control process in the second half of the year. In terms of assets under management (AuM), our net inflows were robust for the year, but it was not enough to fully offset the impact of market performance. As consequence, AuM declined for 2018. With respect to capital and balance sheet, we have maintained a very strong position through the year, and have stayed well within our risk appetite. As such, strong capital discipline coupled with good operational performance meant we were able to provide a healthy return to our shareholders. Changes in 2018 There were several changes to the management team (Executive Board) over the course of the last year-and-a-half. We have several new members on the Board, and have taken this opportunity to build on the foundations of our team. We have made very good progress in this regard. At a personal level, many of us had to cope with the untimely and tragic death of our colleague Paul Gerla. A constant reminder that life is fragile and that we ought to focus on what is important and meaningful. While it was not easy emotionally for many of us, we have focused our energies on defining a clear strategy for 2023. Much of what we had set out to achieve in our last strategic review in 2013, and the subsequent update in 2016, we have achieved. A new strategic review is not a natural consequence but it is warranted in the context of technological, economic and geopolitical changes. In short, what is next for our company? While some of our objectives remain largely unchanged, some have evolved and new objectives have emerged. As such, we have taken into account the impact of technology and advanced analytics on our clients, the societies we serve, and therefore on ourselves – when considering our tactical and strategic next steps. It is good to reiterate that we are a wealth management house, and our principal goal is to be pre-eminent in our chosen areas of operation. We offer and will continue to offer an integrated wealth management proposition in private banking, asset management and merchant banking. Financial targets Our financial goals with respect to return on CET 1 and capitalisation remain unchanged – an RoCET 1 of 10-12% through the cycle on a sustainable basis, and a capitalisation level of 15-17% CET 1. We have added “on a sustainable basis” to signal our awareness of risks and our societal obligations. Given our capital ratio targets and the fact that we are comfortably above the target ratios, an explanation is warranted as to what our capital strategy is and will be in the future. We remain fully committed to our ROE and dividend pay-out policies. We also believe that it is time for us to reinvest some of that excess capital in our existing businesses and in acquiring new assets. As in the past, we are committed to being disciplined in terms of capital, but it is also fair to say that we will continue to explore and seek out acquisition targets in the wealth management space. We have changed our target efficiency ratio from 60-65% to 70-72%. The changes to the efficiency ratio are a consequence of the changes to our business model (from universal banking to wealth management) and balance sheet (from asset-heavy model to asset-light, long-liability model). It is broadly in line with our peers in wealth management. We are not there yet, but we do realise that the outcome of the management focus must be to ensure that we reach this target by 2023. At current operating levels, this will entail an improvement in our operational performance (both revenues and cost). We have assumed that the shape of the yield curve will remain more or less the same. In other words, we have assumed no benefit from an upward move towards a more normalised curve. The focus therefore is on improved productivity through digitalisation and active use of advanced analytics – ironing out the remaining inefficiencies in terms of processes, organisational structures and a reassessment of unproductive activity. It is noteworthy that we have successfully executed disentangling, and the subsequent closure of, several legacy systems. We have built a successful omni-channel platform for the private bank, launched several applications for clients, created a sustainable mortgages platform, and are in the process of launching a new payment system. We are confident that we can and will achieve our productivity targets. The next phase in our strategy The essence of our strategy 2023 is to move towards a fully integrated wealth management model – servicing client groups across the spectrum, from private to institutional/corporate – and in the process to increase efficiency and productivity. The execution is underpinned by two elements: embracing technology to improve productivity; and transforming the existing workforce. We believe that the plan as envisaged will deliver a superior service to our clients and return to our shareholders, while serving the broader needs of society at large. There is no doubt in our minds that to be successful we need to be deeply embedded in the societies we serve. However, it is important to be tangible in our goals – to avoid the conundrum of good intention but no (or limited) impact. To this end, we have not only aligned our investment strategies, products and services but also our sponsorship programmes towards preservation of cultural icons and sustainability objectives. Many of you have asked about our values: what defines us and what guides our behaviour. Please refer to page 6 for a more detailed explanation. Needless to say, we take our values very seriously – they never have been and never will be just a box-ticking exercise. We strive to live them in our day-to-day work. Our behaviour and our decisions are a reflection of our values. Like all companies, Van Lanschot Kempen is run by humans and that makes us fallible. Consequently, we endeavor to be vigilant, and will remain so in the future. As to the year ahead, we expect it to be challenging on multiple fronts – geopolitical events from Brexit to European elections, the tangible signs of an economic slowdown in Europe, and so on. We are also acutely aware of public opinion and the lack of trust in the financial industry. We know that it will take time and hard work on our part to change this. We have to take responsibility for our actions. It is therefore all the more important for us to keep an ear to the ground, and to do the right thing. Needless to say, we will continue to focus on our goals – both financial and non-financial. Allow me once again to thank you on behalf of my colleagues on the Executive Board and throughout the organisation. ‘s-Hertogenbosch, the Netherlands, 20 February 2019 Karl Guha Chairman of the Statutory Board About Van Lanschot Kempen 6 WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Van Lanschot Kempen is the oldest –  Entrepreneurial spirit: In our day-to-day pursuit of life and business, we strive to be entrepreneurial and independent financial institution in the innovative. We believe that respecting differences while Netherlands. Our history is deeply intertwined challenging each other to do our best for our clients and for each other is crucial to the process of being with the history of the Low Countries and the entrepreneurial. –  Craftsmanship: Craftsmanship underpins our people that represent them. Founded originally commitment as professionals in our field of expertise to in Antwerp in the 17th century, Van Lanschot our clients. It simply cannot be otherwise. In and of itself, craftsmanship represents a broader range of Kempen embodies the bloodstream of several values, including knowledge, expertise and integrity. We embrace it with all its myriad characteristics. entities; the common thread that links us all is –  Dedication: We also believe in the power of an trade. individual to make a difference for the better. It is the pursuit of dedication at an individual level within our group that ensures that we collectively reach our full Our purpose is the preservation and creation of wealth, in a potential, and in doing so make a difference to our responsible way, for our clients and the societies we serve. clients and society at large. –  Discretion: We believe in the importance of privacy at We believe that wealth is not just about financial assets; an individual, institutional and societal level. We essential as it may be, wealth is about all the things that we understand that notions of privacy are undergoing a value in life. In a broader sense, wealth represents the change in this era of social media and digital collective wisdom of a society and the cultural norms and transformation. We believe that respecting the privacy values that sustain it. Although our primary objective is to of our clients is key to earning their trust. We have help our clients with the financial aspects of wealth, we therefore defined discretion as a core value. endeavour to serve their broader objectives as well. We do –  Specialisation: As a company, we have chosen to this through our Foundation, our sponsorships, and our specialise in areas of our core expertise in private work on sustainability issues. banking, asset management and merchant banking. Specialisation helps us to focus on what we do well and As a company, we believe that the generation of wealth – eschew all that is peripheral to the needs of our clients. and the re-distribution of it through taxation – are critical to the process of creating and maintaining stable, successful We believe that these values define what we do, and help societies. We also believe that the rule of law and stable us to serve our clients best. societies are intertwined. Without a stable society, it is near impossible to generate wealth responsibly. The reverse is also true: societal or common wealth helps create stable societies. Given that societal cohesion necessitates that wealth creation, we believe that wealth management cannot be the preserve of a few but a necessity for all. This view is reflected in our approach to our clients. As a company, we serve clients across the social spectrum and in several segments – private, institutional and corporate clients – with a singular mission: to be a trusted partner, and to assist our clients in preserving and creating wealth responsibly. We believe that serving the long-term interests of our clients helps create a platform for responsible investing and societal stability. Our values Values and principles are important and essential to any successful enterprise. We are no exception. These values drive our decision-making process and our code of conduct. In turn, they define who we are and what we stand for. As a company, we believe in the following core values: About Van Lanschot Kempen 7 Key reasons for clients, employees and Key investor information investors to choose Van Lanschot Kempen As a wealth manager, Van Lanschot Kempen builds on the experience of its core activities, operating under the strong Key figures 2018 2017 brand names Van Lanschot, Evi van Lanschot and Kempen. Net result (€ million) 80.3 94.9 Reliable reputation and rich history Underlying net result (€ million) 1 103.0 112.3 – Clear choice for wealth management, targeting private, Underlying earnings per share (€) 2.37 2.61 institutional and corporate clients 2 – Tailored, personal and professional service Dividend per share (€) 1.45 1.45 – Mutually reinforcing core activities, each with its own Efficiency ratio, excluding special items (%) 79.4 76.2 distinct culture and positioning as a niche player CET 1 ratio (%) 21.4 20.3 – High level of interaction between business units to create innovative solutions for clients Return on average CET 1 based on underlying – In-house, specialist asset manager with multiple net result (%) 9.8 10.4 differentiating investment strategies and fiduciary Balance sheet total (€ billion) 14.0 14.7 expertise Total loan portfolio (€ billion) 8.6 9.1 – Strong track record in transformation processes and de-risking of the company Client assets (€ billion) 81.2 83.6 – Relatively small-scale organisation and high level of Assets under management (€ billion) 67.0 69.0 3 executive involvement – Inspiring and professional work environment Employees (FTEs at year-end) 1,621 1,658 – Strong belief in corporate social responsibility and responsible investing Sound financial and risk management – Strong capital position and balance sheet – Capital increasingly freed up by winding down corporate loan portfolio – Increased focus on core activities, creating opportunities for further growth Van Lanschot Private Evi van Lanschot Kempen Asset Kempen Merchant Banking Banking – Online wealth management Management – Equities research and – Tailored, proactive and services for the mass – Comprehensive fiduciary trading, capital market transparent personal wealth affluent and Millennials wealth management transactions, corporate management services – Online wealth management services finance, and debt advisory – For entrepreneurs, family solutions, discretionary – Long-term focused niche services for corporate and businesses, high net-worth asset management, savings investment strategies: institutional clients individuals, business and pension solutions high-dividend equities, – Focus on European professionals and – Focus on the Netherlands small-caps, real estate, corporates and worldwide executives, healthcare and Belgium infrastructure, credits, institutional clients; sectors professionals, foundations government bonds, covered are real estate, life and associations sustainable value creation, sciences, financial – Discretionary asset funds of hedge funds and institutions & fintech, management, investment private markets infrastructure, maritime & advice, financial planning, – Focus on European clients: offshore, and the Benelux savings and deposits, institutional, wholesale region structured products and distribution, family offices – Offices in the Netherlands, lending and endowments Belgium, the UK and the US – Offices in the Netherlands, – Offices in the Netherlands, Belgium and Switzerland the UK and France 1 The underlying net result is the net profit adjusted for one-off charges related to the costs incurred for the Strategy 2020 investment programme and restructuring. 2017 also adjusted for a one-off charge for the derivatives recovery framework. 2 Proposed dividend per share for 2018. 3 As of 1 January 2018, €0.2 billion in AuM has been transferred to AuA. The comparative figures for 31 December 2017 have been adjusted accordingly. About Van Lanschot Kempen 8 The graphs below show the key data per brand or business activity. Assets under management (€ billion, at year-end) FTE overview (1,621 total) 69.0 67.0 54.6 12.5 50.3 11.8 44.1 10.0 10.1 508 8.3 9.4 0.9 8.2 9.0 0.9 754 8.4 0.8 8.4 0.7  Private Banking 110  Evi 221  Asset Management 44.8 Merchant Banking 27.5 32.8 34.8 45.5   Other 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 28  Private Banking discretionary  Evi  Private Banking non-discretionary  Asset Management Income from operating activities, by segment (€ million) Underlying net result (€ million) 44.3 23.5 27.5 58.9 17.3 6.9 99.8 10.6 –6.6 13.8 265.7 499.2 40.4 103.0 Private Evi Asset Merchant Corporate Other 2018 Private Evi Asset Merchant Corporate Other 2018 Banking ManageBanking Banking total Banking ManageBanking Banking total ment ment About Van Lanschot Kempen 9 HOW WE CREATE VALUE IN THE LONG TERM Wealth enables our clients to achieve their business, personal and social goals. Wealth generation is essential to create and maintain stability in our society. This requires a longterm focus in which economic, social and environmental aspects all need to be taken into account. Our value creation model on page 10 provides an overview of our impact and the value we create in the long term. The model is organised into five columns: input, business model, output, outcome and impact. Our strategy, influenced by trends and stakeholder interests4 , results in the inputs and business model. The outputs and outcomes show the result of the allocation of inputs and our business model over the past financial year. These relate to short-term impacts. Most of our key performance indicators (KPIs) can be found in these columns, the results of which are explained in the Performance section on page 33, and mentioned along with our material topics, themes and risks on pages 19-20 and in our CSR Supplement. The last column captures the societal relevance and long-term impact we aim to achieve. We aim to mitigate negative impacts (as we also take social and environmental criteria, such as human rights and climate change, into account in our activities) and to enhance our positive impact (via sustainable and impact investing solutions). We also work with several external parties to encourage this (see our CSR Supplement for more information). Our contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals A long-term focus on a sustainable society is what the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are all about. As a wealth manager with a focus on the long term, we support and encourage these goals. Of the 17 SDGs, there are five to which we currently contribute specifically via our core activities: –  S DG 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. –  S DG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. –  S DG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. –  S DG 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all, and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. –  S DG 17: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalise the global partnerships for sustainable development. Details about our contributions to the SDGs can be found on vanlanschotkempen.com/responsible. 4 For more information, see pages 13 and 16. HOW WE CREATE VALUE INPUT BUSINESS MODEL OUTPUT OUTCOME IMPACT* Human capital Investment in employees Skilled, motivated staff – K nowledge of economies, capital – 5 1% of employees participated – E mployee engagement survey score: markets and sectors in Vitality Programme 81% (2017)*** Contribution to – Strong advisory skills – Average time spent on training: – Employer NPS: *** achievement of clients’ – 1,707 employees, average age of 9.7 days per FTE business, personal and 43.8, 64% male and 36% female – 2.7% absenteeism social goals – €4.5m spent on training and – 13% employee turnover development Preserving and creating long-term wealth – €0.3m spent on employee Stable, long-lasting relationships well-being – C lient satisfaction Continuous effort in meeting – NPS PB: 2 Private Banking, Evi and Asset Management clients stakeholder expectations – NPS Evi: –20 High quality – L aunch of 6 new, innovative wealth – NPS AM: 44 (2017) employment and management solutions – Long-lasting client relationships development Social capital – Networking events for clients – Stable shareholder base opportunities – O ur history, brands and reputation Client assets – Memberships of associations – High positions in rankings and – Our values: entrepreneurial spirit, – Stakeholder dialogues benchmarks craftsmanship, dedication, discretion – 91 engagement cases and specialisation Performance Fee Interest – Expectations of our stakeholders – Approx. €2m spent on sponsorships Achieving sustainable growth Wealth Banking Performance – Net inflow of AuM €1.0bn Positive business management solutions solutions – Performance for clients – Growth of sustainable and impact environment – PB: average 3-yr performance vs. investing 15% to €1.3bn benchmarks of –0.1% (Private Banking) – Fiduciary management – Savings and deposits – AM: Average Morningstar – Shareholder return Financial capital – Investment solutions – Lending rating investment strategies of 4.0 –  Dividend €1.45 – Client assets €81.2bn – Investment strategies – Payments – Evi: Average 3-yr performance vs. – Special capital return €1.50 – AuM €67.0bn benchmarks of –0.4% – Savings and deposits €9.1bn – MB: €37bn of M&A, debt advisory and ECM transactions in 10 countries More responsible – C apital base and wholesale funding – €5.8bn in mortgages, €2.9bn in companies and – Share capital €1.3bn other loans Improved operations financial sector – Wholesale funding €2.6bn Corporate Equity Capital Securities – Financial performance – Omni-channel client experience Finance Markets – Net result €80.3m – 72% PB clients accessed online – 79.4% efficiency ratio portal – 21% PB clients with an investment product downloaded an investment app to gain insight – Advisory services Manufactured and Fee – Access to markets and liquidity environmental capital Focus on digitalisation Social engagement – Research – € 22.0m spent on investment – D igitalised services and applied programme advanced analytics Decrease in environmental – 11 offices and 21 client reception – Innovative client features footprint facilities – Increase in sales effectiveness – Decrease in carbon emissions vs. – 444 lease cars, 609 public transport Merchant Banking and Private Banking clients last year subscriptions – D  ecrease of 17% CO₂ emissions in – 4,570 flights balance sheet Environmental output** – D  ecrease of 11% absolute CO₂ Contribution to – C arbon emissions emissions in our own organisation the Sustainable – AuM: 3.8m tonnes CO₂ Development Goals – Balance sheet: 60,949 tonnes CO₂ (SDGs) – Own organisation: 4,679 tonnes CO₂ * For examples see vanlanschotkempen.com/responsible/policy. ** Our carbon measurement covers about two-thirds of our balance sheet and around half of our AuM. The figures are best estimates and will be further refined next year; for more information, see page 28. 2018 figures *** We did not conduct an employee engagement survey in 2018. This means there is no 2018 data on the level of employee engagement, nor an Employer NPS. About Van Lanschot Kempen 11 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Based on our wealth management strategy, in 2018 we focused on the changing needs of our clients and on digitalisation. An overview of the key highlights of Van Lanschot Kempen in 2018 is presented below. 2018 JANUARY Launch of Global Impact Pool MARCH A new wealth management solution for both private and institutional clients Introduction of strategic advice with the aim of achieving both financial A new proposition for Private return and positive social and Banking clients in which we monitor environmental impact. and provide advice about all their assets, whether they are invested via our propositions or those of MAY third parties. Launch of Private Markets Fund MAY We set up the Kempen Private Markets Fund to enable both private and Launch of new client portal institutional clients to invest in private The new client portal equity, for example. “Mijn Van Lanschot” for Private Banking clients provides them with easy access to their products and digital documents. JULY Licence to act as underwriter in equity JULY issues on US market granted Our US subsidiary was authorised to act Ban on tobacco in funds as underwriter. The licence will be used Kempen committed to making its to further assist our European life investment funds tobacco-free by sciences clients. year-end 2018. Sustainable investing is essential to us as long-term stewards. SEPTEMBER Introduction of Evi Go OCTOBER Evi Go is a self-directed investment solution for mass-affluent clients and Appointment of Chief Analytics Officer Millennials. Evi clients can choose and Chief Digital Officer to invest in five different funds with A CAO and CDO have been appointed to varying risk profiles. prioritise and improve group-wide digitalisation and advanced analytics. NOVEMBER Set-up of dedicated Family Solutions team DECEMBER In order to serve high net-worth families and their individual members with the full Special capital return range of our services, a new team has been €1.50 per share, totalling over €60 million, set up that will act as a linking pin between was returned to shareholders. This brought family offices and the specialists across our the total capital returned since 2016 to organisation. €210 million. 2019 Our strategy 12 OUR STRATEGIC TRANSFORMATION Our transformation began in 2013, when we chose to position ourselves as a specialist wealth manager instead of a small universal bank. As a wealth manager, we aim for growth in assets under management (AuM) on the one hand, while we have scaled back our corporate loan book on the other. This has led commission income to become our key source of income, while our capital position has substantially improved as our activities have become less capital intensive. The charts on this page illustrate this transformation. Our strong foundation puts us in a good position for further growth. Client assets and AuM1 (€ billion) Commission as % of operating income (€ million) 81.2 100% = 525.3 100% = 499.2 + 55% 14.2 + 17.5pps 52.3 11.4 58.7% 41.3%  Savings and other 40.9 67.0  AuM  % commission of operating income 2012 2018 2012 2018 Underlying net result 2 (€ million) Risk-weighted assets (€ billion) 10.5 103.0 6.1 56% 4.6 + €91.9 4.1 11.1  Private Banking and other 4.4 0.5  Corporate Banking 2012 2018 2012 2018 3 Common Equity Tier 1 ratio3 Return on Common Equity Tier 1 9.8% 21.4% + 10.4pps + 22.5pps 11.0% –12.7% 2012 2018 2012 2018 1 Other consists of deposits, assets under administration and assets under monitoring and guidance. 2 The underlying net result is the net profit adjusted for one-off charges related to the costs incurred for the Strategy 2020 investment programme and restructuring. 2012 has also been adjusted for an impairment on goodwill and intangible assets. 3 2012 phase-in; 2018 fully loaded. Our strategy 13 TRENDS AND DEVELOPMENTS New trends, technologies and services are drastically reshaping our society, economy and y Cl i et e the financial sector. ci So nt s Van Lanschot We briefly outline the most relevant developments in our Kempen’s operating environment below. We take these developments operating into account in adjusting our strategy and approach. For environment n h more details on Van Lanschot Kempen’s response to these Tec it io trends and developments, see the sections under “Our ol et p og n Com business themes”. y Societal change Importance of self-reliance Increasing availability of data The average age of the Western European population will Advanced online services and applications allow improved increase over the next few decades, and this is expected to data collection. Increasing data availability and computational put pressure on the current social system. In the near future, power are opening up opportunities for advanced analytics, it is therefore expected that self-reliance will become more thereby creating insights into client needs, possible solutions important; the supporting role of the government will continue and business efficiency. As the use of technology and to diminish, and the role of a support network of friends and advanced analytics increases and applications become family or commercial providers will grow. People are more sophisticated, the value of the data collected increases. increasingly becoming aware of the need to start building such Advanced analytics go beyond pattern recognition, and a support network, and to acquire the means to finance their include predictive models that can be used to suggest chosen solution to become self-reliant. This will increase the actions or behaviour, for example. need for wealth management solutions at a structural level. Having the ability to use data enables organisations to be Shift to doing good more relevant to clients, to offer tailored products at more Reducing and preventing negative impact on the environment attractive prices, and to be more transparent about the and society is encouraged, both by government and by the exact details of a product. The use of data also requires corporate sector. Due to the attention that NGOs, governments organisations to change their way of working. New jobs are and media are giving to sustainability, people are increasingly created, requiring a different set of capabilities and more becoming aware of the consequences of non-sustainable adaptive performance. behaviour. In the near future, we expect this “doing no harm” movement to shift towards “doing good”. Organisations are Security of information not only expected to limit their negative impact on the As the overall amount and quality of information and data environment and society, but are increasingly challenged on gathered increases, information security is becoming even their positive contribution. At the same time, more and more more critical. This encompasses both physical security clients are demanding sustainable investments and impact (access to the premises of organisations) and online security investment solutions, while employees and potential (storage of data). Cybercrime is becoming more common, employees are increasingly taking sustainability into account and organisations need to be able to guarantee their clients’ when considering their careers. privacy. Investments in future-proof security measures are required, as the value of information is expected to increase even further. Advanced technology Digitalisation to improve client experience Changing client needs Over recent years, many processes and operations have been automated across industries. Automated processes increase Provide relevant information efficiency and reduce the number of errors, thereby reducing Technology allows us to be online and connected, every costs. Jobs are increasingly changing from carrying out moment of the day, quickly leading to information overload. operations manually to overseeing and reviewing the digital The need for organisations to be able to send relevant process and checking the data for errors. This change has also content to clients that offers the solution they need at the been felt in the financial sector: many backand mid-office right moment is increasing. The information provided to activities have been automated, and the use of digital tools for clients needs to be customised, brief and clear, and include monitoring has increased. a call to action. Additional content should be easy to find if needed, and should provide sufficient information to meet Digitalisation also enhances interaction with clients. The use the growing need for transparency. of multiple communication channels allows clients to choose their preferred channel, which could significantly improve client experience. Our strategy 14 Demand for tailored services and products There has been a shift from providing generic products to KEY RISK THEMES FOR VAN LANSCHOT KEMPEN providing tailored services. Clients want solutions that In addition to the trends and developments that impact instantly answer their needs. They prefer solutions that our operating environment, as a wealth manager we face require minimal effort and low maintenance. Transparency, specific risks associated with our sector. In 2018, we ease of access and use, and immediate availability are key. identified the following key risk themes: This has caused industries to integrate: via one – Financial market volatility organisation’s platform, clients can acquire related services/ – Cybercrime products from other organisations. – Trust in the financial sector (e.g. anti-money laundering) – Labour market The institutional sector has also seen a change in demand See the “Risk and capital management” section (page 62) for products and services. Fiduciary mandates are for more details. increasingly being broken down into sub-parts, with clients choosing which types of services they would like to obtain instead of buying the full package. In addition, some fiduciary clients are more involved in the actual set-up of the investment mandate to make sure that the investments fit perfectly in line with their requirements. Passing down wealth to the next generation As time passes, new generations will inherit their elders’ wealth and acquire their own. As with all service providers, wealth managers depend on their abilities to build relationships with their current and future clients. Different generations have different preferences regarding services and products, and this should be acknowledged by organisations. Different attitudes, skill-sets and knowledge might be required. Increased competition Competitive landscape There is strong competition for new assets among existing and new wealth managers with different business models. The higher educational level of clients and their ability to compare service providers facilitates shopping around and comparing active and passive investment solutions. In addition, fintechs and robo-advisers are entering the market with new propositions for clients, offered at low prices and making use of new technology and low-maintenance platforms. The consolidation of the financial and wealth management industry is a trend that’s continuing due to several developments: regulation forces wealth managers to reduce or ban inducements and make fees transparent to clients; wealth concentration leads to margin compression; and the persistent low-interest environment results in lower interest income. In addition to competition from peers, wealth managers also need to address clients’ interest in investing their wealth in a broader range of assets. Investments in start-ups or real estate have grown over recent years, reducing the assets clients entrust to their wealth manager. Development of sophisticated solutions Wealth managers are increasingly specialising and differentiating their products and solutions. The strong inflow in passive products and outflows from undistinguished, semi-active, generic investment products underlines increased client investment knowledge and transparency. In order to remain relevant and profitable, wealth managers should move away from offering undifferentiated products and focus on developing high-growth specialist products. Annual Report 15 MOVING FORWARD MEANS BEING INNOVATIVE I started my career as a consultant on business improvement well so we’re investigating other tasks that we can and change management before moving into HR, advising outsource to robots too. When it comes to automation and managers on how to unlock their employees’ potential. robots, it’s crucial to encourage a new way of thinking: Those two things came together in my current role as once people understand it frees up their time to do more Client Support Manager: firstly, because I get to manage a interesting tasks, they’re keen to get involved. It's great team of people, and secondly, because so much of important to be innovative if you want to move forward. our daily work is about improving efficiency and embracing technological change. My job is demanding (as are my husband and kids, at times) so I’m very conscious that I need to look after my own Our biggest challenges are how to meet ever-changing well-being, too. I try to eat healthily, get enough sleep, client expectations, and how to become a fast, lean, play sports – the key is to keep moving. In May 2018, client-oriented mid-office. To meet those challenges, we’re ten of us in the team ran the 10-km Vestingloop in always improving workflows, processes and automation. In ‘s-Hertogenbosch. A fantastic challenge! 2018, we introduced our first robot! It handles client requests for withdrawals from their investment portfolios. Muriel Zeegers – Client Support Manager, Of course, it took a while to perfect but it’s working really Van Lanschot Private Banking Our strategy 16 STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS AND OUR DILEMMAS Our objective is to be aligned with the world High-end, innovative tools vs. profitability in the short term around us. This means, for instance, that we Our private clients expect high-end, innovative, interactive work with consideration for future generations, tools that provide them with relevant information and insights into their accounts 24/7, as part of our offering the environment, and the ROI requirements of without additional costs. In order to benefit from technological opportunities and improve the client clients and shareholders. An essential part of experience, investments are required. In contrast, our this approach is an active, continuous dialogue shareholders expect us to increase our profitability by increasing revenues and decreasing costs in the short term. with our stakeholders. So how do we align these contrasting interests? To meet the expectations of both stakeholder groups, we We identify five main stakeholder groups: clients, carefully assess potential use cases and their required shareholders, employees, government/regulators and investments. We then prioritise those investments that have others, including all those who might be affected by the the largest potential to improve client experience and reduce decisions and activities of Van Lanschot Kempen (e.g. costs. society at large, suppliers and competitors). Tailored solutions vs. scalability Stakeholders’ expectations As the investment knowledge of clients has These stakeholder groups have varying expectations increased, clients arrive at investment beliefs that go beyond regarding Van Lanschot Kempen. The graphic below4 expected returns, and include specific themes. Clients expect outlines our assessment of these expectations. us to deliver on their personal investment beliefs, which results in a higher demand for tailored mandates for which clients are only willing to pay to a limited extent. However, Clients such mandates require more dedicated time compared to Excellent client experience, strong personal relationships, holistic pooled assets, thereby decreasing operational efficiency and advice, tailored solutions and risk-rewarding returns consequently profit. This presents a clear trade-off between operating efficiently, as requested by our shareholders, and meeting specific client demands. Shareholders Solid performance, attractive returns and sustainable – preferably Due to our scale, we are able to use standardised, pooled growing – dividend vehicles for groups of clients who have aligned investment beliefs. For individual investment beliefs, we need to carefully assess the profitability of the requested product or service. Employees In some cases, this means that we cannot meet client Inspiring and professional work environment, competitive salary, training, expectations because we are not willing to allocate capacity development and growth opportunities, and personal recognition to develop the solution or provide the service requested. Ease of access for clients vs. stringent Government/regulators regulatory requirements Our clients expect quick registration channels, easy access to Practices within the letter and the spirit of the law (e.g. duty of care, anti-money laundering, client due diligence and privacy regulation) online tools, and to be able to switch easily between products and solutions. They expect us to filter the information and send them exactly what they need. We want to build strong Other stakeholders personal relationships with our clients and understand their needs. Regulators have stringent requirements, and expect Fair business opportunities and limited negative impact us to have all client information on record as well as an audit trail showing how we comply with our duty of care. For example, due to legislation, potential clients have to go Our dilemmas and how we approach them through several steps of an identification and registration Our ambition to be a responsible wealth manager regularly process before they can become clients and obtain the confronts us with dilemmas in practice. The interests and products they are looking for. In a world where new, online expectations of the different stakeholder groups vary, and players across sectors have set a standard of easy access to may lead to potential conflicts of interest. Van Lanschot products and services, how can we make sure we don’t Kempen weighs up its stakeholders’ interests, and alienate clients due to all the formalities that we and our incorporates these into decision-making processes and the clients have to comply with? development of strategic targets. Some dilemmas we faced in 2018 are presented here. While we have to comply with all regulation and legislation, we aim to minimise the effort clients need to put into registration, identification and other processes. In addition, we explain to our clients why these measures have been 4 See our CSR Supplement for further details (the most important expectations per material topic, how we met them, forms of dialogue for each stakeholder group, etc.). Our strategy 17 taken. However, we’re still regularly obliged to confront our Client-centricity vs. sustainability clients with questions or information that seem unnecessary Social organisations regularly challenge us on to them, and could have a negative effect on client sustainability issues. They expect us to contribute significantly to satisfaction levels. a better world by focusing on sustainable investment products and solutions. The criteria for these sustainable investments are Employee motivation vs. cost effectiveness rapidly becoming more extensive and stricter. We are aware of Improving our efficiency is a key priority for our the positive impact we can achieve via our clients’ assets. shareholders. Our employees are therefore continuously Although an increasing number of clients are interested in working on the automation, digitalisation and improvement sustainable investment products, not all of our clients opt for of our way of working. However, these improvements result these solutions. As all clients are equally important to us, how can in changes in the skills required from our workforce, and we keep up with the pace of sustainability without losing clients? consequently in changes in the makeup of that workforce. How do we keep our people motivated to do the work that To substantially increase our positive impact, we strive to might ultimately make them redundant or not qualified to grow our sustainable assets under management by informing continue to work at our organisation? and educating our clients about the positive impact of sustainable and impact investing solutions. For now, we will We aim to be an attractive employer, and are keen to continue offering our clients a broad range of products and provide ample opportunities for training and redeployment services, among which are several that prioritise in other suitable roles. By providing clarity and guidance to sustainability. In addition, we will show more clearly which those employees who might become redundant, we aim to initiatives we pursue in the field of sustainability and what retain the employees for the time needed. If they intend to their impact is via our dialogue with clients, potential leave, we endeavour to hire temporary staff to cover their employees and society at large. work in a timely manner. In addition, we look for the right pace in changing our way of working to avoid change fatigue among our staff. FOCUSING ON MATERIAL TOPICS To determine what kind of information is valued most by our The highest-scoring topics on both criteria are considered most stakeholders, we conduct a survey among stakeholders every two material to our stakeholders. The topics can be grouped under four years. Our latest survey was conducted in 2017. For 22 topics, broader themes: financial and risk management, client-centricity, stakeholders were asked to assess: products and services, and operating practices. – The extent to which each topic influences the decisions they make regarding Van Lanschot Kempen; The table below shows the 13 material topics (out of the 22 in total) – The significance of the impact Van Lanschot Kempen has via and a reference to the page where more information can be found. each topic. Impact refers to positive impact and prevention of Further details can be found in the materiality matrix in the CSR negative impact, and may be economic, environmental or social Supplement. in nature. Themes Material topics Descriptions References Financial 1. Economic performance Van Lanschot Kempen is financially healthy and able to meet its obligations p. 33 and risk management 2. Risk management Van Lanschot Kempen has prudent risk management p. 62 Client3. Added value Van Lanschot Kempen offers only products and services that our clients need p. 34 centricity 4. Fair pricing, marketing Van Lanschot Kempen provides accurate, clear and non-misleading product CSR and labelling information Supplement 5. Customer privacy and Van Lanschot Kempen guarantees the privacy of clients and secures the data received p. 25 data security and processed Products and 6. Responsible investment Van Lanschot Kempen invests client assets responsibly (investments meet basic ESG p. 27 services criteria) 7. S ustainable investing and Van Lanschot Kempen invests client assets sustainably (investments meet strict p. 27 impact investing ESG criteria) and in impact investing solutions (investments focused on positive environmental and/or social impact) 8. Responsible lending Van Lanschot Kempen finances responsibly; i.e. it takes ESG criteria into account in its p. 64 lending process 9. Prevention of financial Van Lanschot Kempen is not (via its clients) involved in financial economic crime such p. 62 economic crime as money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud and corruption Operating 10. Transparency and Van Lanschot Kempen’s public reports meet the highest international standards p. 2 practices reporting 11. Ethics and integrity Van Lanschot Kempen has an ethical and honest corporate culture and meets society’s p. 31 norms and values 12. Stakeholder involvement Van Lanschot Kempen engages in an active dialogue with stakeholders, and strives to p. 16 achieve its objectives in harmony with all stakeholders 13. Healthy, professional and Van Lanschot Kempen creates the right conditions for its workforce to excel, in which p. 29 knowledgeable staff education, training and well-being are key Our strategy 18 NEXT PHASE IN OUR STRATEGY Today, Van Lanschot Kempen is a wellour operating environment. We need to respond to these changes in order to deliver on our promises. For this capitalised, profitable wealth manager with a purpose, we have defined four strategic pillars: strong specialist position in the market. We Accelerate growth – organically and inorganically believe that our knowledge and experience, our In order to remain relevant for our clients and accelerate our organic growth, we believe that we have to truly personal, client-focused approach, our unique understand our clients, anticipate their needs, and help combination of activities and our track record them to fulfil these needs in a sustainable manner. Instead of searching for a single product or a specific brand, which set us apart from the competition in our demands a product-led approach, clients are looking for a solution that fulfils multiple needs. selected market segments, while offering growth opportunities. On the back of a surge in personalised individual online experience in several sectors, clients – whether private individuals or professionals representing institutional clients Supported by our strong client relationships, we want to be – expect a higher level of personalisation in the financial a leading player in our relevant markets and geographies. sector as well. This is why we will shift to a solutions-led This means being: approach, in which a solution can consist of several building – A leading wealth manager in the Benelux region; blocks that together answer the clients' needs. – A prominent, active investment manager that delivers alpha in illiquid markets, as well as income and ESG In recent years, we have successfully expanded our activities across Europe; through selective bolt-on acquisitions and hiring teams. Our – The leading fiduciary manager in the Netherlands, and high post-acquisition client retention rates show that clients a challenger in the UK fiduciary market; value our proposition. Moreover, we have expanded our client – The preferred trusted adviser in selected niches in offering with additional solutions following on from these merchant banking across Europe; acquisitions. We will consider acquisitions to accelerate our – The number one online wealth management alternative growth and increase our scale. for the mass affluent in selected markets. Activate our full potential With our history as a principled, active investor, focusing on In order to unlock the full potential of our solutions-led the long term, we want to move – together with our clients organisation for our clients, we must be able to offer – from responsible investing towards sustainable investing. solutions that build on the knowledge and expertise of the We can achieve the most significant social and entire group as well as our open architecture platform. This environmental impact via our clients’ assets. We aim to will enable us to better grasp opportunities, and to be increase our positive contribution and the visibility thereof. flexible and adaptive in responding to our clients’ needs. We will further develop our client segmentation based on We have set our financial targets for 2023. To reflect both these needs. We believe that by providing clients access to our wealth management profile and the economic the full range of services and products across our business environment in which we operate, we have redefined our lines, we will be able to fulfil client needs in a sustainable efficiency ratio target: manner. Acting as one allows us to benefit from knowledge – CET 1 ratio: 15-17%; sharing, to make optimal use of resources across the – RoCET 1: 10-12%; organisation, and to reduce overlap. – Efficiency ratio: 70-72%; – Dividend policy: 50-70% of underlying net result Advance through digitalisation and analytics attributable to shareholders. Changes in clients’ needs and economic developments require us to react quickly. Streamlined products, processes We will maintain our solid risk profile with a moderate risk and systems are a prerequisite for this. Technology and appetite. Over the years, we have developed a strong digitalisation will allow us to improve our productivity and capital base. Our CET 1 ratio currently stands at 21.4%, service, by speeding up processes, reducing operational well above our target level. In the future, we aim to optimise errors and improving the availability and quality of data. our capital base in terms of level and type of instruments, Digital interaction is also key to our omni-channel approach while leaving room for potential acquisitions. In addition, we in Private Banking, as it offers both clients and employees will consider paying out excess capital to our shareholders. increased flexibility in terms of means of communication Since 2016, we have redistributed around €210 million to and the time needed to communicate. We will roll out our our shareholders. digital programme across all business segments, so other client groups can benefit as well. Strategic pillars We have taken successful steps in simplifying and focusing In order to truly understand our clients’ needs and offer our business model, yet we see the need to continue our them suitable solutions, we will apply advanced analytics. transformation. Changing client needs, societal change, To grasp the full potential of patterns in internal and advanced technology, and increased competition all change external data, tooling is being developed that helps Our strategy 19 end-users to interpret data and use it for data-driven –L icence to operate: For us, business as usual means decision-making in commercial processes, investment operating in line with the law, regulations and other processes and operational processes. Insight into patterns generally accepted norms. of behaviour will enable early detection and improved identification of client needs. Supported by frequent human Three themes aim to create significant impact for our contact, this will strengthen our client relationships. stakeholders: –C lient relations: We differentiate ourselves from our As the €60 million Strategy 2020 investment programme competitors through our personal approach, in which we will come to a close in 2019, further investments will be focus on long-term client relationships and on aspiring to funded from our current cost base. be a trusted guide to our clients. We aim to improve our client experience by further digitalising our operations, Adapt the workforce processes and communication channels. Our people’s knowledge, experience and professionalism –R esponsibility and sustainability: We see clear are key to the way we operate. Investing in our people will opportunities to create positive economic, environmental enable them to embrace technology and adopt a more and social impact by investing the wealth of our clients in a data-driven way of working and decision-making. responsible and sustainable manner. Clients are increasingly looking for these types of investments, and we will expand We will facilitate and encourage development and training our range of sustainable investment solutions accordingly. of our existing workforce. Together, we need to optimise –E mployees: We aim to be an attractive employer. As our the use of advanced analytics, to embrace technology and employees are key to the success of our organisation, we to work in a more agile manner. We will also hire new talent invest in their training, development and health. to bring different skills and capabilities into the organisation that will help drive our development and the changes All six themes contribute to our mission: required to stay ahead. –P reservation and creation of wealth: We preserve and create wealth for our clients and society, which requires How we steer our business our wealth management solutions to deliver positive, During 2018, a new set of key performance indicators (KPIs) long-term performance. was developed, focusing on the creation of long-term value. The various steps in developing these are described below. Our performance on these themes and mission is measured via 59 financial and non-financial KPIs, of which 15 are Our themes and mission reported externally. The complete list of KPIs is an integral Based on strategic relevance, client needs, stakeholder part of our internal management information. interests, and industry trends and developments, we have defined six overarching themes, which all contribute to our KPI definition process mission. The six themes and our mission include the most In the diagram below, the interconnectivity between our material and material topics (see below) indicated by strategy, themes, material topics and KPIs is shown. our stakeholders. For more information on materiality, see our CSR Supplement. We report externally on the most material topics, which form part of our mission and all themes except Licence to Three themes lay the foundation for our operations: operate ; information on these topics is included in this – Financial and risk management: These are key to our report on page 33. We do not report on the other six organisation, as all stakeholders benefit from a solid material topics externally because they relate to our capital position and sustainable performance. “Licence to operate” theme – in other words, they relate to – E thics and integrity: We operate in an ethical manner, business as usual. and encourage our employees to behave ethically and with integrity. Our themes and mission Related material topics as stated on page 17 Our ambitions – Financial and risk management 1 2 – Ethics and integrity 11 Client needs – Licence to operate 4 5 8 9 10 12 Our External KPIs – Client relations 3 strategy Industry trends – Responsibility and sustainability 6 7 Internal KPIs – Employees 13 Stakeholder – Mission: Preservation and 3 interests creation of wealth Our strategy 20 Themes KPIs Most material Targets and mission topics covered (p. 17) Financial and risk 1. CET 1 ratio (fully loaded) 1 and 2 15-17%5 management 2. Return on equity (CET 1) 1 and 2 10-12%5 3. Efficiency ratio 1 60-65%5 Ethics and 4. Percentage of employees who feel the responsibility to act and behave 11 > industry average integrity ethically Client relations 5. Net Promoter Score (NPS): 3 a. Private Banking PB: 10 b. Evi Evi: 10 c. Asset Management AM: 20 Responsibility 6. Private Banking: AuM invested in sustainable and/or impact investment wealth 7 > last year and sustainability management solutions 7. Engagements with companies in which our funds invest 6 80-100 engagements 8. A sset Management: percentage increase in (internal and external) fund 6 and 7 > last year managers on our approved list that are scored on their overall sustainability profile 9. Decrease in carbon emissions: 7 a. Direct emissions of our own organisation 2.5%/FTE per year b. Indirect emissions via our balance sheet (mortgage portfolio) CO2 /€ < last year Employees 10. Employee engagement score 13 > 80% 11. Employer Net Promoter Score (eNPS) 13 > 10% 12. Gender balance in management positions 13 > 30% female > 30% male Mission: 13. Private Banking: 3-year performance of discretionary management mandates 3 > benchmark Preservation and creation of 14. Evi: 3-year performance of discretionary management mandates 3 > benchmark wealth 15. A  sset Management: average Morningstar rating of investment strategies 3 > 3.5 (institutional share class) 5 Our 2020 financial targets applied to 2018. As of 2019, we are setting targets for 2023 (see page 18 for more information). Our strategy 21 SPONSSPONSORSHIP V  AN LANSCHOT KEMPEN FOUNDATION Arts sponsorship is an integral part of our market We want to support community projects that help positioning as a wealth manager. The support we give to create a better world for future generations. To do this the arts, artists and museums helps to both preserve and more effectively, we have brought initiatives that were expand our cultural heritage. In January 2018, we already running within Van Lanschot and Kempen together announced a five-year partnership with Het in one organisation: the Van Lanschot Kempen Foundation. Concertgebouw in Amsterdam that will see Van Lanschot The Foundation was officially launched in November 2016 Kempen act as its main sponsor from 2018. This and saw a good second year in 2018. An important feature partnership is a perfect fit with our focus on creating and of our Foundation activities is that we always seek to preserving wealth in the broadest sense of the word. It combine a financial donation with the – pro bono – enables us to support the wonderful experience offered to deployment of Van Lanschot Kempen staff. By doing so, audiences at Het Concertgebouw – a place where people we hope to make a positive impact on society as well as on enjoy very special moments together. Van Lanschot our employees. Participation in Foundation activities Kempen has been an official partner of the Van Gogh connects our staff to new people and unfamiliar situations, Museum in Amsterdam since 2015. This partnership allows resulting in new experiences and energy. Over the year, our clients to enjoy both the museum’s beautiful collection hundreds of employees participated in around 20 different and its world-class exhibitions. The Van Lanschot Kempen projects. Art Prize is presented to a mid-career contemporary artist whose work best conveys the spirit of age to future The activities of the Foundation focus on four themes: generations. In the reporting year, the structure of the prize financial education and talent development, health, art and changed and we now work with jury selection of candidates. culture, and social cohesion via sport. The aim is to make In 2018, the prize was awarded to Mark Manders. We are the largest possible positive impact on people who need also a partner of the Nieuwe Kerk in Amsterdam, where the our support. To ensure these activities are carried out winner of the Van Lanschot Kempen Art Prize has an professionally, we prefer to cooperate with specialist exhibition in 2019. partners, such as JINC, Hartstichting, Humanitas, De Zonnebloem, Amsterdam Cares, Bart de Graaff In line with Evi’s positioning towards specific client groups, Foundation, I-Sport Special, IEX Scholenstrijd and many we sponsor various initiatives: women’s beach volleyball others. duo Madelein Meppelink and Sanne Keizer, who won the European title in July 2018; and Justdiggit, which supports The Foundation has a board, comprising six employees and projects that contribute to cooling down the planet. a member of the Van Lanschot Kempen Executive Board (Richard Bruens), as well as a large group of ambassadors Kempen is the principal sponsor of the Nereus rowing club. throughout the organisation. In 2019, Richard Bruens will We also sponsor the Holland Festival – an international be succeeded by Godfried van Lanschot, who was a event for theatre, music, dance, opera, film and the visual member of the Supervisory Board until 2018. We expect to arts in Amsterdam. Both sponsorships will end in the course further expand the Foundation’s impact in 2019. For of 2020, as we will review Kempen's sponsorships and further details on the Foundation and its annual report, see leverage our sponsorships within Van Lanschot Kempen vanlanschotkempen.com/en/vlkf. as a whole. Annual Report 22 RUNNING THE DISTANCE The saying goes: “It’s not a sprint; it’s a marathon.” But for around three years, but I actually started back in 1996 at me, it’s not a marathon – it’s an ultra-marathon! As an ultraa brokerage firm that later merged with Kempen. That’s runner, I regularly run distances of over 100 kilometres – and certainly a long-term commitment! to do that, you need months of preparation beforehand and time to recover afterwards. It’s the same with my work as In 2018, we discovered that more and more of Van Lanschot’s Senior RFP Writer for Kempen Asset Management. We’re Private Banking clients are professionalising their selection always thinking about the long term: it takes craftsmanship, process. So we set up a group-wide RFP team to enhance teamwork, dedication and continuous improvement not just our service offering. The combination of the relationship to meet today’s goals but to exceed them – and to prepare management skills and market knowledge of our for future goals. Van Lanschot colleagues with Kempen’s institutional approach and experience is a great example of working To give an example: in November 2017, a large pension together to better serve the needs of our clients, now and fund started a tender process for a new fiduciary manager; in the future. the process took a year, and we succeeded in winning it. It’s a team effort, where my job involves setting the Bas Haasnoot – Senior RFP Writer, strategy for how to win clients and creating custom Kempen Asset Management proposals for each one. It’s something I’ve been doing for Our business themes 23 OUR BUSINESS THEMES New trends, technologies and services are movements in our clients’ investment portfolios as well. Of course, there are differences in investment horizons and risk reshaping our society, the financial sector and appetites between institutional and private clients – and our operating environment. Our responses to these lead to differences in impact. the most relevant developments are covered by Historically low interest rates in the Netherlands have had an impact on the Dutch housing market, and by extension our business themes. on private clients, some of whom have been investing in real estate as an alternative to lower-yield investments and savings. Growth uncertainty and higher policy rates Economic and regulatory combined to make for an eventful end to 2018. As markets environment were illiquid, this amplified volatility. The base case is one in which growth can be sustained and market moves offer Both the economic environment and ongoing regulatory private clients more opportunities to diversify. Interest rates developments are important in shaping a stable financial are still low, but credit spreads have widened. Lower equity system. As a specialist wealth manager, our business is multiples mean that equities will still deliver higher returns strongly affected by the economy – both in Europe and than lower-risk assets over the long term. The difference in globally. Equally, our work must comply with a number of returns will, however, continue to shrink as corporate margins regulations, for example relating to our duty of care towards revert back to average. If inflation begins to rise, there will be our clients. opportunities to take advantage of assets that have shorter maturities and/or offer compensation for inflation. Economic trends The global economy in 2018 was relatively strong, but this Institutional investors may react in different ways: either was not always reflected in the performance of equity taking on greater risks due to the strong economy, or markets, especially in Q4. Growth in the US meant that the becoming more prudent due to political uncertainty. US Federal Reserve raised interest rates, while economies Looking for new opportunities to generate yield – such as in emerging markets remained in flux. Europe occupies a through impact investing or infrastructure funds – is more position in between: there are solid fundamental conditions important than ever. And portfolios that comprise a variety for sustained economic growth, but interest rates remain of different asset classes are almost always a safe choice. low as inflation rates remain below the European Central Bank’s targets. Growth and political uncertainties increased Regulatory environment as 2018 developed, with fallout over Brexit, the political Like other financial institutions, Van Lanschot Kempen has to situation in Italy, and tensions between the US and China all deal with a large number of complex guidelines and having an impact – more so in Europe than elsewhere. regulations. In 2018, we faced the implementation of several new regulations. We finalised the implementation of the The economy in late 2018 and early 2019 can be Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II (MiFID II), the characterised by three clear trends: General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the new –  Desynchronisation: Inequalities between different accounting standard IFRS 9 for financial instruments. All of markets and sectors mean that various global these were major and potentially impactful changes, but we economies are responding differently to market shifts. were able to implement them on schedule, and the ultimate EU markets were the first to show tension, but by the impact is relatively limited. Finally, we’ve performed a end of 2018 the US proved not to be immune either. comprehensive analysis of the finalised Basel reform –  Politicisation: While politics have slowly come to exert package, referred to as Basel IV. For more information, see more influence over the economy over the last couple of the “Risk and capital management” section on pages 62-70. years, 2018 was the first year in which investors could no longer ignore the politicians. Political debates about In terms of regulations, 2018 was an exceptional year, with populism, deregulation and globalisation are effecting a several major changes running in parallel – putting severe shift from monetary policy to fiscal policy. pressure on our resources and infrastructure. In 2019, the –  Normalisation: While some economies (the US, in situation will be less severe, but significant resources will particular) have normalised more quickly than others still be needed. We will continue our dialogue with the following the 2008 financial crisis, overall normalisation National Resolution Authority on Resolution Planning, means that we are slowly starting to see growth in although no major impact is foreseen for this. In the inflation and wages. But the situation remains fragile, as regulatory domain, preparation for Brexit scenarios is on the doubts about sustainable economic growth illustrated in agenda (for more information, see page 69), as well as the the last few weeks of 2018. replacement of LIBOR and Euribor rates. Impact on our clients On the back of several money laundering incidents that took The corporate sector has been doing well over the past year place in the financial industry in 2018, much public – with above-average margins, strong cash flow, and attention was paid to the role of banks in detecting any money being returned to shareholders. During the last few form of money laundering in the financial system. This is months of the year, however, equity markets declined on adding pressure on financial institutions to play their role as the back of the trade tensions between the US and China gatekeeper even more effectively, and we expect increased and uncertainty around Brexit. This led to negative price scrutiny from regulators over the coming months and years. Our business themes 24 We have an advanced monitoring system and a team of experts in place to carry out client due diligence (CDD) and CLIENT-CENTRICITY transaction monitoring. In 2018, the system received a We aim only to offer solutions that suit our clients’ needs. In sophisticated upgrade, by implementing advanced analytics addition, these solutions must be easy to understand, tools to detect integrity risks. Also, given the incidents cost-efficient and not unnecessarily complicated. In order to we’ve seen around us, additional assessments were made balance client interests, risks and returns, we approve new to double-check our processes. See the Risk and capital products and services before they are launched via the management section on page 69 for more information on product approval process. Products and services are tested CDD. periodically to check whether they still meet the needs of our clients. Representatives from across the organisation are Solutions for clients involved in the approval process. The final evaluation lies with the Product Boards, in which members of the Executive Our ambition is to act as a guide for our private, corporate Board are also represented. and institutional clients – financially, of course, but also non-financially – to help them achieve their long-term goals. In order to create this trusted relationship with our clients, we need to be relevant to them – today, tomorrow and in the full range of our services. And their needs are the the future. And to do this, we need to truly understand starting point for the solutions we develop. them – who they are and what they need – so that we can help them fulfil their wishes. We believe that shifting from a Strategic advice product-based approach to a real solution-led approach will As part of our acquisition of UBS’s wealth management help both us and our clients to be successful. services in the Netherlands, we introduced a new proposition for Private Banking clients in which we provide Solutions-driven approach strategic advice about all their assets – including a In order to be solutions-driven, it’s imperative that our consolidated report on those assets – whether they are starting points are the clients’ needs and their investment invested via our own propositions, third parties or in real beliefs; we then co-create solutions with them that are estate, for instance. And we act as the client’s customised to their specific wishes. As a secondary representative towards other parties, ensuring that their objective, we aim to create products that are useful to other investment goals stay on track. In a nutshell, we offer full clients in the future, too. Building on our vast experience, support and advice, management of external mandates, there are four elements in our solutions-driven approach: and monitoring of the quality of external asset managers. –  Open architecture: Working with an open architecture means not only using our in-house knowledge, but also Investing in illiquid, private markets being specialists in selecting external fund managers for When looking for yields, people are increasingly investing in a mandate, for instance. This is how we create a range illiquid, private markets. We aim to provide solutions that of high-quality options for clients, to make sure we can make investing in private markets more accessible to all our fulfil their needs. clients: –  Sustainability: There is empirical evidence that – Spinning off the management company of Van Lanschot sustainable portfolios are more robust in the long term. Participaties (at the end of 2017) opened up our private This is one of the reasons why we encourage our clients equity business to third parties, including our Private to look at the sustainability of their assets in the long Banking clients, via a newly established fund: Bolster term, including their social and environmental footprint. Investments Coöperatief U.A. – Innovation: One of our goals is to use business and – In May 2018, we set up the Kempen Private Markets market intelligence to come up with investable ideas and Fund. By the end of 2018, the assets under create new categories for our internal advisers, bankers management in the fund had grown to €43 million. and relationship managers to bring forward and discuss The fund has been attracting interest from the UK, with their clients. some family offices and wealth managers, as well as –  Simplification: Investing can be a complex process. We new clients to Van Lanschot Private Banking. aim to simplify investment and asset management for – In 2018, we worked on the set-up of the new Kempen our clients by essentially outsourcing the complexity to European Private Equity Fund. The fund was launched in Van Lanschot Kempen. January 2019 and we are already seeing interest from existing clients and prospects. Several examples from the reporting year show how we have brought together a combination of these elements in Sustainable solutions order to find high-quality solutions to our clients’ needs. At Van Lanschot Private Banking and Kempen Asset Management, there is increasing demand from our clients Family solutions for more sustainable solutions. We are therefore continuing In 2018, our solutions-driven approach led to a group effort to expand our impact investing services, and our Duurzaam+ for our family office clients. The requirements of these sustainable discretionary management offering continues clients are unique: they may have private banking needs as to be popular among our Private Banking clients. individuals, reporting and asset management needs from an institutional perspective, and they could be interested in In 2018, we worked on the introduction of the Van Lanschot private placements from Merchant Banking’s clients. In Groenhypotheek (green mortgage) to help finance 2018, we put together a dedicated “Family Solutions” team renovations to make properties more sustainable against a to act as the linking pin between family office clients and lower interest rate – this will be launched for clients in 2019. the entire organisation, so that we can provide them with Our business themes 25 Many clients find environmental, social and governance and research. We’ve also implemented an approach that (ESG) criteria as important as financial returns criteria. allows us to develop digital solutions and dashboards when The long-term Sustainable Value Creation Fund, which was needs arise: for example, Kempen has created dashboards launched in 2017, stood at €182 million at year-end. At the that record a daily flow of market and client information, a beginning of 2018, we created the Kempen Global Impact digital planner for conferences, and dashboards that enable Pool together with our pension fund clients – selecting the us to read the value of a particular client to Kempen’s SDG criteria that are most relevant to their wishes. With an business. open architecture approach and by investing in the best external managers, the fund currently has €66 million in Personalisation powered by artificial assets under management, and we expect more clients to intelligence join in the future. Our added value comes from the human interaction and personalised service we can give to our clients. While it’s difficult for algorithms to deal with complex issues and tailor Digitalisation and advanced solutions accordingly, tracking and interpreting a client’s analytics financial situation is a data analytics-intensive task which can be automated and scaled across a banker’s client portfolio. Personalised service is key to our business, and technology By automating these tasks, bankers become more relevant helps us to strengthen the quality of this service. In recent and productive – and they can spend more time on where years, the use of technology to customise each individual’s they add most value: serving clients to meet their unique online experience has become mainstream. Meanwhile, the needs. As a result, client satisfaction increases, leading to rise in the use of mobile is a trend that’s only set to accelerate higher loyalty and – ultimately – a larger share of their assets further. Van Lanschot Kempen is well positioned to take being invested with us. advantage of the opportunities that such trends offer – both to better serve our clients and to improve the efficiency and To support this, artificial intelligence (AI) can provide profitability of our business. automated insights and information by analysing huge data sets that are growing all the time. On the product side, AI Data-driven client solutions generally leads to fewer mistakes and is more reliable than For some years now, Van Lanschot Kempen has been humans, resulting in better intelligence to drive product leveraging business intelligence to truly understand the development. On the sales and distribution side, AI can drivers behind our business. This has allowed us to automate processes that were previously done manually, extrapolate past data into future forecasts that help us to thereby creating efficiencies. For instance, we use predictive better understand client behaviour and to act on it more models to be able to proactively mitigate client attrition. effectively. The next step is to use both internal and external data to predict situations and anticipate events Digital initiatives and tools before they happen. Digital tooling enables us to improve our client offering and to process the insights we gain from data analytics to make There are several examples of how the use of data can sure our response reaches the right destination. This could improve client experience. In Private Banking, the Compass include changing our website content, sending a app sends bankers information that will help them to serve personalised email to a client, or notifying a relationship their clients better. Through Compass, we alert bankers of manager that they need to take action. Our aim is to be likely upcoming events so they can proactively approach relevant for our clients – when, where and how they want – their clients to discuss options, or act quickly to suggest an now and in the future. appropriate course of action. At Evi, our digital capabilities are used in two main areas. CLIENT PRIVACY AND DATA SECURITY On the one hand, we use advanced analytics to follow the As a wealth manager, we place a high value on our clients’ client’s digital journey and to offer them tailored, privacy – and handling large amounts of private client data is personalised information that meets their individual needs a responsibility we take very seriously. The Privacy and interests, on the website and via email. On the other, Statement on our websites describes how we handle our we use predictive modelling of inflow and outflow patterns clients’ personal information. We are also subject to the to detect significant anomalies and fine-tune our client General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which came acquisition and retention processes. into force on 25 May 2018. We have integrated the GDPR requirements into our policies on processing personal data Kempen Asset Management’s real estate team applies a and into the specific processes and procedures involved. We data-driven investment process in which large amounts of have appointed a Data Protection Officer, and we pay data are processed into investment decision-making. Real regular attention to building employee awareness of client estate data, such as distance to public transport, privacy and data security issues. We have also created a commuting times of employees, education levels and so on, Privacy Framework for managing the processing and are collected and used to improve our knowledge of the protection of personal data. Reporting according to GDPR is 200,000 buildings the listed real estate space comprises. included in our compliance reports, and is reviewed by Ultimately this leads to better risk-adjusted returns for our several committees. We have procedures in place to handle clients. and record complaints, information requests, and any eventual breaches of client data. We have not registered any At Kempen Merchant Banking, our project to build a data material complaints from clients or regulators relating to this warehouse was completed in 2018, allowing for more in 2018. data-driven decision-making when it comes to our clients Annual Report 26 THINKING LIKE OUR CLIENTS Having started as a consultant at KPMG and worked as a Our aim is to be the benchmark within the Benelux region business controller for BinckBank, I was keen to switch to for omni-channel wealth management, so we’re developing the front office and work on more client-facing projects. tools that surprise our clients and bankers with amazing So I came on board at Van Lanschot Kempen in 2015 to features that you won’t find at our competitors. This work on the digitalisation programme. It’s my job to think contributes to the long-term value that Van Lanschot outside-in. As a client, what would I expect from a digital Kempen adds for our clients – and if they're more wealth manager? If I look at where we’ve come from over satisfied, we can improve client retention. Our digital tools the past three years, we’re sitting on a wealth of digital and human touch reinforce each other and create even possibilities now compared to then. 2018 has been a better relationships. successful year, with the continuous improvement of our investment app, a brand new Mijn Van Lanschot (online And when I’m not eating, sleeping and breathing digital? portal) for all our clients, the introduction of Vermogens­ I’m fanatical about cycling and mountain biking! horizon (goal monitoring and scenario analyses), the Compass app for bankers and the Messaging Centre for Peter Huiskamp – Product Owner Investments, investment advisers. The coming year will be about Van Lanschot Private Banking connecting the dots so that we have a more integrated approach and can lift our digital services to the next level. Our business themes 27 We started with our private banking business as part of our is most material. In short: what we do with our clients’ money Strategy 2020 investment programme in 2016, with the aim – whether in Private Banking, Evi or Asset Management – of bringing new digital tools to other areas of the business in has the most impact on the environment and society. The due course. In 2018, Van Lanschot Private Banking’s website final part of this section goes into more depth about two was rebuilt, and we also launched a new “Mijn Van Lanschot” ESG themes that were on our 2018 agenda: climate change client portal. Both have a new design and are built to work and human rights. seamlessly across all platforms. The website also provides tailored content to clients that is relevant to their specific Our approach to sustainability in client needs. For example, a client who already has a mortgage investments with Van Lanschot would not be shown content about taking The investment market as a whole is clearly shifting from out a mortgage with us. “doing no harm” to “doing good”. Driving this shift are important international developments such as climate change Our investment app now allows investment advisers to send and an increasing focus on addressing global challenges tailored messages or push notifications to specific clients or through the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 1 sub-groups of clients. Meanwhile, our client service centre As a responsible wealth manager and as long-term has also been improved so that all calls and emails are stewards of our clients' assets, we encourage positive automatically scanned into the CRM system. The next time a change by taking financial and non-financial factors into client makes contact via whichever channel they choose, they account when making investment decisions. Non-financial can more quickly and easily be routed to the right person to factors include environmental, social and employment handle their query. conditions, human rights, anti-corruption and bribery. We have an extensive responsible investment policy that Group-wide initiatives translates international guidelines into ESG criteria, on the Within the organisation, we have already started several basis of which we screen our investments. Via our initiatives to use advanced analytics and digitalisation to engagements and voting, we aim to improve the ESG facilitate our services offering and effective distribution, as practices of companies and investment funds. Companies described above. The next phase in our wealth management that cannot improve (due to their products), or show no strategy will accelerate and strengthen these activities by willingness to improve, can be excluded. See our CSR making them group-wide initiatives. We therefore plan to Supplement for more details. roll out our digital programme across all business segments, so that our other clients can benefit from Van Lanschot Screening Private Banking’s omni-channel learnings, too. We have Screening our assets against ESG criteria is part of our appointed a Chief Analytics Officer and a Chief Digital responsible investment process. In 2018, we further Officer, who will focus on implementation and development improved our ESG scoring methodology for (external) fund of advanced analytics tools, and on further digitalising our managers1. On the basis of this new methodology, every operations and processes. fund is now assigned an ESG score, ranging from 1 (inadequate) to 5 (leading). Currently, we have scored Responsible business 53 funds, contributing to 19% of our AuM. Their ESG scores range between 2 and 4.5. As a percentage of AuM Consideration of sustainability factors – environmental, the scores are: 2% embryonic; 11% sufficient; and 6% social and governance (ESG) issues – is no longer a maturing. The distribution of the 53 funds’ ESG scores are: separate niche. It's a mainstream concern that we take into 11% embryonic; 53% sufficient; 34% maturing; and 2% account. At Van Lanschot Kempen, this translates in leading. In 2019, we will extend this scoring methodology practice into three areas: the assets we manage for our to more funds. clients, our balance sheet-related activities, and our own organisation. We focus mainly on the first area because this Responsible investment dashboard Screening Engagement Voting 53 funds meetings voted at companies engaged with collaboratively 461 208 19% of AuM Exclusion and avoidance 37% 20 91 11 fund managers engaged with 28 of meetings with AGMs attended in person at least one vote companies engaged companies excluded Against, Withheld or with directly 24 Abstained companies on the avoidance list (plus 105 tobacco-related companies) 1 Until 2017, we calculated assets under screening; this metric only indicates whether an asset can be screened but not what the ESG quality of the asset is. We address this through ESG scoring for funds. Our business themes 28 Engagement Through our engagements, we seek to encourage positive In addition, our central Charity and Impact Investing change at companies and investment funds. During the Service continued to roll out its services through the local reporting year, we engaged with 299 companies on Van Lanschot network, and extended additional environmental, social and governance issues. Of these contributions in the form of pitches and workshops for engagements, 91 were directly with companies clients and employees. We use personal advisory (environmental (21%), employee and social (15%), human discussions to identify our clients’ wishes and needs in rights (10%), corruption & bribery (0%) and governance terms of social impact, and then help them choose the (54%)); 208 were collaborative engagements with most appropriate donation or investment strategy. companies; and 20 were dialogues with external fund managers. The latter include Eumedion, Carbon Action Climate change 100+, Platform Financials Living Wage, PRI and IIGCC. For Climate change continues to be an important issue globally, more details and examples, see our CSR Supplement. and is therefore an integral part of our responsible business strategy. The biggest contribution we can make is – again Voting – via our client investments. As a responsible wealth manager, we exercise voting rights. In 2018, we voted at 461 meetings, or 93% of all votable Client investments meetings, at which we voted 6% against management. For the second year running, we have assessed the carbon footprint of our client investments. The aggregate carbon Exclusion and avoidance footprint of our clients' managed assets was 3.8 million Based on a company’s behaviour or products and services, tonnes of CO2, approximately the same as last year (2017: we may choose to exclude or avoid that company. In 2018, 3.9 million tonnes). To be able to ultimately steer the climate Kempen Asset Management decided to exclude tobacco impact of our assets under management, for the first time in companies from its funds due to their negative impact on 2018 we also carried out a climate scenario analysis on two society. The companies we exclude can be found via: of our strategies in order to assess the impact that kempen.com/en/asset-management/responsible-investment. transitional and physical climate risks may have on our investment portfolios. Read more about climate scenario New sustainable and impact investment analysis and our initiatives in our Task Force on Climatesolutions for clients related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) statement online: In 2018, several developments have provided our clients vanlanschotkempen.com/responsible/environment. with more opportunities to contribute to a sustainable society via their investments. Assets on our balance sheet In 2018, we also further developed and applied our The Kempen (Lux) Global Sustainable Value Creation Fund methodology (using 2017 data) to determine the carbon offers investors the opportunity to invest in a diversified emissions of the total assets on our balance sheet, arriving portfolio of listed companies worldwide which comply with at a total of 60,949 tonnes (2017: 73,525 tonnes); see our strict sustainability criteria. It selects investments with a CSR Supplement for more information. As most of these focus on long-term value creation for all stakeholders. balance sheet-related carbon emissions relate to This new fund reflects investors’ growing interest in mortgages, we developed the Van Lanschot sustainable investments. Together with our other Groenhypotheek (green mortgage). This new mortgage sustainable and impact-focused Kempen funds, the total product, which comes with customised green energy sustainable assets under management amounted to around advice, offers clients the opportunity to borrow extra €0.9 billion in 2018 for Kempen Asset Management. money at attractive interest rates, to modify their homes in order to make them more sustainable. We expect to launch In 2018, we also expanded our impact investing proposition the Van Lanschot Groenhypotheek in 2019. by creating the Kempen Global Impact Pool, an investment solution that targets positive impact across four themes Our own organisation that relate to the SDGs and invests across listed and Although the climate impact of our own organisation is non-listed asset classes. It was made available to relatively limited, we take measures to reduce it. In 2018, institutional as well as Private Banking clients. we were once again on track to meet our objective of reducing carbon emissions per FTE by 2% a year in the In Van Lanschot Private Banking, our assets under 2015-25 period. At the end of 2018, we raised our sustainable discretionary management grew to reduction target to 2.5% a year. In the reporting period, our €1,318 million in 2018 (2017: €1,138 million). Growth carbon emissions per FTE were 2.54 tonnes. For more was driven mainly by our sustainable product offering, details, see our CSR Supplement. Duurzaam+. Carbon footprint of our assets under management CO2 assets under Absolute footprint Relative footprint Carbon intensity Coverage management 2 (in million tCO2) (tCO2 /€ m invested) (tCO2 /€ m sales) (CO2 based on % AuM) Private Banking (incl. Evi) 1.5 111.8 – 60 % Asset Management 2.3 114.5 185.6 45% Total 3.8 113.5 – 50% 2 CO2 figures based on 2017 data (scope 1 and 2); the coverage in 2017 was 55%. Our business themes 29 Human rights This will fundamentally change the way we operate. Digital As we recognise the crucial importance of this topic, we tools and data will enable our client-facing employees to have integrated it into all our businesses and activities. increase their efficiency, but most of all to enhance client relationships and experience by providing the right service Client investments at the right time. Supported by human contact, through At the end of 2018, pension funds in the Netherlands which we distinguish ourselves from others, this will signed a Responsible Investment (RI) covenant, as a strengthen the service we provide. follow-up to the covenant that was signed by insurance companies earlier in the year. The covenant is underpinned Leadership programme by the OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and The transformation that’s taking place both outside and the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and inside our organisation requires our leaders to be competent Human Rights. We expect these covenants to further in facilitating change: they need in-depth knowledge on the contribute to the importance and growth of ESG impact of digitalisation, and they need to learn to lead implementation in the Netherlands. mixed teams of more traditional finance professionals as well as young digital talents. We’re therefore putting in Human rights has always been one of our focus areas. Since place specific (on the job) learning interventions for this. the OECD published its Responsible Business Conduct for Institutional Investors: Key Considerations for Due Diligence One example of the ways in which we’re linking our under the OECD Guidelines in 2017 (as well as the RI leadership programme to the specific business challenges pension and insurance covenants mentioned above), this we face is a series of breakfast talks. In 2018, inspiring has become an even more prominent topic. Kempen Asset external speakers came to share their knowledge with Management has joined two collaborative engagement managers a total of nine times – with topics ranging from initiatives that specifically focus on addressing salient diversity and inclusion to blockchain. An average of 60% of human rights risks in supply chains. One is an existing managers attended the sessions live in person, while many initiative relating to sustainability issues in the cobalt supply others followed the presentations online afterwards. Our chain; the other is the Platform Living Wage Financials evaluation has shown that the breakfast talks are highly (PLWF), a new initiative of which Kempen was a founding appreciated among our leaders. member. PLWF encourages, supports, and monitors investee companies on their commitment to paying a living Recruitment wage to the workers in their supply chains. In addition to more traditional commercial and support roles, we now increasingly seek people with strong digital Assets on our balance sheet and data analytics skills as so much of the financial services Although relatively less material, human rights are also a industry is now IT-based. With historically low topic in relation to our balance sheet. In 2016, we signed unemployment in the Netherlands, it’s becoming ever more the IMVO banking covenant on human rights, mainly difficult to attract the right people. Our competitors are all focusing on human rights improvements in lending facing the same challenge, which means that the talent pool activities and our own organisation. After implementing is even smaller and more competitive. During the reporting most of the requirements from the covenant in 2017, we year, we have been running targeted recruitment campaigns published our first compliance report in early 2018. We later – through agencies, social media and elsewhere – in a bid to organised a fruitful meeting with our stakeholders, ranging grow our pipeline of digitally savvy people for the future. from clients to industry experts. The result was a list of relevant suggestions for further improvements that we will Continuous dialogue implement in due course. Across businesses in general, there is a trend towards more open, transparent and continuous performance management Our people throughout the year – rather than one or two appraisals at specific points. In line with this thinking, in 2018 As a professional services company, Van Lanschot Kempen Van Lanschot Kempen started a performance management relies on the knowledge, experience and professionalism of pilot in around a dozen teams to promote continuous its employees. To stay relevant to our clients and the world dialogue between employees and managers. Based on around us, we need to adapt to change. Our approach to the feedback and results of the pilot, we’re confident that our workforce reflects this. continuous dialogue is the way forward, and are now exploring how it can be implemented across the organisation. Finding the right people As part of our strategy to deliver solutions to clients, we Employee engagement need to know and understand the needs of our clients in a We conducted an employee engagement survey in late broader sense. In order to be a solutions-led organisation, 2017, which has given us the full year 2018 to evaluate and we need people with data and analytical skills, but also act on the results. Strengths that came out of the survey people with inquiring minds and strong social skills. The overall were identified as: positive cooperation between prevalent trend towards digital transformation means that departments; a culture that invites opinion sharing; we need to balance digital channels with real human contact. recommendation of Van Lanschot Kempen as a good To add value, we need to adapt to this new way of working employer to others; clarity on our objectives; and optimism – and that means developing our employees to be digitally about the future. Several opportunities were also identified, savvy and even more people-centric. namely: the need to improve on client-centricity through innovation and more efficient processes; the desire for Building and maintaining strong relationships is key to better recognition and attention to well-being; the need for staying relevant and reliable for our clients. We believe that more transparency surrounding promotion and performance; digitalisation, advanced analytics and new technologies will and the wish for more attention to be paid to our overall help us to create and preserve the wealth of our clients. Van Lanschot Kempen values. Our business themes 30 Based on these results, concrete actions were taken across Key staff data 2018 2017 all teams. For example, individual in-depth interviews were set up to explore the reasons for some below-average Employees (FTEs at year-end) 1,621 1,658 scores, with the goal of reducing staff turnover, increasing Absenteeism (%) 2.7 2.7 satisfaction, and using the full potential of the team members who were interviewed. Investment in training (€ million) 4.5 4.2 Training hours (total number of hours, 125,361 113,959 Our next employee engagement survey will take place in individually and collectively)3 the first half of 2019, and will be reported on in our 2019 annual report. We will conduct an employee engagement Male/female ratio (%) 64/36 64/36 survey every two years. Encouraging diversity and inclusion In 2018, all commercial business units and support functions Staff per business 2018 2017 drew up their own diversity plans, which they discussed with Number FTEs Number FTEs the Executive Board. For example, both Kempen Asset Management and Kempen Merchant Banking have been Private Banking 804 754 810 757 carrying out training on unconscious bias during recruitment. Evi 28 28 34 33 Managers tend to hire people like themselves, which by Asset Management 228 221 236 230 definition curtails diversity; by training our brains not to give into our unconscious bias, we can ensure that we’re including all Merchant Banking 111 110 113 112 relevant candidates in our potential talent pool. Within Private Other (support functions) 536 508 554 525 Banking, a special Diversity & Inclusion Team has been created, comprising ten representatives from different fields. The aim is Total 1,707 1,621 1,747 1,658 to create more awareness of diversity and to encourage the hiring and appointment of a broader range of employees. In addition, we introduced a KPI on gender balance in management positions in 2018. As of year-end 2018, 20% Education and training of employees in management positions are female. For All our employees receive a regular performance review, more information on this KPI, see page 33. and in 2018 we invested €4.5 million (2017: €4.2 million) in education and training programmes for our staff. The This need for diversity and inclusion will become ever more number of training hours averaged 9.7 days per employee important as we strive to attract the different types of talent per year4 , an increase compared to 2017 (8.6 days)5 . required to transform our workforce. For example, by hiring people with more digital and technical skills, we believe that Absenteeism the profiles of employees entering the company will become The rate of absenteeism remained unchanged in 2018 more diverse. (2.7%). Absenteeism policies and prevention are a continual focus. For more information about our staff numbers, see We believe it’s important to support people with an our CSR Supplement. occupational disability to find employment. During the reporting year, we made a positive start by hiring several people, such as Francis Bogmans, within various parts of the organisation – read her testimonial on page 32. Vitality Programme To support a better work-life balance, in 2018 we allocated each employee their own individual budget to put towards the Vitality Programme that suits them best: physical, mental, emotional or spiritual. The majority have used the budget for activities such as mindfulness and health coaching. Staff composition The number of FTEs employed at Van Lanschot Kempen slightly decreased in 2018 to 1,621 (2017: 1,658) due to our ongoing focus on process optimisation and efficiency. Of that total, 36% are women – the same as the previous year. The percentage of female members on the Executive Board is 33%. 3 Number of training hours for Van Lanschot Netherlands and Kempen only. The figure is calculated and not based on registration. 4 The figure is calculated and not based on registration. 5 In 2018, the amount of training per employee averaged 9.7 days for men and 9.6 for women. Our business themes 31 ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR The financial sector is built on trust, and a healthy culture and ethical behaviour are needed to sustain this trust with all our stakeholders. Van Lanschot Kempen has various policies in place to encourage an ethical culture and to ensure that we act with integrity. We also have various measures to help to prevent unethical behaviour that could result in significant reputational damage and/or financial losses. BANKING CODE, CODE OF CONDUCT AND BANKER’S OATH The Banking Code, with which we comply, sets out principles for sound and controlled business operations, corporate governance, risk management policies, and audit and remuneration policies. Its scope includes the integrity of the organisation (for more information, see page 85). As stated in the Banking Code, the Statutory and Supervisory Boards are responsible for developing and maintaining standards of integrity and ethical behaviour. Our Code of Conduct, to which every employee must adhere, goes further than complying with relevant legislation. It includes guidelines on how employees should act with integrity and balance the interests of all stakeholders. Our Code also includes the Banker’s Oath, which all our employees are required to sign. For more information, see vanlanschotkempen.com/en/governance. While there were no ethical incidents in 2018, there was one potential material incident resulting from a failure to comply with our Code of Conduct, Banking Code or Banker’s Oath. MECHANISMS FOR ADVICE AND CONCERNS ABOUT ETHICS Employees have various avenues for seeking advice or raising concerns about ethical issues – for example, via their managers and the Compliance department. We have a whistleblower policy and a complaints procedure in place; we have also appointed a confidential adviser who employees can turn to. Annual Report 32 FINDING THE RIGHT BALANCE My background is in HR – specifically in diversity, learning For all employees, but especially when you have a and recruitment. Ten years ago, I was diagnosed with disability, finding balance is extremely important. Not multiple sclerosis. For seven years, I managed to continue only a work-life balance, but also a balance in terms of full-time in my job at another company. But over the past your physical and mental energy. In this challenging two years, I needed work that better corresponds with my labour market, it’s vital not only to keep an eye on energy levels and brain damage. In March 2018, I joined your well-being but also on your development: what Van Lanschot Kempen in a part-time, specialist role. My gives you energy? How can you make a unique work consists of recruiting employees with a physical or contribution? What do you want to do with your life, mental disability, coaching them and their teams, not just today but tomorrow and in the future? By taking researching regulations, and maintaining contact with the small steps to look after our well-being and development, UWV (Dutch Employee Insurance Agency). As well as my we can challenge ourselves to make a big impact in the own position, we've created several positions with the help long term. of a special corporate budget made available for people with a disability – an initiative the company sees as an Francis Bogmans – Adviser Inclusion, Group HRM important part of our role in society. Progress report 33 PERFORMANCE Financial and non-financial KPIs Please note that Van Lanschot Kempen did not conduct an During 2018, a new set of key performance indicators engagement survey in 2018. As a result, no scores are (KPIs) was developed in addition to the existing KPIs, reported within the Ethics and integrity theme (KPI 4) and focusing on long-term value creation. These financial and for KPI 11. For more information on the development of our non-financial KPIs reflect both the interests of our KPIs, please refer to page 34. stakeholders and our ambitions as a wealth manager. An overview of our performance on the KPIs that we report externally is shown in the table below. Themes and mission KPIs Targets Score 2018 Financial and risk management 1. CET 1 ratio (fully loaded) 15-17% 1 21.4% 2. Return on equity (CET 1) 10-12%1 9.8% 3. Efficiency ratio 60-65%1 79.4% Ethics and integrity 4. Percentage of employees who feel the > industry average n/a n/a responsibility to act and behave ethically Client relations 5. Net Promoter Score (NPS): a. Private Banking PB: 10 2 b. Evi Evi: 10 –20 c. Asset Management AM: 20 442 Responsibility and sustainability 6. Private Banking: AuM invested in sustainable and/ > last year 2018: €1,318m or impact investment wealth management solutions 2017: €1,138m 7. Engaging with companies in which our funds invest 80-100 engagements 91 engagements 8. A  sset Management: percentage increase in (internal > last year 2018: 53 funds and external) fund managers on our approved list 2017: 0 funds that are scored on their overall sustainability profile 9. D  ecrease in carbon emissions: a. Direct emissions of our own organisation 2.5%/FTE per year –8.1% b. Indirect emissions via our balance sheet CO 2 /€ < last year –7.4% (mortgage portfolio) Employees 10. Employee engagement score > 80% 81% 2 11. Employer Net Promoter Score (eNPS)1 > 10 – – 12. Gender balance in management positions > 30% female 20% female > 30% male 80% male Mission: Preservation and 13. Private Banking: 3-year performance of > benchmark –0.1% creation of wealth discretionary management mandates 14. E vi: 3-year performance of discretionary > benchmark –0.4% management mandates 15. A sset Management: average Morningstar rating > 3.5 4.0 of investment strategies (institutional share class) KPI more than achieved KPI achieved KPI almost achieved KPI not achieved KPI far from achieved 1 Our 2020 targets applied to 2018. As of 2019, we set targets for 2023 (please refer to page 18). 2 Score for 2017. Progress report 34 Financial and risk management Employees Financial performance and risk management are key to our As a professional services company, Van Lanschot Kempen organisation, as all direct stakeholders benefit from a solid is dependent on hiring and retaining knowledgeable, capital position and sustainable performance. In 2018, our experienced and professional staff. That means we are CET 1 fully loaded ratio increased to 21.4% and our return highly motivated to create an attractive work environment on CET 1 decreased to 9.8%. The efficiency ratio amounted for our workforce and to invest in our people. At year-end to 79.4%. As of 2019, we have adjusted our target for the 2018, 20% of the employees in management positions were efficiency ratio from 60-65% to 70-72%. We believe this female. We are also focusing on developing an additional target aligns with our profile as a wealth manager and with KPI to reflect our ambition of encouraging diversity within the economic environment in which we operate. More our organisation (e.g. in terms of background). As information on the developments underlying these ratios is mentioned above, no employee engagement survey was provided on pages 35-42. conducted in 2018, which is why the 2017 employee engagement score is reported and no Employer Net Ethics and integrity Promoter Score is provided for 2018. Our next employee We operate in an ethical manner, and we encourage our engagement survey will take place in the first half of 2019 employees to behave ethically and with integrity. We and will be conducted every second year. monitor the ethical behaviour of our employees by focusing on this item in our employee engagement survey. In 2018, Mission: preservation and creation of wealth no employee engagement survey was conducted so no As our mission is to preserve and create wealth for our score is reported this time. Our next employee engagement clients, our wealth management solutions should deliver a survey will take place in the first half of 2019 and will be positive performance in the long term, and our investment conducted every second year. strategies should perform well compared to their benchmarks. At year-end 2018, the three-year Client relationships performances of Private Banking and Evi discretionary The relationship with our clients is one of our most management mandates relative to their benchmarks stood important assets. To measure the satisfaction and loyalty of at –0.1% and –0.4% respectively. In 2018, performance our clients, we use the Net Promoter Score (NPS), which was slightly below the benchmark due to the decision to gives insight into client loyalty and the number of promoters take less interest rate risk than the benchmark by investing of the organisation. The score lies within a range of –100 to in credits and liquidity funds and due to the 100 points, the higher the better. The formula is as follows: underperformance of the external equity funds selected. NPS = % promoters % detractors. Promoters give the 2016 and 2017 showed an outperformance compared to organisation a score of 9 or 10, whereas detractors award a the benchmark. At Asset Management the average score of between 0 and 6. The NPS that we measure is also Morningstar rating of our investment strategies is 4.0, well known as the Relationship NPS. The Relationship NPS above our target of 3.5. differs from the Transactional NPS, which is also commonly used. The Transactional NPS measures client satisfaction For more information on our KPIs, see our CSR Supplement. after a single transaction and tends to lead to a higher score than the Relationship NPS. We measure the Relationship NPS once a year for Private Banking and Evi. Our Private Banking clients awarded us an NPS of 2, below our target of 10. Evi clients awarded an NPS of –20, below our target of 10. Both NPS scores were impacted by disappointing absolute results on clients’ investment portfolios. For Asset Management, we measure the NPS once every two years as the relationship with – and the solutions provided to – institutional clients do not change as quickly as in the case of private clients. The NPS of 44 awarded by clients of Asset Management in 2017 was above our target of 20. Responsibility and sustainability We can achieve the most significant economic, environmental and social impact by investing the wealth of our clients in a responsible and sustainable manner. The Private Banking AuM invested in sustainable and impact investment rose to €1,318 million in 2018, from €1,138 million in 2017. Over the year, we undertook 91 engagements for change and awareness, well within our target of 80-100 cases. In 2018, we also started rating external fund managers on ESG criteria and were able to score 53 fund managers. In addition, we decreased the carbon emissions caused by our mortgage portfolio by 7.4% and those caused by our own organisation by 8.1% per FTE. Progress report 35 Results €293.2 million, driven by higher average AuM volumes and 2018 was a good year for Van Lanschot Kempen. A net a high deal flow at Merchant Banking. At €396.4 billion, result of €80.3 million coupled with an underlying net result operating costs were up on last year. As expected, the larger of €103.0 million allow us to propose a dividend of €1.45 proportion of costs was recorded in the first half of 2018, per share. Client assets fell to €81.2 billion from reflecting lower regulatory levies and charges in H2 2018 €83.6 billion, while our assets under management (AuM) together with our focus on cost-saving measures (which also were down 3% to €67.0 billion. The decline was driven by a involved us taking a restructuring charge of €8.3 million). In negative market performance, offset in part by a net inflow 2018, the quality of our loan portfolio was back up, sparking of €1.0 billion. Commission income rose by 10% to a significant release from loan loss provisions. Results (€ million) 2018 2017 % Commission 293.2 267.0 10% – Of which securities commissions 238.5 230.6 3% – Of which other commissions 54.7 36.3 50% Interest 175.6 196.6 –11% Income from securities and associates 31.1 37.0 –16% Result on financial transactions –0.8 14.1 Income from operating activities 499.2 514.8 –3% Staff costs 244.4 236.0 4% Other administrative expenses 146.8 150.2 –2% – Of which regulatory levies and charges 10.5 10.9 –4% Depreciation and amortisation 5.2 5.8 –11% Operating expenses 396.4 392.1 1% Gross result 102.8 122.7 –16% Addition to loan loss provision –12.7 –11.9 7% Other impairments –0.9 –2.6 –63% Impairments –13.7 –14.4 –5% Operating profit before tax of non–strategic investments 17.8 12.6 41% Operating profit before special items and tax 134.3 149.8 –10% Strategic investment programme 22.0 21.4 2% Derivatives recovery framework – 1.7 Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions 8.3 6.1 36% Restructuring charges 8.3 – Operating profit before tax 95.8 120.5 –21% Income tax 15.5 25.6 –40% Net result 80.3 94.9 –15% Underlying net result 103.0 112.3 –8% Underlying net result (€ million) 2018 2017 % Net result 80.3 94.9 –15% Strategic investment programme 22.0 21.4 2% Derivatives recovery framework – 1.7 Restructuring charges 8.3 – Tax effects –7.6 –5.8 30% Underlying net result 103.0 112.3 –8% Progress report 36 Income from operating activities Commission Total operating income decreased by 3% from €514.8 million in 2017 to €499.2 million in 2018. Commission Commission (€ million) 2018 2017 % income showed an increase of 10% to €293.2 million. Securities commissions 238.5 230.6 3% Interest income decreased by 11% and other sources of income were down by 41%. Management fees 215.2 199.8 8% Transaction fees 23.4 30.8 -24% Private Banking, Evi, Asset Management and Merchant Other commissions 54.7 36.3 50% Banking together generated 86% of total income from operating activities. These four segments accounted for Commission 293.2 267.0 10% 99% of commission income (on a par with 2017) and 80% of interest income (2017: 79%). Commission income accounted for 59% of our total operating income. Total commission rose 10% to €293.2 million in 2018, Income from operating activities, by segment driven by higher management fees and other commission (€ million) income. The net increase in management fees of 8% was 44.3 the result of a higher average volume of AuM and a slightly 23.5 lower margin due to the AuM composition. Compared with 58.9 2017, transaction fees were down by 24%. This was the result of lower transaction volumes due to less favourable 6.9 99.8 market conditions. Other commissions were up by 50% on the back of high deal flow at Merchant Banking. Compared with the first half of 2018, commission income in H2 2018 showed a decline. This was visible in all commission items. 265.7 499.2 Commission income by segment (€ million) Private Evi Asset Merchant Corporate Other 2018 Banking ManageBanking Banking total 124.5 127.0 ment 100.0 92.5 All operating activities made a positive contribution to the underlying net result, with the exception of Evi. The underlying net result for 2018 is the net result adjusted for 58.0 costs associated with the strategic investment programme 41.7 and restructuring charges (respectively €22.0 million and €8.3 million gross). 4.5 4.4 As of 2019, we will integrate our Corporate Banking 2.6 1.9 1.1 1.9 activities into our Private Banking segment. In line with our strategy we successfully reduced the Corporate Banking Private Evi Asset Merchant Corporate Other loan portfolio, which stood at €0.5 billion at the end of 2018 Banking ManageBanking Banking ment (year-end 2017: €0.9 billion).  2017  2018 Underlying net result Private Banking’s total commission income was up by (€ million) €2.5 million compared with 2017. Securities commissions were up by €4.2 million thanks to AuM net inflows and the 27.5 acquisition of UBS’s wealth management activities in the Netherlands (UBS Netherlands), with management fees up 17.3 by €6.7 million and transaction fees down by €3.3 million. During the second half of 2018, commission income was 10.6 –6.6 negatively impacted by a decrease in AuM as a result of 13.8 negative market performance. Evi’s commission income came in slightly lower (2018: 40.4 103.0 €4.4 million, 2017: €4.5 million), due to cash incentives for Private Evi Asset Merchant Corporate Other 2018 new clients offered as part of a marketing campaign. Banking ManageBanking Banking total ment At Asset Management, new fiduciary mandates and the acquisition of UBS Netherlands led to a €7.5 million rise in commission income on 2017. The average margin decreased slightly, mainly due to a change in the composition of AuM; see ”Client assets” on page 39. Commission income at Merchant Banking rose by €16.3 million in 2018, to €58.0 million (2017: €41.7 million). This was mainly driven by higher advisory income from M&A and capital market transactions. Our real estate and Progress report 37 life sciences teams were involved in several successful Valuation gains and losses were down to €12.5 million, transactions in Europe and the US. The increase driven from €15.4 million in 2017. H2 2018 valuation gains and by higher advisory income was partly offset by the losses showed a negative figure of -€1.3 million, reflecting introduction of MiFID II, which impacted commissions the lower value of the companies in which we hold minority earned by our securities team. interests and the investment funds in which we hold positions. The reduced value of these investment funds Interest reflects less favourable market conditions. Interest (€ million) 2018 2017 % Over the last ten years, income from securities and associates on average amounted to around €25 million a Gross interest margin 186.9 212.6 –12% year. Interest equalisation –13.8 –11.0 26% Miscellaneous interest income and –0.1 –8.7 Result on financial transactions charges Loan commission 2.6 3.7 –29% Result on financial transactions Interest 175.6 196.6 –11% (€ million) 2018 2017 % Securities trading –0.7 –0.4 62% The current interest rate climate continues to put pressure Currency trading 8.0 7.9 2% on our interest income. Our 2018 interest income of Investment portfolio 1.9 6.9 –72% €175.6 million was 11% down on the €196.6 million Interest rate hedges –2.6 1.8 recorded in 2017, mostly due to margin pressure. This was the combined result of the issuance of new loans and Other income –7.5 –2.1 repricing of current Private Banking loans against a lower Result on financial transactions –0.8 14.1 interest rate and a smaller loan portfolio. The loan portfolio declined by €0.5 billion to €8.6 billion. In 2018, we did not reduce the interest rates on savings and deposits further, as The -€0.7 million recorded on securities trading reflects the the “natural floor” in client rates of 0% had already been negative result on positions in our own issued debt reached by the end of 2017. Furthermore, during 2018 securities, partly offset by positive results on the trading wholesale funding was reduced as a senior unsecured bond book. (€0.4 billion) and an RMBS (€0.4 billion) were redeemed. The result on currency trading was relatively stable The interest margin fell by 11 basis points to an average of compared with 2017. 121 basis points. The “clean” interest margin3 declined by 12 basis points compared with its level at the end of 2017, The €1.9 million profit on the investment portfolio breaks to 115 basis points. down into two separate parts: realised gains on the financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Miscellaneous interest income and charges went up from a and results on the mark-to-market portfolio. The 2017 negative -€8.7 million to -€0.1 million, driven by lower result of €6.9 million included more realised gains on the amortisation on previously discontinued interest rate hedges financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive (€6.0 million down on 2017) and income from penalty interest. income. Income from securities and associates The result on interest rate hedges decreased by €4.4 million to -€2.6 million, mainly due to the negative result of the Income from securities and hedge on our Kempen Dutch Inflation Fund. This is an associates (€ million) 2018 2017 % alternative fund that invests in Dutch leasehold contracts primarily in connection with residential real estate to create Dividend 3.2 4.6 –31% an investment in long term inflation-linked cash flows. Capital gains 15.5 17.1 –9% Valuation gains and losses 12.5 15.4 –19% Other income decreased as a result of lower gains on our Income from securities and associates 31.1 37.0 –16% structured products, due to a lower volume issued. Operating expenses Income from securities and associates relates to investments of our equity investment company Van Lanschot Participaties Operating expenses (€ million) 2018 2017 % and investments in Bolster Investments Coöperatief U.A. which was launched in 2017. We occasionally also take Staff costs 244.4 236.0 4% positions in our own investment funds, for instance by Other administrative expenses 146.8 150.2 –2% providing seed capital or to be aligned with our clients’ Of which regulatory levies and charges 10.5 10.9 –4% interests. Depreciation and amortisation 5.2 5.8 –11% Capital gains were down by €1.6 million to €15.5 million in Operating expenses 396.4 392.1 1% 2018. The capital gain of €14.2 million in H2 2018 includes the sale of part of our minority stake in Ploeger Oxbo of €10.4 million and the sale of our stake in Ormit Holding. 3 The interest margin is calculated on the basis of a 12-month moving average. The clean interest margin equals the gross interest margin adjusted for interest equalisation and interest-related derivatives amortisation. Progress report 38 Total operating expenses rose by 1% to €396.4 million Efficiency ratio (2017: €392.1 million), mainly reflecting higher staff costs. The efficiency ratio, i.e. the ratio of operating expenses As expected, the larger proportion of costs was recorded in (excluding costs incurred for our strategic investment the first half of 2018 (H1 2018: €209.3 million; H2 2018: programme, amortisation of intangible assets arising from €187.1 million). The lower cost level in H2 2018 reflects acquisitions, restructuring charges and a one-off charge for lower regulatory levies and charges together with our focus the derivatives recovery framework) to income from on cost-saving measures. As part of these measures, a operating activities, deteriorated to 79.4% in 2018 from restructuring charge of €8.3 million has been incurred. 76.2% in 2017. This increase was driven by lower interest income, a lower result on financial transactions and higher Operating expenses costs related to staff. We have set our financial targets for (€ million) 2023 and as a result we have redefined our efficiency target to 70-72% to reflect both our wealth management profile and the economic environment in which we operate. –6.1 –2.2 Impairments –3.6 –5.4 –1.8 –1.7 –1.3 Impairments (€ million) 2018 2017 % Private Banking –3.2 –3.3 –3% Corporate Banking –10.6 –6.0 76% Other 1.0 –2.6 194.0 198.0 209.3 187.1 Addition to loan loss provision –12.7 –11.9 7% H1 H2 H1 Staff IT ConsulReguModifiDepreOther H2 Impairment on investments and 2017 2017 2018 costs costs tancy latory cation ciation 2018 fees levies pro rata participating interests –0.9 –2.7 –65% and VAT charges Impairment on assets obtained through the seizure of collateral – 0.1 Other impairments –0.9 –2.6 –63% Staff costs At €244.4 million, staff costs were 4% up on 2017 Impairments –13.7 –14.4 –5% (€236.0 million). This increase is driven by factors including salary increases (mainly as a result of the competitive labour market), costs associated with the acquisition of UBS Addition to loan loss provision Netherlands and a higher contribution to the Dutch A total of €12.7 million was released from loan loss government’s sector fund (to cover social security costs). provisions in 2018, with Corporate Banking accounting for €10.6 million deriving from both the SME and real estate At the end of 2018, we employed 1,621 full-time equivalent loan portfolios. Private Banking accounted for a release of staff (FTEs), excluding employees of our non-strategic €3.2 million. As in 2017, the favourable economic climate investments. This was 37 FTEs fewer than at year-end contributed to the release from loan loss provisions. 2017 (1,658) and was largely the result of staff reductions in group functions and Private Banking. In 2018, the release from loan loss provisions relative to average risk-weighted assets worked out at 27 basis points Other administrative expenses (2017: 22 basis points). Other administrative expenses amounted to €146.8 million in 2018, 2% below the figure for 2017 (€150.2 million). Other impairments As expected, the larger proportion of the costs was Other impairments show a release of €0.9 million. This recorded in the first half of the year (€80.6 million in H1 amount is a combined effect of impairments and reversal of 2018 vs. €66.3 million in H2). The decrease in the second impairments on our investments and participating interests. half of 2018 was mainly related to lower regulatory levies Reverse impairments were the result of the increase in the and charges and lower consultancy fees, as well as a lower fair value of the minority holdings in some of our private cost resulting from changes in the pro rata VAT percentage. equity investments to which impairments had been applied As of 2018, regulatory levies and charges are shown previously. separately and amounted to €10.5 million. Non-strategic investments IT change expenses, excluding our strategic investment During 2018, we held majority stakes in three non-strategic programme, amounted to €21.8 million. Given the upward investments, AIO II (Medsen), Holonite (Holowell BV) and pressure related to technological developments such as Allshare. Operating profit before tax from non-strategic digitalisation and data analytics and our regulatory investments amounted to €17.8 million in 2018 against environment, we expect a normalised annual level of IT €12.6 million in 2017, mainly thanks to the improved change costs between €20 million and €25 million. operating result at Medsen. In December 2018, we announced the sale of our stake in Medsen. The transaction Depreciation and amortisation was closed in February 2019 will generate a book profit of Depreciation and amortisation was down by 11% to around €35 million in 2019. Our aim is to divest our €5.2 million. The lower figure of €1.7 million for H2 2018 shareholdings in these non-strategic investments over time. was attributable mainly to the profit from the sale of office buildings that we accounted for as an adjustment on depreciation. Progress report 39 Special items Income tax We recognised €38.5 million in special items in 2018 Income tax for 2018 amounted to €15.5 million (2017: compared with €29.3 million in 2017; the following table €25.6 million), which translates into an effective tax rate of gives a breakdown. 16.1% compared with 21.2% in 2017. The main reason for the lower effective tax rate in 2018 was the tax-exempt gain on two sales in our participation portfolio combined Special items (€ million) 2018 2017 % with a lower operating profit before tax. Our effective tax Strategic investment programme 22.0 21.4 2% rate is lower than the general Dutch tax rate of 25% due to income covered by equity exemption rules. Derivatives recovery framework – 1.7 Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions 8.3 6.1 36% Earnings per share (€ million) 2018 2017 Restructuring charges 8.3 – Net result 80.3 94.9 Special items 38.5 29.3 32% Share of non-controlling interests –5.7 –5.4 Net result for calculation of earnings per ordinary share 74.6 89.5 Strategic investment programme As part of our strategy update, we launched our strategic Earnings per ordinary share (€) 1.82 2.19 investment programme in April 2016. Between mid-2016 Underlying net result for calculation of earnings and the end of 2019, we plan to invest €60 million in per ordinary share 97.3 106.9 developing an omni-channel private banking model, Underlying earnings per ordinary share (€) 2.37 2.61 outsourcing our mortgage business and payment services, and completing the transformation of our IT landscape. Weighted number of outstanding ordinary 41,005 40,960 Over the course of 2016-2018, total investments under the shares (x 1,000) programme amounted to €50.7 million, charged directly to profit and loss. A total of €22.0 million was invested in 2018. Good progress was made on the development of our Profit attributable to non-controlling interests of omni-channel service for our clients, as we launched our €5.7 million in 2018 largely relates to non-controlling new website and the new client portal together with the interests in our non-strategic investments, while also introduction of new digital tools for our investment advisers including the management investment plan launched in and private bankers. In addition, we are working on the 2010 for selected staff at Kempen & Co (Kempen MIP). In outsourcing of our payment service activities to Fidor. We the first half of 2018, Van Lanschot Kempen offered will be rolling out the new platform and payment app to our participants in Kempen MIP the opportunity to exchange clients in the course of 2019. The outsourcing of the certificates in MIP for shares in Van Lanschot Kempen. As a mortgage administration to Stater also formed part of the result, the share of non-controlling interests related to strategic investment programme and was completed on Kempen MIP decreased. schedule in September 2017. Our investment programme is scheduled for completion over the course of 2019. As of We will propose to pay a 2018 cash dividend to 2020, IT investments are included in our regular IT costs. Van Lanschot Kempen shareholders of €1.45 per share, a pay-out ratio of 61% based on the underlying net result Other special items attributable to shareholders (2017: €1.45, pay-out ratio of Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions 56%). The pay-out ratio based on the net result amounts rose by €2.2 million as a result of the acquisition of UBS to 80%. Netherlands. Client assets In the course of 2018, management took several costsaving measures, such as: Client assets (€ billion) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 % – Migrating the Belgian IT activities to the IT infrastructure in the Netherlands; Client assets 81.2 83.6 –3% – Restructuring various departments, including pooling all Assets under management 67.0 69.0 –3% investment expertise in a single Kempen Asset Management investment office; Assets under monitoring and – Centralising small-cap strategies in Amsterdam, and the guidance 3.4 3.5 –3% resultant closure of the Edinburgh office. Assets under administration 1.7 2.0 –16% These measures have led to a one-time restructuring Savings and deposits 9.1 9.1 –1% charge of €8.3 million, which also includes the outsourcing of payments announced previously as well as switching off Client assets 81.2 83.6 –3% the mainframe, both of which should generate cost savings. These cost-saving measures were initiated in 2018 and will Private Banking 30.4 31.4 –3% be further implemented in 2019, leading to lower operating Evi 1.4 1.5 –6% expenses. Taking into account possible investments and indexation, Van Lanschot Kempen aims for a net cost level Asset Management 48.2 49.0 –1% of around €390 million. Other 1.2 1.7 –34% Progress report 40 Private Asset Client assets (€ billion) Evi Other Total Banking Management Client assets at 31/12/2017 31.4 1.5 49.0 1.7 83.6 Assets under management in/outflow 0.5 0.0 0.4 0.0 1.0 Market performance of assets under management –1.7 –0.1 –1.2 0.0 – 3.0 Change in assets under monitoring and guidance – – –0.1 – – 0.1 Change in assets under administration 0.0 – – –0.3 – 0.3 Internal AuM transfer –0.1 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 Change in savings and deposits 0.3 0.0 0.0 –0.3 – 0.0 Client assets at 31/12/2018 30.4 1.4 48.2 1.2 81.2 Van Lanschot Private Banking Evi van Lanschot The negative market performance of -€1.7 billion impacted AuM decreased slightly and stood at €0.9 billion per client assets at Private Banking. However, total client assets year-end 2018, despite the challenging market conditions decreased by only €1.1 billion in 2018 to €30.4 billion. Net that led to negative market performance. Evi’s AuM client inflows amounted to €0.5 billion, of which €0.2 billion was base expanded further by 23% to over 16,000 clients, discretionary and €0.4 billion non-discretionary. At the end although AuM growth was less strong. The volume of of 2018, assets under discretionary management made up savings declined by €0.1 billion, which also means that total 56% of total AuM (year-end 2017: 55%). Total discretionary client assets decreased by €0.1 billion from €1.5 billion to AuM stood at €11.8 billion (year-end 2017: €12.5 billion) €1.4 billion. and total non-discretionary AuM was €9.4 billion (year-end 2017: €10.1 billion). Client assets at Evi (€ billion) Client assets at Private Banking 1.5 (€ billion) 1.4 31.4 0.5 0.3 30.4 0.5 0.6 –1.7 –0.1 22.6 21.3 0.8 0.7 0.9 0.9 8.1 8.3 31/12/2017 Net inflow Net Market Other 31/12/2018 savings performance changes and deposits 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 outflow  Assets under management  Savings  Savings and deposits  Assets under administration  Assets under management Assets under administration decreased slightly during 2018 Development of Evi’s AuM client base to €0.7 billion (year-end 2017: €0.8 billion). These assets (1,000) are partly administered by Van Lanschot Private Banking; + 23% we have little or no control over them and their earnings are relatively limited. + 45% 16 13 9 31/12/2016 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 Progress report 41 Kempen Asset Management Loan portfolio AuM at Asset Management declined to €44.8 billion, driven by a negative market performance of €1.2 billion. Fiduciary mandates showed an inflow, thanks to Stichting Loan portfolio (€ million) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 % Pensioenfonds Arcadis Nederland (via Het nederlandse Mortgages 5,756 5,712 1% pensioenfonds) of €1.1 billion and Covra. We saw an outflow from investment strategies, partly as a result of the Other loans 1,793 2,045 –12% discontinuation of our Fundamental Index Strategy and as a Private Banking 7,550 7,756 –3% result of rebalancing of clients’ portfolios. In 2018, we extended our investment strategies offering with the Loans to SMEs 251 457 –45% addition of the Private Market Fund, the Global Impact Fund Real estate financing 271 411 –34% and the Global Value Fund. Total client assets at Asset Management stood at €48.2 billion (2017: €49.0 billion). Corporate Banking 523 868 –40% Mortgages distributed by AuM Asset Management third parties 602 600 0% (€ billion) Total 8,674 9,224 –6% 45.5 1.6 –1.2 –1.2 0.1 44.8 Impairments –114 –120 –6% 7.7 6.7 Total 8,561 9,103 –6% 8.7 7.7 Our loan portfolio contracted by 6% to €8.6 billion in 2018, due to the Corporate Banking run-off (-40%) and the 29.1 30.5 Private Banking Other loans (-12%). Our mortgages portfolio remained stable at €5.8 billion. Van Lanschot Private Banking The Private Banking loan portfolio breaks down into 31/12/2017 Net Net Market Other 31/12/2018 mortgages and other loans. Private Banking mortgages inflow inflow performance changes fiduciary investment increased marginally to €5.8 billion. Over 66% of our loan strategies portfolio consists of these Private Banking mortgages,  Solutions fiduciary  Fixed income and (smart) passive  Equity active & alternatives primarily to high net-worth individuals. The weighted average loan-to-value (LTV) ratio improved further to 76% (year-end 2017: 81%), on the back of prepayments and In addition to third-party funds, Kempen Asset Management rising house prices. also manages our Private Banking discretionary management mandates and the Evi Beleggen products, with total AuM of Other Private Banking loans comprise loans to high net€10.7 billion at the end of 2018 (this amount is not included worth individuals as well as business loans that fit into the in Asset Management’s total AuM of €44.8 billion). Private Banking relationship model. These other loans decreased to €1.8 billion (year-end 2017: €2.0 billion), Statement of financial position mainly driven by prepayments as we no longer offer interest compensation as of Q4 2018 and as a result of low client Statement of financial rates on savings combined with the unfavourable market 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 % conditions for investing. General repayments are also a position (€ million) cause of the decline in other loans. Equity attributable to shareholders 1,256 1,333 –6% Private Banking in the Netherlands: mortgage loan-to-value (%) Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 12 16 –25% 44% 43% 43% Savings and deposits 9,091 9,145 –1% 40% Loans and advances to 8,561 9,103 –6% clients Total assets 13,980 14,659 –5% Funding ratio (%) 106.2 100.5 Return on assets (%) 0.74 0.77 14% 11% 3% 2% <=75% 75%-100% 100%-125% >125%  31/12/2017  31/12/2018 Progress report 42 Private Banking other loans: type of loan Mortgages distributed by third parties (100% = €1.8 billion) The portfolio with mortgages distributed by third parties consists of regular Dutch mortgages and is intended to supplement our investment portfolio and enable us to 9% generate attractive returns on available liquidity. It accounts for 7% of our total loan portfolio with a volume of 14% €0.6 billion. 35% Provisions We take provisions for the impaired loans in our loan book. 17%   SME loans Impaired loans totalled €331 million at the end of 2018. The   Current accounts provisions for these loans amounted to €101 million,  Real estate loans working out at a coverage ratio of 30%. As of 1 January 25%  Private loans  Lombard loans 2018, we implemented accounting standard IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments. As a result, total impairments are not fully comparable with those reported in previous periods. The tables below break down the total loan portfolio and Van Lanschot Corporate Banking provisions. At the end of 2018, the commercial real estate loan portfolio and SME loans totalled €0.5 billion (year-end The total impaired ratio decreased from 4.0% to 3.8% at 2017: €0.9 billion). Risk-weighted assets came down by the end of 2018 and the total coverage ratio was relatively €0.2 billion and worked out at €0.5 billion (year-end 2017: stable at 30% (year-end 2017: 31%). The proportion of €0.7 billion). impaired loans at Private Banking decreased to 2.3% (year-end 2017: 2.5%). The coverage ratio for mortgages SME loans at Corporate Banking were 45% lower at decreased to 12%, driven by rising house prices. The €0.3 billion at the end of 2018, accounting for 3% of our coverage ratio for other loans increased to 62%. The total loan portfolio. This portfolio is well diversified across impaired ratio at Corporate Banking rose to 29.8% (yearsectors. The real estate loan portfolio (€0.3 billion), which is end 2017: 20.2%), primarily as a result of the portfolio’s well diversified in terms of collateral, contracted by 34%. run-off. Our Corporate Banking coverage ratio decreased to The collateral assets against which the loans are secured 15% (year-end 2017: 19%). The relatively low coverage are typically located in the Randstad conurbation ratio is explained by the sufficiently high quality of the comprising the cities of Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Utrecht collateral pledged to secure these loans. and The Hague. Provision 31/12/2018 Loan Impaired Provision Impaired Coverage Impaired Coverage (€ million) portfolio loans ratio ratio ratio ratio Mortgages 5,756 63 8 1.1% 12% 1.0% 20% Other loans 1,793 112 69 6.2% 62% 6.8% 50% Private Banking 7,550 175 77 2.3% 44% 2.5% 41% Loans to SMEs 251 125 22 49.9% 17% 29.2% 21% Real estate financing 271 31 2 11.3% 8% 10.3% 16% Corporate Banking 523 156 24 29.8% 15% 20.2% 19% Mortgages distributed by third parties 602 0 0 0.0% 3% 0.0% 15% Total 8,674 331 101 3.8% 30% 4.0% 31% Provision –114 Total 8,561 101 ECL stage 1 and 2 (IFRS 9) 13 Total ECL (IFRS 9) 114 Progress report 43 Capital and liquidity management As expected, the CET 1 ratio decreased by 1.3 percentage Our fully loaded Common Equity Tier 1 ratio (CET 1 ratio) points due to the capital return and by 0.2 percentage points improved from 20.3% to 21.4% in 2018, reflecting our due to the impact of IFRS 9. The €0.2 billion reduction in robust capital position. In 2016, we announced our ambition risk-weighted assets at Corporate Banking due to run-off to distribute at least €250 million to shareholders in the had a positive impact on the CET 1 ratio of 0.9 percentage period up to and including 2020. A total of over €210 million points. The ratio also gained 0.7 percentage points from an has now been paid out, in the form of both dividends and improvement in credit and data quality. capital returns. Including the proposed 2018 dividend, a total of over €270 million will have been returned in 2019. Basel IV This means that we have already achieved this ambition. In In December 2017, the Basel Committee on Banking the future, we will continue to optimise our capital base in Supervision (BCBS) published the final instalments of its terms of level and type of instrument, while leaving room for reforms for the calculation of risk weighted assets and possible acquisitions. If possible, we will also consider capital floors. The finalised reforms are collectively referred paying out excess capital to shareholders, subject to to as “Basel IV”. Assuming no delay in translating this into approval by the regulator. EU regulation, Basel IV will come into effect on 1 January 2022. Our expectation as to the impact of Basel IV remains unchanged. Based on our current balance sheet and credit Capital and liquidity models, provisional calculations suggest that our risk31/12/2018 31/12/2017 % management (€ million) weighted assets should increase by no more than 10% on Risk-weighted assets 4,580 4,979 –8% the implementation of Basel IV. These calculations are based on assumptions about the actual implementation of the Common Equity Tier 1 ratio, Basel IV proposals in legislation. fully loaded (%)4 21.4 20.3 Common Equity Tier 1 ratio, IFRS 16 phase-in (%)4 21.4 20.5 IFRS 16 Leases was issued in January 2016 and replaces Tier 1 ratio, fully loaded (%)4 21.4 20.3 IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease. IFRS 16 sets out the Tier 1 ratio, phase-in (%)4 21.4 20.5 principles for recognition, measurement, presentation and Total capital ratio, fully disclosure of leases and will result in almost all leases being loaded (%)4 23.5 22.1 recognised on the balance sheet. The impact of applying IFRS 16 as of 1 January 2019 is expected to result in an Total capital ratio, phase-in (%)4 increase in risk-weighted assets of €60-70 million. The 23.6 22.3 effect of this increase in risk-weighted assets on our CET 1 Leverage ratio, fully ratio is a decrease of approximately 0.3 percentage points. loaded (%)4 6.9 6.7 Leverage ratio, phase-in (%) 4 6.9 6.7 Investment portfolio and cash The total investment portfolio and cash5 amounted to €3.9 billion at the end of 2018 (year-end 2017: €4.4 billion). Capital management Relative to its end-2017 level, cash held with central banks Our CET 1 fully loaded ratio improved once again, to 21.4% decreased by €0.3 billion. Other financial assets at at the end of 2018, mainly driven by an 8% decline in amortised cost portfolio6 stood at €0.6 billion at the end of risk-weighted assets to €4.6 billion (year-end 2017: 2018 and had hardly changed in size or composition. The €5.0 billion). investment portfolio is primarily held for asset and liability management purposes, and mainly comprises low-risk and The total capital ratio strengthened to 23.5% (year-end highly liquid instruments. 2017: 22.1%). Investment portfolio and cash by country at 31/12/2018 Common Equity Tier 1 ratio (100% = €3.9 billion) (fully loaded) (%) 0.8% 21.4% 20.3% 0.7% 9% 0.9% 4% 0.3% 4%  Cash 33%  Netherlands –1.3% 4% –0.2%  Belgium 5%  United Kingdom  Canada 5%  Australia 7%  Norway  France 10% 19%  Italy  Other 31/12/2017 Capital IFRS 9 Retained Corporate Credit Other 31/12/2018 return impact earnings Banking and data run-off quality improvement 4 Full year 2018 and 2017 including retained earnings; half-year 2018 excluding retained earnings. 5 Investment portfolio and cash comprises the balance of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income, other financial assets at amortised cost, financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss, cash withdrawable on demand from central banks, and highly liquid (cash) investments. 6 Previously known as held-to-maturity investments. Progress report 44 Funding Events after the reporting period We aim to retain access to both retail and wholesale On 19 February 2019, Van Lanschot Kempen announced markets through diversified funding. At the end of 2018, our the sale to De Goudse Verzekeringen of its interest in funding ratio had increased by 5.7 percentage points to Van Lanschot Chabot | Mandema & Partners. The proposed 106.2% (year-end 2017: 100.5%) in the wake of a decline in transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of loans and advances to clients (-6%) and in savings and 2019 and to generate a book profit of around €15 million, deposits (-1%). with possibly a minor earn-out in the first half of 2020. In June 2018, a senior unsecured bond was redeemed and in December 2018 an RMBS was redeemed. Overall issued debt securities fell by €0.9 billion in 2018. We no longer have RMBS and benchmark unsecured debt issuances placed with investors. Funding mix at 31/12/2018 (100% = €14.0 billion) 5% 9% 2% 19% 65%  Client savings and deposits  Debt securities  Interbank funding  Shareholders' equity  Other funding Funding redemption profile (€ million) 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 ≥2024  Senior unsecured  Covered bond  Subordinated Ratios At the end of 2018 our liquidity ratios based on Basel III rules as currently known were as follows: Ratios 31/12/2018 Require31/12/2017 ment Liquidity coverage ratio (%) 140.6 > 100 163.6 Net stable funding ratio (%) 129.8 > 100 129.2 Annual Report 45 BUILDING LONG-TERM RELATIONSHIPS WORKING TOWARDS LONG-TERM RELATIONSHIPS My career at Van Lanschot Kempen is perhaps unusual: perhaps someone else on your team will. That’s where from 2002 until 2007 I was a business banker at Van diversity comes in – we need different types of people to Lanschot, but I was offered the opportunity to manage a build relationships with different types of clients. young My career teamatatVanRabobank Lanschotand Kempen left theiscompany perhaps unusual: for ten clients also means knowing yourself: if you don’t click, from years.2002 Thenuntil in July 20072017,I was I came a business back asbanker at Commercial And creating perhaps someone that connection else on yourwithteamyour will.clients That’siswhere easier Van DirectorLanschot, for Hilversum but I was andoffered Larenthe– that opportunity says a lot.toI manage like the diversity when you’re feeling comes in – fit weand need different healthy too.types That’sofwhypeople I chose to a way young of working everyone and team at–Rabobank worksleftwith the clients, company from for ten a health build relationships withme coach to help different improvetypes my work-life of clients.balance receptionists years. Then inthrough July 2017, to Board back as Branch I camemembers. I also like Director the lack of through the Van Lanschot Kempen vitality programme. Hilversum of hierarchyand – it’s Laren family like –a that says business a lot. I where like theeveryone way of The coach And creating that connection helped me set goals andyour with motivated clients meis easier to working rolls up their– everyone and works sleevesworks with clients, together. from receptionists when you’reSometimes meet them. feeling fit and just about it’s healthy too.the little why That’s things I chose – through to Board members. I also like the lack of hierarchy a taking health like coach a walk roundme to help theimprove block and work-life my having a chat balance with it’s like –I see relationships a family business with my where and colleagues clientseveryone rolls upthe their same a colleague. through the Van Lanschot Kempen Vitality Programme. sleeves way I see andpersonal works together. relationships: in order for them to work The coach helped me set goals and motivated me to in the long term, there has to be a click. You need to Leerkes Susanthem. meet Sometimes it’s just – Commercial Director about theof Hilversum little thingsand – see relationships Icommunicate, you with needmy to work clients atand the colleagues relationship,the same and you Laren, like taking walk around VanaLanschot Private the Banking block or having a chat with way needI tosee have personal fun. Building long-term relationships: in order relationships for them to withwork a colleague. in clients the long alsoterm, means knowing there has toyourself: be a click. if you Youdon’t needclick, to communicate, you need to work at the relationship, and you Susan Leerkes – Branch Director of Hilversum and Laren, need to have fun. Building long-term relationships with Van Lanschot Private Banking Progress report 46 VAN LANSCHOT PRIVATE BANKING Guiding our clients during every phase of their lives Financial performance Assets under management: by country (€21.3 billion) Private Banking (€ million) 2018 2017 % 4% Commission 127.0 124.5 2% 14% Interest 137.7 151.4 –9% Other income 1.1 1.0 1% Income from operating activities 265.7 276.9 –4% Staff costs 99.4 96.5 3% Other administrative expenses 48.0 51.3 –6%  Netherlands 82%  Belgium Indirect costs 61.5 57.9 6%  Switzerland Depreciation and amortisation 1.0 1.3 –28% Operating expenses 209.9 207.0 1% yield very little. We also see clients opting for alternative Gross result 55.9 69.9 –20% ways to make returns, for example by investing in real estate. Impairments –3.2 –3.2 – We continue to serve our defined target groups – Operating profit before special items and tax 59.0 73.1 –19% entrepreneurs, family businesses, high net-worth individuals, business professionals and executives, Strategic investment programme 22.0 21.4 3% healthcare professionals, and foundations and associations – within our markets in the Netherlands, Belgium and Amortisation of intangible assets 4.8 3.0 60% arising from acquisitions Switzerland. In the latter, we are the only Dutch bank catering specifically to Dutch and Belgian clients. Restructuring charges 3.8 – – Improving client experience through Operating profit before tax 28.4 48.6 –42% technology Income tax 7.4 13.4 –45% As part of our Strategy 2020 investment programme, in 2018 our Digital XL team made great strides in taking our Net result 21.0 35.2 –40% omni-channel Private Banking model to the next level. The reporting year has seen the continuous improvement of our Underlying net result 40.4 51.3 –21% investment app, a new “Mijn Van Lanschot” (online portal) for all our clients, the introduction of Vermogenshorizon (goal monitoring and scenario analyses), the Compass app Despite a somewhat unpredictable market in 2018, Private for bankers, and the Messaging Centre for investment Banking saw a net inflow in assets under management of advisers. All these tools have significantly strengthened our €0.5 billion, driven by organic growth from existing clients client offering, especially when coupled with our personal as well as new clients. And there are many reasons for this. service. We have broadened the range of investment strategies and products available to clients, which has helped to Alongside our own omni-channel platform, we are encourage our existing clients to do more business with collaborating with strategic partners for non-core wealth us as well as contributing to referrals. We’ve also seen management services such as payments. Under the increased interest in our sophisticated investment advice strategic investment programme, Van Lanschot Kempen is product, which includes a highly innovative app. Moreover, therefore forging ahead with the outsourcing of our payment our personal approach continues to make our service very services to German fintech company Fidor. The technical popular among clients. development of the new payments platform and payments app was completed at the end of 2018. Migration of all In the Netherlands, the strong economy made it easier for existing clients to the new platform is planned in the course entrepreneurs to sell their businesses, which has also of 2019. resulted in increased assets invested with us. Our mortgages portfolio has been stable as a result of a strong housing In addition to our strategic investment programme, our market on the back of low interest rates. On the flip side, work on advanced data analytics has already enhanced however, interest income remains under pressure due to client experience in multiple ways. We were able to develop lower interest margins. Investments in riskier assets such as data applications for our bankers to help them to serve their equities have increased during 2018 as they represent clients better. higher returns in a climate where lower risk investments Progress report 47 We also created an analytical tool to allow us to deep-dive Van Lanschot Private Service into investment portfolios at multiple levels: for example, We aim to act as a guide to our clients in every phase of regional level and macro/company-wide level. We will their lives – in financial as well as non-financial services. We continue to educate our employees to be able to make the therefore offer Van Lanschot Private Service as an best use of all the data and channels available to them, so additional, complimentary advice service to our investment they can play a guiding role for our clients. For full details, advisory clients. Accessible via our investment app, please read the “Digitalisation and advanced analytics” Van Lanschot Private Service offers access to a range of section on page 25. possibilities covering six services: lifestyle, travel, concierge, healthcare, wine circle and trusted advisers. Our clients Innovation in our processes value this service because of the strong and trusted In our ambition to keep on innovating from an operations reputation of the Van Lanschot brand. perspective, in 2018 we succeeded in launching our first process using Robotics Process Automation (RPA) – Net Promoter Score meaning we are using a robot for one of our administrative Our clients with at least €500,000 in assets under wealth management processes. In 2019, we plan to develop management gave Private Banking an average rating of 7.8 more RPA processes. By innovating on our operational in 2018, bringing our Net Promoter Score (NPS) to 2. This is processes, we’re able to serve our clients more quickly and a different methodology compared with previous years, efficiently. when we measured client satisfaction and NPS amongst all our clients, including clients with less than €500,000 in Our business in Belgium assets under management. In 2017, our clients overall rated Our Belgian Private Banking business saw strong growth in us at 7.6 (NPS: –4). 2018, with net inflow in assets under management at more than 7% (2017: 5%) driven by organic growth from both Priorities for 2019 new and existing clients. Reasons for this include our In 2019 and beyond, we aim to grow further and to build on tax-efficient product proposition, simplicity and our ambition to provide customised solutions to clients, transparency in terms of costs and underlying assets in our including by improving our new family solutions proposition. funds, and our focus on liquidity events with our clients. We For full details, please read the “Solutions for clients” are pleased to report on our strong cooperation with section on page 24. We will also continue building our Kempen Merchant Banking during the reporting year – both predictive capabilities based on our data analytics for the collaborating with the Structured Products team to create benefit of bankers and clients, and improving our digital tailor-made structured products for our Belgian clients, and tooling so that our clients can reach us anywhere, anytime, working with the Corporate Finance team in the life and receive the service that’s most relevant for them. We sciences and real estate sectors in particular. also plan to make our investment app a two-way communication channel so that investment advisers can Other highlights of progress made in 2018 include: send their clients an investment proposal, which clients can – Initiation of our migration to the same IT infrastructure accept or decline immediately within the app. as the Dutch Private Banking business in order to benefit from omni-channel development, enhanced security and greater efficiencies. Once completed, our Belgian clients will also gain access to far more digital capabilities than they have currently, including all the apps and the new website under the Strategy 2020 investment programme. This long and complex process started in April 2018 and is scheduled for completion over the course of 2019. – Development of Lombard loans. We have created a new team and redesigned the credit department to help bankers offer these kinds of loans as a solution for our clients. – Since the end of 2018, we are using the best-in-class method to manage our five profile funds, based on ESG research by MSCI ESG. Forum Ethibel has been appointed as an independent controller to monitor the application of this method every six months to ensure the funds comply with the chosen ESG approach. Integration of UBS’s domestic wealth management Following our acquisition of the wealth management arm of UBS in the Netherlands in 2017, the integration was completed successfully in 2018. We are now also able to offer consolidated reporting and strategic advice to existing Van Lanschot clients as well as former UBS wealth management clients in the Netherlands. Annual Report 48 KEEPING FIT, PHYSICALLY AND MENTALLY The clue is in my job title: I manage two teams – Operations For me personally it was a big year, too: I moved from working and Development. On the operations side, we deal with Evi for Van Lanschot Private Banking in ‘s-Hertogenbosch to clients’ administration and assets under management. On working for Evi in Amsterdam and Antwerp. That means the development side, we develop the app and website so I have to do quite a bit of traveling, so it’s important that I that new clients can be quickly on-boarded and existing keep in shape physically as well. I play hockey twice a clients can get easy insights into their portfolios. Evi made week and go running once a week – I strongly believe that good progress in 2018: we updated our app and launched your physical fitness has a big impact on your work. a new product, Evi Go, especially for starters in Which is why I think it’s great that Van Lanschot Kempen discretionary portfolio management – to name just two of facilitates this: Evi is a young team, and around 80% of us the developments last year. These online tools, in make use of the facilities to run, use the gym, get chair combination with the opportunity for personal contact massages or join mindfulness training. It not only reduces between clients and advisers, put us in a good position for absenteeism – it increases people’s happiness at work, too. the longer-term future. Joost van ‘t Hullenaar – Operations & Development Manager, Evi Progress report 49 EVI VAN LANSCHOT Making investment easy online Financial performance Client assets by product (€1.4 billion) Evi (€ million) 2018 2017 % Commission 4.4 4.5 –2% Interest 2.5 3.3 –25% Other income – – – 39% Income from operating activities 6.9 7.9 –12% 61% Staff costs 4.2 4.6 –9% Other administrative expenses 9.1 7.9 15%  AuM  Savings Indirect costs 2.9 7.0 –59% Depreciation and amortisation 0.0 0.0 –18% The trend from savings to investments continued in 2018 Operating expenses 16.1 19.5 –17% – partly due to continued low interest rates, and partly due to Evi’s goal to demystify asset management. The share of Gross result –9.2 –11.6 –21% assets under management within total client assets Impairments 0.0 – – increased slightly from 60% to 61% in the reporting year. The average account size of clients investing with Evi Operating profit before special amounts to around €55,000. items and tax –9.2 –11.6 21% Restructuring charges 0.1 – – Mobile first In line with our clients’ increasing adoption of mobile Operating profit before tax –9.3 –11.6 20% technologies, Evi has now fully embraced a mobile-first approach. The Evi app has seen several developments Income tax –2.6 –2.0 28% during the reporting year: – Full digital on-boarding enables users to become clients Net result –6.7 –9.6 31% via mobile, without the need for any other devices. Underlying net result –6.6 –9.6 31% – Evi’s products – Evi Beheer, Evi Pensioen, Evi Doelbeleggen, Evi4Kids and Evi Go – are now accessible via one single app. – In Evi Beheer, clients can now continuously withdraw Evi is Van Lanschot Kempen’s online savings and investment money or make additional investments, with no blackout coach in the Netherlands and Belgium. It is mobile-first, period. easy to use and available to everyone who can invest at – Clients can opt to receive push notifications about their least €1,000. Evi’s strength is to keep it simple and investments. insightful for both first-time and experienced investors. – The app has been fully revamped with a new look & feel and new functionality – including the ability to see the Continued focus on client growth has led to a 23% increase performance of each client’s particular product(s) and in the number of clients entrusting their assets under fund, specific to their profile. management to Evi – from 13,000 in 2017 to over 16,000 in 2018. This growth was across all target groups – Evi Go including Millennials, mass-affluent individuals (with over Our new Evi Go product was introduced in September 2018 €100,000 in liquid assets) and the children of our Private as a self-directed investment solution for clients. The tool Banking clients. enables clients to choose their own risk profile from the five on offer, and then start investing personal savings quickly Despite client growth, assets under management were and easily. relatively stable at €0.9 billion. Increased financial market volatility and negative price movements made clients Net Promoter Score hesitant to invest, in particular in the last quarter of the year. In 2018, our clients gave Evi an average rating of 7.3 (2017: In addition, we have seen Evi clients withdrawing money for 7.5), and our Net Promoter Score (NPS) decreased from –3 consumption purposes, especially those who have been in 2017 to –20. Part of this drop can be explained by clients for a while. Total client assets stood at €1.4 billion at disappointing returns on clients’ investment portfolios; this year-end (2017: €1.5 billion). NPS survey was conducted in November, in the midst of equity market turbulence. On the positive side, the 60% open rate of our monthly newsletter shows that our clients appreciate Evi’s communication and provision of information. Progress report 50 Priorities for 2019 The reporting year marked Evi’s fifth anniversary. Now that our online asset manager is becoming a mature e-commerce organisation, less IT and product development spend will be needed going forward. In 2019, our main challenge is to grow Evi’s business, by increasing the average assets under management per client and improving financial results. In order to do this, Evi is aiming for even greater efficiency and improvements in mobile functionality. Ease of use and quality of service will continue to be improved, especially via our Evi avatar that enables conversational on-boarding of clients through the use of digital technologies. We will also continue to use advanced marketing analytics to make personalised offers to clients that satisfy their individual needs and interests. Finally, we will look for possible partnerships – for example, with parties that also serve mass-affluent clients. Annual Report 51 PREPARING FOR THE FUTURE Together with eight colleagues, I’m responsible for the total been an exciting and profitable year. But we’re also ready service package to our pension fund clients. We’re for the longer-term future: no one knows which way the dedicated to a few clients each, and everyone has their pensions market will move in the decades to come, but own specialist area. Mine is asset allocation, and includes we’re well prepared to offer all different types of solutions responding to changes to the pension system in the to our clients. Netherlands. This job suits me well and gives me a lot of energy because I have plenty of client contact, and those Two years ago, we were invited to evaluate our current clients already have a high-level knowledge of the subject lifestyle and set goals. That gave me the motivation to matter – I really enjoy the combination. exercise at least twice a week, and I’ve really stuck to it. I do something called BBB (beauty, body, balance) – it’s a There have been a lot of changes since I started with the workout but in a hot cabin. It’s intense but the heat helps company in 2009, but one I’m particularly proud of is the your muscles recover quickly – and it’s fun too! realisation of Kempen’s growth ambitions. We introduced a new strategy to grow and diversify our client base around Florentine Hanlo – Senior Fiduciary Manager, three years ago, and this really paid off in 2018: we won Kempen Asset Management several new clients including the big PostNL account – it’s Progress report 52 KEMPEN ASSET MANAGEMENT Specialising in investment strategies and fiduciary management Financial performance AuM breakdown by client type (€44.8 billion) Asset Management (€ million) 2018 2017 % 1% Commission 100.0 92.5 8% 6% Interest –0.0 –0.0 – 9% Other income –0.2 –1.3 84% Income from operating activities 99.8 91.2 9%  Pension funds and insurance providers Staff costs 43.6 39.6 10%  Banking alliances and wealth managers Other administrative expenses 23.5 21.9 7% 84%  Family offices and high net-worth individuals Indirect costs 12.8 10.9 18%  Van Lanschot and Evi clients Depreciation and amortisation 0.1 0.1 –3% mandate from Covra. Our success in the pensions market is Operating expenses 80.1 72.5 10% down to the client focus of the team as well as the highly Gross result 19.7 18.7 6% specialist and long-term nature of the solutions we create with our clients, both in the Netherlands and in the UK, Impairments – – – putting us in a good position for future execution. Operating profit before special items and tax 19.7 18.7 6% Growth in our UK fiduciary business has been flat in 2018, but there is a growing pipeline as a result of a review by the Amortisation of intangible assets Competition Market Agency (CMA) into the consultancy and arising from acquisitions 0.8 0.5 83% fiduciary marketplace in the UK. As a result, Kempen Asset Restructuring charges 2.5 – – Management is well positioned to take opportunities to win fiduciary mandates in the UK. Moreover, 600 pension funds Operating profit before tax 16.3 18.2 –10% that currently have fiduciary arrangements in place need to re-tender in the near future. Income tax 4.4 5.0 –12% From a regulatory perspective, we’ve seen an increase in Net result 11.9 13.2 –9% supervision and regulation in the savings and pension Underlying net result 13.8 13.2 5% market – especially with the implementation of MiFID II during the reporting year. While some see this as a constraint, this represents an opportunity for our fiduciary business. It both rewards us for the clarity of our advice to Kempen Asset Management, trading as Kempen Capital clients, and creates barriers to new fiduciary managers Management (KCM), is a specialist asset manager in two entering the market. We have already been providing clients main areas: investment strategies, and client solutions in the with advice on solutions and underlying investment area of fiduciary management. Our net inflows of AuM managers for many years – allowing them to select their amounted to €0.4 billion in 2018, which combined with a own investment policy. €1.2 billion negative market performance to push down total assets under management to €44.8 billion in the reporting Developments in our investment strategies year (2017: €45.5 billion). Fiduciary management recorded For investment strategies, we saw inflow in all of our core robust AuM inflows on the back of various new mandates. markets: the Netherlands, the UK, Germany and Switzerland. Our investment strategies faced a net AuM outflow over the The overall total effect on our assets under management year, due to portfolio rebalancing on the part of various was down, however, due to the effect of closing our passive clients. Traditionally an active manager, Kempen Asset fundamental indexation products and some asset allocation Management decided to stop fundamental index investing shifts out of our credit and dividend strategies. as part of its product offering in 2018, which also contributed to the AuM outflow from our investment strategies. In order to free up resources, create efficiencies and focus on future growth, in some cases we may need to discontinue Growing our fiduciary business certain products or strategies for example, the closing of Kempen Asset Management has once again been the fastest our passive fundamental indexation investment strategy and growing fiduciary manager in 2018 – acquiring several new funds. We also decided to close our Edinburgh office in pension schemes. Notable fiduciary mandates that came in order to centralise our small-cap capabilities in Amsterdam. during the reporting year included the acquisition and The results of most of our investment strategies in 2018 on-boarding of pension fund Arcadis (after winning the were again very good. Over the last three years, 80% of our pension fund in collaboration with Hnpf in 2017), a new funds outperformed their benchmarks. Most of our €8.5 billion mandate from Stichting Pensioenfonds PostNL investment strategies score first quartile within their (won in 2018 and coming into effect in 2019), and a new international peer group and have high Morningstar ratings. Progress report 53 During 2018, we also further improved the sustainability of selected different managers for specific clients, made better our funds and strategies. As long-term stewards, we advice products and so on – all to help meet client strongly believe in active ownership of the companies we objectives. We’ve seen a high success rate in on-boarding invest in on behalf of our clients. Also last year we made the former UBS clients, in which the two sides of the good progress on this front. Please read the “Responsible business have conducted meetings together – business” section on pages 27-29 for more details. demonstrating our strength when we act as one. In collaboration with Evi, we created Evi Go, which was New solutions introduced successfully launched in 2018. In 2018, we co-created the Global Impact Pool together with our clients – the fund brings together the knowledge of Net Promoter Score assets, investments and ESG of both our impact team and Asset Management measures its Net Promoter Score (NPS) our fiduciary team. Throughout the year, this fund has been every two years. Our NPS in 2017 was a very strong 44. extended to be used more in the portfolios of both Private Although we did not conduct an NPS survey in 2018, we Banking clients and Asset Management clients as part of our continue to receive positive feedback from our clients. broader solutions framework. Awards and rankings Our Kempen Private Markets Fund was also successfully Kempen Asset Management was recognised with a number launched in 2018, with €43 million in assets under of awards and rankings in the reporting year: management by the end of the year. This is a unique –  Lipper Fund Awards: Kempen won five prizes at the proposition for investing in less liquid markets, such as annual Lipper Fund Awards. private equity, infrastructure and land. –  Morningstar ratings: Due to the strong long-term performance of our investment funds, the average Redesign of distribution strategy Morningstar rating of our funds is a very strong four In 2018, we started implementing our strategy to grow stars (out of five). internationally, adding clients in all our core markets. We are –  RI Reporting Award: Kempen’s annual responsible focusing on the Netherlands, Germany, the UK and France, investment report 2016-17 won the Responsible with an emphasis on particular products that meet local Investor Award for Best Report by an asset owner of needs. In the UK, we made two new distribution large funds over $25 billion. agreements, extending our relationships in the UK market. –  UN PRI: PRI awarded Kempen’s responsible investment process with an average score of A or A+ on three Meanwhile, we have also been future-proofing our business ESG-related modules. by making significant investments in data infrastructure and –  Institutional Investor Benelux Awards: Kempen won this application management. Distribution no longer takes place award in the “Best Fund Selection Team Alternative solely on a person-to-person level. In addition to direct Investments” category and in the “Best ESG programme” distribution by Kempen employees, we are increasingly category. introducing agents and call centres, databases, consultants and multi-managers. Internationally, we are focusing more Priorities for 2019 on this B2B2C business: no longer selling our investment In 2019, we aim to continue the growth of our fiduciary strategies directly to clients, but instead to distributors. We business – focusing on diversification and quality in our are using data infrastructure – including databases and portfolio of businesses and clients. We will also reinforce our third-party distributors – to improve our distribution sales approach by increasing our sales to distributors and capabilities. We are also enhancing the information we pension funds rather than directly to the end-client. provide to databases such as Morningstar in order to Additional priorities will be further expansion in the UK, and strengthen our distribution power. family solutions in cooperation with Van Lanschot Private Banking. Operational developments Acquiring significant numbers of new clients also requires us Within the investment strategies side of the business, we to on-board those new clients – something we successfully are already focusing more on niche products in areas where achieved in 2018. We were able to help new clients change we can really add value. Given the long-term track record custodians and start serving them within the agreed time and performance of our existing investment strategies, in period. With several new funds being launched, we were 2019 we will leverage our capabilities to grow further in this able to get these approved by the regulators and put area. everything in place in time to introduce and establish them successfully. Focusing capital on the long term has always been an important concept for us, which is why sustainability and We also put a lot of effort into further enhancing our data ESG factors are an increasing priority and growth area – architecture so that we are better able to service the not only in the Netherlands but increasingly in the UK and information demands of our clients in the future. France as well. Our continued focus on ESG puts us in a good position for the future. Teaming up with Private Banking and Evi Kempen Asset Management aims to support Van Lanschot Kempen’s private clients in meeting their financial goals – both in Van Lanschot Private Banking and Evi. In 2018, we focused on performance in terms of variety of solutions, asset allocation and manager selection. For Van Lanschot Private Banking, we created more specialist products, Progress report 54 Selection of Kempen investment strategies AuM overview (€ million) Performance overview­1 vs. benchmark (3-year horizon, %) 3.8 Dutch Small-caps2 320 4.4 3 14.2 European Participations2 570 –0.6 European Small-caps 466 1.1 –2.1 European Sustainable Small-caps 346 1.1 11.3 Global Small-caps 308 4.2 2.6 European Dividend 579 0.4 7.5 Global Dividend 21.0 1,936 4.5 21.0 21.0 7.2 33.4 Global Sustainable Equity21.0 90 4.5 13.7 33.4 2.7 Euro Credit 15.1 4,397 1.9 13.7 12.6 15.1 3.0 Euro Credit Plus 15.1 308 1.9 12.6 17.7 15.1 2.5 11.6 Euro Sustainable Credit 17.7 201 1.9 7.9 11.6 7.0 1.6 Euro Government 7.9 Bonds 11.9 2,291 1.5 7.0 9.5 0.8 European9.5Real 11.9Estate 9.3 697 –0.9 9.5 9.3 3.3 Global 3.0 Real Estate 9.5 303 1.0 2.1 3.0 2.8 1.2 2.1Global Diversified Hedge Fund Solutions2 476 –2.1 2.1 2.8 3.4 3.1 2.1 Global 2.1 Non-Directional Hedge Fund Solutions2 419 –2.1 3.4 1.7 2.1 1.3 1.7 10.8 1.3 7.9 Kempen 10.8Strategy 8.5 7.9 4.7 Benchmark 8.5 2.7 4.7 –0.1 2.7 3.2 –0.1 –0.1 1 3.2 Annualised performance figures based on a representative account gross of fees until end of December 2018. –0.1 2 Performance figures net of fees. 3 No benchmark available. Annual Report 55 FINDING OPPORTUNITIES TO IMPROVE As Senior Business Analyst in Securities at Kempen client intelligence, and how we can prepare for upcoming Merchant Banking, my role is very broad. My team’s main regulatory changes. The more time we can spend on task is to ensure that analysts and traders can serve clients following developments in the market and understanding as easily as possible. We do everything from running what’s happening in the outside world, the better we can projects (whether regulatory, technical or commercial), to stay relevant to our clients and help develop the business. engaging with brokers, to monitoring developments in the market. My average working day starts at 7.30 am and ends at 6 pm, so I like to clear my head after a busy day in the 2017 was a really busy year for us with preparing for the office. I try to go running every evening after work, MiFID II regulation, and the implementation went well in especially during the summer months, both to stay fit and 2018. It’s been a good year for us as a team because we’ve to unwind. Personal well-being has always been important had more breathing space to find new opportunities, open to me, and finding time to do sport is an integral part of our new office in Antwerp, and generally make both my life and my performance at work. improvements. Our team’s focus is always on the long term – figuring out how we can improve quality of service to our Marco Stommel – Senior Business Analyst, clients, how we can optimise revenues by using market and Kempen Merchant Banking Progress report 56 KEMPEN MERCHANT BANKING Focusing on sectors to create a strong franchise Financial performance Commission income by type of transaction (€58.0 million) Merchant Banking (€ million) 2018 2017 % Commission 58.0 41.7 39% 2% 7% Interest –0.0 0.0 – Other income 1.0 4.5 –79% 25% 42% Income from operating activities 58.9 46.2 27% Staff costs 26.2 23.4 12%  M&A  ECM Other administrative expenses 9.1 8.0 15%  Brokerage and research 24%  Structured Products Indirect costs 9.9 9.2 7%  Other Depreciation and amortisation 0.0 0.0 –9% Our geographies Operating expenses 45.2 40.6 11% In 2018, we continued to expand our activities in Europe as Gross result 13.7 5.6 – well as in the US. Impairments –0.0 – – When our European life sciences clients grow and need additional capital, they often seek a secondary listing in the Operating profit before special items and tax 13.7 5.6 – US, for which they ask for our help. As a result, we decided to explore the possibility of assisting them in raising capital Restructuring charges 0.1 – – in this way; and in July 2018, we were granted approval by the US regulator FINRA to offer our services as an Operating profit before tax 13.6 5.6 – underwriter in ECM transactions in the US. In September, we executed our first two deals: both Galapagos and argenx Income tax 3.1 1.7 83% were looking to raise additional capital in the US, and we Net result 10.5 3.9 – were able to participate as underwriter – helping them to raise $345 million and $301 million respectively in capital. Underlying net result 10.6 3.9 – Also in 2018, we made good progress on our Belgian business. In January, we obtained a licence from the Belgian Kempen Merchant Banking is a unique boutique that regulators, as a result of which we were able to carry out combines Corporate Finance and Equity Capital Markets our activities from Belgium. We therefore opened an office (ECM) with a Securities franchise. In 2018, we were able to in Antwerp. This has allowed us both to tap into the Belgian harvest positive results due to a strong focus on our talent pool in terms of new hires, and to create a stronger selected sectors coupled with close collaboration between commercial position for ourselves among Belgian the two parts of the business. Overall, our commission institutional investors. As a result, we’ve seen an increase in income in 2018 saw a strong increase compared to last year our number of Belgian clients in Securities, from 10 in 2017 at €58.0 million (2017: €41.7 million). In Corporate Finance to 18 in 2018, as well as a couple of new prospects. and ECM, we successfully completed €37 billion in M&A, debt advisory and ECM transactions for our clients in ten In the UK market, the reporting year saw our first UK ECM countries. transaction completed: we acted as joint global coordinator for logistics real estate company Tritax EuroBox in their Our sectors £300 million IPO. Having been actively targeting the UK Kempen Merchant Banking combines strong execution skills market as part of our international growth strategy, this is with in-depth expertise in financial institutions & fintech, an important step for our franchise. infrastructure, life sciences & healthcare, maritime & offshore, real estate, and the Benelux region. We have Corporate Finance and ECM transactions realised growth in all our sectors during the reporting year. Of the 38 transactions we carried out in 2018, a few were Our real estate business has expanded in Spain, the UK, particular highlights. When Unibail-Rodamco acquired Belgium and France. In infrastructure, we executed our first Westfield in the largest real estate takeover seen to date, we ECM, M&A and debt advisory mandates. In our life sciences were advisers on the $24.7 billion transaction. We were also business, we’ve executed our first ECM transactions in the proud to advise residential housing operator Vesteda in their US. acquisition of a portfolio of residential real estate from NN Group for €1.5 billion. Progress report 57 In Belgium, we were joint bookrunner in the €575 million Priorities for 2019 IPO of Shurgard, whilst in Germany we were a bookrunner In 2018, we continued executing on the priorities we set in on the €1 billion capital increase for Vonovia. And in Spain, 2017. Given the positive results so far, we intend to continue Kempen Merchant Banking acted as sole financial adviser to our activities based on the same strategy in 2019. Our aim is Lazora in the €750 million capital increase for its residential to focus particularly on realising the full potential of our fund. specialist approach, through further cooperation between the different sectors and services within Merchant Banking. In our other sectors, we advised Van Oord on the acquisition Other priorities include developing tools to better benefit of MPI Offshore, a specialist offshore wind installation from the use of data; and attracting, developing and contractor; and we acted as sole financial adviser to retaining the best talent. UnifiedPost in the issuance of their pre-IPO convertible. Finally, we were involved in raising almost €1 billion in equity financing for life sciences and healthcare companies, mostly in leading syndicate roles. For instance, for repeat client Mithra Pharmaceuticals, we acted as joint bookrunner in their €77.5 million capital increase. In addition, we were sole financial adviser to pharmacy chain Medsen and wholesale chemist Ceban in its proposed sale to Bencis Capital Partners. All companies to which Corporate Finance provides services are first subjected to screening. Screening based on our ESG criteria also forms an integral part of our research reports. If a company does not meet these ESG criteria, we engage its management. Securities In 2018, we continued to implement our strategy to expand the reach of our existing activities. Our financial results were impacted by the volatile markets during the last two months of the year. Global Property Research had another solid year. In addition to providing our Structured Products services to Van Lanschot Private Banking, we’ve been able to do more business in the over-the-counter market. In 2018, we closed a total of 143 deals (2017: 194) worth €181 million in new notional (2017: €294 million). MiFID II has a substantial impact on our Securities business because of its requirement to unbundle research fees and execution commission. This is partly reflected in our results. Both before and since the regulation came into effect on 3 January 2018, a lot of effort has been made in terms of implementation and mitigation, but we expect it to take up to two years before the implications are fully clear. Our strong focus on, and deep knowledge of, our sectors continue to add value to our clients in all areas of our Securities business. Our project to build a data warehouse was completed in 2018, allowing for more data-driven insights and decisionmaking when it comes to our clients and research. We are now better able to develop digital solutions and dashboards – for example, to monitor the progress of our business, to monitor interactions with clients, and to provide more customised services to clients. For more details, please see the “Digitalisation and advanced analytics” section. Conferences In 2018, we organised six successful conferences: in New York (real estate), Amsterdam (life sciences and real estate), Paris (local alpha), London (local alpha) and Stockholm (real estate). A record number of corporates and investors joined the events; in total, we welcomed over 140 corporates and over 200 investors. Progress report 1 Selected Kempen Merchant Banking transactions in 2018 Acquisition of non-held Accelerated Bookbuild Refinancing Block Trade in ERYTECH Sale of shares in Initial Public Offering shares in GRIP Offering Shares £696 million €45.0 million €130 million c. 18% €51.7 million €100 million Financial Adviser Joint Bookrunner Financial Adviser Sole Block Placing Agent Placing Agent Co-Lead Manager December 2018 November 2018 November 2018 November 2018 November 2018 October 2018 Accelerated Bookbuild Initial Public Offering Acquisition of Block Trade in US Public Offering US Public Offering Offering Boskalis Shares €31.2 million €575 million Undisclosed €30.0 million $301 million $345 million Joint Bookrunner Joint Bookrunner Sole Financial Adviser Sole Block Placing Agent Co-Manager Co-Manager October 2018 October 2018 October 2018 September 2018 September 2018 September 2018 Capital increase US Public Offering Sale of data centers to Initial Public Offering Acquisition of Delta Lloyd Rights Issue Portfolio from €750 million $104 million Undisclosed £300 million €134 million €1.5 billion Sole Financial Adviser Financial Adviser Sole Financial Adviser Joint Global Coordinator & Sole Financial Adviser Joint Bookrunner Joint Bookrunner September 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 June 2018 Capital Increase Public Offer for Global Offering Accelerated Bookbuild Accelerated bookbuild Fundraise Offering offering Undisclosed $24.7 billion $54.4 million €996 million €77.5 million €25.0 million Financial Adviser Financial Adviser Financial Adviser Joint Bookrunner Joint Global Coordinator & Sole Financial Adviser Joint Bookrunner May 2018 May 2018 May 2018 May 2018 May 2018 April 2018 Rights Issue Public Offer for Public Offer for Rights Issue Accelerated bookbuild Sale of Dynamic offering Portfolio €123 million €1.5 billion €5.2 billion €77.7 million €36.0 million Undisclosed Joint Bookrunner Financial Adviser Financial Adviser Joint Bookrunner Joint Global Coordinator & Sole Financial Adviser Joint Bookrunner April 2018 April 2018 March 2018 March 2018 March 2018 March 2018 Public Offer for Capital Increase via Direct Accelerated Bookbuild Sale of Residential Accelerated Bookbuild Acquisition of Share Placement Offering Portfolio Offering Kiekens Desuperheater and Breedveld & Weaver €2.0 billion €30.1 million SEK 154 million €234 million €193 million Undisclosed Financial Adviser Financial Adviser & Joint Bookrunner Sole Financial Adviser Co-Lead Manager Financial Adviser Coordinating Placement Agent February 2018 February 2018 February 2018 January 2018 January 2018 January 2018 Progress report 59 PRIVATE EQUITY INVESTMENTS Over the years, Van Lanschot Kempen has been active in private equity in three different ways: MARKET VALUE 1. Acquiring and managing minority holdings; At year-end 2018, our total portfolio of private equity 2. Managing non-strategic investments; investments reflected a market value of over €170 million 3. Managing interests in private equity funds. (2017: over €160 million). 1. Acquiring and managing minority holdings Van Lanschot Kempen holds a number of minority holdings, both indirectly via Bolster Investments Coöperatief U.A. Maintaining direct minority holdings in our Van Lanschot since 2017, and directly via our Van Lanschot Participaties Participaties portfolio portfolio that was built up over the years prior to 2016. Van Lanschot Kempen has built a portfolio of direct minority holdings over the years, focusing on entrepreneurs and owner-directors: both existing Van Lanschot Private Banking clients and entrepreneurs who are potential clients. We have provided growth capital, facilitated management buy-outs, and acquired shareholdings from existing shareholders. Our portfolio of direct minority holdings comprised nine companies on 31 December 2018. No new holdings will be Bolster Investment Partners added to this portfolio, but we may make follow-on In December 2017, we spun off the management company investments in existing minority holdings. We maintain our of Van Lanschot Participaties, now Bolster Investment long-term investment horizon, and potential divestments Partners. This enabled us to open up our private equity will be driven mostly by the strategic development of the business to our Private Banking clients as well as to third companies. This portfolio continues to be managed by parties, via a newly established fund: Bolster Investments Bolster lnvestment Partners. Coöperatief U.A.. Bolster lnvestment Partners’ investment strategy is in line with Van Lanschot Participaties’ original In July 2018, our portfolio company Ploeger Oxbo Group focus: investing in well-managed Dutch companies with attracted NPM Capital as a new major (40%) shareholder. strong market positions and convincing growth strategies. As a result, we were able to realise a net profit of over Bolster Investment Partners specialises in taking primarily €10 million as part of the recapitalisation and sale of minority shareholdings in private companies, and pursues a approximately 9% of our equity shares. NPM Capital is the flexible, long-term investment horizon. An integral part of strong financial partner that the manufacturer of specialty the due diligence Bolster undertakes before acquiring an agricultural equipment has been looking for to further interest in a company involves assessing whether that support its long-term growth strategy. This strategy is company meets specific environmental, social and aimed at bolstering innovation and product development as governance criteria. well as bolt-on acquisitions to further strengthen Ploeger Oxbo’s leading position in its worldwide niche markets. We Bolster Investments Coöperatief U.A. raised €135 million currently still hold a stake of around 12% in Ploeger Oxbo in its first closing in December 2017. In addition to Group. Van Lanschot Kempen, which holds a significant minority interest, other investors mainly comprise Van Lanschot In October 2018, our 30.5% equity stake in ORMIT was sold Private Banking clients. In February 2018, Bolster to a new shareholder, HR investment group Pyramid. Investments Coöperatief U.A. raised an additional Van Lanschot Participaties acquired its stake in ORMIT in €25 million in a second and final closing, through which 2010. Since then, ORMIT and its shareholders have it reached its hard cap of €160 million committed capital. successfully expanded the business in the Dutch and In 2018, two new investments were added to the fund: Belgian markets for recruitment, retention and development Esschert Design and Careflex Zorg Groep. In the coming of talent. years, Bolster Investment Partners will strive to put the capital raised to work by making additional investments. Progress report 60 Direct minority holdings1 2. Managing non-strategic investments of pharmacy chain Medsen and wholesale chemist Ceban. We hold a number of companies classified as non-strategic Van Lanschot Kempen has held an equity stake in AIO II investments. These are typically majority interests arising since 2009, when it acquired a minority interest through a from debt-for-equity swaps we agreed in the past. Our aim debt-for-equity swap. The company staged robust growth is to divest our shareholdings in such non-strategic in the years that followed. In 2016, Van Lanschot Kempen investments over time. exercised its option to expand its stake to a majority interest of 72%. In December 2018, Van Lanschot Kempen announced the sale of its stake in chemists chain AIO II (Medsen) to funds At this point, we hold two non-strategic interests: Holonite under management of Bencis. The relevant regulators and and Allshare. Holonite, in which we hold a 90% stake, makes competition authorities have since approved the deal and high-quality composite stone products and finishing the transaction was completed in February 2019. Book elements. Allshare, in which we hold a 97% stake, develops profit works out at around €35 million and will be software for the financial sector and is a key supplier to recognised in 2019 results. AIO II is the holding company Van Lanschot Kempen. Non-strategic investments 3. Managing interests in private equity funds We built a portfolio of interests in private equity funds before 2010. As most of these funds are being liquidated, these interests are gradually being wound down. 1 For more information on our investments in associates using the equity method, see page 196. Annual Report 61 PULLING DATA, PLUCKING STRINGS I work in the Business Intelligence Competence Centre, and Outside of my daily work, I get a lot of positive energy it’s our job to pull data from all Van Lanschot Kempen’s from playing bass guitar in the company band: VLK systems, and produce various reports that help Collective. We only formed in October 2017, but our goal management to make company decisions. Even though I was to play at the company’s summer party in 2018. only started working here in December 2016, I’ve always On 21 June, we succeeded: the 10 of us got up on the worked with data. So I’m enjoying our current challenge, festival stage and played our hearts out. It might not be which is to migrate all our reports from the current tools to what’s usually meant by “vitality” but it certainly one standard company tool. It’s a long and complex project contributes to my well-being. I think it’s important to know (we started in mid-2018 and expect to finish at the end of that the company management really cares about us – its 2019) but I believe it’s the right decision in the long term: employees – and about the balance we have between our not only is it more cost efficient – it also enables us to share work and private lives. knowledge and information between departments better. Jos Hermans – Finance Business Intelligence Specialist, Finance, Reporting & Control Progress report 62 RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Key risk themes for Van Lanschot Kempen Financial market volatility Actions The 2018 financial year was marked by a continuation of strong growth in The Asset & Liability Committee (ALCO) monitors and discusses economies around the world. However, several indicators are pointing developments in financial markets on a monthly basis, with extra towards an end to this cycle. Financial markets are more volatile than attention devoted to interest rate risk management, stress testing and before and, despite some monetary tightening in the United States, analysis of changes in client behaviour. We are actively managing our interest rates in the Eurozone remain relatively stable at low levels. The funding profile in order to balance funding diversification and liquidity risk of severe shocks in financial markets in the shorter term is increasing, buffers. Considering current risk levels and uncertainties, we are keeping amplified by uncertainties such as Brexit and tense trade relations as well our equity duration low, mainly by using interest rate swaps. We maintain as high government debt levels in some countries. As a result of its focus solid capital buffers and the risk appetite for our investment portfolio has on wealth management, Van Lanschot Kempen is increasingly exposed to traditionally been conservative. financial markets: direct effects of financial market shocks could include pressure on fee income as a result of decreasing assets under management, and the challenge of excess liquidity as a result of increasing levels of savings and deposits. Cybercrime Actions Although Van Lanschot Kempen did not face any serious cybercrime Van Lanschot Kempen’s cyber defence is at par with industry standards; issues in 2018, the news is dominated by incidents and this risk is in 2018, several steps were taken to further enhance the level of considered to be permanently high. While the impact of DDOS attacks sophistication. Measures such as intrusion detection and reinforced and payments fraud seems to be stabilising, the focus is shifting to areas security of servers and devices were combined with automated code such as hacking between nations, identity fraud and fake news. reviews of internally developed software and attack simulation, such as Digitalisation and technological developments such as cloud computing red teaming and ethical hacking. Van Lanschot Kempen has strengthened and blockchain make it increasingly complex to monitor and manage its governance on IT security, and extra attention was devoted to security these risks. The deep embedding of social media into people’s lives adds awareness and staff training. For example, phishing and password another layer of vulnerability. Protective measures evidently need to keep protection campaigns have increased awareness throughout the pace with the increasing threats, and emphasis is put on security organisation. awareness and on preparing the organisation to act quickly in case of incidents. Trust in the financial sector Actions Trust in the financial sector remains low despite efforts by the financial One of the leading principles in Van Lanschot Kempen’s risk appetite services industry supervisory authorities to put various regulations in statement is that “we take the requirements and expectations of all place in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. In 2018, several incidents stakeholders into account”. Within the organisation, and especially within – for example, regarding anti-money laundering – received prominent product management and via our investment strategies, corporate media attention and led to outrage in the public and political domain. responsibility and ESG are becoming increasingly important priorities. We Apart from financial measures such as substantially higher risk buffers are embedding these further into the organisation. In 2018, much and preparatory measures such as recovery and resolution planning, attention was paid to preventing money laundering. We implemented several additional measures were taken, in terms of corporate additonal analytics tools to detect integrity risks, in addition to our responsibility and employee integrity. Public confidence is critical for advanced monitoring system and team of experts. To understand the financial stability: it is the joint and individual responsibility of financial position of our stakeholders, we organise various engagements in institutions to protect their own reputations and to contribute to the different forms. We hold meetings and events (e.g. with clients, investors, reputation of the financial services sector as a whole, as well as to make regulators or NGOs) about various sustainability topics. Our annual report decisions that take into account the needs and expectations of society at (see Stakeholders' expectations and our dilemmas”, page 16) and our large. CSR Supplement (see “Stakeholder dialogue”) provide an extensive overview of our approach to stakeholder dialogue. Furthermore, we introduced a new set of KPIs in 2018 that include both financial and non-financial KPIs. In defining these, we have taken into account both the interests of our stakeholders and our ambitions as a wealth manager. Labour market Actions Van Lanschot Kempen is becoming a more specialist organisation: Van Lanschot Kempen offers professionals the unique combination of a simpler, more routine tasks are being outsourced or automated, while the highly reputable organisation with an informal, non-hierarchical work remaining professional roles are becoming harder to fill. Strong economic environment in which individuals enjoy challenging work and can make a growth means that the labour market for professionals is tightening and big impact. This is recognised by our staff and actively used in our competition between financial institutions for top talent is fierce. If we are recruitment process. We are also currently modernising our HR unable to find and retain the right employees, it could limit our capacity processes. Finally, across the organisation, young talent programmes are for growth. As a people business, we need both to develop a strong a successful source of future specialists and leaders. network to attract new talent, and to offer attractive benefits and development opportunities to retain existing talent. Risk Management Risk profile and risk appetite We evaluate our risk appetite annually, and this is then Historically, we have sought to achieve a solid risk profile communicated in a risk appetite statement containing both – expressed in transparent risk levels coupled with a robust qualitative and quantitative elements. Our risk appetite liquidity and capital position. The risks we face are outlined represents our willingness to accept the risk of particular in the following sections. More detailed descriptions can be losses or decreasing buffers, and as such sets our operating found in the financial statements, where these risks are also boundaries. We use the loss absorption capacity (maximum quantified, wherever possible, in terms of their impact on acceptable level of losses) for the calibration of these Van Lanschot Kempen. boundaries. The statement is prepared by the Statutory Board and is subject to the Supervisory Board’s approval. Progress report 63 Targets and risk limits are more dynamic and may strategic decisions. External factors include the actions of occasionally be reviewed, at least annually. That said, we do competitors, clients, potential market entrants and public not change the key principles that underlie our risk appetite authorities, as well as public opinion. Keeping up with and that create the framework within which we operate: technological developments and fintech is also a key topic – We only take risks that we understand and can explain; on our strategic agenda. We use a range of performance – We only take risks that – directly or indirectly – serve our indicators – such as growth in assets under management, strategic objectives; net result, efficiency ratio and FTE trends – together with a – The sum of all risks taken should not exceed our qualitative assessment to monitor and control strategic risk. risk-bearing capacity; The size and development of strategic risks are discussed – When taking risks, we take the requirements and quarterly by the Executive Board and reported in our risk expectations of all stakeholders into account; appetite report. Due to the challenging environment and the – We do not take any risks that could materially harm our strategic transformation that we continue to undergo, we reputation; currently classify our strategic risk as “medium”. To – Our risk appetite should be considered in all business determine capital levels for Pillar 2 purposes, we use a risk decisions at every level of the organisation; model that is primarily based on the ratio between fixed and – We avoid risks that could lead to legal or regulatory variable margins. In 2019, we will redevelop the model and breaches. include the impact of shocks in financial markets. A risk dashboard and progress report is discussed by the Credit risk Group Risk Committee every quarter, as well as periodically Credit risk is still our most significant financial risk type, by the Risk Committee of the Supervisory Board. Riskalbeit declining. Our loan portfolio amounts to €8.6 billion taking is in the nature of banks; low risks are not a means to and has manageable risks. We aim to keep the size of an end. For a number of reasons, it may be appropriate to exposure to the Private Banking residential mortgage accept a higher risk – either temporarily or for a prolonged portfolio constant by generating enough new business to period. We always consider both gross and net – i.e. after offset prepayments and redemptions. Over 66% of the loan mitigating measures – risk positions, paying extra attention portfolio consists of mortgage loans, primarily to Private to high risks. Banking clients who also hold assets under management within Van Lanschot Kempen. The scores and risk appetite for each individual risk type at year-end 2018 are shown in this simplified version of the In 2017, the Dutch banking industry investigated the risk of risk dashboard below. For more information on risk appetite interest-only mortgages that will mature in the next 10–15 and our management of the various risks, see the section on years. Repayment or refinancing might become difficult for risk management in the financial statements. some clients – particularly older clients – with decreasing incomes. In 2018, we developed a plan to limit the risks for this group of clients. Risk dashboard Low Medium High Strategic risk Credit quality in general further improved in 2018, reflecting a robustly growing economy, a continuing rise in house prices Credit risk in the Netherlands, and declining unemployment levels. Market risk These effects continue to feed through to our loan portfolio with a slight lag. Liquidity risk Interest rate risk Loan losses in 2018 continued to reach historically low levels. We use sophisticated risk models (internal ratingsOperational risk based approach) to measure and monitor credit risks for Information risk most of our loan portfolios. We see positive rating migration in nearly all portfolios as another indicator of improved Risk score Risk appetite credit quality. Our loan portfolio and credit risks are concentrated in the Netherlands (96%); lending in Belgium and Switzerland is limited, and mainly concerns Lombard We operate our risk framework in accordance with the loans with low risk profiles. “three lines of defence” model. The management teams at individual departments and units (the first line) are Loan portfolio, excluding provision responsible for managing their specific risks. The Group (100% = €8.7 billion) Risk Management department (the second line) supports the management by facilitating risk assessments, providing 7% expertise for the formulation of controls and mitigating 3% 3% actions, providing reports, and challenging the first line on the management of their risks. Group Audit (the third line) monitors whether the activities of the first and second line are effectively mitigating the risks identified. Lastly, we use 21% insurance to cover certain remaining risks.   Private Banking – Mortgage loans 66%   Private Banking – Other loans Strategic risk  C orporate Banking – SME loans Strategic risk is defined as the risk to Van Lanschot Kempen’s  C orporate Banking – Real estate loans  M ortgage loans – Distributed by third results or continuity resulting from failure to respond parties adequately to changes in external factors or from poor Progress report 64 In line with our wealth management strategy, Corporate (vanlanschotkempen.com/responsible/core-bankingBanking’s loan portfolio – made up of small and mediumactivities). This policy aims to prevent the risk that client sized enterprises (SMEs) and commercial real estate loans assets find their way – through interbank loans or – is being wound down in a careful and coordinated manner. investments, for instance – to institutions with weak or nonThis structurally lowers our risk profile. At year-end 2018, existent CSR policies. Van Lanschot Kempen challenges the size of the Corporate Banking portfolio amounted to financial institutions that have not developed sufficiently €0.5 billion, which is only 14% of the original portfolio in visible policies. In 2018, we engaged with three such 2013. As of 2019, this remaining portfolio is integrated institutions to seek additional information on their within Private Banking, because the size, complexity and sustainability policies. At the beginning of 2019, we added risks of the portfolio no longer justify a separate a fourth institution. Our engagement with these four department. companies is still ongoing. Although our exposure to the Dutch housing market is quite In 2018, the Belgian sustainability organisation Forum significant, the risk of concentration in the overall loan Ethibel carried out its sixth annual audit to verify our portfolio on single line items is relatively limited. The ten responsible use of client assets. We were pleased to once largest loans to individual counterparties other than again receive their annual sustainability certificate. financial institutions totalled €225 million at year-end 2018 (2017: €237 million). A total of 95.9% of all borrowers held Mortgage loans loans of less than €10 million at year-end 2018 (year-end Over 66% of our loan portfolio consists of mortgages. Our 2017: 93.0%). Our policy is to actively reduce the highest portfolio differs somewhat from that of other Dutch limits for credit risks on single debtors in order to contain mortgage lenders, for instance, in that the average loan concentration risk and its potential impact on Van Lanschot amount of approximately €470,000 is higher, making it Kempen’s result. slightly more sensitive to a fall in underlying house prices. In 2018, the portfolio’s weighted average loan-to-value (LTV) Responsible lending policy ratio was 76% at year-end (year-end 2017: 81%) thanks to We have a responsible lending policy in place, which takes both (p)repayments and significantly rising house prices, environmental and social impact into account. The policy, including at the higher end of the housing market. In which was updated in 2018, provides for periodic addition to declining LTVs, a clear positive migration trend sustainability screening (due diligence), via a risk filter, of all is also visible in our rating models, implying that credit existing and new corporate loans, and includes themes quality is improving. such as human rights, social and labour issues, environment, anti-corruption and bribery. The screening did In 2015, we started to provide mortgages through a network not identify any material sustainability issues in the of intermediaries, branded as Hypotrust and with Quion as portfolio. The number of potentially high-risk borrowers our service provider. Our aim is to build and maintain a was stable at 17 in 2018 (2017: 19). We are currently portfolio of regular Dutch mortgages to supplement our talking to these borrowers about specific sustainability risks Treasury investment portfolio, enabling us to generate and how these might be mitigated. For more information on attractive returns on available liquidity with low credit risks. this policy and its results, see our CSR Supplement and These mortgages are subject to strict acceptance criteria, vanlanschotkempen.com/responsible/core-bankingand the size of this portfolio amounted to €602 million by activities. year-end 2018 (year-end 2017: €600 million). This portfolio is currently stable at approximately 7% of the total A separate policy was created a few years ago for Van Lanschot mortgage portfolio. The quality of the assessing the sustainability of financial institutions with portfolio is high, with very few loan losses to date. which Van Lanschot Kempen has a banking relationship Mortgage loans: new production by type (%) Private Banking in the Netherlands: mortgage loan-to-value (%) 44% 43% 43% 40% 100 80 60 40 14% 11% 20 3% 2% 0 <=75% 75%-100% 100%-125% >125% <-’04 ’05-’06 ’07-’08 ’09-’10 ’11-’12 ’13-’14 ’15-’16 ’17-'18 Interest-only Investment Straight-line  31/12/2017  31/12/2018 Annuity repayment Life Savings Progress report 65 Mortgage loans: remaining gross business per year (€ million) compared with house price trends 600 120 500 100 400 80 300 60 200 40 100 20 0 566 134 208 242 341 435 473 359 260 214 100 129 75 64 145 378 393 468 503 0 '00 '01 '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 '16 '17 '18  Gross mortgage business (left-hand axis) Price index (right-hand axis, 2010 = 100) Mortgage loans: outstanding volumes (€ million) and number of loans by size 2,500 9,000 8,000 2,000 1,935 1,960 7,000 6,000 1,500 5,000 4,000 1,000 813 3,000 2,000 500 365 339 1,000 120 0 0 €0 €0.5m €0.5 €1m €1 €1.5m €1.5 €2m €2 €4m > €4m  Volumes outstanding (left-hand axis) Number of loans (right-hand axis) Other Private Banking loans SME credit and real estate loans This part of the loan portfolio comprises loans to high In line with our strategy, in 2018 we continued to wind net-worth individuals, in the form of overdraft facilities or down our Corporate Banking loan portfolio, made up of funding for a second home, for example. In the same SME credit and real estate loans. Some real estate category are commercial activities that fit into Private exposures to individual clients within Private Banking will Banking’s relationship model, such as funding investments remain. The remaining SME loan portfolio is well diversified, for family businesses, business professionals and with no dominant sector. The average loan size amounted executives, and healthcare professionals. Our aim is to keep to €1,16 million at year-end 2018 (year-end 2017: the size of this portfolio stable. The average loan size is €1.01 million). approximately €86,000. Private Banking other loans: type of loan Corporate Banking: SME loans by sector (100% = €1.8 billion) (100% = €251 million) 9% 18% 14% 35% 3% 4% 51% 8%  Banks and financial intermediaries 17%  SME loans  Real estate  Current accounts  Capital goods  Real estate loans 16%  Services 25%  Private loans  Leisure and tourism  Lombard loans  Other Progress report 66 Corporate Banking: real estate loans by collateral In 2018, we implemented the new IFRS 9 standard by (100% = €271 million) developing sophisticated expected credit loss models. IFRS 9 42% entails a revised approach to calculating loan losses (from incurred losses to expected losses). The first-time adoption 35% 34% impact on loan loss provisions was €13.0 million. The 31% impact was low since the incurred but not reported (IBNR) provision was simultaneously released. During 2018, the 20% migration between the credit quality stages was limited, 13% 13% which is partly the result of the current phase of the 11% economic cycle. See page 213 in the financial statements for more details on this change and its impact. For more information about credit risk, please refer to the Retail Commercial Office Residential discussion of risk management in the financial statements,  31/12/2017  31/12/2018 Section 2, “Credit risk”. We sold a portfolio of non-performing commercial real Market risk estate loans to a company affiliated to Cerberus Capital Van Lanschot Kempen is exposed to a limited degree of Management LP in 2015. The sale concerned loans with a market risk through its client-servicing activities, as a result total nominal amount of €400 million and around 120 client of client-facilitating transactions. Kempen Merchant relationships. A small number of individual debtors initiated Banking performs equity and structured product legal proceedings in relation to this sale, claiming that the transactions for clients and provides market liquidity, which transfer of the debtors’ loans and the rights related to these may result in temporary trading positions. The same applies loans were invalid. In the case of one individual debtor, the at Van Lanschot Private Banking and Corporate Banking court ruled that the transfer of the contractual relationship regarding transactions in interest-related and foreign currency with the debtor to the buyer of the loan was invalid – a products: temporary positions may arise from our efforts to decision that we have appealed against. The transfer of the facilitate our clients’ requests. We invest in our own funds to claims under the loan to the buyer of the loan (and the support Kempen Asset Management, in order to align our rights related to the loan), however, was upheld. The interests with those of our clients. The Risk Management potential financial impact of the ruling is likely to remain department monitors market risks on a daily basis. limited. For further information on market risk, see Section 3, Our portfolio of real estate loans is well diversified. Project “Market risk”, in the financial statements. development loans account for less than 1% of this portfolio. The average loan size of our real estate loans Liquidity risk and funding amounted to €1.7 million at year-end 2018 (year-end 2017: As a result of active loan book reduction, our balance sheet €1.5 million). Average LTV ratios improved to 66% (yearhas decreased structurally. As a wealth manager, we have a end 2017: 70%). large client savings and deposits base, which can fund our entire loan portfolio. This is reflected in our 106.2% funding Our real estate loans are provided primarily on the basis of a ratio. As such, our liquidity risk profile mostly consists of total quality assessment of their borrowers. We also take possible unanticipated outflows in the deposit base, into account the quality of the real estate object and the especially the deposit share that is not covered by the stability of the rental flows. The debt service coverage ratio deposit guarantee scheme. We take a cautious approach to (DSCR) is calculated so that we can determine the extent to liquidity risk and aim to hold solid liquidity buffers that which a client will be able to make interest and principal would allow us to absorb severe unexpected liquidity stress payments from the rental income generated by their situations. Outcomes of liquidity stress tests are discussed commercial real estate. At year-end 2018, 78.2% of our real by ALCO on a monthly basis. The results of the stress tests estate loans generated sufficient rental income to cover showed that Van Lanschot Kempen is capable of absorbing interest and principal payments, i.e. had a DSCR of over 1 acute and persistent liquidity stress. The total liquidity (year-end 2017: 78.5%). Clients with a DSCR of less than buffer at year-end 2018 amounted to €3.6 billion (2017: 1 often have other income they can use to service their loan €4.2 billion) with the liquidity coverage ratio standing at obligations. Lastly, the LTV of the loans also improved due 140.6% (2017: 163.6%). to strong economic growth in the Netherlands, causing prices of most real estate to rise. Although our loan portfolio can be entirely funded by client deposits, we aim to keep sufficient diversification in our Impaired loans funding mix by supplementing the savings and deposits Impaired loans are loans for which a provision has been base with issuances of secured debt under the Conditional taken. Impaired loans accounted for 3.8% of the loan Pass-through Covered Bond programme. As of December portfolio at the end of 2018 (year-end 2017: 4.0%). A 2018, total outstanding debt under the covered bond provision equal to 30% of these loans was taken (2017: programme was €1.5 billion. In 2018, we redeemed a 31%), resulting in specific provisions amounting to benchmark senior unsecured loan in June and an RMBS in €101 million. In 2018, we reached a further net release of December. Due to our structurally high liquidity buffer, we €12.7 million in provisions (2017: €11.9 million). Current did not replace these redemptions with new wholesale provisions as well as expected losses have continued to fall debt issuances. Net issued debt securities came down by significantly. The teams for preventive and intensive €0.9 billion during the reporting year. We no longer have management continue to contribute to the reduced inflow RMBS and benchmark unsecured debt issuances placed into the Restructuring & Recovery department. with investors. Progress report 67 Reducing the impact of excess liquidity on net interest Investment portfolio and liquidity by counterparty income, while maintaining a solid liquidity cushion and (100% = €3.9 billion) sufficient funding diversification, remains the main funding and liquidity planning objective. The procedures, processes and reporting associated with liquidity risk management are 3% 8% combined in our internal liquidity adequacy assessment process (ILAAP), which is assessed by our regulator every 13% 33% year. Our 2018 ILAAP was rated satisfactory on both qualitative and quantitative criteria.  Cash at central banks  Covered bonds Funding mix 18%  G overnment and government (100% = €14.0 billion) guaranteed  RMBS 24%  Banks 5%  Funds and corporates 2% 9% Investment portfolio and liquidity by rating (100% = €3.9 billion) 19% 65%  Savings and deposits 5% 3%  Debt securities 4%  Interbank funding  Equity 33%  Other funding 15%  Cash at central banks  A AA Funding redemption profile  AA (€ million)  A 40%  BBB 1,000  Other 800 For further information on our liquidity risk profile, see 600 Section 9, “Liquidity risk”, in the financial statements. 400 Interest rate risk In 2018, interest rates remained low and yield curves 200 remained flat. This translated into a further reduction in 0 rates for clients wishing to take out mortgages and loans. 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 ≥2024 However, deposit rates could not be reduced any further,  Senior unsecured  Covered bond  Subordinated due to the “natural floor” in client rates of 0% that had already been reached by the end of 2017. These factors, combined with lower yields on new purchases in our Investment portfolio relatively large investment portfolio, inevitably had a Our investment portfolio totalled €3.9 billion at year-end negative effect on net interest income. 2018, down from €4.4 billion at year-end 2017. It is maintained primarily for liquidity purposes and consists Client preference for long interest rate maturities for mainly of liquid, low-risk instruments. The composition of mortgages continued, both for newly agreed mortgages the portfolio was relatively stable in 2018, with only a and for interest rate resets. At year-end 2018, limited number of transactions. There are strict limits on approximately 31% of the mortgage portfolio consisted of instrument types, counterparties, countries, ratings and loans with remaining fixed-rate terms of eight years or credit spread risk. more. On the liability side of the balance sheet, clients held their balances in savings accounts, in the expectation of We review our investment portfolio annually to ensure it rising interest rates. Appetite for term deposits remained meets our environmental, social and governance criteria. negligible. From an interest rate risk perspective, the Investee financial services companies are subject to our combination of mortgages with long interest rate maturities, CSR policy for financial institutions as outlined above (see funded to a large extent by a variable-rate deposit base, “Responsible lending policy” on page 64). Corporates in the continues to pose challenges: there is less room to adjust portfolio are assessed for compliance with our responsible loan rates if future funding costs rise. We use balance sheet investment policy (see page 27). We have not encountered management instruments such as interest rate swaps to any material sustainability issues in our investment portfolio manage these risks. For net interest income at risk, we have to date. set a limit of 15% net interest income loss in the first 12 months, relative to our baseline scenario. All stress scenarios remain within this limit. We address long-term interest rate risk mainly via the economic value approach, Progress report 68 which examines how movements in interest rates impact and/or financial losses. The Compliance department plays the value of our assets and liabilities. Duration analysis is a key role in safeguarding our operational integrity. Both one of the main metrics used in the economic value domestic and international laws continue to increase in calculation: the duration of equity reflects how much the volume and complexity. We therefore continue to assess economic value of our equity capital would change as a whether our processes and procedures remain compliant result of movements in market interest rates. During 2018, with changing laws and regulations. ALCO kept duration around a two-year range, balancing risk and return given the low and flat yield curve. In 2018, our Compliance department paid special attention to our duty of care towards our clients, the review of our For more information on interest rate risk, see Section 8, anti-money laundering (AML) policy, and data protection. “Interest rate risk”, in the risk management section of the The department’s activities focused on our approach to all financial statements. aspects of AML, bribery, corruption and fraud prevention. The implementation of rules and regulations in our Non-financial risk procedures and processes was also a focus point, together Non-financial risk comprises operational risks, information with testing and evaluating the implementation of MiFID II. risks and business continuity risks. Operational risks are In 2018, various departments were involved in the potential losses that result from inadequate or failed internal implementation of the GDPR privacy legislation. The processes or systems, inadequate or incorrect human protection of our clients’ privacy is a key element in our actions, external events and fraud. To identify and manage financial services offering. non-financial risks, we have created a group-wide operational risk framework. Within this, the control During the course of business in 2018, we complied with framework allows us to regularly test the effectiveness of legislation on our duty of care towards our clients, fraud, key controls in our processes and systems. Other marketing communications and privacy. For more information instruments that we use for measuring and monitoring about our extensive CDD processes, see page 69. non-financial risks include incident registration, root cause analyses, risk self-assessments, and key risk indicators. Together with five other Dutch banks, in 2016 Van Lanschot Kempen agreed to abide by the derivatives recovery We have defined a non-financial risk appetite. On a framework to enable the efficient handling of the derivatives quarterly basis, the current non-financial risk exposure issue for SME clients in the Netherlands. Up until 2013, we related to the non-financial risk appetite is discussed with sold interest rate derivatives to our SME clients as part of senior management in the Compliance and Operational Risk our corporate lending as an alternative to fixed-rate loans. Committee. In 2018, we further strengthened our nonIn terms of both clients and interest rate swaps, the financial risk management competencies. The second line of numbers were relatively small and arrangements were defence continues to interact more closely with the typically customised, with only plain vanilla interest rate businesses, aiming to encourage an increasingly risk-based swaps and a limited number of caps sold. In 2018, approach in managing non-financial risks. Influencing Van Lanschot Kempen completed the review of its portfolio human behaviour and the risk culture is a structural way of and offered compensation to all affected (former) clients. further mitigating operational risk. In 2018, a campaign was Most (former) clients accepted such compensation. launched to encourage people to actively report operational incidents, with the goal of learning from these and In 2018, the Kempen Dutch Inflation Fund I was the subject improving our operational effectiveness. of negative publicity regarding its ground lease fund, Grondvermogen. We became aware that the public One of our key focuses is preventing cybercrime. We have prosecutor started an investigation into possible criminal invested significantly in this area and are currently at par offences committed by a specific counterparty in connection with industry standards, but we aim to go one step further with some transactions in ground leases in Grondvermogen. by investing more in technological and preventive measures Kempen is not considered to be a suspect. In 2017, we such as awareness programmes and staff training. We also conducted an enquiry into financial transactions within the continue to develop intelligent solutions and work closely ground lease fund, as a result of which a number of internal with industry partners. organisational and procedural measures were taken to improve our processes. Supervisory authorities received full For the continuation of operational processes during potential disclosure of the findings as well as the measures taken. disruptions, threats and incidents, we have developed business continuity measurements. These include a policy, Regulatory impact a governance structure with a Business Continuity While there is still a risk that we may not have enough Committee and Crisis Management Team, and working skilled experts in our team to implement new regulations in instructions. Moreover, several tests are performed during a timely manner, pressure from a regulatory perspective has the year to assess whether these measures work in practice. decreased compared to previous years. Many of the regulations that could have a major impact on our business For more information about operational risk, please refer to have now been successfully implemented – or impact the discussion of risk management in the financial statements, assessments have been carried out that reveal limited Section 4, “Operational risk”. impact in any case. Compliance risk Our Compliance department aims to ensure that our employees adhere to legislation, internal regulations and our own Code of Conduct at all times. Non-compliance with legislation may result in significant reputational damage Progress report 69 IFRS 9 – Effective as of 1 January 2018, International Anacredit, RRE and DGS – We have implemented several Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 9 was a major change new regulatory reporting requirements. Anacredit and in accounting standards, and we met the deadline for Residential Real Estate (RRE) reporting involve periodical reporting on these new financial reporting standards. loan-by-loan reporting on our portfolios of commercial loans In January 2018, a one-off addition of €14.4 million was and mortgages. The requirements for the Deposit Guarantee booked as a total result of the adoption of the new Scheme (DGS) have changed. As of 2019, the Dutch Central standards. We expect more volatility in provisions in the Bank should – in cases of bankruptcy – be able to pay out event of a downturn in the economy, because the new money to creditors within seven days. reporting standards methodology is more forward-looking and the state of the economy has more influence on the Brexit calculations of provisions compared to the previous Over the past few months, Van Lanschot Kempen has been methodology (IAS 39). preparing for Brexit, including the possibility of a hard Brexit as of 29 March 2019. Several working groups have Basel IV – In 2018 we conducted an impact analysis identified risks, defined an approach, and coordinated the regarding Basel IV, which confirmed that its impact on our relevant preparatory actions taken. A group-wide steering business would be relatively limited. The analysis includes committee has taken the lead in coordinating this process. changes to the approaches for credit risk and operational The preparations concern various topics, such as continued risk. Together with the Fundamental Review of the Trading authorisation for our UK business, uninterrupted Book (FRTB), these reforms will take effect as of 2022 with performance/servicing in relation to derivative contracts, transitional arrangements. While implementing the new and determining Brexit’s impact on the offering of funds regulation will take a lot of work, it will not require any and instruments to our clients. We believe that we have significant change to our strategy: the impact on our taken (and continue to take) the necessary steps to mitigate risk-weighted assets is estimated to be no more than 10%. risks for our organisation and for our clients, even in a no-deal scenario. MiFID II – Although the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II (MiFID II) regulation came into effect on 1 January 2018, we had spent much of 2017 preparing for it Capital management and implementing the processes to cope with it. This meant that the process went smoothly and the impact on the In 2018, we made further progress on our capital strategy, business was less than expected. Currently, advanced which is aimed at operating on a more capital-light basis, implementation is still ongoing to ensure effectiveness; for predominantly by means of reducing our corporate loan more information, see the “Merchant Banking” section. exposure. Our Common Equity Tier 1 ratio (CET 1, fully loaded and including retained earnings) increased from GDPR – We take our clients’ privacy very seriously – it is 20.3% at year-end 2017 to 21.4% at year-end 2018, well essential to our business. Our clients have every right to above our target range of 15-17%. The total capital ratio know what we do with their data and how we use it, which rose from 22.1% to 23.5%. Active reduction of RWA (in the is why we embrace privacy laws such as the General Data corporate loan book) continues to be the main contributor to Protection Regulation (GDPR) that came into effect on the strong growth in solvency ratios, but underlying credit 25 May 2018. As for many businesses in Europe, GDPR quality has also been improving. was a major project for Van Lanschot Kempen during the reporting year. We only use our clients’ data for the services The ongoing improvement in solvency continues to result in we provide to them – we do not sell data to third parties. significant amounts of excess equity capital. In December After a client chooses to close their account with us, their 2018, we followed up on the first special capital return to data is automatically destroyed after a period of ten years. shareholders in 2017 (€41 million), by means of a second special capital distribution of over €60 million (€1.50 per Client due diligence – To prevent money laundering, share). The special capital return was approved by corruption, bribery and fraud, we check our clients and their shareholders in October 2018. We will continue to consider financial transactions carefully. As part of the paying out excess capital to shareholders in the form of implementation of the fourth European Anti-Money dividends and capital returns, subject to regulatory Laundering (AML) Directive that came into effect in 2018, approval. Since 2016, €210 million has been returned to financial services companies such as ours are required to shareholders. In addition, we aim to engage in acquisitions, carry out more extensive client due diligence (CDD) and intend to leave room for these in our capital position as procedures, in addition to the strict CDD procedures we well. already apply. In 2018, there was also much public attention on the role of banks in detecting any form of money Following the annual supervisory review evaluation process laundering through the financial system, adding pressure on (SREP), DNB informed us about the capital requirements financial institutions to play their role as gatekeepers even that we had to meet from June 2018 onwards. The more effectively. We have an automated monitoring system minimum capital requirements comprise a CET 1 ratio of in place, which was upgraded in 2018, and we employ a 9.5%, a Tier 1 ratio of 11.0%, and a total capital ratio of team of experts to evaluate any signs that our clients may 13.0%. The SREP requirements cover both Pillar 1 and be involved in illegal activities. In such cases, the CDD Pillar 2 risks. Acceptance and Exit Committee will take appropriate measures. The use of smart technology and reliable systems is critical, as well as training staff members in recognising and acting on possible red flags. Progress report 70 SREP requirement for 2018 1.88% 1.88% 1.88% 5.00% 5.00% 5.00% 5.00% 5.00% 5.00% 4.50% 4.50% 21.4% 6.00% 6.00% 21.4% 8.00% 8.00% 23.5% SREP CET 1 CET 1 CET 1 SREP Tier 1 Tier 1 Tier 1 SREP total Overall capital Total capital 2018 requirement 31/12/2018 2018 requirement 31/12/2018 capital 2018 requirement ratio 2018 2018 (OCR) 2018 31/12/2018  Pillar 1  Pillar 2  Capital Conservation Buffer  Pillar 2 Guidance (not disclosed) In addition to the 9.5% CET 1 requirement, we need to comply with the combined buffer requirements, which must be met by CET 1 capital. The capital conservation buffer stood at 1.875% in 2018 and will reach its fully phased-in level of 2.5% in 2019. The countercyclical buffer for the Netherlands is currently set at 0%. As the systemic risk buffer does not apply to us, for 2018 the total CET 1 requirement adds up to 11.38% and the total capital ratio to 14.88%. This requirement excludes “Pillar 2 guidance” (P2G). Institutions are expected to comply with P2G by holding CET 1 capital, but P2G does not have binding status and does not automatically restrict dividend distributions in the event of a breach. With a CET 1 ratio of 21.4% and a total capital ratio of 23.5% at year-end 2018, we meet all capital requirements, including P2G. The Basel III leverage ratio increased to 6.9% at year-end 2018 (year-end 2017: 6.7%), which is high compared with other Dutch banks and well above the minimum Basel requirement of 3%. As bail-in (loss absorption) currently stands, we also comply with the minimum required eligible liabilities (MREL) requirements. So far, the National Resolution Authority has not imposed additional MREL requirements for Van Lanschot Kempen that are related to the resolution strategy. No total loss absorption capacity (TLAC) requirements apply, as we are not a global systemically important institution. Annual Report 71 BEING A TRUSTED ADVISER I’m trained as a chemist, but after completing my Master’s time that I’d been involved in a US investment banking in Chemistry I decided to pursue a business career. environment. I’ve learnt a lot, and I’m happy to have been Working in the Life Sciences & Healthcare team within part of such a major milestone for the firm. Corporate Finance at Kempen Merchant Banking is the best of both worlds. As well as IPOs and capital markets There can be a lot of pressure in our industry – not to transactions, we also work on mergers & acquisitions and mention a lot of sitting at a desk. So to relax, I’ve been play an advisory role for clients. In fact, being a trusted taking advantage of the Vitality Programme and having adviser is the most important part of our business: when a 15-minute chair massage once or twice a week. we create long-term relationships, our clients come back to Logistically, it’s perfect: the facilities are in our building, us again and again – creating more value for them, and for so it’s easy to fit into a busy schedule. Yes, we’re expected us. to work hard, but the firm really pays attention to our health and well-being, too. In the life sciences and healthcare sector, Kempen received a licence to underwrite US transactions in July 2018. This Jan-Willem Plomp – Associate, has been exciting for me personally: we carried out two Kempen Merchant Banking successful transactions in September, and it was the first Progress report 72 REMUNERATION The average variable remuneration of all Van Lanschot Kempen employees who work (largely) in the Netherlands We pursue a remuneration policy that is in line may not exceed 20% of their fixed remuneration, as prescribed by the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (Wft). with our strategy and contributes to long-term Variable remuneration of up to 100% of fixed remuneration value creation. This section sets out our may be granted on special grounds in individual situations. This only applies to a relatively low number of employees. remuneration governance and the policies that Award apply to our employees, identified staff, the Variable remuneration to individual employees is awarded Statutory Board and the Supervisory Board. on the basis of individual performance, market competitiveness and special factors. An employee’s personal performance is assessed on quantitative (i.e. financial) and qualitative Remuneration policy governance (non-financial) performance criteria, with some departments The Statutory Board sets the remuneration policy for applying only qualitative criteria. At least 50% of the employees, based on the advice of the Human Resource allocation of any variable remuneration is based on nonManagement (HRM), Finance, Reporting & Control, Group financial criteria, such as showing the desired professional Risk Management and Compliance departments. These, behaviour, improving client satisfaction, developing new together with Group Audit, also have an important part to products or solutions for clients, and improving internal play in setting up, adjusting, implementing and reviewing processes, policies or systems. our variable remuneration policy. They advise the Statutory and Supervisory Boards and report to them on their Individual performance is measured based on the degree to conclusions. which employees have achieved targets set at the beginning of the year. Performance criteria include nothing The Statutory Board is responsible for implementing our that might encourage irresponsible risk-taking. remuneration policy. The Supervisory Board approves our variable remuneration policy, including its general principles, Variable remuneration is only awarded if 1) Van Lanschot and oversees its implementation. Approval by the Kempen’s financial position allows; 2) it is justified by the Supervisory Board is also required for our variable performance of Van Lanschot Kempen, the relevant remuneration pools, any significant individual variable business unit and the individual employee; 3) Van Lanschot remuneration, and for individual variable remuneration Kempen meets the prevailing buffer requirements under the proposed for employees designated as identified staff. EU´s Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR), the Dutch The Supervisory Board’s Remuneration Committee Financial Supervision Act (Wft) and its implementing prepares the Supervisory Board’s decision-making on legislation; 4) the risks taken have been reassessed and no remuneration and advises it in this area. material risks have occurred that were not expected or factored in; and 5) the employee has received a good Fixed remuneration performance assessment, has met compliance targets, has Employees’ fixed remuneration reflects their relevant not been subject to disciplinary measures, and has not working experience and organisational responsibilities. taken any risks that fall outside Van Lanschot Kempen’s accepted risk appetite. Variable remuneration policy for Van Lanschot Kempen employees Payment Van Lanschot Kempen has variable remuneration policies in Variable remuneration can be paid to employees entirely in place governing all employees of Van Lanschot and cash up to a gross maximum of €50,000. If it exceeds this Kempen. Every employee can be considered for a variable amount, 50% of the portion above the gross figure of remuneration award, provided that certain conditions are €50,000 is paid immediately and unconditionally, and the met (as mentioned under the Award section). Our policies remaining 50% conditionally and on a deferred basis over a comply with all relevant legislation and regulations. period of three years following the year in which it was awarded. The deferred portion can only become Based on operating results, the Statutory and Executive unconditional if Van Lanschot Kempen still meets the Boards determine whether variable remuneration will be prevailing buffer requirements. awarded and what amount is available, taking into account achievement of financial and non-financial performance The Statutory Board may, with the approval of the criteria. The boards submit the proposed amount for the Supervisory Board, hold or claw back all or part of the: variable remuneration pool for the approval of the – Conditional variable remuneration previously awarded to Supervisory Board, and any deviations also require an employee (or former employee) if payment of the Supervisory Board approval. variable remuneration would be considered unfair or unreasonable (hold back); Once the amount available for variable remuneration at – Unconditional variable remuneration previously paid to an Van Lanschot and Kempen has been determined, the employee (or former employee). This might occur if, for Statutory Board decides how this variable remuneration will instance, payment was based on incorrect information be distributed at Van Lanschot, while Kempen’s Management about performance or about the conditions on which the Board decides on its distribution at Kempen. variable remuneration depended (claw back). Progress report 73 If payment has taken place on the basis of such incorrect More information about our remuneration policy for information, or has been made in conflict with the variable identified staff can be found at vanlanschotkempen.com/ remuneration policy and/or applicable legislation and remunerationpolicies. regulations, the Statutory Board will exercise its authority in this respect. Statutory Board remuneration policy The remuneration policy for members of Van Lanschot Long-term share plan Kempen’s Statutory Board is adopted by the general Our 2011 long-term share plan (LTP) allows us to award meeting following a proposal by the Supervisory Board. The variable remuneration to certain key employees, including policy is aimed at ensuring a balanced, sustainable and identified staff. The plan is not open to members of the competitive remuneration package. The current remuneration Statutory or Executive Boards. Offering variable for the members of the Statutory Board was approved and remuneration in the form of depositary receipts for Class A adopted by the general meeting on 31 May 2018, and Van Lanschot Kempen shares (“Van Lanschot Kempen applied from 1 January 2018. shares”), the LTP is governed by our variable remuneration policy. Under the LTP, 60% of the Van Lanschot Kempen When adopting the Statutory Board remuneration package, shares are awarded immediately and unconditionally, while we consider pay ratios within the company. A comparison 40% are awarded conditionally over a period of three years of the remuneration package of the CEO and the average starting in the year after the year of conditional award (the labour cost1 of an employee within Van Lanschot Kempen vesting period). results in a pay ratio of 10:1 (2017: pay ratio 9:1). Profit-sharing scheme We ended all variable remuneration for the Statutory In 2017, we introduced a profit-sharing scheme for all Board in 2015. As partial compensation, a fixed Van Lanschot Kempen employees working in the remuneration component was introduced in the form of Netherlands to further increase their alignment with Van Lanschot Kempen shares. In 2018, the lock-up period Van Lanschot Kempen as shareholders. For the 2018 applicable to these shares was increased from three to five financial year, an equal number of Van Lanschot Kempen years. shares were granted to all employees in scope in February 2019. The number of shares is linked to Van Lanschot In addition to the lock-up period applicable to these shares, Kempen’s profit and is conditional on this exceeding a Statutory Board members are also bound by the share certain threshold. A lock-up period of two years applies. ownership guidelines. These guidelines stipulate that Van Lanschot Kempen shares held by Statutory Board Remuneration in 2018 members must be equivalent to the cash portion of two Variable remuneration totalling €16.2 million was paid years’ gross salary for as long as they remain in office. to employees (including identified staff) over 2018. Statutory Board members will gradually meet this One person received total annual remuneration of over requirement over the years through the award of fixed €1 million in 2018. remuneration in the form of Van Lanschot Kempen shares. The share ownership guidelines contribute to Remuneration policy for identified staff Van Lanschot Kempen’s long-term value creation. Identified staff are employees whose activities have a material impact on the risk profile of the business. Strict In 2015, it was agreed that the remuneration policy of the additional rules apply to the variable remuneration of Statutory Board would be revisited in 2017 and evaluated this group of employees. The identified staff in light of developments and circumstances at the time. remuneration policy applies to all identified staff of Van Lanschot Kempen. Members of the Statutory and In December 2017, Willis Towers Watson conducted a Executive Boards are not eligible for variable remuneration. market assessment for the remuneration of the Statutory Board. The peer group for the market assessment was The criteria of the variable remuneration policy for identified selected in keeping with the Dutch Banking Code, and staff are the same as for Van Lanschot Kempen’s variable consisted of: remuneration policy. The variable remuneration of identified – Dutch banks; staff is paid 50% in cash and 50% in Van Lanschot Kempen – Western European specialised standalone wealth shares, while the variable remuneration of identified staff of management companies; Kempen Capital Management NV (KCM) is paid 50% in – Dutch corporates (cross-industry benchmark). cash and 50% in a flexible mix of Van Lanschot Kempen In this market assessment, the compensation from shares and investments in funds managed by KCM. In all 1 January 2018 positions us in the 29th percentile of the cases, 60% of both parts of the variable remuneration is reference group, well below the median. awarded immediately and unconditionally, and 40% conditionally and deferred. This deferred remuneration is For information on the composition of the reference group then paid out over a period of three years following the year used for the market comparison of Statutory Board of award. Whether an award becomes unconditional remuneration, please refer to vanlanschotkempen.com/ depends on reassessment of the five predetermined criteria remunerationpolicies. This information is an integral part of mentioned on the previous page. If this reassessment leads the Remuneration section. to a review of the deferred remuneration, the hold and/or claw-back system applies. A lock-up period of one year applies to Van Lanschot Kempen shares that have become unconditional. 1 The average labour cost is calculated by dividing total staff costs by the number of FTEs working for Van Lanschot Kempen. Progress report 74 Statutory Board remuneration package Fixed income The following table shows the remuneration package for members of the Statutory Board, who are not entitled to Remuneration of the Statutory Board Chairman Members variable compensation. There are no early retirement Fixed in cash €772,500 €437,750 schemes for Board members. Their severance remuneration is in line with current statutory and regulatory rules and Fixed in Van Lanschot Kempen shares €387,500 €312,250 amounts to one year’s gross salary. The remuneration of the Statutory Board consists of two components: fixed income and benefits. Statutory Board remuneration package Type of payment Purpose/rationale Fixed income Cash Reflects responsibilities, performance and market trends Fixed income Van Lanschot Kempen shares Achievement of long-term strategy Benefits Payment towards pension and disability Market competitiveness insurance, fixed expenses reimbursement Benefits members of the Statutory Board from €206,000 to The members of the Statutory Board are responsible for their €312,250. Their fixed salary in cash did not increase, and own pension provision, towards which they receive a remained €772,500 (Chairman) and €437,750 (other board payment. They also receive a payment for taking out disability members). The proposal was to increase the total fixed insurance. For more information, see “Remuneration of the salary of the Chairman by 15.5%, and of the other members Statutory and Supervisory Boards” on page 208 of the 2018 by 16.5%. In comparison with the total remuneration policy financial statements. that existed until 2015, when higher percentages of variable remuneration were still used, the new amounts of Evaluation of the Statutory Board the new total remuneration represented an increase of 3.1% remuneration policy for the Chairman and a decrease of 11.7% for the other Important factors in the Supervisory Board’s decision to members of the Statutory Board. propose increasing the remuneration of the Statutory Board to the annual general meeting included our aims to: A market survey showed that the Statutory Board’s pension – Attract and retain talent to continue the company’s contributions were not in line with market practice. The transformation and growth; percentage for pension contribution was changed from – Reward the strong performance of the Statutory Board; 20% (Chairman) and 21% (other members) to 30% of fixed – Align reward with long-term sustainable performance; salary, which remains below the median. After the – Align the interests of the management with amendment in remuneration, the total remuneration of the shareholders. Statutory Board falls in the 29th percentile of the peer group and below the median. Since the announcement of our wealth management strategy in 2013, Van Lanschot Kempen has transformed The annual general meeting approved the remuneration from a small universal bank to a specialist wealth manager. proposal in 2018 and, although there was limited discussion This resulted in strong performance over recent years (see at the shareholder meeting itself, the Remuneration Our strategic transformation” on page 12). In the future, Committee and the Supervisory Board recognised that the company will continue to pursue its wealth management there was a substantial number of votes against the strategy, and will utilise the latest technology and expertise proposal. Based on feedback received from investors, and in digitalisation and advanced analytics to grow the following the Supervisory Board’s evaluation of the process business and to make the organisation more efficient. This prior to the annual general meeting, the Supervisory Board requires a Statutory Board with a proven track record in initiated an engagement programme with shareholders and wealth management, while experience in digitalisation and proxy advisers. The aim was to further understand their advanced analytics is also key. As a consequence, the concerns and issues in relation to the proposal, and to remuneration of the Statutory Board members should be broaden the scope of engagement with shareholders. such that Van Lanschot Kempen is able to attract and retain the necessary talent for the Board, which includes Board A delegation of the Supervisory Board/Remuneration members from highly specialised wealth management and Committee engaged with a large part of Van Lanschot technology firms. In addition, the remuneration package of Kempen’s shareholder base and other stakeholders, the Statutory Board must be structured to fit properly including proxy voting advisers. During these meetings, an within the Dutch regulatory context. explanation was given about the Supervisory Board’s view on rewarding long-term sustainable performance; the Dutch As a result, a proposal was made at the annual general context, such as the Dutch law on remuneration of financial meeting to increase the fixed salary in shares in undertakings; the Capital Requirements Directives (CRD) IV Van Lanschot Kempen of the Chairman of the Statutory rules; and the Dutch Corporate Governance and Banking Board from €231,750 to €387,500, and of the other Codes. Progress report 75 The dialogue with our shareholders and the proxy advisers Supervisory Board remuneration policy was very constructive. Gaining their views on executive pay The remuneration policy for members of the Supervisory in general, and Van Lanschot Kempen’s remuneration policy Board was adopted by the general meeting on 31 May in particular, was very helpful. The main feedback 2018 and applied from 1 January 2018. Supervisory Board concerned the preference for pay for performance, and the remuneration is summarised in the table below. desire to be able to monitor the Statutory Board’s performance against agreed KPIs. We explained that the Remuneration Chairman Deputy Member Supervisory Board believes in rewarding long-term Supervisory Board Chairman sustainable performance, which includes a large proportion of fixed salary in shares and with no (short-term focused) Supervisory Board €90,000 €70,000 €60,000 variable remuneration. Due to Dutch law and market Audit and Compliance practice in combination with CRD IV rules, a relatively small Committee €15,000 €10,000 cash payment in the year after the performance can be awarded in case of variable remuneration. For these Risk Committee €15,000 €10,000 reasons, the remuneration policy was already amended in Remuneration Committee €10,000 €7,000 2015, when we introduced the fixed salary in the form of Selection and shares instead of any form of variable remuneration. We Appointment Committee €10,000 €6,000 also elaborated on the remuneration provisions in the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and Banking Code, which focus on long-term value creation for the company. There was broad recognition that the Dutch rules differ from common remuneration practices in other EU countries, including the UK. Following these explanations, most shareholders confirmed that they now had a better understanding of our decision not to pay variable remuneration. Suggestions discussed with shareholders included the possibility to award variable remuneration within the Dutch legal framework, provision of details about the annual performance evaluation of the members of the Statutory Board, and the composition of the peer group. We explained that the Dutch Banking Code prescribes that the peer group should be composed of comparable positions both inside and outside the financial industry, including the relevant international context. Some of the current members of the Statutory Board worked for companies that are substantially bigger than Van Lanschot Kempen, and in practice we seek new talent from larger, complex companies rather than smaller companies. Based on information from Willis Towers Watson, we also explained that if some of the large Dutch companies had not been included in the peer group, the outcome would have remained that the remuneration was substantially below the median. Some questions were asked about the considerations and governance of Stichting Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen (“Stichting Administratiekantoor”). We explained how Stichting Administratiekantoor is governed, particularly its independence from Van Lanschot Kempen. For further information about Stichting Administratiekantoor's considerations, see their Board report on page 224. The Supervisory Board received detailed feedback about each of the engagement meetings. We are aware that it is very important that we carefully explain the relevance of the Dutch regulatory context in the evaluation of the remuneration of the Statutory Board, and the choice not to pay variable remuneration to the members of the Statutory Board. The feedback was very constructive, and the Supervisory Board will take it into account going forward. Van Lanschot Kempen will continue this broader scope of shareholder engagement, and will liaise with shareholders and proxy voting advisers on sensitive matters well before these items are put on the agenda of the general meeting. Report of the Supervisory Board 76 REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD This report gives an overview of the activities Structure and functioning of internal risk management Van Lanschot Kempen’s principal risks, as well as the of the Supervisory Board and its committees structure and functioning of its risk management and in 2018. A description of the composition and control systems, are discussed by the Risk Committee. In 2018, the committee’s chairman regularly reported its operation of the Supervisory Board is set out conclusions and recommendations to the Supervisory Board. Van Lanschot Kempen’s risk appetite statement is in the notes on corporate governance (see subject to the Supervisory Board’s annual approval. The page 83). statement for 2019 was approved at the Board’s December meeting. The 2019-21 capital and funding plan was also discussed and approved. Supervision Financial reporting Achievement of corporate targets Financial reporting is discussed regularly at the Audit and The Supervisory Board can reflect on a commercially Compliance Committee’s meetings, which are also attended successful year for Van Lanschot Kempen, as is proven by by the external auditors. In 2018, the committee gave the net inflow of assets under management and the special attention to the impact and implementation of Basel increase in commission income. In addition, the capital IV and IFRS 16, the implementation of IFRS 9 in the position has been strengthened further, which allowed for a opening balance, and the 2018 interim financial statements. second special capital return. However, the rise in cost After each meeting, the chairman of the committee reports levels in the first half of the year combined with the on committee discussions to the Supervisory Board. All continuing low interest rates, resulted in a higher efficiency members of the Supervisory Board were invited to attend ratio than targeted. We are confident that appropriate the Audit and Compliance Committee’s meetings in 2018 at measures are being taken to mitigate this effect. which the annual and half-year figures were discussed. The Supervisory Board approved the financial statements for Having simplified and focused the business model, 2017 on 21 February 2018. Van Lanschot Kempen has now defined the next phase in its strategy. This phase takes into account the competitive The Supervisory Board decided to propose to the general landscape, broader economic conditions, and behavioural meeting held on 31 May 2018 that it reappoints changes driven by digital technology and the potential of PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants NV (PwC) as advanced analytics. external auditors for the 2018 and 2019 financial years. The general meeting has reappointed PwC as external auditors We are pleased to see organic inflow, both of assets under for the 2018 and 2019 financial years. In December 2018, management at Private Banking and from new fiduciary the Supervisory Board decided to propose the mandates at Asset Management. Merchant Banking had a reappointment of PwC for the 2020 financial year to the strong year due to multiple successful transactions. Evi is general meeting to be held in May 2019. growing its client base, although assets under management remained relatively stable. Legal and regulatory compliance The quarterly reports of the Compliance department were During 2018, we’ve also seen an increased focus on discussed by the Audit and Compliance Committee. These digitalisation and advanced analytics. Throughout the meetings were also attended by the Director of Compliance. organisation, projects were initiated to increase efficiency During the Supervisory Board meetings, there were regular and improve the client experience. We are enthusiastic updates on specific projects, such as client due diligence. about these initiatives, and confident that they will lead to a The Supervisory Board was also informed periodically more cost-efficient organisation. We support the about the ongoing implementation of new legislation and appointment of a Chief Digital Officer and a Chief Analytics regulations such as MiFID II, the General Data Protection Officer, who will accelerate change through the whole Regulation (Algemene Verordening Gegevensbescherming), organisation. Van Lanschot Kempen further aligned its the EBA Guidelines on internal governance, and the EBA business units by integrating teams with similar tasks and and ESMA Guidelines on the assessment of the suitability setting up a new cross-functional team for a specific client of members of the management body and key function group. Moving from a product-based offering to a more holders. solutions-led approach will enable clients to profit even more from the broad range of services Van Lanschot Relationship with stakeholders Kempen can provide, and is expected to result in further The Supervisory Board regularly discussed Van Lanschot growth in assets under management. Kempen’s relationship with its shareholders. The most important topics Van Lanschot Kempen discussed with A new set of financial and non-financial KPIs was its shareholders were the general development of introduced during 2018. We expect these KPIs to Van Lanschot Kempen, the progress made on executing effectively measure both the financial and non-financial Strategy 2020, and Van Lanschot Kempen’s strong capital value created for stakeholders. For the main elements of base, which enabled it to make a capital return payment Van Lanschot Kempen’s strategy, please see pages 12-20. to its shareholders in December 2018. The scope of engagement with shareholders was further expanded in 2018. Report of the Supervisory Board 77 A delegation of the Supervisory Board had several meetings Composition of the Supervisory Board with Van Lanschot Kempen’s shareholders and other Godfried van Lanschot stepped down as a member of the stakeholders to discuss their views on the company’s Supervisory Board at the general meeting on 31 May 2018. current remuneration policy, the essential components in He had been a member of the Supervisory Board for a the assessment of a remuneration policy, the 2018 annual period of 12 years. The Supervisory Board is sincerely general meeting and other governance topics. For further grateful to Godfried van Lanschot for his valuable information on this engagement, see page 74. contribution to the Board over the past 12 years. At the general meeting on 31 May 2018, Maarten Muller In December 2018, Willy Duron and Jeanine Helthuis was appointed as a new member of the Supervisory Board attended the Works Council’s meeting with the Executive until the general meeting that will take place in 2022. Board, at which the general course of business at At the extraordinary general meeting on 5 October 2018, Van Lanschot Kempen was discussed. The Supervisory Frans Blom was appointed as a new member of the Board values its constructive relationship with the Works Supervisory Board until the general meeting that will take Council. place in 2023. Relevant aspects of corporate social responsibility According to schedule, Willy Duron’s and Bernadette Langius's As part of the continuing education programme, in terms of office as members of the Supervisory Board will September 2018 the Head of CSR and the Director of expire in May 2019. Impact and Responsible Investment informed the Supervisory Board about recent developments in the area Supervisory Board meetings of CSR. The focus was on growing client demand for The Supervisory Board held 12 meetings in 2018. The sustainable investment solutions, the increasing relevance Executive Board attends the formal meetings of the of external sustainability frameworks, and the upcoming Supervisory Board and prepares detailed supporting (European) regulations on sustainability. In addition, information. Regular items on the agenda of these meetings Kempen Capital Management’s Chief Investment Officer included strategy, developments within the various informed the Supervisory Board about the relevant aspects business lines, corporate governance, risk management, IT of Focusing Capital on the Long Term: an initiative in which and operations, results and budget. In addition, the Board Kempen actively participates to emphasise the importance discussed the return of capital to shareholders, and the of investing in companies with a long-term focus. simplification of the legal structure of Van Lanschot Kempen. The Risk Committee was informed about progress made on applying the responsible lending policy. Based on the way The Supervisory Board also held 12 additional meetings CSR is integrated in the organisation – e.g. in policies, – most of which were in advance of the regular Supervisory products and reporting – the Supervisory Board concluded Board meetings – with Supervisory Board members only. that Van Lanschot Kempen has taken significant steps in These closed meetings give the Supervisory Board the the area of CSR over the years. In view of the continuous opportunity to reflect on the agenda items and discuss developments in this field, CSR remains a topic that possible concerns in advance of the regular meetings, as requires ongoing attention from Van Lanschot Kempen. well as to discuss matters such as the proposal for the amendment of the remuneration of the Statutory and Internal organisation Supervisory Boards and the suitability matrix of the Supervisory Board. The Chairman of the Executive Board Composition of the Statutory and Executive Boards was invited to attend some of these closed meetings, The composition of the Statutory Board did not change in depending on the topics being discussed. The table on the 2018. From 2015 onwards, the Statutory Board has, in next page shows the composition of Supervisory Board principle, been taking its decisions at the Executive Board’s committees, and the attendance rate of each member of the meetings. The composition of the Executive Board changed Supervisory Board at committee meetings. in 2018. Paul Gerla sadly passed away in November 2018 after having to step down as a member of the Executive The Supervisory Board received all information needed to Board for medical reasons on 5 February 2018. He was perform its tasks from the Executive Board and the external succeeded by Leni Boeren, responsible for Asset auditors. Employees from within the organisation regularly Management, who was appointed as a member of the attended meetings to provide additional information on Executive Board on 5 February 2018. As of that date she themes within their respective fields. The agendas for was also appointed as Chairman of the Managing Board of Supervisory Board meetings were drawn up by the Kempen. The Executive Board consists of Karl Guha Company Secretary, in consultation with the Chairman of (Chairman), Constant Korthout, Arjan Huisman, Richard the Supervisory Board. Bruens, Leni Boeren, and Leonne van der Sar. Constant Korthout, Richard Bruens and Arjan Huisman were In addition, the Supervisory Board held three sessions with reappointed as members of the Statutory Board for a period the Executive Board which were fully dedicated to of four years by the annual general meeting in May 2018. Van Lanschot Kempen’s strategy. The strategy sessions were attended by all members of the Supervisory Board. Report of the Supervisory Board 78 Supervisory Board committees Composition of Supervisory Board committees The Supervisory Board remains fully responsible for all The Supervisory Board has appointed four committees from decisions. The table below shows the composition of the among its members. Each committee advises the Supervisory Board and its committees, and their respective Supervisory Board and prepares decision-making by the attendance rates. Board in its designated area of interest. Composition and Supervisory Board Audit and Risk Committee Selection and Remuneration attendance rate Compliance Appointment Committee Committee Committee Willy Duron 95.83% 80% 100% 100% 100% (Chairman) (Chairman) Manfred Schepers 95.83% 100% 100% (Chairman) Jeanine Helthuis 91.67% 100% 100% Bernadette Langius 95.83% 100% 100% (Chairman1) Godfried van Lanschot 100% 100% 100% (Chairman2) Lex van Overmeire 91.67% 100% 100% (Chairman) Maarten Muller3 100% 100% 100% Frans Blom4 100% 100% 100% 1 As of 1 June 2018. 2 Until 31 May 2018. 3 As of 31 May 2018. 4 As of 5 October 2018. Audit and Compliance Committee The Audit and Compliance Committee carried out a detailed The Audit and Compliance Committee held five meetings in assessment of the annual figures, half-year figures, and 2018. These meetings were attended by a delegation from information used for the trading updates and the proposal the Statutory Board. The external auditors and the directors for a capital return to the shareholders of €1.50 per share. of Group Audit, Compliance, and Finance, Reporting & The committee considered significant financial items in Control were also present at the meetings. relation to the company’s financial statements and disclosures, which are shown in the table below and overleaf. Key items for discussion Audit and Compliance Committee review and conclusion Impairments of loans and advances to the public and private sectors As of 2018, impairments for individually identifiable loans are based on On the basis of periodically discussed management reports, we IFRS 9, which replaced IAS 39. Van Lanschot Kempen recognises a loss challenged the completeness and accuracy of the impairments made. We allowance for expected credit losses (ECL) on all loans. The ECL is discussed the changes in loss allowances during the year as well as the calculated by using purpose-built IFRS 9 models. For credit-impaired loss allowances recognised in the profit and loss statement. loans, the Restructuring & Recovery team provides input in determining the lifetime of ECL. Based on our discussion and considering the acceptable range in the context of estimate uncertainty, we agree with the methodology applied Determining the appropriateness of the individual items involves by management in determining the provisions for impairments of loans elements of judgement and requires management to make assumptions. and advances to the public and private sectors, and with the corresponding results. The disclosures relating to this item are set out in Note 9 to the financial statements. Fair value measurement of financial instruments For financial instruments traded in an active market (Level 1) the We were informed about the methods used for, and the outcome of, valuation is based on quoted prices and market data. There is limited management’s valuations of Level 2 and 3 financial instruments, including judgement involved in the fair value valuation of these instruments. For the governance around model and assumption changes. financial instruments not traded in an active market (Levels 2 and 3) management applies subjective judgement in the fair value valuation of Based on our discussions and considering the acceptable range in the these instruments. The fair value of Level 2 and 3 instruments is context of estimation uncertainty, we agree with the estimates applied in determined with the use of net present value models, option models or the fair valuation of the Level 2 and 3 financial instruments. the net asset value of the underlying investment. In addition, for certain Level 3 instruments, Van Lanschot Kempen uses market and transaction multiples in the valuation. The nature of the instrument determines the model and data used. Report of the Supervisory Board 79 Key items for discussion Audit and Compliance Committee review and conclusion Adoption of IFRS 9 (Financial Instruments) Van Lanschot Kempen adopted IFRS 9 as of 1 January 2018. This resulted We have monitored the implementation of IFRS 9 and have reviewed the in changes in accounting policies and adjustments to the amounts disclosures made in the financial report on the 2018 half-year results and in previously recognised in the financial statements. Adjustments were the 2018 annual report. Management informed us about the changes made recognised in the opening balance, including in retained earnings and other in classification of financial instruments and in determining the level of reserves. impairments. PwC explained their audit procedures regarding IFRS 9, including validating the IFRS 9 models developed by Van Lanschot Under IFRS 9, impairments are based on an expected credit loss model Kempen, and testing the internal control environment and relevant IT rather than the incurred credit loss model used under IAS 39. systems and applications. Financial and non-financial KPIs During 2018, a new set of financial and non-financial Key Performance In the process of preparing the annual accounts for 2018, we assessed the Indicators (KPIs) was developed, focusing on the creation of long-term new KPIs in light of our strategy and made enquiries about how these KPIs value. These KPIs reflect both the interests of our stakeholders and our link to the material topics prioritised by our stakeholders in the materiality ambitions as a wealth manager. matrix. Implementation of IFRS 16 IFRS 16 Leases was issued in January 2016 and replaces IAS 17 Leases Management informed the Audit and Compliance Committee in detail on and IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease. IFRS the progress of preparations for implementing IFRS 16. We find that 16 sets out the principles for recognition, measurement, presentation and Van Lanschot Kempen is prepared for this new standard. disclosure of leases and will result in almost all leases being recognised on the balance sheet, similar to the accounting for finance leases under IAS 17. The committee discussed the external auditors’ audit plan, Risk Committee reports and the management letter prior to their Manfred Schepers was appointed as Chairman of the Risk consideration by the full Supervisory Board. During these Committee as of 1 January 2018. He replaced Willy Duron, discussions, the committee discussed the audit scope, who remained a member of the committee. In October materiality and key audit matters as reported by the 2018, Frans Blom was appointed as a new member of the auditors. The Audit and Compliance Committee works Risk Committee. The Risk Committee met three times in closely with the Risk Committee on some key audit matters 2018. Its meetings were also attended by the CFO/CRO such as reliability and continuity of the IT environment and and the directors of Group Risk Management and of Credit cyber security. In the December meeting, the functioning of Risk and Credit Restructuring and Recovery. PwC in 2018 was evaluated. The committee reviews the external auditors’ independence, communication and fees The committee paid detailed attention to the credit, every year. The outcome of the evaluation resulted in the operational, market and interest rate risks to which the proposal to reappoint PwC for the 2020 financial year. organisation is exposed. The committee considered the annual plan and reports from The quarterly risk appetite reports were discussed by the Group Audit, and the annual plan and reports from the Risk Committee. Specific attention was given to reviewing Compliance department. The Audit and Compliance whether Van Lanschot Kempen’s risk profile was within the Committee also discussed the report regarding the external limits set in Van Lanschot Kempen’s risk appetite. In its recertification of Group Audit. The basis of this periodical meetings, the committee discussed credit risk, execution recertification is the code of conduct and the standards of risk, data management risk, cyber risk and business The Institute of Internal Auditors Inc. The committee was continuity risk. Interest rate and market risk developments informed about contacts with, and correspondence and were discussed based on duration analyses, the reports of, De Nederlandsche Bank (DNB) and the Dutch development of value at risk, and stress tests. Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM). The Audit and Compliance Committee also met separately with the The committee was also informed generally about the way internal and external auditors. in which Van Lanschot Kempen is preparing for the implementation of Basel IV and IRB model developments. The Audit and Compliance Committee discussed the quarterly reports of Group Audit and Compliance, as part At the committee’s December 2018 meeting, the capital of its evaluation of the quality and effectiveness of and funding plan for 2019-21 and Van Lanschot Kempen’s Van Lanschot Kempen’s governance, risk management and risk appetite for 2019 were discussed. Both documents internal control systems. Group Audit reports present the were submitted to the Supervisory Board with a positive results of reviews of the risk & control framework, the recommendation. See vanlanschotkempen.com/en/ implementation and functioning of IT systems, the governance (“Banking Code”) for the principles on which management of the loan portfolio, and the impact of the Van Lanschot Kempen’s risk appetite is based. strategy on the organisation. Quarterly reporting from Compliance covered themes such as client-centricity, client due diligence, implementation of rules and regulations, and adherence to the applicable rules. Report of the Supervisory Board 80 In 2018, the Risk Committee gave special attention to the following topics: Key item for discussion Risk Committee review and conclusion Non-financial risk Operational and information risk management remains challenging given Management informed us about the developments in the risk profile that Van Lanschot Kempen is still in the transition phase towards its across the organisation and all mitigating measures taken by Risk envisaged end-state as a specialist wealth manager, with several Management. Based on this information, we conclude that non-financial strategic change projects running in parallel. risks are adequately monitored and several initiatives have been taken to further reduce these risks. Cybercrime Cybercrime is and will remain one of the main threats facing the financial Management informed us on the progress of the ambitious Cyber 5.0 services industry. With our scale and budget, we need to follow a plans. Apart from technological defence measures, emphasis is on risk-based approach and develop intelligent solutions. security awareness and responsiveness. We conclude that the company is on par with industry standards, and that sufficient resources and attention are being dedicated to this important topic. Credit risk Developments concerning risks in the overall loan portfolio and in the The Risk Committee received quarterly risk reports, including reporting on non-performing loan portfolio have been thoroughly discussed. credit risk, and notes an ongoing improvement in the loan portfolio. Special attention was paid to the impact of Basel IV and to credit risk stresstesting. We conclude that credit risk is structurally decreasing and that developments in the loan portfolio are proceeding according to plan. Reliability and continuity of the IT environment Van Lanschot Kempen is dependent on its IT environment for the reliability We were informed about the progress made on the major IT projects within and continuity of its operations and financial reporting. In 2018, significant Van Lanschot Kempen and their implementation so far. Management progress was made on improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the IT informed us that several high-impact projects have been successfully environment and data warehouse domain, but several large projects are completed and the risk has decreased. We discussed the fact that certain still ongoing. current projects, such as the outsourcing of payments and the migration of the Belgian Private Banking infrastructure to the Dutch Private Banking infrastructure, are high risk. Sufficient attention from all stakeholders is necessary to mitigate these risks. Grondvermogen (Inflation Breaker) The Public Prosecutor started an investigation into possible criminal Management has informed us extensively about the developments and offences committed by a counterparty in connection with some issues relating to Grondvermogen. We were informed that management transactions regarding ground leases in Grondvermogen. Kempen is not had already conducted an enquiry in 2017 into financial transactions considered as suspect. within the ground lease fund prompted by a report concerning a limited number of potentially unusual transactions with a specific counterparty. Triggered by this investigation, Kempen Dutch Inflation Fund I was As result of the enquiry, we discussed the actions that had been initiated confronted with negative publicity regarding its ground lease fund with management, including a number of internal organisational and Grondvermogen. procedural measures to improve our prudence. We were informed that supervisory authorities received full disclosure of the findings as well as the measures taken. The negative publicity was a reason for management to send out additional communication to all staff on the actions taken. Selection and Appointment Committee Remuneration Committee on 1 June 2018, while Maarten The composition of the Selection and Appointment Muller and Frans Blom were appointed as new members of Committee was altered in 2018 due to Godfried van the committee on 1 June and 5 October respectively. The Lanschot’s resignation as a member of the Supervisory Remuneration Committee held five meetings in 2018. The Board, and consequently as a member of the Selection and Director HR also attended most of these meetings. The Appointment Committee. Maarten Muller succeeded him as committee discussed the performance appraisal of the a member of the committee. The Selection and members of the Executive Board in 2017 and their Appointment Committee met once in 2018 to discuss the individual targets for 2018. recruitment and selection process and succession planning for new members of the Supervisory Board. The committee’s The 2017 remuneration report was discussed, as was the meetings regarding the composition of the Supervisory and 2017 variable remuneration paid to staff of Van Lanschot Executive Boards, and the selection of new members, were Kempen. The amount available for variable remuneration of combined with the closed meetings of the Supervisory Van Lanschot Kempen staff for 2018 was among the topics Board when this topic was on the agenda. discussed at the December meeting. Remuneration Committee In December 2017, Willis Towers Watson conducted a As a result of the resignation of Godfried van Lanschot market assessment of the remuneration package of the (with effect from May 2018) as a member of the Statutory Board and the Supervisory Board. The evaluation Supervisory Board, and consequently as Chairman of the of the remuneration of the Statutory Board was initiated in Remuneration Committee, the composition of the accordance with the statements made when the Remuneration Committee changed. Bernadette Langius remuneration policy for the Statutory Board was approved succeeded Godfried van Lanschot as Chairman of the by the 2015 annual general meeting. The outcome of the Report of the Supervisory Board 81 assessment was that the remuneration of the Statutory KPIs. The financial KPIs include the return on CET 1 capital, Board and the Supervisory Board was significantly below the operating profit before tax, and the cost/income ratio. median levels. The Supervisory Board decided to make The non-financial KPIs include the implementation of the proposals for the adjustment of the remuneration of the 2020 strategy, diversity and inclusion, and client NPS. The Statutory Board and the Supervisory Board. These assessment of the KPIs is included as the basis for the proposals were both approved by the annual general collective assessment of the Executive Board and the meeting in May 2018. individual assessment of the members of the Executive Board for 2018. The outcome was that the performance of The proposal for the adjustment of the remuneration of the the Executive Board in 2018 is slightly above target. The Statutory Board led to critical comments from Eumedion conclusions and recommendations relevant to the Statutory and voting agencies, and 38% of the shareholders voted and Executive Boards were shared with the members of against the proposal. The Remuneration Committee these boards. evaluated the process for the adjustment of the remuneration package of the Statutory Board in September The Executive and Statutory Boards evaluate their own 2018, and discussed the outcome and recommendations functioning and effectiveness on a regular basis during their with the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board quarterly off-sites. Board members gave each other concluded that the specific Dutch regulatory context that feedback on their strengths and points to consider, and led to the proposal should have been explained in more reflected on these. detail, and that a broader engagement with shareholders and other stakeholders should have taken place when the On-boarding programme proposal was prepared. As a result, in December 2018, a All new members of the Supervisory Board complete an delegation of the Supervisory Board held several extensive on-boarding programme when appointed. The engagement meetings with shareholders to discuss their programme is tailor-made for each newly appointed views on the current remuneration policy of Van Lanschot member of the Supervisory Board, as their knowledge and Kempen. Further details of the remuneration policy of the experience varies. The aim of the on-boarding programme Statutory Board and our engagement with shareholders can is to ensure that new members have thorough knowledge of be found in the “Remuneration” section (pages 72-75). Van Lanschot Kempen and its business activities in order to fulfil their role within the Supervisory Board. Assuring supervision quality Education Evaluation of the Supervisory Board The members of the Supervisory and Executive Boards took The Supervisory Board performs an annual evaluation of part in the continuing education programme. In 2018, three the functioning of the Supervisory Board, its committees continuing education sessions were organised. Topics and individual members. The evaluation is carried out under covered included: the guidance of an external adviser once every three years. – Data, privacy and digital strategy; In the years in between, the evaluation process is carried – Sustainability and focusing capital on the long term; out using a questionnaire completed by each board – The Dutch Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing member. In 2018, the questionnaire was further (Prevention) Act (Wwft) and the fourth European supplemented based on the new EBA and ESMA guidelines Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Directive. on the assessment of the suitability of members of the These education sessions were positively rated by the management body and key function holders. Included in the members of the Supervisory and Executive Boards. evaluation are the participation and contribution of each member of the Supervisory Board, the knowledge and Independence experience of the Supervisory Board collectively, the All members of the Supervisory Board perform their duties interaction and dynamics within the Supervisory Board, the independently and critically. The independence communication and provision of information, the decisionrequirements described in best practice provisions 2.1.7 to making process, the independence of mind of the individual 2.1.9 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code have been members, and the relationship with the Executive Board. fulfilled. Currently, there are no dependent members on the The outcomes and recommendations from the evaluation Supervisory Board. In the event of a potential conflict of were discussed by the Supervisory Board at the interest relating to a particular topic, the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board meeting in February 2019; member concerned is not allowed to participate in recommendations will be implemented as a result. The discussions or decision-making on that topic. Best practice overall conclusion of the evaluation was that the provisions 2.7.3 to 2.7.4 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Supervisory Board is functioning well and that its Code were observed as far as applicable. In 2018, there composition is in line with the required profile in terms of were no conflicts of interest of material significance for suitability, expertise and diversity, and also complies with members of the Supervisory or Statutory Boards. Principle 2.1 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. The conclusions and recommendations relevant to the Executive Financial statements Board will be shared with the Executive Board. The Supervisory Board has reviewed and approved the annual report for 2018 and the 2018 financial statements. Evaluation of the Statutory Board and Executive Board The 2018 financial statements have been audited by the In February 2019, the Supervisory Board evaluated the external auditors, PwC. The independent auditors’ report functioning of the Statutory Board and Executive Board as can be found on page 213. We invite the annual general a whole and that of the individual members of both boards meeting to adopt the 2018 financial statements as on the basis of the key performance indicators (KPIs) for submitted and to discharge the Statutory Board in respect 2018. The Supervisory Board sets the KPIs for the of its conduct of Van Lanschot Kempen’s affairs and the Executive Board every year. The KPIs are divided into 50% members of the Supervisory Board in respect of their financial KPIs, 40% non-financial KPIs and 10% personal supervision. Report of the Supervisory Board 82 Acknowledgements The Supervisory Board would like to thank all stakeholders for their continued trust and confidence in Van Lanschot Kempen. We would also like to express our thanks to the Executive Board and to all staff for their personal dedication and ongoing commitment, as well as for their achievements in 2018. We would particularly like to remember Paul Gerla, who sadly passed away in November 2018 after having to resign from the Executive Board for medical reasons earlier in the year. In him, we lost an experienced board member and ever-optimistic colleague. Paul Gerla played a key role in the successful integration of Van Lanschot and Kempen into Van Lanschot Kempen. We are very grateful for his important contribution to the company over the past years. He will be dearly missed by us all. ‘s-Hertogenbosch, the Netherlands, 20 February 2019 Supervisory Board Willy Duron, Chairman Manfred Schepers, Deputy Chairman Frans Blom Jeanine Helthuis Bernadette Langius Maarten Muller Lex van Overmeire Corporate governance 83 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The key elements of corporate governance at Executive Board Since 2015, Van Lanschot Kempen has had an Executive Van Lanschot Kempen are set out below. The Board comprising the members of the Statutory Board of Articles of Association and various other Van Lanschot Kempen and the members of the Management Board of Kempen. regulations and documents relating to The Executive Board oversees the implementation of corporate governance can be found at company strategy and manages core activities. This vanlanschotkempen.com/en/governance and ensures better alignment between core activities and a more effective decision-making process. In principle, all vanlanschotkempen.com/managementmembers of the Executive Board attend Supervisory Board meetings. The Executive Board makes sure that all the supervision. information relevant to the Supervisory Board is provided. Van Lanschot Kempen’s Statutory Board members have Corporate governance structure ultimate responsibility for the actions and decisions of the Van Lanschot Kempen is a listed public limited company Executive Board. under Dutch law, governed by a two-tier board. The Statutory Board is responsible for managing the company, We are exploring the possibilities for a legal merger between while the Supervisory Board oversees the policies pursued Van Lanschot and Kempen. If this goes ahead, we will by the Statutory Board, and the general conduct of affairs at consider expanding Van Lanschot’s Statutory Board to the company and its associated business. The Supervisory include the members of Kempen’s Management Board who Board advises the Statutory Board on the performance of its are not yet members of the Statutory Board of Van Lanschot. duties. This would take place starting from the date of the legal merger between Van Lanschot and Kempen. Van Lanschot Kempen is a structuurvennootschap. Under Dutch corporate law this means that in addition to the tasks Supervisory Board already mentioned, the Supervisory Board is responsible for In performing its duties, the Supervisory Board focuses on appointing and dismissing the Statutory Board and for the interests of the company and its associated business. approving some of its decisions. Both the Statutory Board The Supervisory Board of Van Lanschot Kempen is also the and the Supervisory Board report to Van Lanschot Kempen’s Supervisory Board of Van Lanschot. general meeting. The members of Van Lanschot Kempen’s Supervisory Board Statutory Board are appointed by the general meeting, in accordance with The Statutory Board is responsible for the continuity of the the provisions set out in Article 23 of Van Lanschot company and its associated business. It focuses on longKempen’s Articles of Association. Members of the term value creation for the company and its associated Supervisory Board are appointed for a term of four years business, and takes into account stakeholders’ interests that and may be reappointed for one further four-year period. are relevant in this context. The Statutory Board is A member of the Supervisory Board may subsequently be responsible for the management of the company, and its reappointed again for a period of two years, and this duties include drawing up and achieving Van Lanschot appointment may be extended another two years. In the Kempen’s mission, its strategy and related risk profile, its event of reappointment after eight years, the reasons for goals and the pattern of its results, while also attending to reappointment should be given in the report of the the social aspects of doing business that are relevant to the Supervisory Board. Willy Duron was reappointed as company. member of the Supervisory Board for a third term of four years in 2015. As stipulated in the Dutch Corporate Van Lanschot Kempen holds all the shares in Van Lanschot. Governance Code 2016, best practice provision 2.2.2 does The Statutory Board of Van Lanschot Kempen is also the not apply to him since his appointment complies with best Statutory Board of Van Lanschot. The Supervisory Board practice provision III.3.5 of the Dutch Corporate Governance notifies the general meeting of any proposed appointment Code adopted in 2008. of a member of the Statutory Board. A member is appointed by the Supervisory Board for a maximum period of four A member of the Supervisory Board may only be dismissed years. The Supervisory Board may dismiss a member of the by the Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Statutory Board at any time, but only after consulting the Appeal with due observance of Article 161(2) of Book 2 of general meeting. the Dutch Civil Code. In addition, the general meeting may pass a motion of no confidence in the Supervisory Board as In strategic decisions, the Statutory Board takes all material a whole, in accordance with Article 161(a) of Book 2 of the environmental and social aspects into account. Periodically, Dutch Civil Code. Such a resolution results in the immediate it determines the financial and non-financial key dismissal of all members of the Supervisory Board. performance indicators (KPIs) at Van Lanschot Kempen. Corporate governance 84 Diversity policy Arjan Huisman and Richard Bruens. The composition of The Supervisory Board of Van Lanschot Kempen has the Executive Board did change in 2018: Paul Gerla adopted a diversity policy for the composition of the resigned from the Board on 5 February 2018 and Supervisory and Executive Boards (the policy can be found Leni Boeren took over his positions from that date. The at vanlanschotkempen.com/management-supervision under Executive Board comprises Karl Guha (Chairman), “Diversity Policy Supervisory Board and Executive Board”). Constant Korthout, Arjan Huisman, Richard Bruens, In view of their joint functioning, the diversity policy for Leni Boeren and Leonne van der Sar. the Executive Board includes the Statutory Board of Van Lanschot Kempen. The Statutory and Executive Boards evaluate their functioning as a whole and that of individual Board We are committed to supporting, valuing and leveraging members at least once a year. The Supervisory Board inclusiveness and diversity, and aim for a diverse discusses, at least once a year, the performance of the composition of the Supervisory and Executive Boards in the Statutory Board and the Executive Board as a whole and areas relevant to us, such as age, background, experience, members’ performance individually. The Supervisory Board gender and nationality. The importance of diversity should has concluded that the composition of the Statutory and not mean setting aside a candidate’s qualifications, the Executive Boards meets the objectives of our diversity requirements for the position to be filled or the overriding policy. The specific target for the Executive Board’s male/ principle that someone should be recommended, nominated female ratio as set out in our diversity policy was met since and appointed for being “the best person for the job”. two of the six members of the Executive Board are female. With regard to gender diversity, we strive for a reasonable No decisions were taken in 2018 to conclude transactions spread across gender and aim for the composition of the involving a conflict of interest on the part of members of Supervisory and Executive Boards to be such that at least the Statutory Board that were of material significance to 30% of their respective members are men and at least 30% Van Lanschot Kempen and/or the Board member in question. women. We strive for a reasonable spread across ages and nationalities in the composition of the Supervisory and Composition and performance of the Executive Boards, but we do not believe that age or Supervisory Board and its committees nationality are suitable criteria for setting specific diversity The Supervisory Board has a minimum of three members targets so we do not set specific objectives for these. With and a maximum of nine. Currently the Supervisory Board regard to background, experience and expertise, we aim comprises Willy Duron (Chairman), Manfred Schepers – in keeping with the Supervisory Board’s profile – to ensure (Deputy Chairman), Frans Blom, Jeanine Helthuis, that the combined background, experience and expertise Bernadette Langius, Maarten Muller and Lex van of Supervisory Board members enables the board as a Overmeire. More information about the changes in collective to best carry out its range of responsibilities and composition during 2018 can be found on page 77 of the duties towards Van Lanschot Kempen, taking into account report of the Supervisory Board. the nature of our business and activities. The same applies for the Executive Board. Our diversity policy describes the The Supervisory Board has appointed four committees from relevant areas of background, experience and expertise of among its members to prepare the board’s decision-making: the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board the Audit and Compliance Committee, the Risk Committee, respectively. the Remuneration Committee, and the Selection and Appointment Committee. These committees advise the In implementing our diversity policy, the individual profiles Supervisory Board on matters relating to their respective drawn up for vacancies in the Supervisory and Executive areas of interest. More information about the committees Boards take into account the policy’s criteria and objectives. and their composition can be found on page 78 of the These profiles form the basis for the recruitment and report of the Supervisory Board. selection of new members of the Supervisory and Executive Boards. These criteria and objectives are also taken into The Supervisory Board has drawn up a profile1 for its size account when evaluating the functioning of the Supervisory and composition, taking into account the nature and and Executive Boards. The results of our diversity policy are activities of the business associated with Van Lanschot described in the section below on the boards’ composition Kempen and its subsidiaries, and the required expertise and and performance. background of the members of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board appraises its own performance, that of The policy governing recruitment and selection of members its committees and that of individual Supervisory Board of the Statutory and Supervisory Boards can be found at members, at least once a year without members of the vanlanschotkempen.com/management-supervision, under Statutory Board being present. The Supervisory Board “Policy Recruitment and Selection Van Lanschot Kempen”. appraises its own performance with independent support once every three years. The Supervisory Board has Composition and performance of the concluded that it would be desirable to appoint new Statutory and Executive Boards members with a legal background as well as a background The Statutory Board must consist of at least three members, in change processes, disruption and strategic planning. For with the actual number set by the Supervisory Board. The these reasons, Maarten Muller and Frans Blom were composition of the Statutory Board did not change in 2018, appointed as new members of the Supervisory Board in and consisted of Karl Guha (Chairman), Constant Korthout, 2018. 1 The profile can be viewed at vanlanschotkempen.com/management-supervision. Corporate governance 85 The Supervisory Board meets the objectives of our diversity Capital structure and shares policy. The Supervisory Board currently has seven members, Van Lanschot Kempen’s authorised share capital consists two of whom are female, which means 28.6% of the of 150 million shares with a nominal value of €1 each, positions in the Supervisory Board are held by women. divided into 75 million Class A ordinary shares and Given the size of the Supervisory Board, the aim for 30% 75 million Class C preference shares. Our outstanding of the positions to be held by women has in effect been capital consisted entirely of Class A ordinary shares; a total achieved. of 41,361,668 Class A ordinary shares had been issued at 31 December 2018. There were no outstanding Class C Dutch Corporate Governance Code preference shares in 2018. On 8 December 2016, the revised Dutch Corporate Governance Code 20162 (the Code) was published. It came Depositary receipts for shares into force starting in the 2017 financial year, and contains Over 99.99% of Class A ordinary shares in issue are held by principles and best practice provisions that regulate Stichting Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A relations between the management board, the supervisory Van Lanschot Kempen (“Stichting Administratiekantoor”), board and the shareholders (including the general meeting). which has issued depositary receipts for these shares. The Code aims to define responsibilities for long-term value The receipts have been listed on the official market of the creation, risk control, effective management and supervision, Euronext Amsterdam stock market since 1999. A remuneration, and relationships with shareholders and depositary receipt can be converted into its underlying stakeholders. share without any restrictions, although administrative costs may be charged. Stichting Administratiekantoor fully If the principles or provisions of this revised Code require complies with Principle 4.4 of the Code, which specifies changes to rules, regulations, procedures or other written that “Depositary receipts for shares can be a means of records, a company is compliant with the revised Code if preventing a majority (including a chance majority) of such changes have been implemented no later than shareholders from controlling the decision-making process 31 December 2017. In 2017, we carried out an extensive as a result of absenteeism at a general meeting. Depositary analysis of the impact of the Code. The regulations of the receipts for shares should not be issued as an anti-takeover Statutory Board and of the Supervisory Board and its protective measure.” Stichting Administratiekantoor grants committees were amended in 2017 in order to comply with proxies so that holders of depositary receipts can always the revised Code. The lock-up period applicable to shares exercise their voting rights. In the case of shares for which awarded to members of the Statutory Board was increased Stichting Administratiekantoor has not granted proxies to from three to five years. As a result, we fully complied with the holders of depositary receipts and for which no voting the Code in 2018. instructions have been received, Stichting Administratiekantoor’s board decides how the votes are to be cast. Dutch Banking Code Stichting Administratiekantoor exercises the voting rights in The updated Banking Code3 came into effect on 1 January the interest of the holders of depositary receipts for shares, 2015, superseding the original Banking Code which had taking into account the interest of Van Lanschot Kempen, been in force since 1 January 2010. The Banking Code the enterprise associated therewith and all parties contains principles on sound and ethical business operations, concerned. Its Board has three members and is governance, risk policy, audit and remuneration policy. independent of Van Lanschot Kempen. It appoints its own members, without requiring the approval of Van Lanschot The Banking Code applies to activities performed in, and Kempen. Before appointing a member, the Board allows the aimed at, the Netherlands by banks with registered offices holders of depositary receipts of shares the opportunity to in the Netherlands and which hold a banking licence issued recommend candidates for appointment as members of the by De Nederlandsche Bank (DNB). It therefore applies to Board. A meeting of holders of depositary receipts takes Van Lanschot, the subsidiary of Van Lanschot Kempen that place at least once every two years. At this meeting, the holds a banking licence in the Netherlands. Where banks Board reports on its activities, vacancies in the Board, and that are subject to the Banking Code form part of a group, candidates the Board intends to appoint as members of the parts of the Banking Code may be applied at the level of Board. Once every two years, the Board requests the the entity which acts as the head of the group, rather holders of depositary receipts at this meeting to confirm than at the level of individual subsidiaries. Certain parts their confidence in the Board. At the meeting that was held of the Banking Code are therefore applied at the level of on 13 November 2018, holders of depositary receipts Van Lanschot Kempen. confirmed this. The Board reports on its activities annually. This report can be found on page 224. Application of the Banking Code In 2018, Van Lanschot complied with the Banking Code. An Stichting preferente aandelen C explanation (in Dutch) of how Van Lanschot has applied the Van Lanschot Kempen Banking Code during the reporting year is given on our A call option contract has been agreed between Stichting website: vanlanschotkempen.com/en/governance. preferente aandelen C Van Lanschot Kempen (“Stichting preferente aandelen”) and Van Lanschot Kempen, under which Stichting preferente aandelen was granted the right to acquire Class C preference shares up to 100% of the value of Van Lanschot Kempen’s share capital in issue before the exercise of the call option, less one share. A general meeting, at which a proposal to redeem the preference shares will be placed on the agenda, is to be convened within 12 months. 2 The 2016 Dutch Corporate Governance Code can be downloaded from mccg.nl. 3 The Banking Code can be downloaded from nvb.nl. Corporate governance 86 The following circumstances may lead to the issuance of holders of Class A ordinary shares. The same applies to the Class C preference shares: grant of rights to acquire ordinary shares. Pre-emption – A concentration of shares or depositary receipts for rights can be limited or excluded by resolution of the shares in Van Lanschot Kempen as a result of purchases Statutory Board, any such resolution being subject to the on the stock market or the purchase of blocks of shares, approval of the Supervisory Board. The relevant authority other than as a pure investment; of the Statutory Board ends as soon as its authority to issue – Merger talks that do not lead to an agreement; shares expires (see “Share issues”). – The announcement of a public bid, whether or not in combination with the above circumstances; Shareholders do not have any pre-emption rights on shares – A proposal by a shareholder or holder of depositary issued in exchange for a non-cash contribution. Nor do receipts of shares to place an item on the agenda that shareholders have any pre-emption rights on shares or represents a potential threat to Van Lanschot Kempen’s depositary receipts for those shares issued to employees of continuity, identity and/or independence. Van Lanschot Kempen or another group company. Interests in Van Lanschot Kempen Special rights of shareholders notifiable under Chapter 5.3 of the Financial There are no special statutory control rights attached to Supervision Act shares in Van Lanschot Kempen. Pursuant to the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, shareholders and holders of depositary receipts of Van Lanschot Kempen signed a shareholder agreement Van Lanschot Kempen are required to provide information with LDDM Holding BV in 2011. In it, LDDM Holding on their holdings once they cross threshold levels of 3%, affirms that it will respect Van Lanschot Kempen’s 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, independence. LDDM Holding will not cooperate with the 75% and 95%. As of the publication date of this report, acquisition by a third party of a shareholding in Van Lanschot Kempen is not aware of any shareholders or Van Lanschot Kempen exceeding 25% of the issued share investors with an interest of 3% or more in Van Lanschot capital without the approval of the Statutory and Kempen other than Stichting Administratiekantoor, APG Supervisory Boards. In the event of any future share issues, Asset Management NV, Wellington Management Group Van Lanschot Kempen will give LDDM Holding the LLP, LDDM Holding BV, Reggeborgh Invest BV, FMR LCC, opportunity, subject to certain conditions, to keep its Janus Henderson Group plc, T. Rowe Price Group, Inc., relative shareholding in Van Lanschot Kempen at the same Invesco Limited, Investec Asset Management Limited and level. As long as LDDM Holding retains an interest of at CRUX Asset Management Limited. Stichting preferente least 7.5% in Van Lanschot Kempen, it has the right to aandelen has reported a potential interest of 100% in recommend one person for appointment as a member of the Van Lanschot Kempen under the call option agreement Supervisory Board of Van Lanschot Kempen. Maarten between Stichting preferente aandelen and Muller currently serves on the Supervisory Board on LDDM Van Lanschot Kempen. Holding’s recommendation. In 2018, no transactions took place between Van Lanschot Restrictions on voting rights and deadlines Kempen and any natural person or legal entity holding at for exercising voting rights least 10% of the shares in Van Lanschot Kempen, and Van Lanschot Kempen has not imposed any restrictions on which would be material to Van Lanschot Kempen and/or the exercise of voting rights. In principle, voting rights are the person/entity involved. exercised at the general meeting by the shareholder or the person authorised by the shareholder to that end. A Rights of shareholders shareholder is entitled to vote at the general meeting if the Since there are exclusively Class A ordinary shares in issue shares in question are registered in the shareholder’s name at present, this section only describes the rights of holders on the registration date (see “General meeting”). Holders of of Class A ordinary shares and depositary receipts for Class depositary receipts for Class A ordinary shares who register A ordinary shares. on time to attend the general meeting are granted a proxy by Stichting Administratiekantoor. They can use this proxy Dividend at the general meeting to exercise the voting rights on the The portion of the profit remaining after addition to the shares held by Stichting Administratiekantoor, and in reserves is at the disposal of the general meeting. In the exchange for which depositary receipts were issued. event that a loss is incurred over a year, which cannot be Proxies will be provided when the depositary receipt covered by a reserve or by some other means, no profit holders sign the attendance list prior to the start of the distribution will occur in subsequent years until such time as meeting. If the depositary receipt holder’s right to attend this loss has been absorbed. A dividend on ordinary shares the meeting is to be exercised by a representative can only be paid out when the dividend proposal has been authorised in writing, Stichting Administratiekantoor will approved by the general meeting. Van Lanschot Kempen grant a proxy to the representative. Shareholders and checks whether the proposed dividend satisfies the holders of depositary receipts for shares are also offered European Central Bank’s recommendation on dividend the opportunity to issue a voting instruction to an payment policies. Further information on our dividend policy independent third party prior to the general meeting. The can be found on pages 96-97. notice convening the relevant general meeting will state to whom this voting instruction should be sent and what the Pre-emption rights deadline is for submission. When ordinary shares are issued, each existing holder of ordinary shares has a pre-emption right proportionate to the aggregate nominal amount of the existing holding of ordinary shares. Class A ordinary shares are issued to Corporate governance 87 Share issues Shareholders and depositary receipt holders or their The extent of the Statutory Board’s authority to decide on a representatives are only admitted to the meeting if they share issue (subject to the approval of the Supervisory have informed Van Lanschot Kempen in writing of their Board) is determined by a resolution of the general meeting. intention to attend, and if this has been done in the manner The duration and granting of this authority are also described in the notice convening the meeting. Access to determined by resolution of the general meeting and may the meeting is only possible if the relevant shares or not exceed five years. The Statutory Board’s authority to depositary receipts are registered in the name of the issue ordinary shares, including the granting of rights to shareholder or the depositary receipt holder on the acquire these shares, was extended at the general meeting registration date. Representatives must also present a written held on 31 May 2018 for a period of 18 months from the proxy. A written proxy may be sent electronically. Each share date of that meeting. The authority to issue these shares is entitles the holder to cast one vote at the general meeting. limited to 10% of the issued capital, to be increased by an additional 10% of the issued capital if the issue is made The powers of the general meeting include the following: within the context of a merger or takeover. – Approving decisions of the Statutory Board to make important changes to the identity or nature of the This authority has been used for the issuance of 215,000 company or the business; Class A ordinary shares in order to meet the company’s – Appointing members of the Supervisory Board on the obligations under the remuneration policies and related Supervisory Board’s recommendation; share schemes. – Setting the remuneration of members of the Supervisory Board; Repurchase of shares – Passing a motion of no confidence in the Supervisory Repurchases of paid-up shares in the company or Board; depositary receipts for such shares, other than for no – Determining the remuneration policy for the Statutory consideration, may take place if the general meeting has Board; authorised the Statutory Board to this effect. This – Approving schemes in the form of shares and/or rights authorisation applies for up to a maximum of 18 months. to acquire shares for the Statutory Board; Repurchase occurs pursuant to a decision by the Statutory – Adopting the financial statements; Board, subject to Supervisory Board approval. – Disposing of the profit remaining after dividend has been distributed to any outstanding Class C preference The Statutory Board was authorised at the general meeting shares, and after the decision has been made to add all held on 31 May 2018 to repurchase paid-up ordinary shares or part of the profit to the reserves; in the company or depositary receipts for these shares, by – Discharging the Statutory Board; buying such shares on the stock market or otherwise, up to – Discharging the Supervisory Board; a maximum of 10% of the issued capital at the date of – Granting the Statutory Board the authority to issue authorisation, subject to Supervisory Board approval. This shares and to limit or exclude pre-emption rights on the authority has been granted for a period of 18 months from issue of shares; the date of the meeting. – Granting the Statutory Board the authority to repurchase the company’s own shares; Transfer of shares and depositary receipts – Resolving to amend the Articles of Association of The Articles of Association and the conditions of Van Lanschot Kempen, to dissolve Van Lanschot administration do not contain any restrictions on the Kempen, or to effect a legal merger or demerger of transfer of Class A ordinary shares or depositary receipts Van Lanschot Kempen, following a proposal to that for Class A ordinary shares. effect by the Statutory Board which has been approved by the Supervisory Board. Amendment to the Articles of Association A resolution to amend the Articles of Association of Main features of Van Lanschot Kempen’s Van Lanschot Kempen may only be adopted based on a management and control system proposal by the Statutory Board that has been approved by Van Lanschot Kempen’s management and control system is the Supervisory Board. If a proposal to amend the Articles designed to manage internal and external risks. This of Association is presented to the general meeting, a copy includes the management of financial reporting risks, to of the proposal will be made available to the shareholders ensure reliable financial reporting and financial statements and holders of depositary receipts prior to the meeting. that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and which comply with the prevailing General meeting legislation and regulations. Each voting shareholder and depositary receipt holder is authorised, either in person or through a representative Van Lanschot Kempen applies the “three lines of defence” authorised in writing, to attend the general meeting, to model for the management of risk. The first line of defence is address the meeting and to exercise their voting rights. A the business, responsible for day-to-day risk management. registration date applies to each general meeting, which is The second line of defence is provided by departments such the 28th day prior to that meeting. The registration date as Group Risk Management and Compliance, which oversee determines who qualifies as a voting shareholder or the first line. Group Audit acts as the third line of defence, depositary receipt holder for the relevant general meeting. providing an independent evaluation of the adequacy of the The notice convening the meeting states the registration internal management and control systems. date, the way in which shareholders and depositary receipt holders can register and how they can exercise their rights, either in person or through a representative authorised in writing. Corporate governance 88 The three lines of defence model provides the Statutory The quarterly reports of Group Audit, setting out its main Board with a reasonable degree of certainty as to how the findings, were discussed with the Executive Board and the internal management and control system is functioning, Audit and Compliance Committee. The conclusions of the including the efficacy of both the first and second lines. In Audit and Compliance Committee were subsequently 2018, we improved our monitoring of the effectiveness of shared with the Supervisory Board. key controls (as part of the risk & control framework), and updated the risk & control framework to reflect changes in The Supervisory Board was informed about the Statutory the organisational structure. Board’s internal control of the organisation, and how it safeguards the integrity of financial information. The Group Audit is responsible for carrying out IT and subjects considered by the Supervisory Board when operational audits. All of Group Audit’s reports were assessing the financial statements include the management submitted to the Statutory Board. Group Audit, Compliance letter and the audit by the external auditors. and Group Risk Management ensure adequate follow-up and prioritisation. Supplementary control measures have The key audit matters cited in the independent auditors’ been defined in the meantime, which should mitigate risk report were discussed with the Statutory Board and the sufficiently. Audit and Compliance Committee, and formed part of the organisation’s management and control. The effectiveness of the framework is evaluated annually by Group Risk Management and Compliance, while Group Statement by the Statutory Board Audit also assesses its quality and effectiveness. The In accordance with best practice provision 1.4.3 of the results of these evaluations featured in the respective Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the Statutory Board quarterly reports of Group Risk Management, Compliance states that: and Group Audit. – The management report provides sufficient insights into any failings in the effectiveness of the internal risk For more detailed information on risk management within management and control systems; Van Lanschot Kempen, see page 62. The financial statements – The aforementioned systems provide reasonable include also a more detailed explanation of risk management assurance that the financial reporting does not contain at Van Lanschot Kempen (see “Risk management”, beginning any material inaccuracies; on page 126). – Based on the current state of affairs, it is justified that the financial reporting is prepared on a “going concern” Financial reporting risk basis; The Statutory Board is responsible for the design and – The management report states those material risks and operation of an adequate system of internal control for uncertainties that are relevant to expectation of the Van Lanschot Kempen’s financial reporting. The system is company’s continuity for the period of 12 months after designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the the preparation of this report. reliability of financial reporting. The financial statements must be prepared in accordance with generally accepted External auditors accounting principles and applicable legislation and PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants NV ( PwC ) were regulations. reappointed as Van Lanschot Kempen's external auditors for the 2018 and 2019 financial years at the general Van Lanschot Kempen has tools in place to manage financial meeting on 31 May 2018. PwC’s audit plan for 2018 and reporting risks: risk analysis were discussed in August 2018 at meetings of – Periodic management reports and KPI dashboards, the Statutory Board and the Audit and Compliance accompanied by analysis of financial and non-financial Committee. figures and trends; – A risk & control framework describing processes and PwC issued a 2018 management letter in December 2018, procedures, and setting out primary controls such as and a board report for 2018 in February 2019. The subjects authorisations and segregation of duties; set out in this management letter and board report are in – Evaluation of the functioning of the internal line with the notes included in this annual report with management and control system by Group Audit. The respect to risk management, insofar as these relate to main findings are discussed with the Statutory Board, financial reporting risks. The external auditors may be the Audit and Compliance Committee and the questioned at the annual general meeting in relation to their Supervisory Board; audit, and will be attending the meeting for this reason. – Assessment and approval of the annual report by the Statutory Board, and discussion of the annual report by The Statutory Board and the Audit and Compliance the Audit and Compliance Committee and the Committee evaluated the functioning of PwC in December Supervisory Board; 2018. – The Accounting Manual, which sets out the principles regarding financial accounting. Decree implementing Article 10 of the Takeover Directive In-control statements are provided by the management of The Decree implementing Article 10 of the Takeover the relevant departments. These are based on the results of Directive (Decree dated 5 April 2006 implementing Article testing procedures for the risk & control framework, the 10 of Directive 2004/25/EC of the European Parliament and risks reported on a quarterly basis, the follow-up of these the Council of the European Union of 21 April 2004 on risks, and the incidents reported. Group Risk Management takeover bids) imposed further requirements on the content and Compliance evaluated the 2018 in-control statements. of the directors’ report. Corporate governance 89 The required information and, where applicable, the places where this information can be found in this annual report, where not already mentioned in this Corporate Governance section of this report, are summarised below. 1. S  ignificant agreements that are entered into, amended or terminated upon a change of control of Van Lanschot Kempen following a public bid within the meaning of Article 5:70 of the Financial Supervision Act. The shareholder agreement between Van Lanschot and De Goudse NV with respect to Van Lanschot Chabot Holding BV contains a change of control clause. By virtue of this clause, in the event of a change of control, De Goudse has the right, under certain circumstances, to acquire the shares held by Van Lanschot in Van Lanschot Chabot Holding (a call option) or to transfer the shares held by De Goudse in Van Lanschot Chabot Holding to Van Lanschot (a put option). 2. Any agreement between Van Lanschot Kempen and a board member or employee providing for compensation upon termination of employment due to a public bid within the meaning of Article 5:70 of the Financial Supervision Act. Van Lanschot Kempen has not concluded any agreements with board members or employees that provide for compensation upon termination of employment due to a public bid within the meaning of Article 5:70 of the Financial Supervision Act. STATEMENT BY THE STATUTORY BOARD As required by Article 5:25c (2c) of the Financial Supervision Act, each of the undersigned hereby confirms that to the best of their knowledge: – The 2018 financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Van Lanschot Kempen and its consolidated entities; – The 2018 Report of the Statutory Board of Van Lanschot Kempen gives a true and fair view of the position of the company and its consolidated entities on balance sheet date, and of the course of their affairs during the 2018 financial year, and describes the material risks that Van Lanschot Kempen faces. ’s-Hertogenbosch, the Netherlands, 20 February 2019 Statutory Board Karl Guha, Chairman Constant Korthout Arjan Huisman Richard Bruens Our Executive Board 90 PERSONAL DETAILS OF MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD From left to right: Leni Boeren, Richard Bruens, Karl Guha, Arjan Huisman, Leonne van der Sar, Constant Korthout Karl Guha Constant Korthout Chairman of the Statutory Board of Van Lanschot Kempen/ Member of the Statutory Board, Chief Financial Officer/ Van Lanschot Chief Risk Officer of Van Lanschot Kempen/Van Lanschot, Member of the Management Board of Kempen Born 1964, male Born 1962, male Nationality Dutch Nationality Dutch Appointed 2 January 2013 Appointed 27 October 2010 Areas of responsibility Evi, Company Secretariat/Legal, Strategy & Corporate Areas of responsibility Development, Human Resource Management, Finance, Reporting & Control, Treasury, Group Risk Communications, Compliance, Group Audit, Van Lanschot Management, Credit Restructuring & Recovery Belgium, Advanced Analytics Total number of board and/or supervisory positions Total number of board and/or supervisory positions Three Two Background Background 1985 – ABN AMRO: Management trainee, senior account 1989 – ABN AMRO: Various managerial positions in manager corporate clients Structured Finance, Treasury, Capital Management, Investor 1990 – KPMG Management Consultants Relations, Risk Management and Asset & Liability 1992 – Robeco: Group Controller, CFO and member of the Management executive board of Weiss, Peck & Greer in New York, and 2009 – UniCredit Banking Group: CRO and member of the Corporate Development Director executive management committee, and member of 2002 – Robeco: CFO, including Risk Management, Treasury supervisory boards of Bank Austria, HVB in Germany and and Corporate Development Zao Bank in Russia Our Executive Board 91 Arjan Huisman Background 1991 – ABN AMRO: Various managerial positions in the Member of the Statutory Board, Chief Operating Officer of Global Markets division, Managing Director of Investor Van Lanschot Kempen/Van Lanschot Relations 2007 – Renaissance Capital: Member of group managing Born board 1971, male 2010 – ABN AMRO: Global Head Product & Private Wealth Management at ABN AMRO Private Banking International Nationality Dutch Leni Boeren Appointed 6 May 2010 Chairman of the Management Board of Kempen Areas of responsibility Born IT Platforms & Security, Digital & Innovation, Service 1963, female Centres: Securities, Data Management, Procurement, Contract Management & Facilities Nationality Dutch Total number of board and/or supervisory positions Four Appointed 5 February 2018 Significant supervisory board memberships and/or (board) positions Areas of responsibility Van Lanschot Chabot Holding: Member of supervisory Asset Management board Total number of board and/or supervisory positions Background Five 1995 – BCG Amsterdam and Boston offices: Various consulting positions, with a strong focus on financial Significant supervisory board memberships and/or (board) services positions 2004 – BCG Prague office: Partner and Managing Director Tata Steel Nederland: Member of supervisory board 2008 – BCG Amsterdam office: Partner and Managing Air France-KLM: Independent member of board of directors Director and audit committee FCLT Global: Member of board of directors Richard Bruens Background 1983 – Paribas: Account Manager Member of the Statutory Board of Van Lanschot Kempen/ 1984 – Rabobank: Senior Investment Adviser, Head of Van Lanschot Account Management 1992 – Robeco Group: Head of Investment Services Born Strategy, Head of Marketing and Product Management 1967, male 1997 – Amsterdam Exchanges: Member of board of directors Nationality 2000 – Euronext: Member of executive committee Dutch 2005 – Robeco Group: Member, Vice-Chair and Chair of the group management board and chair/member of the boards Appointed of a number of Robeco Group subsidiaries 15 May 2014 Areas of responsibility Leonne van der Sar Private Banking, Corporate Social Responsibility, Van Lanschot Switzerland Member of the Management Board of Kempen Total number of board and/or supervisory positions Born Five 1969, female Significant supervisory board memberships and/or (board) Nationality positions Dutch Van Lanschot Chabot Holding: Member of supervisory board Appointed Feyenoord Rotterdam: Member of supervisory board 1 August 2017 Our Executive Board 92 Areas of responsibility Merchant Banking: Corporate Finance, Equity Capital Markets, Securities Total number of board and/or supervisory positions One Background 1994 – ABN AMRO: Various positions in Investment Banking 1998 – ABN AMRO Rothschild: Various positions in Investment Banking and Equity Capital Markets 2004 – ABN AMRO Rothschild: Managing Director and Head of ABN AMRO Rothschild Netherlands office 2006 – ABN AMRO: Executive Director Corporate Development 2008 – Several interim management assignments in the financial sector 2014 – Van Lanschot Kempen: Head of Strategy & Corporate Development Our Supervisory Board 93 PERSONAL DETAILS OF MEMBERS OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD From left to right: Frans Blom, Jeanine Helthuis, Lex van Overmeire, Willy Duron, Bernadette Langius, Manfred Schepers, Maarten Muller Willy Duron Chairman of the Supervisory Board Born Supervisory Board committees: Audit and Compliance, 1960, male Remuneration, Risk, Selection and Appointment (Chairman) Nationality Born Dutch 1945, male Appointed Nationality 18 May 2017; first term of office expires in 2021 Belgian Total number of supervisory board memberships and/or Appointed board positions 10 May 2007; third term of office expires in 2019 Six Total number of supervisory board memberships and/or Significant other supervisory board memberships and/or board positions (board) positions Three NWB Bank: Member of supervisory board Fotowatio Renewable Ventures: Member of supervisory Significant other supervisory board memberships and/or board (board) positions Almar Water Solutions: Member of supervisory board Windvision: Chairman of board of directors Principal other positions or offices held Previous positions or offices held Amsterdam Institute of Finance: Member of advisory board KBC Group: Chairman UWC Atlantic College: Member of board of governors European Fund for Strategic Investments: Member of investment committee Manfred Schepers Cardano Development: Project manager ILX Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board Previous positions or offices held Supervisory Board committees: Audit and Compliance, Risk European Bank for Reconstruction and Development: Vice (Chairman) President and Chief Financial Officer Our Supervisory Board 94 Frans Blom Appointed Member of the Supervisory Board 13 May 2015; first term of office expires in 2019 Supervisory Board committees: Risk, Remuneration Total number of supervisory board memberships and/or Born board positions 1962, male Five Nationality Significant other supervisory board memberships and/or Dutch (board) positions IBM Nederland: Member of supervisory board Appointed BDO Nederland: Member of supervisory board 5 October 2018; first term of office expires in 2023 Ingenico ePayments Nederland: Member of supervisory board Total number of supervisory board memberships and/or board positions Previous positions or offices held Two VU Amsterdam: Member of executive board ABN AMRO: CEO Commercial Banking NL, CEO Private Principal position Banking NL Boston Consulting Group The Netherlands: Chairman Maarten Muller Jeanine Helthuis Member of the Supervisory Board Member of the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board committees: Remuneration, Selection Supervisory Board committees: Audit and Compliance, and Appointment Selection and Appointment Born Born 1954, male 1962, female Nationality Nationality Dutch Dutch Appointed Appointed 31 May 2018; first term of office expires in 2022 2 July 2013; second term of office expires in 2021 Total number of supervisory board memberships and/or Total number of supervisory board memberships and/or board positions board positions Two Seven Significant other supervisory board memberships and/or Principal position (board) positions PC Uitvaart: Managing director Stichting continuïteit TomTom: Chairman Significant other supervisory board memberships and/or Previous positions or offices held (board) positions Allen & Overy LLP: Partner Prorail: Member of supervisory board Significant other positions or offices held Lex van Overmeire Nintes: Member of advisory council Member of the Supervisory Board Previous positions or offices held Supervisory Board committees: Audit and Compliance Monuta Holding/Monuta Verzekeringen: Chairman of board (Chairman), Risk of management Fortis Bank Nederland: Member of board of directors Born 1956, male Bernadette Langius Nationality Dutch Member of the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board committees: Remuneration (Chairman), Appointed Risk 30 January 2017; first term of office expires in 2021 Born Total number of supervisory board memberships and/or 1960, female board positions Three Nationality Dutch Our Supervisory Board 95 Significant other supervisory board memberships and/or (board) positions Centrum indicatiestelling zorg (CIZ): Chairman of audit advisory committee Stichting Arq: Member of supervisory board Previous positions or offices held EY Accountants LLP: Audit partner Van Lanschot Kempen shares 96 VAN LANSCHOT KEMPEN SHARES The issued share capital of Van Lanschot Management and employees jointly owned around 3.4% of our share capital at year-end. In 2017, we introduced a Kempen at 31 December 2018 consisted of profit-sharing plan for all Van Lanschot Kempen employees 41,361,668 Class A ordinary shares (“shares”) working in the Netherlands to further increase their alignment with Van Lanschot Kempen as shareholders. each having a nominal value of €1. In 2018, Accordingly, in 2018, an equal number of Van Lanschot Kempen shares were granted to all employees in scope. we increased the number of shares in issue by The number of shares granted is linked to Van Lanschot 215,000 to allocate shares to our staff under Kempen’s profit and is conditional on this exceeding a certain threshold. A lock-up period of two years applies. our remuneration policies. We held 344,647 The profit-sharing plan also applied for the financial year 2018, and in February 2019 these shares were granted to treasury shares at year-end 2018. our employees in scope. The same profit sharing plan will be in place for the financial year 2019. Depositary receipts for Van Lanschot Kempen’s Class A ordinary shares have been traded on the Euronext Amsterdam stock market since 29 June 1999 (ISIN Code: NL0000302636; ticker: VLK.AS). For more information CREDIT RATINGS about the depositary receipts, turn to our Corporate Our creditworthiness is periodically assessed by Fitch governance section under “Depositary receipts for shares”, Ratings (Fitch) and Standard & Poor’s (S&P). Van Lanschot on page 85. Van Lanschot Kempen’s market capitalisation Kempen maintains its high creditworthiness by deploying stood at €813 million at year-end 2018. its assets for the benefit of its clients, as well as by taking on only such risks as can be understood and controlled. Shareholders This ensures solid risk management processes and a Van Lanschot Kempen’s shareholder base remained roughly strong capital and liquidity position. Our current credit the same during 2018. Pursuant to Chapter 5.3 of the ratings reflect our healthy capital and funding position plus Dutch Financial Supervision Act, the disclosures below have our low risk profile. been entered in the Register of Substantial Holdings as maintained by the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets. The percentages reflect the number of shares or depositary receipts on the register on the disclosure dates and our Credit ratings1 Standard & Poor’s Fitch Ratings current number of outstanding shares. Long-term credit rating BBB+ BBB+ Disclosure is required once a shareholder’s interest reaches, Long-term credit rating exceeds or falls below a threshold value. The current outlook Stable outlook Stable outlook interest of a shareholder or holder of depositary receipts Short-term credit rating A-2 F2 may consequently differ from the interest reported on the disclosure date. On 31 December 2018, Stichting Date of latest report 19 July 2018 24 May 2018 Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen held over 99.99% of Van Lanschot Kempen shares. For more information on the Stichting Administratiekantoor Research coverage van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen, see the Currently, four sell-side analysts actively track us and “Corporate governance” section on page 85. regularly publish equity research reports on Van Lanschot Kempen: ABN AMRO, ING, Kepler Cheuvreux and UBS. Their details can be found at vanlanschotkempen.com/ Van Lanschot Kempen’s depositary receipt holders share-information. Dividend policy and dividend for 2018 Our aim is to distribute between 50% and 70% of our 9.89% underlying net result attributable to shareholders. The 9.68%  APG Asset Management result actually available for distribution is the net result  L DDM Holding adjusted for minority interests and the net effect of selected 47.43%  Janus Henderson Group special items. In 2018, we adjusted for two special items: 5.56%  Wellington Management Group costs relating to our Strategy 2020 investment programme,  Reggeborgh Invest 5.11%  FMR and a restructuring charge. 5.00%  CRUX Asset Management 4.96%  Investec Asset Management The underlying net result available for distribution to  T Rowe Price shareholders amounts to €97.3 million and works out at  Invesco underlying earnings per share of €2.372. Our results and 3.23%  Other 2.99% 3.06% 3.09% solid capital position enable us to propose a dividend distribution equal to that of last year to our shareholders. 1 Credit ratings apply to Van Lanschot NV. Van Lanschot Kempen is the holding company of Van Lanschot NV. Its only asset is 100% of the shares in Van Lanschot NV. 2 Based on the weighted number of outstanding ordinary shares. Van Lanschot Kempen shares 97 The shareholders at the general meeting to be held on In 2016, we announced our ambition to distribute at least 22 May 2019 will be invited to approve the distribution of a €250 million to shareholders in the period up to and dividend for the 2018 financial year amounting to €1.45 per including 2020. A total of over €210 million has now been Class A ordinary share. Based on the number of shares in paid out, in the form of both dividends and capital returns. issue at 31 December 2018 (excluding treasury shares), the Including the 2018 dividend, a total of over €270 million will proposed dividend payments will total €59.5 million, have been returned in 2019. This means that we have corresponding to a pay-out ratio of 61.1% of the underlying already achieved this ambition. In the future, we will net result attributable to shareholders. This percentage continue to optimise our capital base in terms of level and works out at 79.7% of net result attributable to shareholders. type of instrument, while leaving room for possible The proportion of net result attributable to shareholders acquisitions. If possible, we will also consider paying out that will not be paid out – i.e. €15.2 million – will be added excess capital to shareholders, subject to approval by the to reserves. regulator. Capital management policy Special capital return By running down our corporate loan portfolio and We proposed a special capital return to our shareholders of optimising the use of capital in our other divisions and €1.50 per share in August 2018. This proposal and departments, we sharply reduce risk-weighted assets and resolutions to amend the Articles of Association to this consequently our required capital. However, these actions effect were approved by our shareholders at the result in a less efficient capital structure. By year-end 2018, extraordinary general meeting on 5 October 2018. our CET 1 ratio of 21.4% was well ahead of our target Subsequently, a total of over €60 million was returned to range of 15-17%. shareholders in December. The capital return was charged to the share premium reserve available for distribution and As we can comfortably fund our current capital spending is therefore exempt from Dutch dividend tax. The total from profit and loss – including our IT investment share capital in issue remained unchanged. programme – we do not need this level of excess capital. We aim to engage in acquisitions, and intend to leave room for these in our capital position. In addition, we may choose to pay out excess capital to our shareholders. We consider dividend payment a highly appropriate and efficient way to return capital to our shareholders. In addition, we may consider other avenues, under the prevailing laws and regulations, to distribute excess capital to our shareholders, including share buybacks or premium repayment. Key figures per ordinary share 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Share price (€): High 28.00 27.38 22.28 25.70 19.50 Low 18.40 19.46 14.73 17.00 15.51 Closing 19.82 26.15 19.98 21.23 17.40 Average daily trading volume in depositary receipts 23,333 46,232 28,505 21,305 4,827 Market capitalisation (€ million) (year-end)3 813 1,068 817 870 710 Net asset value per share (€) 30.39 32.39 32.62 31.68 31.51 Price-earnings ratio 4 8.3 10.0 10.6 16.9 16.0 Information on dividend per ordinary share 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Underlying earnings per ordinary share (€) 4 2.37 2.61 1.89 1.26 1.09 Dividend per ordinary share (€) 1.45 1.45 1.20 0.45 0.40 Dividend yield (%) 7.3 5.5 6.0 2.1 2.3 Pay-out ratio (%) 61.1 55.4 63.5 35.8 36.7 Total return for holders of ordinary shares (%) –13 42 –4 24 –2 3 Calculated as: closing price x (issued share capital minus treasury shares). 4 2018 adjusted costs incurred for our Strategy 2020 investment programme and restructuring charges. 2017 and 2016 also adjusted for an additional charge for the derivatives recovery framework; 2015 adjusted for a one-off charge arising from the sale of non-performing real estate loans; 2014 adjusted for a pension scheme gain. Van Lanschot Kempen shares 98 Movements in Van Lanschot Kempen's share price compared with industry indices 200% 150% 100% 50% 0% Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15 Dec-16 Dec-17 Dec-18 Van Lanschot Kempen MSCI World Banks Stoxx Europe 600 Banks Stoxx Europe 600 Financial services Investor relations policy Our investor relations policy is designed to provide current and potential shareholders and bondholders, rating agencies and research analysts with accurate and timely information on developments within the business. We engage in active dialogue with all our financial stakeholders, by publishing press releases and our annual report, and by organising meetings and one-to-one discussions with existing and potential investors. We observe a “silent” period of three weeks prior to the publication of our annual and half-year results. No meetings are held with shareholders or analysts during this period. We also publish our policies on investor relations at vanlanschotkempen.com /investorrelationspolicy. All documents and other relevant information may be found at vanlanschotkempen.com/en. If you would like to receive Van Lanschot Kempen’s press releases by email, you can subscribe to our news service at vanlanschotkempen.com/ pressreleases. More information Investors and advisers with questions are welcome to contact our Investor Relations department by phone on +31 20 354 45 90 or by emailing investorrelations@vanlanschotkempen.com. KEY DATES Publication of 2019 Q1 trading update 24 April 2019 2019 annual general meeting 22 May 2019 Ex-dividend date 24 May 2019 Record date 27 May 2019 2018 dividend made payable 3 June 2019 Publication of 2019 half-year results 27 August 2019 Publication of 2019 Q3 trading update 31 October 2019 Reconciliation of IFRS and management reporting 99 RECONCILIATION OF IFRS AND MANAGEMENT REPORTING Reconciliation of IFRS and management IFRS NonInvestment Amortisation Restructuring Managerial reporting (€ million) strategic programme of intangible charges investments assets arising from acquisitions Commission 293.2 – – – – 293.2 Interest 175.2 0.4 – – – 175.6 Income from securities and associates 31.3 –0.2 – – – 31.1 Result on financial transactions –0.8 – – – – –0.8 Other income 7.3 –7.3 – – – – Income from operating activities 506.3 –7.1 – – – 499.2 Staff costs 263.7 –7.8 –3.9 – –7.6 244.4 Other administrative expenses 162.0 3.2 –18.1 – –0.4 146.8 Depreciation and amortisation 14.4 –1.0 – –8.3 –0.0 5.2 Operating expenses 440.2 –5.6 –22.0 –8.3 –8.0 396.4 Gross result 66.1 –1.5 22.0 8.3 8.0 102.8 Impairments –13.4 – – – –0.3 –13.7 Operating profit before tax of non-strategic – 17.8 – – – 17.8 investments Operating result before special items and tax 79.5 16.3 22.0 8.3 8.3 134.3 Strategic investment programme – – 22.0 – – 22.0 Amortisation of intangible assets arising from – – – 8.3 – 8.3 acquisitions Restructuring charges – – – – 8.3 8.3 Operating profit before tax 79.5 16.3 – – – 95.8 Income tax 12.1 3.4 – – – 15.5 Discontinued activities 12.9 –12.9 – – – – Net result 80.3 – – – – 80.3 2018 financial statements Consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2018 101 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 Before profit appropriation (€1,000) 31/12/2018 01/01/20181 31/12/2017 Assets Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks 1 1,406,864 1,832,751 1,832,751 Financial assets from trading activities 2 62,468 38,234 38,234 Due from banks 3 539,180 186,459 186,459 Derivatives 4 332,719 322,258 322,258 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 5 218,583 416,899 394,898 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 6 1,803,584 1,716,354 – Available-for-sale investments 7 – – 1,738,355 Held-to-maturity investments 8 – – 521,349 Loans and advances to the public and private sectors 9 8,561,497 9,092,207 9,103,327 Other financial assets at amortised cost 10 554,209 521,321 – Investments in associates using the equity method 11 54,071 70,390 70,390 Property and equipment 12 48,238 63,468 63,468 Goodwill and other intangible assets 13 183,083 218,389 218,389 Tax assets 14 25,941 31,669 26,719 Assets classified as held for sale 15 68,058 – – Other assets 16 121,513 142,277 142,277 Total assets 13,980,007 14,652,676 14,658,875 Equity and liabilities Financial liabilities from trading activities 17 333 1,899 1,899 Due to banks 18 334,902 101,645 101,645 Public and private sector liabilities 19 9,090,939 9,145,119 9,145,119 Derivatives 4 469,316 318,417 318,417 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 20 940,361 971,453 971,453 Issued debt securities 21 1,521,504 2,411,671 2,411,671 Provisions 22 28,965 24,284 23,085 Tax liabilities 23 5,764 13,007 12,841 Liabilities classified as held for sale 24 20,871 – – Other liabilities 25 125,383 156,820 156,820 Subordinated loans 26 173,473 173,620 166,802 Total liabilities 12,711,812 13,317,935 13,309,752 Issued share capital 41,362 41,147 41,147 Treasury shares –8,678 –7,869 –7,869 Share premium reserve 385,115 441,459 441,459 Other reserves 763,553 754,234 768,616 Undistributed profit attributable to shareholders 74,631 89,508 89,508 Equity attributable to shareholders 1,255,982 1,318,478 1,332,860 Non-controlling interests 6,529 10,827 10,827 Undistributed profit attributable to non-controlling interests 5,684 5,437 5,437 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 12,213 16,264 16,264 Total equity 27 1,268,195 1,334,742 1,349,124 Total equity and liabilities 13,980,007 14,652,676 14,658,875 Contingent liabilities 28 134,449 122,189 122,189 Irrevocable commitments 29 853,276 861,342 861,342 987,725 983,530 983,530 The number beside each item refers to the Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position. 1 The consolidated statement of financial position reflects new presentation requirements related to the application of IFRS 9 as from 1 January 2018. Consolidated statement of income for 2018 102 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME FOR 2018 (€1,000) 2018 2017 Income from operating activities Interest income calculated using the effective interest method 251,985 275,893 Other interest income 52,359 64,158 Interest expense calculated using the effective interest method 66,518 76,319 Other interest expense 62,612 67,882 Net interest income 30 175,213 195,849 Income from associates using the equity method 28,728 24,074 Other income from securities and associates 2,594 12,956 Income from securities and associates 31 31,323 37,029 Commission income 307,714 280,519 Commission expense 14,467 13,533 Net commission income 32 293,247 266,986 Result on financial transactions 33 –805 14,127 Net sales 11,020 12,020 Cost of sales 3,716 3,472 Other income 34 7,304 8,548 Total income from operating activities 506,282 522,539 Expenses Staff costs 35 263,724 246,343 Other administrative expenses 36 162,043 168,481 Staff costs and other administrative expenses 425,766 414,824 Depreciation and amortisation 37 14,427 14,166 Operating expenses 440,193 428,990 Impairments of financial instruments –12,737 –11,875 Other impairments –679 414 Impairments 38 –13,416 –11,461 Total expenses 426,778 417,529 Operating profit before tax 79,504 105,010 Income tax 39 12,086 22,129 Net profit from continuing operations 67,418 82,881 Net profit from discontinued operations 40 12,897 12,064 Net result 80,315 94,945 Of which attributable to shareholders 74,631 89,508 Of which attributable to non-controlling interests 5,684 5,437 Earnings per ordinary share (€) 41 1.82 2.19 Earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations (€) 41 1.51 1.89 Diluted earnings per ordinary share (€) 42 1.81 2.16 Diluted earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations (€) 42 1.49 1.87 Proposed dividend per ordinary share (€) 1.45 1.45 The number beside each item refers to the Notes to the consolidated statement of income. Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for 2018 103 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR 2018 (€1,000) 2018 2017 Net result (as per statement of income) 80,315 94,945 Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods Other comprehensive income through revaluation reserve Revaluation of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income –12,881 – Revaluation of available-for-sale equity instruments – –7,778 Revaluation of available-for-sale debt instruments – 9,719 Realised return on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income –3,764 – Realised return on available-for-sale equity instruments – –911 Realised return on available-for-sale debt instruments – –6,407 Impairments of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income –86 – Income tax effect 3,985 –860 Total other comprehensive income through revaluation reserve 27 –12,746 –6,237 Other comprehensive income from value changes of derivatives (cash flow hedges) Increase in value of derivatives directly added to equity –3,892 1,410 Income tax effect 208 –352 Total other comprehensive income from value changes of derivatives (cash flow hedges) 27 –3,684 1,057 Other comprehensive income from currency translation differences Other comprehensive income from currency translation differences –1,499 –655 Income tax effect – – Total other comprehensive income from currency translation differences 27 –1,499 –655 Total other comprehensive income to be reclassified in subsequent periods to profit or loss –17,929 –5,835 Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified in subsequent periods to profit or loss Change in fair value attributable to change in credit risk of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Change in fair value attributable to change in credit risk of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss –2,931 – Income tax effect 733 – Total change in fair value attributable to change in credit risk of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss –2,198 – Remeasurement of defined benefit plans Remeasurement of defined benefit plans 385 –580 Income tax effect –91 38 Total remeasurement of defined benefit plans 27 294 –542 Total other comprehensive income not to be reclassified in subsequent periods to profit or loss –1,904 –542 Total other comprehensive income –19,833 –6,377 Total comprehensive income 60,483 88,569 Of which attributable to shareholders 54,798 83,131 Of which attributable to non-controlling interests 5,684 5,437 Total comprehensive income to shareholders Of which continuing operations 46,919 75,995 Of which discontinued operations 7,880 7,136 54,798 83,131 The number beside each item refers to the Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position. Consolidated statement of changes in equity in 2018 104 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY IN 2018 Before profit appropriation (€1,000) Share Treasury Share Other UndistriTotal equity Equity Total equity capital shares premium reserves1 buted attributable attributable reserve1 profit to shareto nonholders controlling interests At 31 December 2017 41,147 –7,869 441,459 768,616 89,508 1,332,860 16,264 1,349,124 Impact of adopting IFRS 92 – – – –14,382 – –14,382 – –14,382 At 1 January 2018 41,147 –7,869 441,459 754,234 89,508 1,318,478 16,264 1,334,742 Net result (as per statement of income) – – – – 74,631 74,631 5,684 80,315 Total other comprehensive income – – – –19,833 – –19,833 – –19,833 Total comprehensive income – – – –19,833 74,631 54,798 5,684 60,483 Shares issued 215 –5,397 5,182 – – – – – Share plans – 14,780 – –445 – 14,334 – 14,334 To other reserves – – – 30,139 –30,139 – – – Repurchased equity instruments – –10,192 – – – –10,192 – –10,192 Dividends / Capital return –61,526 – – – –59,369 –120,894 –895 –121,789 To share capital 61,526 – –61,526 – – – – – Other changes – – – –542 – –542 – –542 Change in non-controlling interests – – – – – – –8,840 –8,840 At 31 December 2018 41,362 –8,678 385,115 763,553 74,631 1,255,983 12,213 1,268,196 1 For additional information on the nature and composition of the share premium reserve and other reserves, see Note 27. 2 See page 113. Consolidated statement of changes in equity in 2017 105 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY IN 2017 Before profit appropriation (€1,000) Share Treasury Share Other UndistriTotal equity Equity Total equity capital shares premium reserves1 buted attributable attributable reserve1 profit to shareto nonholders controlling interests At 1 January 41,092 –4,059 481,258 756,445 65,735 1,340,471 13,456 1,353,926 Net result (as per statement of income) – – – – 89,508 89,508 5,437 94,945 Total other comprehensive income – – – –6,377 – –6,377 – –6,377 Total comprehensive income – – – –6,377 89,508 83,131 5,437 88,569 Shares issued 55 –1,403 1,348 – – – – – Share plans – 5,091 – 988 – 6,079 – 6,079 To other reserves – – – 16,380 –16,380 – – – Repurchased equity instruments – –7,799 – – – –7,799 – –7,799 Dividends / Capital return –41,147 300 – – –49,355 –90,202 –672 –90,874 To share capital 41,147 – –41,147 – – – – – Other changes – – – 1,179 – 1,179 – 1,179 Change in non-controlling interests – – – – – – –1,957 –1,957 At 31 December 41,147 –7,869 441,459 768,616 89,508 1,332,860 16,264 1,349,124 1 For additional information on the nature and composition of the share premium reserve and other reserves, see Note 27. Consolidated statement of cash flows for 2018 106 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR 2018 (€1,000) 2018 2017 Cash flow from operating activities Operating profit before tax 79,504 105,010 Adjustments for – Depreciation and amortisation 37 16,799 16,024 – Costs of share plans 2,989 4,773 – Results on associates using the equity method –11,759 –12,949 – Valuation results on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 19,803 2,870 – Valuation results on financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss –46,177 –7,399 – Valuation results on derivatives –4,818 –19,080 – Impairments 38 –13,416 –11,460 – Changes in provisions 8,458 3,322 Cash flow from operating activities 51,383 81,112 Net movement in operating assets and liabilities – Financial assets/liabilities from trading activities –25,800 –19,427 – Due from/to banks –33,238 –8,907 – Loans and advances to public and private sectors/Public and private sector liabilities 506,713 72,455 – Derivatives 129,920 3,099 – Withdrawals from restructuring provision and other provisions –2,931 –15,021 – Other assets and liabilities –15,640 –2,554 – Tax assets and liabilities 1,382 – – Income taxes paid –9,523 –9,358 – Dividends received 3,192 4,602 Total net movement in operating assets and liabilities 554,076 24,889 Net cash flow from operating activities 605,459 106,001 Net cash flow from discontinued operations –6,027 28,856 Cash flow from investing activities Investments and acquisitions – Investments in debt instruments –1,302,486 –973,327 – Investments in equity instruments –48,331 –84,990 – Acquisitions (excluding acquired cash and cash equivalents) – –28,700 – Investments in associates using the equity method –9,609 –27,147 – Property and equipment –5,016 –7,291 – Goodwill and other intangible assets –878 –7,318 Divestments, redemptions and sales – Investments in debt instruments 1,307,076 896,695 – Investments in equity instruments 92,589 25,170 – Investments in associates using the equity method 27,115 40,983 – Property and equipment 4,686 6,671 – Goodwill and other intangible assets 1,873 678 Dividends received 3,473 3,753 Net cash flow from investing activities of continuing operations 70,492 –154,823 Net cash flow from investing activities of discontinued operations 154 –799 The numbers in the statement of cash flows refer to the Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position and the Notes to the consolidated statement of income. Consolidated statement of cash flows for 2018 107 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR 2018 (CONTINUED) (€1,000) 2018 2017 Cash flow from financing activities Share plans 11,345 2,255 Repurchased equity instruments1 –10,192 –7,499 Change in non-controlling interests –8,133 –3,639 Redemption of subordinated loans –113 –113 Receipts on issued debt securities – 500,000 Redemption of issued debt securities –907,256 –187,027 Receipts on financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 129,771 275,645 Redemption of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss –116,872 –191,048 Dividends paid –121,789 –91,174 Net cash flow from financing activities of continuing operations –1,023,239 297,399 Net cash flow from financing activities of discontinued operations – – Net change in cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks –353,161 276,633 Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks at 1 January2 1,826,733 1,550,100 Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks at 31 December 2 1,473,572 1,826,733 Additional disclosure Cash flows from interest received 310,702 341,695 Cash flows from interest paid 135,195 146,007 The numbers in the statement of cash flows refer to the Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position and the Notes to the consolidated statement of income. The table below provides a reconciliation of changes in liabilities arising from financing activities. Reconciliation of liabilities arising from Subordinated Issued debt Financial liabilities Total financing activities in 2018 loans securities at fair value through profit or loss At 1 December 166,802 2,411,671 971,453 3,549,926 Impact of adopting IFRS 9 6,818 – – 6,818 At 1 January 173,620 2,411,671 971,453 3,556,744 Cash flows –113 –907,256 12,899 –894,470 Non-cash changes – Fair value changes –34 17,089 –43,991 –26,936 At 31 December 173,473 1,521,504 940,361 2,635,338 Reconciliation of liabilities arising from Subordinated Issued debt Financial liabilities Total financing activities in 2017 loans securities at fair value through profit or loss At 1 January 167,218 2,116,094 894,256 3,177,568 Cash flows –113 312,973 84,596 397,456 Non-cash changes – Fair value changes –303 –17,396 –7,399 –25,098 At 31 December 166,802 2,411,671 971,453 3,549,926 1 Van Lanschot Kempen grants unconditional and conditional rights to acquire depositary receipts for Class A ordinary shares for no consideration. To meet open positions, Van Lanschot Kempen holds depositary receipts for Class A ordinary shares. In 2018 and 2017, Van Lanschot Kempen carried out a share buy-back programme. 2 Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks also includes amounts due from/to banks available on demand. Summary of significant accounting principles 108 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES General The assets and liabilities of AIO II BV are recognised under Van Lanschot Kempen NV is an independent wealth manager Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale i.e. the specialising in the preservation and creation of wealth for disposal group; see Note 15, Assets classified as held for its clients and for society. Van Lanschot Kempen NV sale, and Note 24, Liabilities classified as held for sale. The (“Van Lanschot Kempen”) is the holding company of result of AIO II BV is included under Discontinued operations; Van Lanschot NV (formerly F. van Lanschot Bankiers NV) see Note 40, Discontinued operations. The cash flow (“Van Lanschot”). The company has its registered office statement and the income statement for 2017 have been at Hooge Steenweg 29, 5211 JN ’s-Hertogenbosch, the adjusted accordingly. Netherlands. Van Lanschot Kempen is a public limited company incorporated under Dutch law and registered In the second half of 2018, Van Lanschot Chabot Mandema under number 16014051 at the Chamber of Commerce. & Partners was classified as held for sale. The assets and Depositary receipts for Class A ordinary shares are publicly liabilities of Van Lanschot Chabot Mandema & Partners are traded on the Official Market of the Euronext Amsterdam recognised under Assets and liabilities classified as held for Stock Exchange. sale. The consolidated financial statements of Van Lanschot The presentation of Contingent liabilities now includes the Kempen at 31 December 2018 were prepared by the credit card guarantees, due to a revised interpretation of Statutory Board on 20 February 2019 and will be submitted the revocability of these facilities. The comparative figures to the general meeting for adoption on 22 May 2019. At the have been adjusted for an amount of €56.6 million. request of the general meeting, the financial statements may – subject to the consent of the Supervisory Board – be Changes in accounting policies amended by the Statutory Board after publication. The The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of our amended financial statements will be submitted to the annual consolidated financial statements for the year ended general meeting for adoption. 31 December 2018 remain unchanged, except for the adoption of new standards and interpretations effective Basis of preparation from 1 January 2018. The consolidated financial statements of Van Lanschot Kempen and its subsidiaries have been prepared in Changes in published IFRS standards and accordance with International Financial Reporting interpretations Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU), The IFRS standards listed below became effective from and with Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The assets 1 January 2018 and have been applied to our financial and liabilities disclosed in the consolidated financial statements for 2018. Unless stated otherwise, application of statements are measured in accordance with the these standards had no impact on Van Lanschot Kempen’s accounting principles as set out below. equity or result. Application of the amended standards generally entails amendment or expansion of notes. Continuity The Statutory Board has examined the ability of IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Van Lanschot Kempen to continue its operations and Transactions and Advance Consideration concluded that we are able to do so for the foreseeable The interpretation clarifies that in determining the spot future. Moreover, the Board is not aware of any material exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset, uncertainties that cast significant doubt on our ability to expense or income (or part of it) on the derecognition of a continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability relating to statements have been prepared on this basis. advance consideration, the date of the transaction is the date on which an entity initially recognises the non-monetary asset Functional and reporting currency or non-monetary liability arising from the advance The consolidated financial statements are denominated in consideration. If there are multiple payments or receipts in euros, the functional and reporting currency of Van Lanschot advance, then the entity must determine a date of the Kempen. Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are given in transaction for each payment or receipt of advance thousands of euros. The totals may not always match the consideration. The impact is expected to be immaterial due to sum of the individual values due to rounding. the limited volume of foreign currency transactions involving advance consideration. Changes in presentation In the first half of 2018, AIO II BV (Medsen) was classified Annual Improvements to 2014-2016 Cycle as held for sale. In December 2018, an agreement was Changes to standards concern: reached with funds under management of Bencis about the sale of the stake in AIO II BV. IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures The amendments clarify that measuring investments at fair value through profit or loss is an investment-by-investment choice. Summary of significant accounting principles 109 IAS 1 Presentation of Interest Revenue Calculated financial assets that should be classified as impaired assets Using the Effective Interest Method and financial assets measured at fair value through profit or With the adoption of IFRS 9, a consequential amendment to loss. For impaired assets, we calculate the credit-impaired paragraph 82(a) of IAS 1 is introduced. Under this effective interest rate, which is based on the amortised cost of amendment, interest revenue calculated using the effective the financial asset instead of the gross carrying amount, and interest method for financial instruments measured at incorporates the impact of expected credit losses in estimated amortised costs must be separately presented as a future cash flows. component of revenue on the face of the balance sheet. As a result, we have made changes in our consolidated statement A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights of income. The line item Interest income is split between to the cash flows from the financial asset expire or when the Interest income calculated using the effective interest method rights to receive cash flows are transferred. When the cash and Other interest income. flows of the financial asset are transferred we evaluate the extent to which we will retain the risks and rewards of Similar presentation has been applied to interest expense. ownership of the financial asset. A financial asset is only Other interest income and other interest expense includes the derecognised when substantially all of the risks and rewards interest revenue on all other financial instruments. The of the ownership of the financial asset are transferred. comparative figures have been reclassified accordingly. A financial liability is derecognised from the statement of IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of financial position when the obligation specified in the contract Share-based Payment Transactions is discharged, cancelled or expired. A substantial modification The amendments to IFRS 2 focus on the effects of vesting or exchange at substantially different terms results in a conditions on the measurement of a cash-settled share-based derecognition of the financial liability and a recognition of a payment transaction, the classification of a share-based new financial liability. The difference between the carrying payment transaction with net settlement features for amount of the modified or exchanged financial liability and the withholding tax obligations, and accounting for when the consideration paid is recognised in profit or loss. classification of a share-based payment transaction changes from cash-settled to equity-settled. Modifications If the contractual cash flows on a financial asset have been IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers renegotiated or otherwise modified and the renegotiation or IFRS 15 replaces all previous revenue requirements in IFRS. modification does not result in the derecognition of the The standard outlines the principles an entity must apply to financial asset, we recalculate the carrying amount of the measure and recognise revenue. The core principle is that an financial asset and recognise a modification gain or loss. We entity will recognise revenue at an amount that reflects the apply IFRS 9 modification accounting as follows: consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in – Changes in the prepayment terms of a loan at the request exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer. of a client; – A switch from a fixed to a variable interest rate during a IFRS 9 Financial Instruments pre-agreed interest rate period; Van Lanschot Kempen adopted IFRS 9 as issued by the IASB – A switch to a current market interest rate with in July 2014 with an effective date of 1 January 2018. This compensation paid; adoption resulted in changes in accounting policies and – Interest rate averaging, which, although qualifying as adjustments to the amounts previously recognised in the modification, does not lead to a modification gain or loss; financial statements. We had not early adopted any of IFRS 9 – Excercising embedded options that are not separate but prior to 1 January 2018. Comparative figures in our financial are part of the financial asset and are included in the statements are not restated as permitted by the transitional contract’s fair value. Exercising these options does not provisions of IFRS 9. Any adjustments to the carrying amounts result in derecognition or in a modification gain or loss. of financial assets and financial liabilities at 1 January 2018, the transition date, are recognised in the opening balance of The following changes at the request of a client are significant equity under the line item Other reserves. We have prepared changes to the agreement and do not qualify as modification: and present transition disclosures at the end of this section, – Switching to a different redemption period; and have provided an opening consolidated statement of the – Postponing the final repayment. financial position as at 1 January 2018. These changes lead to the financial asset being derecognised and a new financial asset being recognised. Recognition and derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Classification and measurement Van Lanschot Kempen recognises a financial asset or financial We have made two assessments to determine the liability in the statement of financial position when it becomes classification and measurement of debt instruments under party to a contractual provision of the instrument. At IFRS 9: a business model assessment and an assessment of origination, the financial asset or financial liability is recognised the contractual cash flows. The classification and at fair value plus or minus transaction costs directly measurement categories for financial assets under IFRS 9 are: attributable to the acquisition or issue. After initial recognition, – Fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI); we measure financial assets at amortised cost and fair value – Amortised cost (AC); through other comprehensive income, or at fair value through – Fair value through profit or loss (FVPL). profit or loss. Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost or fair value through profit or loss. Interest revenues and expenses on financial assets and liabilities are calculated using the effective interest method. The effective interest method is calculated for all financial assets and liabilities except for Summary of significant accounting principles 110 Business model assessment and payment of interest, the SPPI test is failed and the The business model assessment represents an assessment of financial instrument is mandatorily classified and measured at how the business is managed and how it is seen from a fair value through profit or loss. strategic point of view. The frequency and volume of sales are also taken into account. This assessment results in a New classifications under IFRS 9 classification: This section describes the outcome of our business model – Hold to collect (HTC): where a financial asset is held within assessment and SPPI test. In general: a business model whose objective is to hold financial – Debt instruments from the IAS 39 HTM and L&R assets in order to collect contractual cash flows; or categories have been reclassified to the AC category; – Hold to collect and sell (HTCS): where the financial asset is – Debt instruments from the IAS 39 AFS category have held within a business model whose objective is achieved been reclassified to the FVOCI category. by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets; or Debt instruments previously classified as available for sale – Other business model. but which fail the SPPI test We hold cumulative preference shares that failed to meet the The business model assessment is carried out at portfolio SPPI test. These instruments have no reasonable penalty to level, whereas the contractual cash flow assessment is done compensate the missing future cash flows in the event of for each individual financial asset. We only reclassify debt prepayments. As a result, these instruments, which amounted instruments if the business model for managing those assets to €10.9 million, have been reclassified (mandatorily) to FVPL changes. from the date of initial application of IFRS 9. Our business models are based on the existing management Equity instruments structure and refined based on analysis of how businesses are The equity instruments previously in the IAS 39 AFS category, evaluated and reported, how their specific business risks are amounting to €11.1 million, have been reclassified to the FVPL managed and on historic and expected future sales. category from the date of initial application of IFRS 9. The revaluation reserve for these equity instruments has been A debt instrument that is held within the hold to collect reclassified to retained earnings. We have not used the option business model and meets the SPPI test is measured at to make an irrevocable election on initial recognition to amortised cost unless the asset is designated at fair value measure equity instruments at fair value with results through through profit or loss. Our Asset & Liability Committee (ALCO) other comprehensive income. sets restrictions for buying and selling in the hold to collect portfolio. Sales are permitted when these are due to an Financial liabilities increase in credit risk, take place close to the maturity date, are The classification and measurement of financial liabilities significant in value (both on individual and aggregated level) or remain for the most part unchanged under IFRS 9. Changes are infrequent. in the fair value of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss due to changes in Van Lanschot Kempen’s own A debt instrument that is held within the hold to collect and credit risk are recognised in other comprehensive income. sell business model and meets the solely payments of The cumulative change in the fair value of financial liabilities principal and interest (SPPI) test is measured at fair value, with through profit or loss which can be allocated to changes fair value adjustments recognised in other comprehensive in own credit risk – amounting to €13.3 million at income unless the asset is designated at fair value through 31 December 2017 – has been reclassified, for an amount profit or loss. The financial assets in the hold to collect and sell of €10.0 million, from retained earnings to the own credit portfolio are governed by ALCO and sales need to be risk reserve in other comprehensive income. In addition, a approved by ALCO. Sales as a result of managing everyday negative tax asset and a deferred tax asset have been liquidity needs, maintaining a particular interest yield profile on recognised for an amount of €3.3 million. the secondary market, or to match the duration and sales required by regulators, are consistent with the objective of the Impairments hold to collect and sell portfolio. We recognise a loss allowance for expected credit losses (ECL) on financial assets measured at amortised cost or fair All other debt instruments are measured at fair value through value through profit or loss, as well as for financial guarantees profit or loss. No restrictions are set for sales within the fair and loan commitments. When there is no significant value through profit or loss portfolio. These debt instruments deterioration in credit risk since initial recognition, ECL is are governed by ALCO and sales need to be approved by recognised based on a 12-month expected credit loss (Stage 1). ALCO. When a significant increase in credit risk has occurred, ECL is recognised based on a lifetime expected credit loss (Stage 2). Assessment of the contractual cash flows For impaired loans (Stage 3), a lifetime ECL is recognised. To assess the contractual cash flow characteristics of financial instruments, we have designed a SPPI test. To pass the SPPI To determine the deterioration in credit risk of a financial test, the contractual terms of the debt instruments need to instrument since initial recognition, we compare the current result in payments that are solely principal and interest. A key risk of default at the reporting date with the risk of default on element of the SPPI criteria is that the contractual cash flows initial recognition. In general and without taking into account of the financial instrument should be consistent with a basic the passage of time, to be called “significant”, a larger relative lending arrangement. In a basic lending arrangement, the increase in the risk of default will be required for an asset with contractual cash flows may include compensation for the time a higher risk of default on initial recognition than for an asset value of money, credit risk, liquidity risk, administrative costs with a low risk of default on initial recognition. and a profit margin. When the cash flows of a financial instrument do not give rise to solely repayment of principal Summary of significant accounting principles 111 Furthermore, we evaluate individually whether objective Both approaches calculate a 12-month and a lifetime ECL for evidence of impairment exists for financial instruments that the exposures of all three stages. After the risk stage are individually significant. We collectively assess financial determination in the stage calculation, the relevant ECL is instruments that are not significant and financial instruments assigned: which have no objective evidence of impairment available. This – 12-month ECL for Stage 1; assessment includes quantitative and qualitative information – Lifetime ECL for Stage 2 and Stage 3. based on our historical experience, credit risk assessment, For more information, see the Risk management section, days past due and forward-looking information. under 2.8 Impairments. Expected loss measurement Hedge accounting We measure expected credit losses by using a sophisticated We have opted to continue to apply the hedge accounting approach and an alternative approach. In both these guidance of IAS 39 under the EU carve-out, as explicitly approaches, ECL reflects an unbiased probability-weighted permitted by IFRS 9. The hedge accounting disclosures as amount that is determined by evaluating a range of possible required by IFRS are included in Note 4, Derivatives. outcomes, the time value of money, and reasonable and verifiable information that is available without undue cost or Transition disclosures effort at the reporting date about past events, current The tables below provide information on the impact of conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions. adopting IFRS 9 as of 1 January 2018. The following table shows the changes in classifications of financial assets and liabilities. IAS 39 measurement IFRS 9 measurement Category Carrying ReclassiRemeasureCategory Carrying amount fications ments amount Assets Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks AC 1,832,751 – –0 AC 1,832,751 Financial assets held for trading – equity instruments FVPL 35,673 – – FVPL 35,673 Financial assets held for trading – debt instruments FVPL 2,561 – – FVPL 2,561 Due from banks AC 186,459 – –0 AC 186,459 Derivatives FVPL 322,258 – – FVPL 322,258 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVPL 394,898 22,001 – FVPL 416,899 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income n/a – 1,716,354 – FVOCI 1,716,354 Available-for-sale equity instruments FVOCI 11,151 –11,151 – n/a – Available-for-sale debt instruments FVOCI 1,727,204 –1,727,204 – n/a – Held-to-maturity investments AC 521,349 –521,349 – n/a – Loans and advances to the public and private sectors AC 9,103,327 – –11,121 AC 9,092,207 Other financial assets at amortised cost n/a – 521,349 –28 AC 521,321 Investments in associates using the equity method 70,390 – – 70,390 Property and equipment 63,468 – – 63,468 Goodwill and other intangible assets 218,389 – – 218,389 Tax assets 26,719 – 4,950 31,669 Other assets 142,277 – – 142,277 Total assets 14,658,875 – –6,199 14,652,676 Summary of significant accounting principles 112 The following table shows the changes in classifications of financial assets and liabilities (continued). IAS 39 measurement IFRS 9 measurement Category Carrying ReclassiRemeasureCategory Carrying amount fications ments amount Equity and liabilities Financial liabilities from trading activities FVPL 1,899 – – FVPL 1,899 Due to banks AC 101,645 – – AC 101,645 Public and private sector liabilities AC 9,145,119 – – AC 9,145,119 Derivatives FVPL 318,417 – – FVPL 318,417 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss FVPL 971,453 – – FVPL 971,453 Issued debt securities AC 2,411,671 – – AC 2,411,671 Provisions 23,085 – 1,200 24,284 Tax liabilities 12,841 – 166 13,007 Other liabilities 156,820 – – 156,820 Subordinated loans AC 166,802 – 6,818 AC 173,620 Total liabilities 13,309,752 8,183 13,317,935 Issued share capital 41,147 – – 41,147 Treasury shares –7,869 – – –7,869 Share premium reserve 441,459 – – 441,459 Other reserves 768,616 – –14,382 754,234 Undistributed profit attributable to shareholders 89,508 – – 89,508 Equity attributable to shareholders 1,332,860 – –14,382 1,318,478 Non-controlling interests 10,827 – – 10,827 Undistributed profit attributable to non-controlling interests 5,437 – – 5,437 Undistributed profit of previous year attributable to non-controlling interests – – – – Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 16,264 – – 16,264 Total equity and liabilities 14,658,875 – –6,199 14,652,676 Summary of significant accounting principles 113 The following table shows the impact on equity under other reserves of adopting IFRS 9. Revaluation reserve available-for-sale investments Closing balance under IAS 39 (31 December 2017) 14,013 Reclassification of equity instruments from available-for-sale to retained earnings –4,828 Reclassification of debt instruments from available-for-sale to financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income –9,185 Opening balance under IFRS 9 (1 January 2018) – Revaluation reserve financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Closing balance under IAS 39 (31 December 2017) – Reclassification of debt instruments from available-for-sale to financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 9,185 Recognition of expected credit losses under IFRS 9 for financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 663 Deferred tax effect –166 Opening balance under IFRS 9 (1 January 2018) 9,682 Own credit risk reserve Closing balance under IAS 39 (31 December 2017) – Impact of recognising credit risk on financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss in own credit risk reserve –13,288 Deferred tax effect 3,322 Opening balance under IFRS 9 (1 January 2018) –9,966 Retained earnings Closing balance under IAS 39 (31 December 2017) 780,711 Impact of recognising credit risk on financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss in own credit risk reserve 13,288 Tax effect relating to own credit risk reserve –3,322 Reclassification of equity instruments from available-for-sale to retained earnings 4,828 Recognition of expected credit losses under IFRS 9 –13,012 Tax effect relating to expected credit losses under IFRS 9 3,247 Recognition of modification loss on certificates of indebtedness –6,818 Tax effect relating to modification loss on certificates of indebtedness 1,704 Opening balance under IFRS 9 (1 January 2018) 780,626 Total change in equity due to adopting IFRS 9 –14,382 The table below provides a reconciliation of the impairment allowances in accordance with IAS 39 and the provisions in accordance with IAS 37 to the opening loss allowances determined in accordance with IFRS 9. Measurement category IAS 39 loan loss allowance Remeasurements IFRS 9 loan loss allowance 31 December 2017 1 January 2018 Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks – 0 0 Due from banks – 0 0 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income – 663 663 Other financial assets at amortised cost – 28 28 Loans and advances to the public and private sectors 120,400 11,121 131,520 Provision for financial guarantees and loan commitments – 1,200 1,200 Total 120,400 13,012 133,412 Summary of significant accounting principles 114 The loss allowance for financial assets at fair value through IAS 12 Income Taxes other comprehensive income is recognised in other The amendments clarify that the income tax consequences comprehensive income and does not reduce the carrying of dividends are linked more directly to past transactions or amount of the financial asset. events that generated distributable profits than to distributions to owners. Therefore, an entity recognises the Published IFRS standards and income tax consequences of dividends in profit or loss, interpretations not yet effective other comprehensive income or equity according to where In addition to the IFRS standards and interpretations the entity originally recognised those past transactions or referred to above, a number of IFRS standards and events. These amendments are effective for annual interpretations are new or have been amended, and apply reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. to financial statements for periods beginning on or after Earlier application is permitted. When an entity first applies 1 January 2019. We have not applied the following these amendments, it applies them to the income tax standards in the 2018 financial statements. Unless stated consequences of dividends recognised on or after the otherwise, standards are applied as soon as they become beginning of the earliest comparative period. effective and have been endorsed by the EU. IFRS 16 Leases Significant accounting judgements and IFRS 16 Leases was issued in January 2016 and replaces estimates IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an We have identified those accounting policies which involve Arrangement Contains a Lease. IFRS 16 sets out the the most complex or subjective decisions or assessments. principles for recognition, measurement, presentation and In the process of applying these accounting policies, we use disclosure of leases and will result in almost all leases being estimates, assumptions and judgements which can have a recognised on the balance sheet, similar to the accounting significant impact on the amounts recognised in the for finance leases under IAS 17. We will elect to use the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions are exemptions proposed by the standard on lease contracts based on the most recent information available, and the for which the lease terms end within 12 months as of the actual amounts may differ in the future. The principal date of initial application, and lease contracts for which the estimates and assumptions relate to impairments on underlying asset is of low value. Van Lanschot Kempen has financial instruments measured at amortised cost and fair leases of certain office equipment (i.e., printing and value through other comprehensive income, investments in photocopying machines) that are considered of low value. associates using the equity method, property and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, and assets acquired We have performed a detailed impact assessment of IFRS through foreclosures. 16 and concluded that this standard will have no material impact on the result of the group. We expect application of Such estimates and assumptions also relate to the this standard to increase assets and liabilities within a determination of the fair value of financial instruments, range of €60-€70 million. deferred tax positions, share-based payments, employee benefits and provisions. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and must be applied retrospectively; Accounting judgements We will apply the standard from its mandatory adoption We have applied critical judgement to determine significant date of 1 January 2019 and use the modified retrospective influence in companies in which we hold minority interests approach. smaller than 20%. In our opinion, the influence on the financial and operating policy decisions that we have in IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments some minority interests is more in line with the expected The interpretation clarifies how the recognition and influence in an associate. Examples of this influence are measurement requirements of IAS 12 Income Taxes are veto rights in decisions on issuance of new shares and applied for income tax treatments that have yet to be decisions on amendments of the statutes. Therefore we accepted by the tax authorities. The interpretation is classify these minority interests articles of association and effective for annual periods beginning on or after apply equity accounting instead of IFRS 9 fair value 1 January 2019 and must be applied retrospectively; accounting. For furher information, see the disclosure on early adoption is permitted. The interpretation is not Investments in associates using the equity method. yet endorsed by the EU. The standard has no material impact on group results. Furthermore, we have applied critical judgement in determining the assets and liabilities held for sale. In cases Annual Improvements to 2015-2017 Cycle where we have decided that we will recover the carrying Changes to standards concern: amount through a sale of these assets or liabilities rather than through continuing use and the sale is highly probable IFRS 3 Business Combinations within twelve months we will classify these assets as held The amendments clarify that, when an entity obtains for sale. We measure these assets or liabilities at the lower control of a business that is a joint operation, it applies the of its carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. For requirements for a business combination achieved in further information on specific judgements made, see the stages, including remeasuring previously held interests in note on Assets classified as held for sale. the assets and liabilities of the joint operation at fair value. These amendments are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. Earlier application is permitted. Summary of significant accounting principles 115 Significant accounting estimates Deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets are recognised only if it is probable that Determination of fair value of financial instruments taxable profits will be realised in the near future against The fair value of financial instruments, in so far as available which these temporary differences can be offset. Estimates and provided there is an active market, is based on stock are used when determining future taxable profits, since market prices at the reporting date. For financial assets, the these are subject to uncertainty. bid price is used; for financial liabilities, the selling price. Acquisitions The fair value of financial instruments not traded in an In the case of acquisitions, it is necessary to determine the active market is determined on the basis of cash flow and of fair value of the acquired assets (including any intangible option and other valuation models. These models are based assets and goodwill acquired), as well as of liabilities and on the market circumstances prevailing at the reporting obligations not recognised in the statement of financial date. Estimates mainly relate to future cash flows and position. Estimates are used for this, particularly for those discount rates. For more details, see the Risk management items which are not traded on an active market. section, under 13, Fair value. Share-based payments Impairments of financial assets The fair value is determined based on the volume-weighted We recognise a loss allowance for expected credit losses day price for depositary receipts for Class A ordinary shares (ECL) on financial assets measured at amortised cost or fair on the second trading day after release of Van Lanschot value through profit or loss, as well as for financial Kempen’s annual figures. guarantees and loan commitments. When there has been no significant deterioration in credit risk since initial Actuarial assumptions of provisions recognition, ECL is recognised based on a 12-month The pension liabilities are determined using actuarial expected credit loss (Stage 1). When a significant increase calculations. These calculations make assumptions in credit risk has occurred, ECL is recognised based on a regarding elements such as the discount rate, future trends lifetime expected credit loss (Stage 2). For impaired loans in salaries and returns on investments. These assumptions (Stage 3), a lifetime ECL is recognised. The impairments of are subject to uncertainty. See Note 22, Provisions. financial assets are determined as a critical estimate. For more information on deterioration in credit risk, see the Risk management section, under 2.8 Impairments. Impairments of goodwill To measure the recoverable amounts, we calculate the value in use for each cash-generating unit (CGU). This calculation reflects an estimate of future cash flows, multiple scenario analyses and discount rates. Future cash flow estimates are based on our strategic plans and different types of investigation into possible trends. Events and factors that could have a significant impact on these estimates include market expectations, effects of mergers and acquisitions, competitive conditions, client behaviour and changes in the client base, cost structure, trends in interest rates and risks, and other circumstances specific to the industry and sector. The impairments of financial assets are determined as a critical estimate. For more information on the discount rates used, see Note 13, Goodwill. Other accounting estimates Impairments of non-financial assets The recoverable amount of non-financial assets is the higher of the fair value of an asset less costs to sell and its value in use. This fair value less costs to sell is the price that would be received on sale of an asset or paid on transfer of a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the valuation date. To determine whether assets are impaired, the individual assets are allocated to the lowest level at which cash flows can be identified (cash-generating units). Non-financial assets that have been subject to impairment, other than goodwill paid, are reviewed annually to determine whether the impairment can be reversed. Non-financial assets, other than goodwill paid, are tested for impairment annually by assessing whether there are any indications that these assets are impaired. Basis of consolidation 116 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION Subsidiaries In the case of subsidiaries not fully controlled by Van Lanschot The consolidated financial statements of Van Lanschot Kempen, the non-controlling interest in equity is presented Kempen comprise the financial statements of Van Lanschot separately in the consolidated statement of financial and its subsidiaries. These have been prepared at position as a component of total equity. The profit or loss 31 December 2018 using consistent accounting policies for the reporting period that can be attributed to the and their financial year is concurrent with the calendar year. non-controlling interest is disclosed separately. Subsidiaries (including the consolidated structured entities) Acquisitions are associates in which Van Lanschot Kempen exercises Acquisitions are recognised using the acquisition method. decisive control. Van Lanschot Kempen has decisive control Accordingly, the cost of an acquisition is allocated to the fair over an entity when it has power over that entity and is value of the acquired assets (inclusive of any intangible exposed to or has rights to variable income from its assets not previously disclosed in the statement of financial involvement in the entity and is able to use its power over position), liabilities and obligations not disclosed in the the entity to influence the entity’s income. The assessment statement of financial position. of control is based on the actual relationship between Van Lanschot Kempen and the entity. Factors taken into Goodwill, being the difference between the cost of the account include existing and potential voting rights. A right acquisition (including assumed debts) and our interest in is a material right if its holder is able to exercise that right in the fair value of acquired assets, liabilities and obligations practice. not disclosed in the statement of financial position at the acquisition date, is capitalised as an intangible asset. If this Van Lanschot Kempen has power over an entity if its difference is negative (negative goodwill), it is taken directly existing and potential voting rights amount to more to the statement of income. than 50%. If these rights amount to less than 50%, Van Lanschot Kempen determines whether it has power A non-controlling interest in the company acquired is over the entity pursuant to contractual agreements. In recognised at the fair value prevailing on the acquisition making this assessment, a distinction is made between date or at the proportionate share in the identifiable assets substantive and protective rights. Substantive rights are and liabilities of the company acquired. rights which enable the decision-making power of an enterprise to be influenced directly and which give Van Results of companies acquired are disclosed in the Lanschot Kempen decisive control over an entity. Examples statement of income from the date at which control is include the right to appoint and dismiss members of the obtained. board of management, and to set the level of their remuneration. Protective rights are rights which protect the Adjustments to the fair value of acquired assets and interests of an entity in another entity, but which do not liabilities at the acquisition date which are identified within directly confer decision-making powers. Protective rights 12 months of the acquisition may lead to adjustment of do not give Van Lanschot Kempen decisive control over an goodwill. Adjustments identified after expiry of one year are entity. When acquiring non-controlling interests, Van disclosed in the statement of income. Lanschot Kempen in principle includes only protective rights in the contractual agreement. These are rights of approval On disposal of group companies, the difference between which enable Van Lanschot Kempen to protect its minority the sale proceeds and the acquisition cost (including position without acquiring decision-making power. goodwill) is included in the statement of income together Examples of protective rights are rights of approval in with any unrealised gain or loss. respect of the issue of shares and the effecting of significant acquisitions. Goodwill is not amortised. For more information on its valuation, see Note 13, Goodwill and other intangible Intra-group transactions are eliminated in the consolidation assets. process. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of incorporation or acquisition, being the date on which Van Lanschot Kempen acquires control, and are consolidated until the date that such control ceases. We consolidate interests in investment funds if we have power over the investment fund and are exposed to or have rights to variable income stemming from our involvement and are able to use our power over the investment fund to influence the variable income. The assessment of control is based on the actual relationship between Van Lanschot Kempen and the investment fund. Van Lanschot Kempen takes into account its interest for its own account and its own role, or that of one of its group companies, as fund manager. Summary of significant accounting policies 117 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Foreign currencies Recognition of financial assets in the statement of financial position Functional currency Purchases of financial assets designated at fair value Items in the statement of financial position pertaining to through profit or loss whose value is subject to change, or each group company are stated in the currency of the financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive economic environment in which the entity operates income, or other financial assets at amortised costs, which (i.e. the functional currency). are settled according to standard market conventions, are recognised on the transaction date, i.e. the date on which Group companies we undertake to purchase or sell the asset concerned. The assets, liabilities, income and expenses of group Loans and advances are recognised on the settlement date, companies that use a functional currency other than the i.e. the date on which we receive or transfer the asset. reporting currency are translated as follows: – Assets and liabilities are translated using the closing Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities in the exchange rate at the reporting date; statement of financial position – Income and expenses are translated using the rate Financial assets are derecognised when: prevailing on the transaction date, which is – Our rights to the cash flows from the asset expire; or approximately equal to the average exchange rate; – We have retained the right to receive the cash flows – Remaining exchange-related gains or losses are from an asset, but have an obligation to pay these in full recognised as a separate component of equity. to a third party under a special agreement; or – We have transferred our rights to the cash flows from Upon consolidation, exchange-related gains or losses the asset and have transferred substantially all the risks arising from monetary items forming part of a net and rewards; or investment in foreign divisions are recognised in equity. – We have not transferred substantially all the risks and Exchange-related gains or losses on borrowings and other rewards but have transferred control over the asset. items designated as hedging instruments for such investments are also recognised in equity. If we have transferred our rights to the cash flows from an asset, but have not transferred substantially all the risks Transactions and line items and rewards of the asset and have not transferred control, On initial recognition, transactions in foreign currencies are the asset is recognised as long as we have continuing translated into the functional currency at the exchange involvement in the asset. rates prevailing on the transaction date. Translation differences arising on the settlement of such transactions or A financial liability is derecognised as soon as the obligation on the translation of monetary assets and liabilities under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expired. denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in profit or loss, except where they are recognised in equity as Repo transactions and reverse repo transactions qualifying cash flow hedges or qualifying net investment Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements (repos) hedges in foreign divisions. continue to be recognised in the statement of financial position. The related liability is included under the relevant In general, translation differences in the statement of line item (principally Due to banks). income are included in the result on financial transactions. Translation differences on non-monetary items measured at Securities purchased subject to resale agreements (reverse fair value through profit or loss are reported as part of the repos) are recognised under the line item Due from banks or fair value gain or loss. Non-monetary items are translated under Loans and advances to the public and private sectors. into the reporting currency at the same time as the The difference between the sale price and the purchase determination of their fair value. By retranslation on price is recognised in the statement of income as interest reporting date, translation differences on non-monetary during the term of the agreement. items measured at fair value through equity are included in the revaluation reserve in equity. Securitisation We have placed parts of our loan portfolio in special Non-monetary items not measured at fair value are purpose entities (SPEs). If we have effective control over an translated at the exchange rate prevailing on the original SPE, it is consolidated. We have control over an entity when transaction date. Translation differences relating to the sale we have power over that entity and are exposed to or have of available-for-sale investments are treated as an inherent rights to variable income from our involvement in the entity part of the realised/unrealised gains and losses and and are able to use our power over the entity to influence recognised under Income from securities and associates. the entity’s income. The accounting principles followed by Van Lanschot Kempen are applied when consolidating SPEs. Summary of significant accounting policies 118 Transfers of financial assets Any change in the fair value of the hedged item is also All or a part of a financial asset is transferred if: recognised in the statement of income, in so far as the – The contractual rights to receive the cash flows from hedging instrument has been effective in the preceding that financial asset are transferred; or period. Movements in the value of the hedging instrument – The contractual rights to receive the cash flows from are taken to the statement of income. that financial asset are retained, but a contractual obligation is assumed to pay the cash flows to one or A hedge relationship ends if a hedging instrument is sold, more recipients under an arrangement. expires or is exercised, or if the hedging transaction no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, with the For more details, see “Disclosure of interest in other remaining value adjustment of the hedged item amortised entities”. through profit or loss until the end of its term. We have no other assets meeting the criteria for transfers We apply micro fair value hedge accounting and macro fair of financial assets. value hedge accounting. Derivatives Micro fair value hedges A derivative is initially recognised at fair value on the effective A fair value hedge is classified as a micro fair value hedge date of the contract. After initial recognition, the derivative is when the hedged item (or group of items) is a distinctively subsequently remeasured at fair value and movements in identifiable asset or liability hedged by one or a few value are taken to the statement of income under Result on hedging instruments. Debt securities at fair value through financial transactions. Fair values are based on stock other comprehensive income and issued debt securities are exchange prices, cash flow models, and option and other hedged for interest rate risk in a micro fair value hedge. valuation models. Macro fair value hedges Hedge accounting We apply macro fair value hedges for fixed rate mortgages. We use derivatives, such as interest rate swaps, to hedge A portfolio of mortgages is identified comprising our exposure to risks. The carrying amount of assets and homogeneous loans based on their contractual interest liabilities which are hedged through fair value hedging and rates, maturity and other risk characteristics. Mortgages which would otherwise be recognised at cost is adjusted for within the identified portfolio are allocated into repricing movements in the fair value that can be attributed to the term buckets based on expected repricing dates rather than hedged risks. Any gains or losses arising from changes in contractual repricing dates. The hedging instruments are the fair value of derivatives not relating to the hedged risks designated appropriately to those repricing term buckets. are taken directly to the statement of income. Cash flow hedges At the inception of a hedge transaction, we formally Cash flow hedges are hedges of the exposure to designate and document the hedge relationship and the fluctuations in the cash flow of an asset, liability or future financial risk management objective when entering into the transaction arising as a result of interest rate changes and/ hedge transaction. The documentation includes or inflation. The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or instrument that has been determined to be an effective transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how hedge is recognised directly in equity until the hedged item we will assess the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in affects the statement of income, while the ineffective offsetting the exposure to risks. portion is recognised in profit or loss. Such hedges are considered to be effective if we may If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, or if it can no expect, both upon inception and during the term of the longer be designated as a hedge, accumulated gains and hedge, that changes in the fair value or cash flows of the losses remain in equity until the expected future transaction hedged item will be almost fully offset by changes in the is taken to the statement of income. If the expected future fair value or cash flows of the hedging instrument, in so far transaction is no longer likely to take place, the accumulated as they relate to the hedged risk, and the actual outcome is result is transferred directly from equity to profit or loss. within a range of 80-125%. The effectiveness is assessed and documented on a monthly basis in order to determine Embedded derivatives that the hedge has been highly effective throughout the Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered financial reporting periods for which it was intended. We in their entirety when determining whether their cash flows apply the EU carve-out on portfolio fair value hedges. are solely payment of principal and interest. Hedges that qualify for hedge accounting are recognised If the hybrid contract contains a host that is not an asset, as follows: the embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract and treated as separate derivatives when: Fair value hedges – The economic characteristics are not closely related to Fair value hedges are hedges of the exposure to changes in those of the host contract; the fair value of an asset or liability arising as a result of – A separate instrument with the same terms would meet interest rate changes. Movements in the value of the the definition of a derivative; and hedging instrument are taken to the statement of income. – The hybrid contract is not measured at fair value through profit or loss. Summary of significant accounting policies 119 Day 1 profit remains within the ranges set, reflects ineffectiveness and Discrepancies between the transaction price and the fair is taken to the statement of income. value may arise if valuation techniques are applied at the time of the transaction. Such a discrepancy is referred to as Derivatives include: a Day 1 profit. Any resulting profit or loss is recognised – The fair value of derivatives held for trading directly in the statement of income if the valuation method Derivatives held for trading are transactions for own is based on observable inputs in an active market. In the account whereby the aim is to actively sell them in the event of unobservable inputs, the gain or loss is amortised short term; over the term of the transaction. – Economic hedges Economic hedges are derivatives used to manage risks Netting of financial assets and liabilities without applying hedge accounting; Financial assets and liabilities are netted and presented in – Structured product derivatives the consolidated financial statements at the net amount Structured product derivatives are options we have when we have a legally enforceable right to offset the acquired in order to hedge structured products sold to recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a clients, without application of hedge accounting; net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability – Client option positions simultaneously. This mainly concerns netting of derivatives. Offsetting market transactions are conducted for all See 2.7, Risk management. option positions held by our clients on a one-on-one basis; Statement of financial position by IFRS accounting policy – Derivatives with application of hedge accounting For the layout of the statement of financial position by IFRS These are derivatives used as hedging instruments in accounting policy, see “Consolidated statement of financial the application of hedge accounting. position by category” in the supplementary notes. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Statement of financial position Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) are Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTL). Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks Additionally, any instrument for which the contractual cash comprise, at nominal value, cash in hand and deposits with flow characteristics are not solely payments of principal and a term of less than three months, investments readily interest (SPPI) must be measured at FVTL. No restrictions convertible into a known amount of cash with an are set for sales within the fair value through profit or loss insignificant risk of value changes, balances at central banks portfolio. These debt instruments are governed by ALCO and balances withdrawable on demand at other banks in and sales need to be approved by ALCO. Interest earned on respect of which the risk of value changes is insignificant. these assets is recognised as interest income. All other The amount due from DNB arising from the minimum realised and unrealised gains and losses on remeasuring reserve requirement is also included in this item. debt instruments at fair value are recognised under Result on financial transactions. All realised and unrealised gains Financial assets from trading activities and losses on remeasuring equity instruments at fair value Financial assets from trading activities are transactions for are recognised under Income from securities and associates. our own account whereby the aim is to actively sell these instruments in the short term. Financial assets from trading Financial assets at fair value through other activities consist of the trading portfolio of both equity comprehensive income instruments and debt instruments. The financial assets A debt instrument that is held within the hold to collect and from trading activities are recognised at fair value with sell business model and meets the SPPI test is measured at effect from the trade date and value adjustments are taken fair value, with fair value adjustments recognised in other to the statement of income under the line item Result on comprehensive income unless the asset is designated at fair financial transactions. value through profit or loss. The financial assets in the hold to collect and sell portfolio are governed by ALCO and sales Due from banks need to be approved by ALCO. Sales as a result of Amounts due from banks are initially recognised at fair managing everyday liquidity needs, maintaining a particular value and subsequently at amortised cost using the interest yield profile on the secondary market, or to match effective interest method. the duration and sales required by regulators, are consistent with the objective of the hold to collect and sell portfolio. Derivatives Derivatives are carried at fair value. The positive and Under FVOCI, a financial asset is measured at its fair value negative values of derivatives are shown separately on the and movements in the carrying amount are taken through face of the statement of financial position on the assets side OCI, except for the recognition of impairment gains or and the liabilities side, respectively. The values of losses, interest revenue and foreign exchange gains and derivatives with a positive and negative value, concluded losses on the instrument’s amortised cost which are with the same counterparty, are only netted if the cash recognised in profit or loss. When the financial asset is flows are settled on a net basis and this is permitted under derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously law. Movements in the value of derivatives are taken recognised in OCI is reclassified from equity to profit or loss directly to the line item Result on financial transactions. If and recognised in Result on financial transactions. Interest the hedge is completely effective, the net impact on the income from these financial assets is included in Interest statement of income is nil. The difference, in so far as this income using the effective interest rate method. Summary of significant accounting policies 120 Available-for-sale investments The Asset & Liability Committee determines the appropriate This does not apply from 1 January 2018 onwards due to classification for its investments on their transaction dates. the adoption of IFRS 9. Held-to-maturity investments are initially recognised at fair Investments included in this line item have been classified value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using by management as transactions held indefinitely and are the effective interest method, after any reduction of an carried as available for sale. This line item comprises allowance to account for impairment. Interest earned on investments in both equity instruments and debt held-to-maturity investments is recognised as Interest instruments. These investments are initially measured for income. All transactions in held-to-maturity investments any changes occurring in the fair value of the investment are recognised on the settlement date. after its acquisition. Unrealised gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value of investments classified as If there are objective indications that an impairment has available for sale are recognised on a net basis in equity. occurred, the impairment is determined as the difference between the carrying value of the investment and the On realisation of available-for-sale equity instruments, the present value of estimated future cash flows (with the accrued revaluation reserve is released to the statement of exception of future loan losses that have not yet occurred) income under the line item Income from securities and calculated at the original effective interest rate of the associates. When calculating the transaction result, cost is investment. determined using the average cost method. The impairment is recognised in the statement of income. If Interest earned on these assets is recognised as interest the amount of the impairment reduces in a subsequent income. Dividends are recognised under Income from period and the reduction can be objectively related to an securities and associates. event that occurred after the impairment was applied, the earlier impairment is reversed. The amount of the reversal is Available-for-sale investments may be sold as a result of recognised in the statement of income in so far as the liquidity control or changes in interest rates, exchange rates carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised or share prices. Discounts or premiums on interest-bearing cost on the reversal date. available-for-sale investments are amortised based on the effective interest rate and recognised in profit or loss. If the Loans and advances to the public and private sectors investments are sold or impairment losses occur, the Loans and advances to the public and private sectors are adjustments to fair value are recognised in profit or loss. recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method. We assess on a quarterly basis whether impairment losses have occurred. The fair value of an investment in an equity Other financial assets at amortised cost instrument being below cost significantly or for a prolonged A debt instrument that is held within the hold to collect period is an objective indication of impairment, and this is business model and meets the SPPI test is measured at determined by the Impairment Committee on the basis of amortised cost unless the asset is designated at fair value the policy adopted. through profit or loss. Our Asset & Liability Committee (ALCO) sets restrictions for buying and selling in the hold to We treat unrealised losses on debt instruments in the collect portfolio. Sales are permitted when these are due to investment portfolio due to interest rate fluctuations as an increase in credit risk, take place close to the maturity temporary decreases in value. We aim to retain these date, are significant in value (both on individual and investments in debt instruments for a term considered long aggregated level) or are infrequent. Under this enough to offset these unrealised losses, and expect to measurement category, the financial asset is measured at receive the full principal if they are held to maturity. fair value at initial recognition minus the principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation In the first year of investment, shareholdings are recognised using the effective interest method of any difference at fair value and are adjusted where applicable for any between that initial amount and the maturity amount and changes in this value occurring after acquisition. The market adjusted for any impairment allowance. The impairment is value of shareholdings is based on reports prepared by the recognised in the statement of income. Interest income from fund manager. This value is adjusted where applicable for these financial assets is included in Interest income using carried interest arrangements and annual fund charges. the effective interest rate method. All purchases and sales of available-for-sale investments Investments in associates using the equity method transacted according to standard market conventions are These investments have been designated by management recognised on the transaction date. All other purchases and as transactions held indefinitely, and as a result of the sales are recognised on the date of settlement. acquired control can be classified as investments in associates using the equity method. These are investments in entities Held-to-maturity investments where we have significant influence but not control. If there This does not apply from 1 January 2018 onwards due to is a change in the equity of the associate, we recognise our the adoption of IFRS 9. share in this change and include it in the statement of changes in equity. This also applies to results of associates Investments for which the date of maturity and cash flows recognised in our statement of income. are known are classified as held-to-maturity investments in so far as the Asset & Liability Committee has both the In the first year of investment, investments classified as intention and the ability to hold them until maturity. investments in associates using the equity method are Summary of significant accounting policies 121 recognised at cost, and where applicable are adjusted for any The fair value less costs is set by an independent surveyor. changes in the value of the associate’s individual receivables If the fair value less costs is below the carrying amount, the and payables occurring after the acquisition, measured using value in use is determined. This value is calculated using the the policies applied by Van Lanschot Kempen. value-in-use method. If the value in use is also below the carrying amount, an impairment is recognised for the The recoverable amount of the investments in associates difference between the carrying amount and the higher of using the equity method is determined each quarter. The the fair value less costs and the value in use. valuation methods applied are the capitalisation method (peer group analysis), the discounted cash flow method and Estimated useful life of property and equipment (years) the disclosed net asset value method. An impairment is recognised if the recoverable amount is lower than the Land Indefinite carrying amount. Buildings 40 Alterations 10 15 The capitalisation method determines the value of a business by multiplying the operating profit (EBIT) and the Operating system software and IT 3-5 operating profit before depreciation and amortisation Communication equipment 5 (EBITDA) by a multiplier factor derived from similar listed Safety equipment 15 companies (the peer group), if applicable also taking Infrastructure 10 account of a discount for poor liquidity and minority shareholding. EBIT and EBITDA are adjusted for one-off Furniture and fixtures 5 10 items where applicable. The discounted cash flow method calculates the enterprise Operating system software development costs are value by discounting the forecast operational cash flows at capitalised if they are identifiable, if there is a likelihood that a discount rate for the planning period and a final value future economic benefits will flow to Van Lanschot Kempen based on the extrapolation of the operating profit. The and if costs can be measured reliably. discount rate is determined on the basis of the discount rate of listed companies with a high degree of similarity and on Property not in own use comprises office buildings no the specific characteristics of the company. If applicable, the longer in own use. Our policy is focused on selling these discounted cash flow method takes account of a discount assets in due course. Property not in own use is carried at for poor liquidity and minority shareholdings. historical cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairments. This property is considered to be The company’s net debt is then deducted from the value impaired if its carrying amount exceeds the recoverable resulting from the capitalisation method and/or discounted amount. The recoverable amount less the relevant variable cash flow method and multiplied by the share in the capital costs to sell is based on the appraisal value as determined structure in order to derive the shareholder value from the by an independent surveyor. enterprise value. Goodwill and other intangible assets The disclosed net asset value method determines the value Goodwill represents the difference between the fair value of a company based on the statement of financial position. of the acquired assets (including intangible assets) and liabilities, and the purchase price paid (excluding acquisition If our share in the associate’s losses is equal to or exceeds costs). Goodwill paid is included in the financial statements our interest in the associate, no further losses are recognised at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill unless we have assumed obligations or made payments for paid is tested for impairment annually or whenever events these associates. or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. An impairment is calculated based on the Property and equipment difference between the carrying value and the recoverable Property and equipment comprise property, information amount of the cash-generating unit (CGU) to which the technology, furniture and fixtures, and communication and goodwill relates. A CGU’s recoverable amount is the higher safety equipment. Property and equipment are initially of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. carried at cost and subsequently measured at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated Owing to the absence of a market for separate CGUs, we impairments. The carrying value includes the costs for are unable to calculate a reliable fair value less costs to sell replacement of part of the existing property as soon as for each CGU. The recoverable amount is therefore deemed these costs are incurred, but excludes day-to-day servicing to be equal to the value in use. The value in use is costs. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis determined by discounting the future cash flows generated over the useful life of the asset. by a CGU to their net present value. If the recoverable amount of a CGU is lower than its carrying amount, The recoverable amount of individual property items is goodwill is impaired. The impairment is first applied in full to determined every year, irrespective of whether there is any the goodwill and then pro rata to the individual assets. indication of impairment, and more often if market conditions so dictate. The recoverable amount is the higher Other intangible assets with a finite useful life, such as of the fair value less costs or the value in use. application software, client bases, contractual rights and the value of acquired funds and loans and advances, are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight-line basis over their respective useful lives. Summary of significant accounting policies 122 Financial liabilities from trading activities Estimated useful life of intangible assets (years) Financial liabilities from trading activities are transactions Client bases 5 20 for own account whereby the aim is to repurchase these Third-party distribution channels 12 20 instruments in the short term. Financial liabilities held for Brand names 20 trading are stated at fair value, with movements in value being recognised in the statement of income under Result Application software 3-5 on financial transactions. This line item comprises short positions on the trading portfolio in both equity instruments and debt instruments. Recognition is from the date on Tax assets and liabilities which the contract is concluded. Tax assets and liabilities are stated at face value. Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they Due to banks relate to the same tax authority, the same type of tax and Amounts due to banks are initially recognised at fair value the law permits offsetting of these assets and liabilities. excluding transaction costs. After their initial recognition, they are recognised at amortised cost using the effective Deferred taxes are recognised on the face of the statement interest method. of financial position if the valuation of an asset or liability temporarily differs from the valuation for tax purposes. Public and private sector liabilities Deferred taxes are calculated using the tax rates prevailing Public and private sector liabilities are initially recognised at on the reporting date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are fair value excluding transaction costs. After their initial offset if they relate to the same tax authority, concern the recognition, they are recognised at amortised cost using the same type of tax, if it is permitted under law to offset these effective interest method. deferrals and if the deferrals are expected to be settled simultaneously. Deferred tax assets are recognised only if it Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss is probable that taxable profits will be realised in the near Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss future against which these temporary differences can be comprise financial instruments which management believes offset. should be recognised at fair value through profit or loss based on one of the following reasons: Tax assets are assessed at every reporting date and – Designation eliminates or significantly reduces reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that inconsistencies in measurement and recognition which sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part would otherwise arise as a result of liabilities being of the deferred tax assets to be used. This reduction will be valued or income and expenses being recognised under reversed if it is probable that sufficient taxable profits will different accounting policies; be available. – The contract in which the financial instrument is included contains one or more embedded derivatives Changes in the value of investments classified as available and the entire contract is recognised at fair value for sale and movements in the value of derivatives forming through profit or loss. This is only permitted if the part of a cash flow hedge are recognised in equity net of embedded derivative has significant influence on the deferred tax. Deferred tax assets and liabilities cease to be contractually agreed cash flows. recognised when these movements in value are realised. Current tax is taken to the statement of income on The valuation takes account of our own credit risk. This is realisation of the movement in value. based on the internal funding curve, which is determined by spreads on issued debt securities and estimates by Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale investment banks of interest rates on new issued debt The line items Assets and liabilities classified as held for securities. The own credit risk is recognised in equity under sale includes a group of assets whose carrying amounts will the line item Own credit risk reserve. The remaining amount principally be recovered through a sale transaction. These of change in the fair value is presented in Result on financial assets and liabilities are measured at the lower of either the transactions. carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell and depreciation. The group of assets and liabilities concerned Issued debt securities is available for immediate sale in its present condition Issued debt securities are initially recognised at fair value subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales excluding transaction costs. After initial recognition, issued of such disposal groups. We plan to sell assets at a price debt securities are carried at amortised cost using the which is reasonable considering their current fair value, as a effective interest method. Repurchase by us of our own result of which a sale is highly probable and expected to be debt securities is offset in the consolidated financial completed within one year. statements against the liability; the difference between the cost and the carrying amount based on the remaining term Other assets is taken to the statement of income. Assets acquired through foreclosures are carried at the lower of cost or the recoverable amount. This recoverable Provisions amount is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course A provision is a liability of uncertain timing or amount. A of business less the relevant variable costs to sell. The provision is included in the statement of financial position if recoverable amount less the relevant variable costs to sell is we have an obligation as a result of a past event, it is based on the appraisal value as determined by an probable that an outflow of resources will be required to independent surveyor. settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made. Provisions are discounted if the time value of money for the Other assets are stated at historical cost. liability has a material effect. Summary of significant accounting policies 123 Provisions for pensions consolidated financial statements; the difference between We operate defined benefit plans and defined contribution cost and the carrying amount based on the remaining term plans. Under defined contribution plans, contributions to is taken to the statement of income. pension providers are taken to the statement of income as staff costs. We have no further payment obligations with Equity respect to defined contribution plans once the contributions Direct costs of a new share issue are deducted from equity, have been paid. Our main pension provider for defined taking account of taxes. contribution plans is Stichting Pensioenfonds F. van Lanschot. The starting point in determining the contribution is to If we purchase treasury shares, the purchase price, maintain a balanced development of the pension costs over including direct transaction costs after tax, is deducted time. from equity. Treasury shares that we purchase do not qualify for profit or dividend and are not included in the A defined benefit plan is a pension plan which defines the calculation of earnings per share. amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement. Factors such as age, years of service and salary are Obligations not recognised in the statement of financial taken into account when determining the amounts to be paid. position The provision for defined benefit plans is the present value of This includes obligations that represent a potential credit the defined benefit obligation at the reporting date less the fair risk. For the other obligations not recognised in the value of plan assets. statement of financial position, see “Commitments” in the supplementary notes. The pension obligation is calculated with reference to the expected return on plan assets. Differences between the Contingent liabilities expected and actual return on plan assets and actuarial gains Contingent liabilities are carried at the contract value and and losses are recognised directly in equity; net interest is relate in particular to guarantees and irrevocable letters of recognised under Interest in the statement of income. credit. Provisions for long-service benefits Irrevocable commitments Employees receive a bonus to mark a long-service This item consists of unused overdraft facilities, sale and anniversary of 25 and 40 years. In addition, receptions or repurchase commitments, irrevocable payment dinners with colleagues are organised for employees who commitments for the Single Resolution Fund (SRF) and all have been in service for 25 and 40 years. other obligations resulting from irrevocable commitments that could give rise to loans. Provision for employee discounts We have arrangements in place under which employees are granted discounts on mortgage interest rates, for example. Statement of income The discount is calculated on an actuarial basis for the period during which the employee is inactive (retired) and is General recognised in the statement of financial position as a Revenue is recognised in so far as it is likely that the provision. economic benefits will flow to Van Lanschot Kempen and the revenue can be measured reliably. Costs are allocated Restructuring provision as far as possible to the period in which the services were A provision for restructuring is recognised only if the rendered or to the relevant proceeds. recognition criteria are met. We have a constructive obligation if we have a detailed formal restructuring plan Net interest income identifying at least the business or part of the business This item consists of income earned on lending and costs of concerned, the principal locations affected, the number of borrowing, derivatives, related commission, and other employees affected, a detailed estimate of the expenditure income/expense similar to interest. The amortisation of to be undertaken and a suitable timeframe. Employees are remaining value adjustments on mortgage portfolios of fair also notified of the main features of the plan. value hedges which expired in the past is disclosed under Interest income. Provision for the interest rate derivatives recovery framework Interest income and interest expense are recognised in the A provision for the interest rate derivatives recovery statement of income on an accrual basis, using the effective framework is recognised. We have agreed to abide by the interest method. The effective interest rate is the rate that Netherlands’ general recovery framework for interest rate exactly discounts estimated cash flows over the life of the derivatives clients, implying that we will offer payments as financial instrument, or a shorter period when appropriate, a result of the implementation of the uniform recovery to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or liability. framework. When calculating the effective interest rate, we take into account all contractual terms of the financial instrument (for Other liabilities example early repayment) but not future losses due to Other liabilities are recognised at historical cost. uncollectible amounts. Subordinated loans Negative interest on derivatives whereby interest paid is Subordinated loans are initially recognised at fair value recognised under Interest expense and interest received is excluding transaction costs. After initial recognition, they recognised under Interest income. Negative interest on are carried at amortised cost. Purchases by us of our own balances at central banks is recognised under Interest subordinated loans are set off against the liability in the expense. Summary of significant accounting policies 124 Income from securities and associates Other income All dividends received from investments in equity Other income comprises non-banking income resulting from instruments are included under dividends and fees. the consolidation of non-banking subsidiaries. Dividends are recognised directly in the statement of income when they are made payable. Prolonged or Staff costs significant decreases in the value of equity instruments Staff costs comprise wages and salaries, pension and early forming part of the available-for-sale investments are retirement costs, other social security costs and other staff recognised in the statement of income as impairments. costs such as remuneration in the form of share-based Gains or losses on the sale of available-for-sale investments employee benefits. in equity instruments and debt instruments are recognised under Gains/losses on sale of available-for-sale investments Share-based payments in equity instruments (Income from securities and Employees may be eligible to receive remuneration in the associates) and Realised gains/losses on available-for-sale form of share-based payments. The cost of equity debt instruments (Result on financial transactions). instrument-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which Our share in the results of equity-valued associates is they are granted. The fair value is determined based on the recognised under Income from securities and associates share price on the grant date. The cost of equity using the equity method. Dividends received are deducted instrument-settled transactions is recognised, together from the carrying amount of the equity-valued associate. with a corresponding increase in equity, in the period in Due to the fact that these investments in associates using which the employee’s performance criteria are fulfilled, the equity method are part of our investment strategy, we ending on the date on which the employee becomes fully present the income as part of our operating activities. entitled to the award (the vesting date). Net commission income Share-based payments: Management Investment Plan This item comprises the income, other than income similar The Management Investment Plan entails an equity to interest, earned on wealth management services instrument-settled transaction. If, at the moment that the provided to third parties. Commission paid to third parties is share-based payment is made, the fair market value per accounted for as commission expense. depositary receipt exceeds the issue price, the costs relating to this higher fair market value are treated as We receive commission for the wide range of services we expenses during the vesting period, with a corresponding provide to clients. This can be divided into commission on a adjustment to equity. The total sum to be taken into transaction basis and periodic commission charged to the consideration is determined on the basis of the fair value of client during the year. the depositary receipts as established on the date on which they are granted. Commission on a transaction basis Commission income on a transaction basis is recognised in Other administrative expenses the periods in which we provide the services. Transaction Other administrative expenses comprise IT expenses, costs commission for which we only provide a service on the of marketing and communication, accommodation expenses, transaction date (e.g. commission on buying and selling office expenses and other administrative expenses. shares) is taken directly to the statement of income. Transaction commission for which we have to provide a Depreciation service in the future (e.g. commission on structured Depreciation and amortisation are determined on the basis products) forms part of the amortised cost and is of estimated useful life and charged to the statement of recognised in the statement of income over the expected income. term of the instrument. Impairments Periodic commission This item comprises the balance of the required Periodic commission (e.g. management fees) is recognised impairments and reversals of such impairments. in the statement of income in the period in which the services are provided. Income tax Tax on operating profit is recognised in the statement of Result on financial transactions income in accordance with applicable tax law in the Result on securities trading includes realised and unrealised jurisdictions in which we operate. value differences on gains and losses on financial instruments relating to the securities trading portfolio. Tax effects of any losses incurred in certain jurisdictions Exchange and price gains and losses on trading in other are recognised as assets when it is probable that sufficient financial instruments are recognised under Result on foreign future profits will be available in the relevant jurisdiction currency trading. Gains and losses due to ineffectiveness in against which these losses can be offset. hedge accounting are recognised under Unrealised gains/ losses on derivatives under hedge accounting. Result on economic hedges includes realised and unrealised gains and losses on derivatives that are not included in a hedge accounting model. Result on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss comprises unrealised value differences and interest expenses on financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. Summary of significant accounting policies 125 Earnings per ordinary share Segment information Earnings per ordinary share are calculated by dividing the The different operating segments form the basis for our profit for the year available to ordinary shareholders by the primary segmentation. An operating segment is a business weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding unit that can earn revenues and incur expenses and whose during the period. Diluted earnings per ordinary share are operating results are regularly reviewed by its management calculated by dividing the profit available to ordinary or the chief operating decision maker and for which discrete shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary financial information is available. Additional information is shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for possible reported geographically based on where the business dilution as a result of outstanding option rights, for activities are located. Intra-segment transactions are example. conducted on commercial terms and market conditions (at arm’s length). Statement of cash flows The statement of cash flows is prepared using the indirect method. This statement of cash flows shows the source and application of cash items. Cash flows are divided into those from operating, investing and financing activities. Cash and cash equivalents comprise, at face value, all cash in hand, balances at central banks and balances withdrawable on demand at other banks in respect of which the risk of value changes is insignificant. Lease Lease contracts, including operating sale and leaseback agreements, under which the risks and benefits of ownership of the assets are substantially retained by the lessor, are classified as operating lease contracts. We have entered into operating lease contracts as lessee. Operating lease payments (less any discounts granted by the lessor) are charged to the statement of income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. In the case of sale and leaseback, if the selling price of the asset falls below its fair value, the difference between the carrying amount and the selling price is recognised through profit or loss unless the difference between the fair value and the selling price is offset through future non-standard lease instalments. Lease contracts, including financial sale and leaseback agreements, under which the risks and benefits of ownership of the assets are substantially transferred to Van Lanschot Kempen, are classified as financial lease contracts. We have entered into financial sale and leaseback contracts as lessee. Financial lease contracts are capitalised on the effective date of the lease contract at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments. The discount rate used in calculating the present value of the minimum lease payments is the implicit interest rate of the lease contract. The leased property or asset is recognised under Property and equipment. Depreciation is applied using the same method as for wholly owned tangible assets. The lease obligation is recognised under Other liabilities. The interest component of the finance costs is charged to the statement of income over the term of the lease. Risk management 126 RISK MANAGEMENT 1. Risk and capital management The organisation of our risk management framework is Our front-office functions are essential in delivering based on the three lines of defence principle. Day-to-day services to our clients. Risk management supports the front responsibility for risk control lies with the front office office, clients and other stakeholders in ensuring that the and/or operational departments (the first line of defence); risks incurred by Van Lanschot Kempen are controlled and Compliance, Group Risk Management and Finance, comply with our risk appetite and legal requirements. This Reporting & Control form the second line of defence for section describes our risk appetite, the organisational and financial and non-financial risks. These departments are governance arrangements that are in place regarding risk responsible for initiating risk policies and the supervision management, and the three lines of defence principle. of risk controls within Van Lanschot Kempen. Group Audit After discussing these general arrangements, the section forms the third line of defence and is responsible for continues with credit risk, market risk, operational risk, performing independent audits on the risk framework. settlement risk, CVA risk, strategic risk, interest rate risk, This set-up creates a clear, balanced and appropriate liquidity risk, securitisation risk, compliance risk, financial division of tasks, powers and responsibilities, and ensures reporting risk and assets at fair value. independent and effective execution of the risk management function. 1.1 Risk appetite Solid capital and liquidity ratios are essential prerequisites Group Risk Management stands at the core of capital for a successful proposition to our clients, and this is management. We actively manage our capital base to cover reflected in our risk appetite statement. We aim to have a risks inherent to our business and meet the capital simple and transparent balance sheet. Lending activities adequacy requirements of De Nederlandsche Bank (DNB). occur mainly in Private Banking and the corporate loan The adequacy of our capital is monitored by using the rules portfolio is being wound down. and ratios established by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision as transposed into EU law. This legal We have a robust risk appetite framework in place. Each framework also forms the basis for supervision by DNB. year, the Statutory Board prepares the risk appetite Over the reporting period, we fully complied with all statement, which translates our risk appetite into strategic externally imposed capital requirements. Both external and limits. The risk appetite statement is then submitted to the internal capital adequacy targets are taken into account, Supervisory Board for review and approval. In addition, and the central focus is on safeguarding our financial the Supervisory Board reviews the development of the solidity and stability. Each year, a capital and funding plan risk profile twice a year. Risk appetite reports serve as is prepared for capital management purposes. important discussion documents for these reviews. The risk appetite statement is based on the following guiding principles: – We only take risks that we understand and can explain; – We only take risks that – directly or indirectly – serve our strategic objectives; – The sum of all risks taken should not exceed our risk-bearing capacity; – When taking risks, we take the requirements and expectations of all stakeholders into account; – We do not take any risks that could seriously harm our reputation; – Our risk appetite should be considered in all business decisions at every level of the organisation; – We avoid risks that could lead to legal or regulatory breaches. 1.2 Organisation of risk and capital management The purpose of our risk management framework is to identify and analyse risks at an early stage, as well as to mitigate and monitor those risks. Adequate internal control procedures and reporting systems, including the application of standards and limits, are key elements of the risk management framework. Risk management 127 Table 1.2 Risk and capital management framework Supervision Supervisory Board § 1.2.1 – Risk Committee – Audit and Compliance Committee Risk and capital management Statutory Board § 1.2.2 – Group Risk Committee – Credit Risk Committee – Market Risk Committee – Asset & Liability Committee – Compliance & Operational Risk Committee – Credit Committee – Product Board Implementation and review Group Risk Finance, Compliance Group Audit § 1.2.3 Management Reporting & Control Execution Private Evi Asset Merchant Treasury Restructuring Corporate § 1.2.4 Banking Management Banking & Recovery Banking 1.2.1 Supervision Group Risk Committee The Supervisory Board oversees the risks and capital The Group Risk Committee, which includes all members of requirements in relation to the group’s operations and the Statutory and Executive Board, discusses overarching portfolio composition. It has set up two committees risk management themes. In this committee, the various risk specifically for this purpose. types are brought together, discussed and monitored on an integrated level. The committee is involved in setting the The Risk Committee focuses on all identified risks in the annual risk appetite statement, and discusses the risk group’s business activities, as well as the risk management appetite report and emerging trends in the risk profile. framework. The Committee also informs decision-making Other areas covered include recovery and resolution by the Supervisory Board on risk matters. planning, operational incidents, etc. The Audit and Compliance Committee was created to Credit Risk Committee advise the Supervisory Board on financial reporting, internal The Credit Risk Committee sets and adjusts the group’s and external audits, compliance and matters regarding duty overall credit risk policy and translates this into acceptance of care. and portfolio management policies. In executing its tasks, the committee bears in mind our strategic objectives and 1.2.2 Risk and capital management the guiding principles contained in the risk appetite The Statutory Board is responsible for developing and statement. Two members of the Executive Board serve on executing the strategy of the group. This includes the this committee (the CFRO and the member of the Executive capital and funding plan, which is based on a number of Board responsible for Private Banking), along with risk and capital policies. representatives of Group Risk Management, Private Banking, Credit Service Centre, Corporate Banking, Credit The primary objective of our capital management is to Approval, and Restructuring & Recovery. The committee ensure that we comply with external and internal capital meets on a quarterly basis. requirements in order to support our businesses and to create value for our stakeholders. We manage our capital Market Risk Committee structure by taking into account changes in economic This committee focuses on all market risks within Van conditions and the risk characteristics of our activities. Lanschot Kempen. Market risk is the risk of loss as a result To maintain and/or manage our capital structure, we may of changes in market variables, including interest rates adjust the amount of dividend payments to shareholders, (excluding interest rate risk in the banking book), exchange return capital to shareholders or issue capital securities. rates and equity prices. It also considers variables not However, these are under constant review by the directly observable in the market, such as volatility and Statutory Board. correlations, which also influence the value of certain financial instruments. Market risks at Kempen occur due to The Statutory Board also bears responsibility for ensuring the trading of securities (mainly equities, equity derivatives, the proper functioning of the processes that safeguard management book investments and structured products). the group’s liquidity and capital position. In addition, it is Van Lanschot is exposed to a certain amount of market risk required to provide information to the Supervisory Board, (mainly FX risk) through its treasury activities. This risk is which in turn assesses the risk appetite of the group. The limited, as the majority of transactions and positions in the decisions of the Statutory Board are taken during meetings statement of financial position are denominated in euros. of the Executive Board. In order to ensure the various risk Van Lanschot is also exposed to market risk as result of types are managed properly, the Statutory Board has set up management book investments. The committee meets on a the following risk committees: quarterly basis. Risk management 128 Asset & Liability Committee – Raising risk awareness among staff in order to improve The Asset & Liability Committee (ALCO) is responsible for their ability to strike a sound balance between risk and managing risks that result from mismatches between assets return. and liabilities (interest rate and liquidity risks), as well as the capital position of the bank. ALCO’s main tasks are: Finance, Reporting & Control is jointly responsible with – Overseeing the Asset & Liability Management (ALM) Group Risk Management for the financial accounting and process; business control function. Through its various reports, – Monitoring and adjusting the funding profile; Finance, Reporting & Control fulfils an important role in – Setting policies on interest rate risk in the banking challenging the businesses and coordinating supervision of book1, liquidity and funding risk, funds transfer pricing risk management. and capitalisation; – Monitoring the development of the balance sheet and Compliance has both an advisory and a monitoring role with balance-sheet projections. respect to compliance with internal and external laws and regulations that apply to the Statutory Board, senior ALCO meets once a month and is chaired by the CFRO. As management and employees. Compliance operates well as the CFRO, ALCO’s members comprise: independently and its director reports directly to the – The Chairman of the Executive Board; Chairman of the Statutory Board. In addition, Compliance – The Executive Board member responsible for Private reports periodically to the Supervisory Board’s Audit and Banking; Compliance Committee. – Representatives of Treasury, Group Risk Management and Finance, Reporting & Control. Group Audit reviews the design and effectiveness of the On a quarterly basis, ALCO meets as an expanded group, risk organisation and the execution of our risk and capital which includes the COO and representatives of the management policies. The department reports to the commercial departments. Statutory Board. The applicable policies form the starting point for the independent review by Group Audit. Compliance & Operational Risk Committee Processes, infrastructure, organisation and systems are The Compliance & Operational Risk Committee is responsible audited based on these policies in order to determine for the implementation and execution of our compliance and whether the organisation adequately executes its risk and operational risk management policies. The committee capital management policies. assesses compliance and operational risks, and ensures remedial actions are taken if required. The committee also 1.2.4 Execution of risk and capital management policies challenges and approves the annual plans of the NonThe commercial departments, i.e. the departments shown Financial Risk Management and Compliance departments. It under “Execution” in Table 1.2 (excluding Treasury and meets on a quarterly basis and is chaired by the CFRO. Restructuring & Recovery), are responsible for preparing their business plans. On the basis of these plans, current In addition to the committees described above (in which and future risks are assessed, including expected capital Group Risk Management takes the lead), we have a number and liquidity requirements. These assessments serve as of committees that form part of the first line of defence and input for the Asset & Liability Committee. that cover specific risk-related topics, such as the Credit Committee and the Product Board. 1.3 Capital requirements The standards set by the Basel Committee on Banking 1.2.3 Implementation and review of risk and capital Supervision, and translated into law, apply to all Dutch management policies banks. The Basel framework consists of three pillars: Implementation and monitoring of our risk and capital – Pillar 1 stipulates capital requirements for credit, market policies is carried out by: and operational risk. – Group Risk Management; – Pillar 2 requires banks to have internal processes for risk – Finance, Reporting & Control; management and to calculate the capital requirements – Compliance. needed to address all risks that are not included in Pillar In addition, Group Audit periodically reviews these policies. 1. The Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (SREP) is also part of Pillar 2. Group Risk Management is responsible for: – Pillar 3 sets out requirements for disclosure of – Second-line monitoring and management of all risks information about the institution’s risk profile to external relating to the statement of financial position at group stakeholders. level, including modelling, measuring, managing and reporting on our credit, market, interest rate, liquidity Our website has Pillar 3 information (unaudited) and a and strategic risks; detailed breakdown of our portfolio of loans to companies – Business continuity management; and institutions (unaudited), published once a year. Our – Information security; remuneration policy is explained in the Remuneration – The risk appetite process; section and in a Pillar 3 remuneration disclosure – Preparing, developing and maintaining policy (unaudited), which can also be found on the website. documents; – Preparing ICAAP and ILAAP documentation as well as We hold regulatory capital to be able to mitigate Pillar 1 and the recovery plan; Pillar 2 risks. This capital consists of Common Equity Tier 1 – Issuing daily market risk reports; (CET1), which comprises share capital, share premium, – Proactively and reactively providing advice on managing retained earnings including current year profit, and other risks; reserves less net long positions in own shares and after 1 The banking book comprises all assets that are not held for trading purposes under the regulatory definition. Risk management 129 other capital deductions (e.g. goodwill, deferred tax assets, The other component of our regulatory capital consists of IRB shortfall). Certain adjustments are made to IFRS-based Tier 2 capital instruments, including subordinated long-term results and reserves, as legally required. debt. Table 1.3 Capital requirements 2018 2017 Actual Required1 Actual Required2 Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) 982,058 520,984 1,021,773 520,318 Tier 1 982,058 589,686 1,021,773 595,005 Total capital 1,078,984 681,287 1,108,678 694,587 Risk-weighted assets 4,580,083 4,979,120 CET1 ratio (phase-in) 21.4% 11.4% 20.5% 10.5% Tier 1 ratio (phase-in) 21.4% 12.9% 20.5% 12.0% Total capital ratio (phase-in) 23.6% 14.9% 22.3% 14.0% 1.4 Individual risks Counterparty credit risk with respect to financial institutions The following sections detail the individual risk types to arises from international payment transactions, cash which we are exposed. It therefore covers a combination of management, FX and hedging activities. Some of these Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 capital requirements. The risk types activities also involve settlement risk. For derivatives covered are: transactions, counterparty credit risk is mitigated by daily – Credit risk (Section 2); margining. – Market risk (Section 3); – Operational risk (Section 4); We apply a strict policy when determining and monitoring – Settlement risk (Section 5); country and counterparty (financial institutions) limits. The – CVA risk (Section 6); country limits serve as a cross limit for financial institutions, – Strategic risk (Section 7); meaning that the counterparty risks in respect of financial – Interest rate risk (Section 8); institutions in one country are limited by the relevant country – Liquidity risk (Section 9); limit, as the country limit is usually lower than the aggregate – Securitisation risk (Section 10); of the individual counterparty limits. – Compliance risk (Section 11); – Financial reporting risk (Section 12). 2.1 Loans and advances 2.1.1 Credit acceptance 2. Credit risk Our loan approval policy focuses on maintaining a Credit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty or client high-quality loan portfolio. The authority to approve is no longer able to fulfil its obligations to the bank. Our credit loans and loan reviews is delegated to a limited number risk policies focus on the counterparty risks associated with of departments, mainly our Credit Approval department. lending to private and corporate clients. Strict selection criteria for new clients and active credit management for The authority to approve large loans rests, according to existing clients are applied to safeguard the quality of the the credit approval authorisation matrix, with the Credit loan portfolio. The lending activities that we conduct are Committee, which comprises representatives of the required to be in line with stated objectives, and individual relevant divisions as well as members of the Statutory assessments are used to ascertain this. Board. As well as from lending activities, credit risk also arises from: The midand back-office for nearly all residential mortgage – Investment activities; loans is carried out by a third party. A service level – International payment transactions and cash agreement (SLA) has been signed to ensure adequate management; control of the operational risks, including the outsourcing – Foreign exchange (FX) risk; risk. The acceptance process has been outsourced for only – Hedging activities; a limited number of cases: mortgage loans to a maximum – Settlement risk. amount of €1 million and only for borrowers who are employed – and are not company directors, major Our investment activities relate to the management of our shareholders or owner-directors. liquidity buffer and equity investments. For the liquidity buffer, a limit framework is in place to manage and monitor We also offer residential mortgages via a third party under associated credit risks. a white label. From a risk management perspective, the credit and outsourcing risk are of particular relevance here. 1 Required capital amount based on Pillar 1, Pillar 2 (5.0%) and capital conservation buffer (1.875%). 2 Required capital amount based on Pillar 1, Pillar 2 (4.7%) and capital conservation buffer (1.25%). Risk management 130 An SLA has been signed to ensure adequate control of the the Restructuring & Recovery department draws up an operational risks, including the outsourcing risk. The impairment proposal. On the basis of this proposal, the acceptance and management of credit risks have been Impairment Committee determines the impairment. outsourced to a third party and these activities are monitored using detailed data from the mortgage portfolio, Active management of past due loans enables potential provided in accordance with prevailing legal requirements. problem loans to be identified at an early stage. If an This allows for the recognition of any arrears, for example. individual assessment identifies an increased risk, the We also review random samples of mortgage loans. Restructuring & Recovery department will supervise the client. Increased credit risk occurs in the following situations: Limits on financial institutions and countries are determined – If clients fail to meet their payment obligations (for using a number of hard criteria such as the external rating, amounts > €250); BIS ratios, capital ratios, country of origin and gross – If clients report difficulties in meeting future payments, domestic product (for countries). Limits can also be e.g. because of a divorce, unemployment, etc.; adjusted and withdrawn on a daily basis. – In the event of a default (see Section 2.1.3.1); – For business clients, in the event of a significant New loan requests are assessed to determine if they are in decrease of turnover, breach of one or more covenants, a line with our strategy and we adopt a conservative debt service coverage ratio < 1, etc. approach to granting them. The Corporate Banking loan portfolio is being purposely run down. The primary goal of the Restructuring & Recovery department is to migrate clients back to accounts with The credit risk concentration mainly lies with Van Lanschot regular status (i.e. not under the supervision of in the Netherlands. Our foreign subsidiaries grant few loans. Restructuring & Recovery) by reducing their credit risk. The limits depend entirely on the collateral provided and The aim is to do this in accordance with the loan may change on a daily basis. agreements made with these clients, but forbearance measures are applied if necessary. More information on 2.1.2 Credit management – policy and processes forborne exposures can be found in Section 2.2. A high-quality loan portfolio requires strict credit management. Credit management is carried out at both 2.1.3 Credit risk measurement individual loan and portfolio level. At the individual loan We have developed internal models for measuring and level, explicit attention is devoted to the management of monitoring credit risk for the majority of the loan portfolio. unauthorised overdrafts and accounts past due. Loans with These internal models are also used to determine the an elevated risk profile are subjected to a risk check. In required capital that has to be set aside for absorbing addition, a portion of the portfolio is regularly reviewed and unexpected credit losses. For this reason, the models, the as part of this review the credit risk of individual clients is use of these models and the model governance have to scrutinised. The frequency of the reviews varies according adhere to strict requirements set out in the Capital to the individual borrower’s risk profile, but they take place Requirements Regulation (CRR). at least annually. In addition to the financial analysis, the review takes account of future developments in the client’s The CRR distinguishes three approaches for determining situation (partly in the light of relevant macroeconomic the required capital for credit risk: the standardised trends). approach (SA), the foundation internal ratings-based (F-IRB) approach, and the advanced internal ratings-based A deterioration in a client’s risk profile may lead to closer (A-IRB) approach. supervision, an adjusted rating, corrective measures (such as requiring additional collateral or increasing the frequency The standardised approach prescribes a set of rules for of financial reporting), involvement of the Restructuring & determining the required capital based on various Recovery department or a combination of these measures. characteristics such as client type, loan type, collateral type, It may also lead to a stage transfer under IFRS 9 see and external rating. Under F-IRB, banks are allowed to use Section 2.9. internal estimates of the probability of default (PD) in determining the required capital. The credit conversion At portfolio level, credit risks are monitored on a monthly factors for determining the exposure at default (EAD) and basis. A detailed credit risk report and any relevant the loss given default (LGD) are prescribed. Under A-IRB developments or expected developments are discussed in banks are allowed to use own estimates for PD, EAD and the Credit Risk Policy Committee on a quarterly basis. Any LGD. The PD is defined as the likelihood that a client will negative trend identified in the risk profile of a particular default within one year, the EAD is defined as the bank’s client segment, sector or loan type can lead to the expected exposure at the time a client defaults, and the adjustment of the relevant lending policy. Trends in sectors LGD is the expected loss percentage in the event that a where there is a concentration risk are monitored client defaults. As a result, A-IRB is more risk-sensitive than particularly closely. F-IRB and SA. If the review, risk check, payment arrears or external signals We have approval from DNB to determine and report the point to an increased risk of discontinuity, the Restructuring required regulatory capital for a large proportion of our loan & Recovery department is involved in the credit portfolio using internal ratings-based (IRB) methods. For management process. An estimate is made of the these models, we have a model governance framework in probability of continuity. Depending on the seriousness and place. As part of this, the performance of the models is magnitude of the problem, either monitoring or intensive periodically monitored, and these models are also supervision is applied. If there are objective indicators of periodically validated against independent models. impairment as referred to under the line item Impairments, Risk management 131 As mentioned above, part of the portfolio is capitalised – A breach of contract such as a 90 days past due event; using the A-IRB and F-IRB methods. More specifically, the – Significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the retail and non-retail exposures are capitalised under A-IRB borrower and the inability to meet future payments; and F-IRB, respectively. – Concession(s) granted to the borrower that the lender would not otherwise consider, relating to the borrower’s The retail portfolio comprises four sub-portfolios with the financial difficulty (forbearance); following exposures: – A growing likelihood that the borrower will enter – Mortgage exposures; bankruptcy or other financial restructuring; – Qualifying revolving retail exposures up to €40,000; – The disappearance of an active market for that financial – Other retail exposures up to €2 million; asset because of financial market difficulties; – Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) with total – The purchase or origination of a financial asset at a deep exposures up to €1 million. discount that reflects the incurred credit loss. The PD models are mostly based on behavioural aspects of It may not be possible to identify a single discrete event; the client and the LGD models on the underlying collateral. instead the combined effect of several events may have For the capital calculations a so-called downturn LGD is caused financial assets to become impaired. All impaired applied, i.e. the expected loss at default during an economic assets are also classified as defaulted by Van Lanschot downturn. Estimation of the EAD is based on the limit and Kempen under CRR rules. Van Lanschot Kempen has credit utilisation. implemented one definition that serves for all the different purposes. The non-retail portfolio comprises four sub-portfolios with the following exposures: 2.2 Forborne exposures – Exposures to corporate clients; A loan is regarded as forborne if the borrower is unable to – Exposures exceeding €2,000,000 (excluding residential meet its contractual obligations vis-à-vis the bank and the mortgages) to natural persons; bank then decides to make a concession to the client by – Commercial real estate exposures; modifying the terms and conditions of the loan agreement. – Exposures to holding companies that are clients with The objective of this modification is to enable the borrower non-controlling interests and shareholdings. to meet the renewed obligations, and it would not have been offered if those circumstances had not arisen. For the first two sub-portfolios an internal PD model has Forbearance actions may include one or more of the been developed that uses behavioural and other client following measures: characteristics to estimate the PD. For commercial real – Amendment of the original terms and conditions of the estate exposures and exposures to holding companies the loan agreement with which the client is unable to SA method has been used for capital calculations since the comply due to financial difficulties, with a view to first half of 2018; prior to this the F-IRB method was used restoring the client’s payment capacity; for these exposures. – Full or partial refinancing of a forborne exposure. IRB equity portfolio The purpose of the measures taken in forbearance The IRB equity portfolio includes our own positions in situations is to maximise the chance of restoring the equities in the investment portfolio, subordinated borrower’s payment capacity and to minimise the risk of receivables, non-controlling interests and shareholdings losses due to having to write off all or part of the loan. which appear on the company statement of financial position The measures must offer the client an appropriate and of Van Lanschot. We use the simple risk-weighted method to sustainable solution enabling them to comply with the calculate the risk-weighted assets for positions in shares. In original obligations arising from the credit agreement in this method, a specific risk weighting (190%, 290% or due course. 370%) is assigned to each position, based on a number of characteristics. A risk weighting of 250% is applied for Application of forbearance measures is exclusively reserved significant investments in financial institutions that are not for the Restructuring & Recovery department, which deducted from equity because they fall below the regulatory pursues a policy based on general principles that it threshold. Positions taken in shares and subordinated loans translates to match the specific situation of the individual of wholly owned subsidiaries are excluded from IRB. These client. Given the nature of these loans, the Restructuring & are reported using the SA method. Recovery department carries out intensive credit management. Before any new arrangements are agreed, Other loans and advances a detailed analysis is made of the client, their financial The risk-weighted assets of the other portfolios, like the situation and the likelihood of income recovery. The debt securities in our investment portfolio managed by the outcome of this analysis may have consequences for the Treasury department (i.e. excluding retail, non-retail and client’s review frequency and the size of any loan loss equity), are calculated on the basis of the standardised provision to be made. If the client qualifies for appropriate approach. forbearance measures, a proposal will be drawn up and submitted to the competent assessor(s) for approval. 2.1.3.1 Definition of default and credit-impaired assets A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more In practice, forbearance measures do not always have the events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated desired effect – i.e. the recovery of the client’s payment future cash flows have occurred: capacity or an end to the process of declining payment capacity. This may, for example, be the result of a further deterioration in the client’s financial circumstances or the failure of those circumstances to improve as expected. Risk management 132 Such cases will be reanalysed and a strategy determined. The recording and monitoring of loans which are subject to However, the principle is explicitly maintained that the forbearance are carried out by the Restructuring & forbearance measure must be appropriate, sustainable and Recovery department. Each quarter, and where appropriate effective. Any new arrangements agreed with the borrower more frequently for specific loans, an individual assessment must also meet these strict criteria. is carried out of forborne exposures in relation to any provision made. In addition to this quarterly assessment (as A forbearance situation ends when the “non-performing” part of the provisioning process), these loans are subject to status has no longer been applied to the loan for a probation extensive credit risk management, the intensity and period of two years. The non-performing status must last a frequency of which will as far as possible match the specific minimum of one year starting from the last forbearance circumstances of the loan. measure. The client must moreover have made significant and regular payments of interest and/or principal during at Tables 2.2.A through 2.2.E show the total volume of least half of the probation period. After expiry of the twoforborne exposures. We apply several types of forbearance year probation period, no payments by the borrower may be measures (see Table 2.2.A). Following the decision to apply in arrears for more than 30 days. If this condition is not met, such a measure, a loan remains under the supervision of the the probation period will start again from the date the client Restructuring & Recovery department until the forbearance is no longer in arrears for more than 30 days. situation has ended. Table 2.2.A Types of forborne exposure 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Total 69,731 98,254 Repayments/reviews temporarily reduced/suspended 44,077 60,990 Provision of (temporary) additional funding (emergency loan) 16,269 22,658 Temporary reduction in interest rate or loan is made interest-free 9,087 12,796 Conditional and/or partial forgiveness of the loan 299 1,810 Table 2.2.B Movements in forborne exposures 2018 2017 At 1 January 98,254 116,558 New forborne exposures 16,074 24,624 Additions and repayments –52,489 –69,920 Assets no longer designated as forborne exposures –1,099 –4,591 Impairments 8,992 31,582 At 31 December 69,731 98,254 Additions and repayments are related to clients that have a based on the collateral used under Basel regulations, for forborne exposure in place. which collateral is based on market values. The value in the Total primary collateral column is the lower of the Tables 2.2.C and 2.2.D provide an insight into the subscription value or the value of the collateral. underlying collateral of forborne loans. This breakdown is Table 2.2.C Forborne exposures by collateral at 31/12/2018 Balance Mortgage Commercial Financial Total primary Secondary outstanding collateral real estate collateral collateral collateral and unsecured loans Total 69,731 7,072 24,707 23,020 54,799 14,933 Mortgage loans 3,368 3,368 – – 3,368 – Current accounts 30,049 – – 23,020 23,020 7,029 Loans 36,314 3,703 24,707 – 28,410 7,904 Risk management 133 Table 2.2.D Forborne exposures by collateral at 31/12/2017 Balance Mortgage Commercial Financial Total primary Secondary outstanding collateral real estate collateral collateral collateral and unsecured loans Total 98,254 23,295 27,014 29,226 79,535 19,293 Mortgage loans 4,231 4,805 – – 4,805 – Current accounts 44,978 – – 29,226 29,226 15,752 Loans 49,045 18,490 27,014 – 45,504 3,541 The geographical breakdown in Table 2.2.E is based on client locations. Table 2.2.E Forborne exposures by geographical area 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Total 69,731 98,254 Netherlands 69,258 95,155 Belgium 101 1,347 Other 373 1,751 2.2.1 Write-off policy residential real estate to create an investment in long-term We write off loans immediately if there is sufficient inflation-linked cash flows. The Corporate Banking loan certainty about the loss. portfolio is being purposely run down. Corporate Banking loans are secured by real estate, receivables, and stocks 2.3 Breakdown of the loan portfolio and inventories. We adopt a cautious approach to granting unsecured loans. Our loan book mainly consists of loans to Private Banking New loan requests are assessed to determine if they are in clients (primarily loans secured by residential real estate), as line with our strategy and we adopt a conservative well as a number of commercial real estate loans and approach to granting them. investment portfolios. The remainder of the loan portfolio comprises consumer loans and private customised financing The credit risk concentration mainly lies with Van Lanschot. (other loans), which are solely intended for clients who have Our foreign subsidiaries grant few loans. The limits contain placed substantial funds with us. The mortgage loans also the revocable and irrevocable commitments and depend include Kempen Dutch Inflation Fund, a fund that invests in entirely on the collateral provided, and may change on a leasehold contracts primarily in connection with Dutch daily basis. Table 2.3 Breakdown of loan portfolio by 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 entity (excluding impairments) Limit Utilisation Limit Utilisation Total 9,346,945 8,674,307 9,602,824 9,223,727 Van Lanschot 8,927,953 8,306,871 9,212,836 8,907,759 Kempen 212,069 212,069 203,559 203,559 Other 206,923 155,366 186,428 112,409 Risk management 134 2.4 Collateral credit institutions, commercial real estate, receivables, and In general, collateral can be used for all current and future stocks and inventories may serve as collateral. The majority amounts owed by a debtor. In addition to mortgage of collateral is not directly linked to a specific financing collateral and guarantees provided by governments and arrangement. Tables 2.4.A and 2.4.B provide insight into the underlying collateral of the loan portfolio. Table 2.4.A Loans and advances to the public and private sectors by collateral at 31/12/2018 Balance Mortgage Commercial Financial Guarantees Total primary Secondary outstanding collateral real estate collateral collateral collateral and unsecured loans Total 8,561,497 6,201,921 619,707 338,974 9,116 7,169,718 1,391,779 Mortgage loans 6,368,870 6,201,921 – – 4,758 6,206,679 162,190 Loans 1,414,789 – 619,707 – 4,358 624,065 790,723 Current accounts 509,107 – – 220,329 – 220,329 288,778 Securities-backed loans and settlement 267,221 – – 118,645 – 118,645 148,576 receivables Subordinated loans 1,510 – – – – – 1,510 Table 2.4.B Loans and advances to the public and private sectors by collateral at 31/12/2017 Balance Mortgage Commercial Financial Guarantees Total primary Secondary outstanding collateral real estate collateral collateral collateral and unsecured loans Total 9,103,327 6,149,948 650,352 529,396 288,112 7,617,808 1,485,519 Mortgage loans 6,328,146 6,149,948 – – – 6,149,948 178,198 Loans 1,601,382 – 650,352 – 288,112 938,464 662,918 Current accounts 962,916 – – 435,958 – 435,958 526,958 Securities-backed loans and settlement 206,396 – – 93,438 – 93,438 112,958 receivables Subordinated loans 4,487 – – – – – 4,487 We adopt a cautious approach towards granting unsecured 2.5 Concentration within the loan portfolio loans. The category Secondary collateral and unsecured About 85% of our loan portfolio consists of loans to private loans mainly comprises loans for which collateral has been clients. The credit risk in this portfolio is limited. We aim for a pledged in the form of operating assets, inventories and diversified loan portfolio and have actively sought to reduce receivables, as well as collateral which for technical reasons the concentration on individual counterparties. In 2018, this is not directly linked to a specific loan. Tables 2.4.A and 2.4.B led to a 7% reduction in the total volume of the ten highest have been drawn up on the basis of the definitions contained limits compared with 2017. Reflecting our risk appetite, we in the Basel regulations, which is based on the market value. have set limits for concentrations in individual sectors. The value under primary collateral is the lower of the subscription value or the value of the collateral. The total 2.5.1 Individual loan concentrations amount of unsecured loans is small. In general, collateral can The ten largest loans to individual counterparties other be used for all current and future amounts owed by a debtor. than financial institutions totalled €220 million at year-end 2018, compared with a total loan portfolio of €8.7 billion The average loan-to-value (LTV) of our mortgage loans, (2017: €237 million; total loan portfolio €9.2 billion). based on 100% foreclosure value, is 77% (2017: 81%). 2.5.2 Geographical concentrations In line with our strategy, the majority of lending takes place in the Netherlands and Belgium. The geographical breakdown is based on client locations. A small portion of the Belgian market is served from the Dutch branch network. Table 2.5.2 Loans and advances to the public and private sectors by geographical area 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Total 8,561,497 9,103,327 Netherlands 8,048,335 8,554,024 Belgium 250,206 225,213 Other 262,956 324,090 Risk management 135 2.6 Encumbered and unencumbered assets Unencumbered assets Certain items in the statement of financial position are classified as encumbered. Tables 2.6.A and 2.6.B provide Eligible as collateral: insight into the financial assets treated as encumbered. These – Investments in debt instruments which appear on the tables have been drawn up on the basis of carrying value. ECB eligible list of marketable assets but are not classed as encumbered at the reporting date; Encumbered assets – Securitised mortgage loans and advances underlying debt instruments which are held by us and which appear Pledged as collateral: on the ECB eligible list of marketable assets but are not – Cash pledged to a counterparty bank or central clearing classified as encumbered at the reporting date. party as security for obligations stemming from derivatives (CSA contracts); Not eligible as collateral: – Investments in debt instruments pledged to DNB or – All other cash and cash equivalents and balances at counterparty banks in the context of repo transactions or central banks; for securities and derivatives clearing purposes; – All other receivables from banks; – Securitised mortgage loans and receivables underlying – Debt and equity instruments which do not appear on debt instruments which have been pledged as collateral the ECB eligible list of marketable assets; to DNB for transaction settlements or have been placed – Securitised mortgage loans and advances underlying debt with institutional investors in the form of securitisation instruments which are held by us and which do not notes or covered bonds. appear on the ECB eligible list of marketable assets; – All other loans and advances. Other: – Statutory reserve deposits with central banks; – Reserve accounts of the Courtine and Covered Bond entities to which we have no access. Table 2.6.A Encumbered and unencumbered assets Encumbered assets Unencumbered assets 31/12/2018 Pledged as Other Eligible as Not eligible as Total collateral collateral collateral Total 2,356,409 33,319 1,838,506 8,855,683 13,083,916 Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks – 12,783 – 1,394,080 1,406,863 Due from banks 152,288 20,535 – 366,357 539,180 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss – – 61,391 157,192 218,583 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 121,065 – 1,391,945 290,574 1,803,584 Loans and advances to the public and private sectors 1,753,444 – 160,573 6,647,480 8,561,497 Other financial assets at amortised cost 329,612 – 224,597 – 554,209 Table 2.6.B Encumbered and unencumbered assets Encumbered assets Unencumbered assets 31/12/2017 Pledged as Other Eligible as Not eligible as Total collateral collateral collateral Total 2,745,376 44,138 2,180,463 8,807,163 13,777,140 Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks – 12,877 – 1,819,874 1,832,751 Due from banks 74,089 31,261 – 81,109 186,459 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss – – 202,918 191,980 394,898 Available–for–sale investments 17,666 – 1,519,839 200,850 1,738,355 Held–to–maturity investments 267,605 – 253,744 – 521,349 Loans and advances to the public and private sectors 2,386,015 – 203,962 6,513,350 9,103,327 Risk management 136 2. Netting of financial assets and liabilities Tables 2.7.A and 2.7.B show the netting of financial assets and liabilities. The right to net derivatives is laid down in a master netting agreement. For information about the netting criteria, please see “Summary of significant accounting principles”. Table 2.7.A Netting of financial assets and liabilities 31 12 2018 Related amounts Gross in the Net in the not netted in the statement of statement of statement of Gross financial position financial position financial position Net Derivatives (assets) 378,730 46,011 332,719 7,279 325,440 Derivatives (liabilities) 515,327 46,011 469,316 7,279 462,037 Table 2.7.B Netting of financial assets and liabilities 31 12 2017 Related amounts Gross in the Net in the not netted in the statement of statement of statement of Gross financial position financial position financial position Net Derivatives (assets) 490,222 167,964 322,258 48,441 273,817 Derivatives (liabilities) 486,380 167,964 318,417 48,441 269,976 2.8 Impairments The key elements of the ECL calculation are: We recognise a loss allowance for expected credit losses – PD: The probability of default is an estimate of the (ECL) on financial assets measured at amortised cost or fair likelihood of default over a given time horizon. A default value through profit or loss, as well as for financial may only happen at a certain time over the assessed guarantees and loan commitments. When there is no period if the facility has not been previously significant deterioration in credit risk since initial recognition, derecognised and is still in the portfolio. ECL is recognised based on a 12-month expected credit loss – EAD: The exposure at default is an estimate of the (Stage 1). When a significant increase in credit risk has exposure at a future default date, taking into account occurred, ECL is recognised based on a lifetime ECL (Stage expected changes in the exposure after the reporting 2). For impaired loans (Stage 3), a lifetime ECL is recognised. date, including repayments of principal and interest, whether scheduled by contract or otherwise, expected Expected loss measurement drawdowns on committed facilities, and accrued interest We measure expected credit losses by using a sophisticated from missed payments. approach and an alternative approach. In both these – LGD: The loss given default is an estimate of the loss approaches, ECL reflects an unbiased probability-weighted arising in the event of a default occurring at a given time. amount that is determined by evaluating a range of possible It is based on the difference between the contractual outcomes, the time value of money, and reasonable and cash flows due and those that the lender would expect verifiable information that is available without undue cost or to receive, including from the realisation of any collateral. effort at the reporting date about past events, current It is usually expressed as a percentage of EAD. conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions. Both – LGN: The loss given non-cure is an estimate of the loss approaches calculate a 12-month and a lifetime ECL for the arising in the event of a default without cure occurring at exposures of all three stages. After the risk stage a given time. It is based on the difference between the determination in the stage calculation, the relevant ECL is contractual cash flows due and those that the lender assigned: would expect to receive, including from the realisation of – 12-month ECL for Stage 1; any collateral. – Lifetime ECL for Stage 2 and Stage 3. In addition to these four key elements, we incorporate forward-looking information for the sophisticated approach. We identify macroeconomic variables and consider three macroeconomic scenarios in calculating ECL: – A base-case scenario; – An upside scenario; – A downside scenario. Risk management 137 These scenarios are associated with different PDs, EADs The reported ECL (12-month or lifetime, depending on the and losses given non-cures (LGNs). Macroeconomic stage) is a weighted average of ECLs per macroeconomic scenarios are generated based on inputs from CBS, DNB scenario. The table below shows the macroeconomic and Van Lanschot Kempen’s economic experts. variables used for the sophisticated approach. Model Macroeconomic variables PD calibration – Gross domestic product (GDP) – Volume of exports (EXP) Cure rate – Total investments (TI) – Private consumption (PC) – Residential real estate price (RREP) – Government consumption (GC) LGN – Gross domestic product (GDP) – Residential real estate price (RREP) Significant deterioration in credit risk – Various product-level models that give the expected To determine the deterioration in credit risk of a financial exposure at the moment a client goes into default; instrument since initial recognition, we compare the current – An amortisation model showing the contractual risk of default at the reporting date with the risk of default payments during the lifetime of a product and the part on initial recognition. of the exposure flowing out of the portfolio due to partial prepayments; To calculate the lifetime probability of default (LPD) at – An exposure at default (EAD) model giving the exposure origination and the LPD at reporting date, we use four PD as a function of the limit or outstanding amount just models: private individuals, small and medium-sized before default; enterprises, corporates, and commercial real estate. If the – A product-level model evaluating the part of EAD that increase in LPD exceeds the designated threshold, the may be lost – the loss given loss (LGL) model; exposure is transferred to Stage 2 and the lifetime ECL is – A discount factor to discount the loss from the moment calculated. We use the following thresholds for the different of default to the moment of reporting. PD models: Financial instruments following alternative approach Private investments 0.8 We apply an alternative approach for cash and cash Small and medium-sized enterprises 0.9 equivalents, due from banks, debt instruments at amortised Corporates 1.3 cost, debt instruments at fair value through other Commercial real estate 0.9 comprehensive income, and loans and security-backed loans issued by the Belgian branch and F. van Lanschot A backstop is applied and financial instruments that are Bankiers (Schweiz) AG. The alternative approach comprises materially overdrawn and more than 30 days past due are an investments model and a foreign loan model. transferred from Stage 1 to Stage 2. If the financial instrument is credit-impaired, it is transferred to Stage 3. Investments model The investments model is applied to calculate the ECL for Financial instruments following sophisticated approach cash and cash equivalents, due from banks, debt instruments For the majority of financial instruments included in the line at amortised cost, and debt instruments at fair value through item Loans and advances to the public and private sectors, other comprehensive income. These financial instruments all including mortgage loans, loans, current accounts, have a low risk profile. All such exposures are assigned to subordinated loans and financial guarantees and loan Stage 1 as long as their external rating is investment grade. commitments, we apply a sophisticated approach to We use a simplified model to calculate 12-month ECL, using calculate ECL. This approach uses an umbrella model that publicly available data for PD and LGD based on external combines the following submodels: ratings. If financial assets are downgraded below investment – Various models that provide the expected flow of grade, these assets will be sold. exposures to the default state; – A probability of default (PD) calibration model giving the Foreign loans model flow from performing to default; For the loans and securitised loans issued by the Belgian – A full prepayment model and amortisation model giving branch and F. van Lanschot Bankiers (Schweiz) AG, we have the outflow from the portfolio of an entire exposure due developed a foreign loans model. These two portfolios fall to prepayment or contract expiration; outside the scope of the IRB models and no requirements – A migration model providing flows from performing on historical data have been set. The foreign loan model rating classes to other performing rating classes; calculates ECL as the sum of future exposure discounted at – A cure rate model giving the flow from default to the effective interest rate at recognition for non-revolving performing classes and the non-cure state; products and the current effective interest rate for revolving products. Risk management 138 The loss allowance for ECL on financial instruments and the credit losses (ECL) on financial instruments. We have macroeconomic variables used as at 31 December 2018 are calculated the ECL by using IFRS 9 models as at described in the following section. 31 December 2018. The table below shows the ECL loss allowances and the corresponding book values, 2.9 Loss allowance for expected credit loss categorised by balance sheet line item and ECL by stage, Under the new IFRS 9 standard, effective from as at 1 January 2018 and 31 December 2018. 1 January 2018, we recognise a loss allowance for expected Table 2.9 oss allowance for expected 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 credit loss Book value (excluding xpected credit loss Book value (excluding xpected credit loss impairments) impairments) Total 13,837,572 113,675 14,344,947 133,411 Cash and cash equivalents and balances at 1,406,864 0 1,832,751 0 central banks Due from banks 539,180 0 186,459 0 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 1,803,584 544 1,716,354 663 Loans and advances to the public and private sectors 9,295,388 112,811 9,839,368 131,520 Other financial assets at amortised cost 554,242 34 521,349 28 Financial guarantees and loan commitments 238,313 286 248,667 1,200 Loss allowances for ECL change over time for several originated. The following tables explain the changes in the reasons: the credit risk of financial instruments may loss allowances during the year and the loss allowance significantly increase or decrease, financial instruments may recognised in the statement of income. become credit-impaired or new financial assets may be ovements in impairments of Financial assets at fair value Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total through other comprehensive income At 1 January 2018 663 – – 663 Additions or releases without transfer –269 – – –269 New financial assets originated or purchased 150 – – 150 Total through profit or loss 544 – – 544 At 31 December 2018 544 – – 544 ovements in impairments of oans and advances to the Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total public and private sectors At 1 January 2018 4,390 12,186 114,944 131,520 Additions or releases without transfer –1,509 –3,676 –7,753 –12,938 Transfer to Stage 1 435 –5,278 –420 –5,263 Transfer to Stage 2 –607 7,403 –1,480 5,316 Transfer to Stage 3 –27 –2,014 7,503 5,462 New financial assets originated or purchased 1,009 – – 1,009 Total through profit or loss 3,691 8,621 112,794 125,105 Amounts written off – – –12,295 –12,295 At 31 December 2018 3,691 8,621 100,499 112,811 In 2018, there were no material recalibrations of PD, LGD, LGN or EAD. Risk management 139 ovements in impairments of Financial guarantees and loan Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total commitments At 1 January 2018 89 223 888 1,200 Additions or releases without transfer –52 –41 –806 –899 Transfer to Stage 1 35 –140 – –105 Transfer to Stage 2 –2 56 – 55 Transfer to Stage 3 – –0 0 0 New financial assets originated or purchased 36 – – 36 Total through profit or loss 106 98 82 286 At 31 December 2018 106 98 82 286 All financial instruments included in the line items Cash and credit judgement. Credit risk grades are defined using cash equivalents and balances at central banks, Due from qualitative and quantitative factors that are indicative of risk banks and Debt instruments at amortised cost are classified of default. These factors vary depending on the nature of in Stage 1, and no transfers have taken place. the exposure and the type of borrower. Credit quality We use internally developed rating pools for the line items Van Lanschot Kempen allocates each exposure to a credit Loans and advances to the public and private sectors and risk grade based on a variety of data that are determined to Financial guarantees and loan commitments. be predictive of the risk of default, and applying experienced Credit grade escription Investment grade Non-credit-impaired financial assets that are not placed under the supervision of the Restructuring & Recovery department, internal rating pool 1 Standard monitoring Non-credit-impaired financial assets that are not placed under the supervision of the Restructuring & Recovery department, internal rating pools 2 to 4 Special monitoring Non-credit-impaired financial assets that are placed under the supervision of the Restructuring & Recovery department, internal rating pools 1 to 4 Default Credit-impaired financial assets All financial instruments under the line items Cash and cash other comprehensive income are investment grade, which equivalents, Due from banks, Debt instruments at means their external rating is at least BBB. We use external amortised cost and Debt instruments at fair value through ratings for these line items. Credit grade External rating Investment grade AAA BBB– Standard monitoring BB B– Special monitoring CCC C Default DDD D The credit quality of the line items Loans and advances to Assessment of credit quality is based on our internal credit the public and private sectors and Financial guarantees and rating system and year-end stage classification. The loan commitments is shown in the following tables. amounts presented are gross of impairment allowances. Risk management 140 Credit quality of oans and advances to the public and private Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total sectors Credit grade Investment grade 7,559,491 – – 7,559,491 Standard monitoring – 1,244,681 – 1,244,681 Special monitoring – 154,980 – 154,980 Default – – 336,236 336,236 Gross carrying amount 7,559,491 1,399,661 336,236 9,295,388 Loss allowance 3,691 8,621 100,499 112,811 Carrying amount 7,555,801 1,391,040 235,737 9,182,578 Credit quality of Financial guarantees and loan commitments Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Credit grade Investment grade 224,716 – – 224,716 Standard monitoring – 9,166 – 9,166 Special monitoring – 1,160 – 1,160 Default – – 3,271 3,271 Gross carrying amount 224,716 10,326 3,271 238,313 Loss allowance 106 98 82 286 Carrying amount 224,610 10,227 3,189 238,026 Macroeconomic variables ECL: a base scenario, an upside scenario, and a downside We incorporate forward-looking information for the scenario. The table below shows the macroeconomic sophisticated approach. We use macroeconomic variables variables used for the sophisticated approach as at and consider three macroeconomic scenarios in calculating 1 January 2018 and 31 December 2018. Macroeconomic variables As at 31 December 2018 As at 1 January 2018 2019 2020 2021 2018 2019 2020 ross domestic product Base-case scenario 2.80% 2.00% 2.00% 2.33% 3.53% 2.73% Upside scenario 4.26% 3.46% 3.46% 3.81% 5.01% 4.21% Downside scenario 0.16% –0.64% –0.64% –0.83% 0.37% –0.43% olume of export Base-case scenario 2.94% 3.54% 3.84% 4.83% 5.63% 4.83% Upside scenario 4.62% 5.22% 5.52% 7.35% 8.15% 7.35% Downside scenario –0.08% 0.52% 0.82% –0.56% 0.24% –0.56% Total investments Base-case scenario 7.91% 6.11% 6.11% 4.03% 6.83% 4.03% Upside scenario 17.28% 15.48% 15.48% 8.63% 11.43% 8.63% Downside scenario –8.98% –10.78% –10.78% –5.80% –3.00% –5.80% rivate consumption Base-case scenario 2.92% 1.92% 1.82% 2.28% 2.78% 2.28% Upside scenario 4.00% 3.00% 2.90% 3.23% 3.73% 3.23% Downside scenario 0.98% –0.02% –0.12% 0.23% 0.73% 0.23% Residential real estate price Base-case scenario 9.63% 6.13% 3.43% 4.70% 7.90% 6.00% Upside scenario 12.70% 9.20% 6.50% 7.46% 10.66% 8.76% Downside scenario 4.09% 0.59% –2.11% –1.20% 2.00% 0.10% overnment consumption Base-case scenario 1.20% 2.60% 2.00% 2.71% 3.31% 2.71% Upside scenario 1.19% 2.59% 1.99% 2.38% 2.98% 2.38% Downside scenario 1.22% 2.62% 2.02% 3.40% 4.00% 3.40% Risk management 141 Collateral credit-impaired financial instruments arrangement. For credit-impaired financial assets, the In general, collateral can be used for all current and future Restructuring & Recovery account manager determines the amounts owed by a debtor. In addition to mortgage liquidation or recovery value of the available collateral, collateral and guarantees provided by governments and based on the most recent valuation reports. The table credit institutions, commercial real estate, receivables, and below shows the collateral for financial assets considered stocks and inventories may serve as collateral. The majority credit-impaired. of collateral is not directly linked to a specific financing Collateral for credit impaired assets ross exposure Impairment Carrying amount Value of collateral Loans and advances to public and private sectors 336,236 100,499 235,737 276,418 Financial guarantees and loan commitments 3,271 82 3,189 2,275 No impairment is recognised for credit-impaired financial limits. Daily stress tests provide information about changes instruments if the collateral is sufficient to cover the in portfolio values in extreme market conditions and outstanding obligation. The total carrying amount of complement the VaR calculation. The VaR for the trading credit-impaired financial instruments for which there is no portfolios is computed daily, based on a one-day time impairment recognised is €135.6 million. horizon with a 97.5% confidence interval on one year of historical data. The continued validity of the assumptions 3. Market risk underlying the VaR computation is regularly tested using Market risk is the risk of loss as a result of changes in back-testing. Other risks relating to derivatives are market variables, including interest rates, exchange rates expressed in “the Greeks” (e.g. Delta, Vega, Rho) and are and share prices. Other variables not directly observable in separately monitored on a daily basis or more frequently if the market, such as volatility and correlations, can also necessary. Separate limits are in place for all risk drivers. influence the value of financial instruments. The market risk VaR and other relevant risk parameters are reported to to which we are exposed can be divided into two senior management (including two Executive Board components: the market risk to which Van Lanschot is members) on a daily basis. Lastly, market risks are also exposed in respect of its necessary market maintenance generated by investments in Kempen’s management book and services to clients, and the market risk stemming from (€69.1 million; 2017: €61.3 million). These investments trading activities in institutional securities; this latter risk is provide seed capital to newly launched Kempen Capital concentrated at Kempen. Management funds and are held with a trading intent. Financial markets were relatively calm in 2018, which led to 3.1 Kempen market risk: trading activities in securities generally lower levels of volatility. On the derivatives side, Our trading activities in securities, mainly comprising this resulted in lower VaR usage, with mostly constant equities and equity derivatives, are concentrated at trading volumes. That situation changed in the final two Kempen. A governance structure has been created to months of the year, however, as the markets became very facilitate effective risk management. The risks are managed volatile indeed and VaR usage reflected these swings. using value at risk (VaR) limits as well as gross and net Table 3.1 aR of empen trading activities 2018 2017 Derivatives-related Share-related Derivatives-related Share-related VaR at 31 December 445 314 180 49 Highest VaR 576 439 474 233 Lowest VaR 169 55 56 49 Average VaR 293 144 144 140 3.2 Van Lanschot market risk: treasury position are denominated in euros. Exchange rate risk is To a limited degree, Van Lanschot Treasury is also exposed managed within the required limits and an authorisation to market risk. These risks stem from its treasury activities structure applies. Foreign exchange positions are shown (mainly foreign exchange exposure, comprising client in Table 3.2.B and include all cash, forward and option transactions and own positions). The majority of positions of the entities in scope of consolidation. transactions and positions in the statement of financial Risk management 142 Table 3.2.A Exchange rate risk of treasury trading activities (total gross nominal foreign exchange 2018 2017 position translated to 1 000) At 31 December 99 1,794 Highest position 1,794 5,243 Lowest position 59 57 Average position 250 1,513 Table 3.2.B Foreign exchange positions ( 1 000) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Total –179 1,915 US dollar 79 1,450 Pound sterling 77 85 Swiss Franc –104 –31 Danish krone –501 –1 Other 270 412 The capital adequacy requirement for exchange rate risk For Van Lanschot, CSRBB is mainly concentrated in the was €0.05 million at year-end 2018 (2017: €0.2 million). investment and liquidity portfolios. CSRBB limits have been This amounts to 8% of the net open positions in each imposed on these portfolios, which are monitored by ALCO currency (2017: 8%). on a monthly basis. In addition, some market risk exposure results from 3.3 Market risk: interest rate and share-related instruments investments made in Van Lanschot’s management book. We use the maturity method to calculate the capital The current exposure in this portfolio is €20.2 million adequacy requirement in respect of the general risk on (2017: €30.1 million). Credit spread risk in the banking book debt instruments in the trading portfolio. Share-related (CSRBB) is the risk of volatility in earnings and/or equity, instruments are share instruments included under Financial caused by spread movements in the swap curve, for assets from trading activities (see Table 3.3). banking book instruments that are classified at fair value. Table 3.3 Market risk 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Risk weighting Capital adequacy Risk weighting Capital adequacy requirement requirement Total 325,017 26,001 225,718 18,057 Market risk: interest-related instruments 229,589 18,367 147,155 11,772 Market risk: share-related instruments 94,804 7,584 76,675 6,134 Market risk: currency-related instruments 625 50 1,888 151 Weighting and requirements – Operational risk appetite This appetite defines the We use the standardised approach for all types of market level of – quantitative and qualitative – operational risk. The market risk of interest rate derivatives is included risk we are willing to accept. Exceeding this appetite under Market risk: interest rate-related instruments; the requires the attention of the Executive Board and will market risk of share-related derivatives is included under lead to additional mitigation measures as necessary. Market risk: share-related instruments; and the market risk – Risk identification and classification via risk selfof currency derivatives is included under Market risk: assessments and scenario analysis: currency-related instruments. • Risk self-assessment is a tool that allows line managers to systematically identify and assess 4. Operational risk risks so that steps can be taken to limit any Operational risks are potential losses that result from unacceptable risks. Risk self-assessments are inadequate or failed internal processes, systems, carried out, at tactical (department) level, on inadequate or incorrect human actions, external events and processes and on our most important programmes fraud. Within Van Lanschot Kempen, operational losses are and projects. These assessments are re-performed classified using the operational loss event types as set out periodically in order to reassess and update the in the Basel framework. Managing operational risks is the existing operational risk level. responsibility of the line management (the first line of • Scenario analyses are used to enhance insight into defence); this also includes the responsibility for information our (prospective) operational risk profile and thus security and business continuity. improve existing risk controls. The results of these analyses also serve as a means to provide insight We have created a range of instruments for identifying, into the adequacy of the Pillar 1 capital evaluating, monitoring and managing operational risks to requirement vis-vis the operational risk profile. support the bank’s management in their roles as risk owners. Risk management 143 – Risk response Management is responsible for reputational and/or other material damage to a minimum, deciding how to treat the risk, and whether to both for us and for our clients. Procedures are tested on a mitigate, accept or transfer (insure) it: regular basis, with tests of fallback procedures and crisis • Action tracking Action tracking is used to track governance carried out every year. progress made in the delivery of actions to mitigate identified risks, arising from risk self-assessments, 5. Settlement risk analysis of incidents or complaints, findings by We are required to hold capital for financial transactions Group Audit and external regulators, and other that are not settled within five days of the agreed deadline, relevant events; if the difference between the agreed settlement price and • Control effectiveness monitoring To ensure that the price at the reporting date could lead to a loss. the most important risks (the key risks) are mitigated sufficiently, key controls have been At year-end 2018, financial transactions totalling defined; these are assessed on a regular basis to €171 million (2017: €227 million) had to be reported in determine their effectiveness. the context of settlement risk. • Risk insurance To protect the organisation against major operational risk-related losses, we have taken 6. CVA risk out insurance policies that cover claims and losses Under the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR), account resulting from the services offered. Broadly, these must also be taken of the risk-weighted assets in relation to policies are a combination of fraud and professional credit valuation adjustment (CVA), which must be adequate liability insurance, directors’ liability insurance and to cover the risk of a deterioration in the creditworthiness various other liability and accident insurance of the counterparty in an OTC derivatives transaction. policies. In 2016 a cyber risk policy was added to This CVA capital adequacy requirement is additional to our insurance coverage. This policy provides liability requirements applying to the risk-weighted assets in and damage cover for cyber risk events. relation to the “regular” default risk. We use the SA method – Risk monitoring to calculate the capital requirement for CVA. • Incident management Risks that materialise through an incident are registered in our database 7. Strategic risk via the incident management process. For severe Strategic risk can be defined as the threat to our results incidents, root cause analyses are carried out. The or equity resulting from failure to respond (adequately) incidents database allows the systematic recording to changes in environmental factors, or from incorrect and analysis of losses resulting from operational strategic decisions. Environmental factors include the risks. It contains information about losses incurred actions of competitors, clients, potential market entrants as a result of operational risks in prior years and and public authorities. forms the foundation of the operational risk management measurement system for Van 8. Interest rate risk Lanschot and Kempen. A total of 187 incidents Interest rate risk is the exposure of the banking book to entailing a loss of more than €1,000 were logged adverse market interest rate movements. Adverse interest in the database in 2018 (2017: 156 incidents). rate movements may impact a bank’s current and/or future • Risk measurement This is based on key risk earnings, capital and market value. Interest rate risks in indicators (early warnings), which highlight trends non-banking book items are managed as part of market risk. and/or provide prospective information about operational risks. Our main source of interest rate risk is the interest maturity • Risk meetings Periodical meetings with risk mismatch between mortgages and loans on the one hand owners are held to monitor the development of the and savings and other funding sources on the other. In risk profile in relation to the risk appetite. general, assets have longer fixed-rate terms than liabilities, especially in the current low interest rate environment, in Information security which clients show a distinct preference for long fixed-rate Information security contributes to the protection of client terms for mortgages. In measuring our interest rate risk and corporate information. Both automated and manual exposure, we model client behaviour with respect to the information processing are carried out. Taking the right prepayment patterns of mortgages and loans and the measures on the basis of targeted risk analyses of business interest rate risk profiles of savings and current accounts. and IT processes ensures that both our client data and After the interest rate risk resulting from maturity corporate data are adequately protected. mismatches, customer behaviour risk is our most important source of interest rate risk, as actually observed client Business continuity behaviour may deviate from assumptions. Differences Business continuity analyses are carried out as part of our between assumed and actually observed client behaviour business continuity management process in order to gain could have a material adverse impact on future results. insight into critical processes and the resources that are needed to ensure continuity of service and address We manage interest rate risk according to our interest rate potential threats. Embedding business continuity risk in the banking book (IRRBB) policy. Responsibility for management in the organisation is essential to give the IRRBB management has been delegated by the Executive bank sufficient resilience against the impact of an incident Board to the Asset & Liability Committee (ALCO). We pursue or disaster. Business continuity therefore has universal a prudent interest rate risk policy that aims to mitigate the scope within the bank; it comprises policies, standards and effect of prospective interest rate movements which could procedures aimed at safeguarding the critical processes or reduce future net interest income, while balancing the costs enabling a restart within a specified timeframe in the event of hedging activities on current earnings. of a disaster. The objective is to keep any financial, Risk management 144 Essentially, then, we manage interest rate risk from both a appetite limits. By December 2018, the most adverse longand a short-term perspective. The short-term interest scenario was one in which market rates fall by 100 basis rate risk is addressed mainly from a net interest income points over the next twelve months, with Van Lanschot perspective (delta net interest income, or NII ). This Kempen being unable to reduce savings rates sufficiently involves an analysis of the interest income under a number below the “natural floor” of zero per cent. Table 8.A shows of market interest rate scenarios, relative to the baseline the interest rate risk metrics. scenario. In 2018, all NII scenarios remained within risk Table 8.A Interest rate risk metrics 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Delta net interest income ( NII) –4.3% –3.4% Duration of equity (years) 2 3 The long-term interest rate risk is addressed by using the The main source of liquidity risk that we are exposed to economic value approach, which looks at how movements in relates to the share of client deposits in our funding base. interest rates impact the value of the bank’s assets and Although client deposits have proven to be relatively liabilities. The main metric used in the economic value price-inelastic and sticky over time, the withdrawable analysis is duration of equity. The duration of the bank’s nature of such deposits poses potential outflow risks, equity indicates the net impact of parallel interest rate especially for those deposits not covered by the deposit changes on its economic value. In 2018, duration of equity guarantee scheme (DGS). was controlled by ALCO within a bandwidth of two to three years. The duration of two years at year-end 2018 implies The roll-over risk with respect to maturing capital market the economic value of equity would fall by €27.1 million if funding is becoming less substantial for us. This is mainly there were a parallel rise of 100 basis points in interest rates. due to the run-off of the Corporate Banking loan book, In the event of a parallel fall in interest rates of 100 basis which reduces the reliance on funding sources other than points, the value of equity would rise by €28.3 million. At client deposits. We consider client deposits a natural and year-end 2017, this sensitivity was €44.5 million. The full stable funding source. value of this impact cannot be directly linked to the statement of financial position or income statement, as economic value To manage liquidity risks, we use a forward-looking liquidity movements in our banking book are not necessarily reported risk framework that enables the comprehensive through profit or loss or equity. Any value movements are measurement, evaluation and calibration of indicators related expected to materialise over time in the income statement, if to liquidity risk. The framework consists of the risk appetite interest rates develop as indicated by forward rates and no statement, the liquidity buffer, monitoring and reporting, corrective management actions are assumed. forecasting, funding planning and contingency planning. In assessing interest rate risk, we aim to minimise the impact Limits for liquidity risk are revised on an annual basis as part of differences in accounting classifications, as these should of the risk appetite statement. Limits set include, but are not not result in different income statement impacts from rate limited to, levels of the liquidity coverage ratio, the net stable changes. Hence, parallel yield curve shift scenarios have funding ratio and stress test survival periods, which are virtually no impact on the result on financial transactions, reported on a monthly basis to ALCO. The liquidity buffer is because all investments designated at fair value through the main defensive element against liquidity risk, and the profit or loss are hedged using derivatives (see Note 4, quality and size of the buffer are monitored frequently, Derivatives), for which market value changes are represented together with inand outflows in the client deposit base. under the result on financial transactions. Hedge accounting Finally, each year we outline our capital and funding planning is applied to offset changes in the market value of derivatives for a two to five-year horizon, both under regular that are used for hedging portfolios classified at amortised circumstances in the capital and funding plan, and under cost. potential future stress or emergency situations in the liquidity contingency plan, complemented by the recovery plan. In 9. Liquidity risk 2018, the funding ratio was 106.2% (2017: 100.5%). The main objective of our liquidity risk management is to ensure that the bank is able to maintain or generate Part of our liquidity and funding planning is scenario analysis, sufficient cash resources to meet its payment obligations in of which stress testing is a key element. By means of stress full as they come due, on acceptable terms. As materialising testing, we assess our resilience to a variety of adverse liquidity risk could theoretically jeopardise a bank’s liquidity events – Van Lanschot Kempen-specific events, continuity, our tolerance for liquidity risk is classified as low. system-wide events, and a combination of these two. One of the key elements of our approach towards liquidity risk management is to maintain stakeholder confidence in 9.1 Contractual maturity the bank’s solidity at all times. The policy for measuring, Tables 9.1.A and 9.1.B show the assets and liabilities based managing and controlling liquidity risk within Van Lanschot on their remaining contractual terms to maturity at the Kempen is set out in our liquidity risk policy document, reporting date, without taking behavioural aspects into which is updated annually. account. Risk management 145 These amounts correspond with the amounts included in As savings and current accounts do not have fixed terms, the the consolidated statement of financial position. Items with balances of non-maturity instruments are presented within no maturity, such as equity instruments, assets and the withdrawable on demand category. liabilities classified as held for sale and provisions, are presented separately. Due from banks and amounts due to banks include collateral delivered and received related to derivative transactions. Derivative liabilities are included on a net basis if cash flows Allocation of this collateral over the maturity buckets is are settled net. For other derivative liabilities the contractual conducted in accordance with the maturity classification of gross cash flow payable is included. the derivative contracts. Table 9.1.A Contractual maturity of assets and liabilities at 31/12/2018 Withdrawable < 3 months 3 to 12 1 to 5 years More than Sub-total Maturity not Total on demand months 5 years applicable Assets Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks 1,406,864 – – – – 1,406,864 – 1,406,864 Financial assets from trading activities – – – – – – 62,468 62,468 Due from banks 104,659 1,881 274,307 90,308 68,025 539,180 – 539,180 Derivatives – 8,593 71,495 194,529 58,102 332,719 – 332,719 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 70,281 – 15,475 92,893 – 178,649 39,934 218,583 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income – 160,596 298,103 946,555 398,330 1,803,584 – 1,803,584 Loans and advances to the public and private sectors 847,804 52,108 101,379 314,691 7,245,515 8,561,497 – 8,561,497 Other financial assets at amortised cost – – 122,416 431,792 – 554,209 – 554,209 Investments in associates using the equity method – – – – – – 54,071 54,071 Assets classified as held for sale – – – – – – 68,058 68,058 Other assets1 – 96,189 26,555 24,709 – 147,453 231,321 378,775 Total assets 2,429,609 319,366 909,730 2,095,479 7,769,971 13,524,155 455,852 13,980,007 Total assets excluding derivatives 2,429,609 310,774 838,235 1,900,950 7,711,869 13,191,436 455,852 13,647,288 Equity and liabilities Financial liabilities from trading activities – 333 – – – 333 – 333 Due to banks 37,951 460 250,551 24,420 21,520 334,902 – 334,902 Public and private sector liabilities 8,611,831 75,948 83,702 236,066 83,392 9,090,939 – 9,090,939 Derivatives – 10,183 88,272 252,885 117,975 469,316 – 469,316 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss – 14,285 145,879 599,668 180,530 940,361 – 940,361 Issued debt securities – – – 1,020,635 500,869 1,521,504 – 1,521,504 Liabilities held for sale – – – – – – 20,871 20,871 Other liabilities 2 – 60,332 70,055 – – 130,387 29,725 160,112 Subordinated loans – – – – 173,473 173,473 – 173,473 Equity – – – – – – 1,268,195 1,268,195 Total equity and liabilities 8,649,783 161,541 638,458 2,133,675 1,077,759 12,661,215 1,318,792 13,980,007 Total equity and liabilities excluding derivatives 8,649,783 151,358 550,186 1,880,789 959,784 12,191,900 1,318,792 13,510,691 On balance gap –6,220,174 157,825 271,272 –38,196 6,692,212 862,940 –862,940 – 1 Includes Property and equipment, Goodwill and other intangible assets, Tax assets and Other assets as presented in the consolidated statement of financial position. 2 Includes Provision, Tax liabilities and Other liabilities as presented in the consolidated statement of financial position. Risk management 146 Table 9.1.B Contractual maturity of assets and liabilities at 31/12/2017 Withdrawable < 3 months 3 to 12 1 to 5 years More than Sub-total Maturity not Total on demand months 5 years applicable Assets Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks 1,832,751 – – – – 1,832,751 – 1,832,751 Financial assets from trading activities – – – – – – 38,234 38,234 Due from banks 40,145 99,089 – 36,263 10,962 186,459 – 186,459 Derivatives – 37,199 41,309 191,361 52,388 322,258 – 322,258 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss – 9,089 5,055 212,481 23,743 250,368 144,530 394,898 Available-for-sale investments – 61,354 177,248 1,026,251 451,501 1,716,354 22,001 1,738,355 Held-to-maturity investments – – – 521,349 – 521,349 – 521,349 Loans and advances to the public and private sectors 1,261,194 10,797 35,101 217,139 7,579,096 9,103,327 – 9,103,327 Investments in associates using the equity method – – – – – – 70,390 70,390 Other assets1 – 105,712 38,056 25,228 – 168,996 281,857 450,853 Total assets 3,134,090 323,241 296,769 2,230,073 8,117,690 14,101,862 557,013 14,658,875 Total assets excluding derivatives 3,134,090 286,042 255,460 2,038,711 8,065,302 13,779,604 557,013 14,336,617 Equity and liabilities Financial liabilities from trading activities – 1,899 – – – 1,899 – 1,899 Due to banks 46,163 55,482 – – – 101,645 – 101,645 Public and private sector liabilities 8,519,793 101,482 51,637 302,125 170,082 9,145,119 – 9,145,119 Derivatives – 34,077 30,484 171,762 82,094 318,417 – 318,417 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 417 2,172 73,989 686,561 208,314 971,453 – 971,453 Issued debt securities – – – 925,490 1,486,181 2,411,671 – 2,411,671 Other liabilities2 – 67,453 94,359 7,849 – 169,661 23,085 192,746 Subordinated loans – – – – 166,802 166,802 – 166,802 Equity – – – – – 1,349,123 1,349,123 Total equity and liabilities 8,566,373 262,564 250,471 2,093,787 2,113,472 13,286,667 1,372,208 14,658,875 Total equity and liabilities excluding derivatives 8,566,373 228,487 219,986 1,922,025 2,031,379 12,968,250 1,372,208 14,340,458 On balance gap –5,432,283 60,677 46,298 136,286 6,004,217 815,195 –815,195 – Major differences can be seen in the gaps, because the assets comprise many long-term mortgage loans while the liabilities comprise many short-term deposits. Potential liquidity risks are addressed by means of monthly stress tests – discussed monthly in ALCO – that test the bank’s resilience to a variety of adverse liquidity events, and taking behavioural aspects into account. 1 Includes Property and equipment, Goodwill and other intangible assets, Tax assets and Other assets as presented in the consolidated statement of financial position. 2 Includes Provision, Tax liabilities and Other liabilities as presented in the consolidated statement of financial position. Risk management 147 9.2 Contractual maturities of undiscounted cash flow of which are subject to notice are treated as if notice were to financial liabilities be given immediately. However, we expect that many Tables 9.2.A and 9.2.B show liabilities by maturity based on clients will not request repayment at the earliest possible contractual, undiscounted cash flows and including related date, and the tables below do not reflect the expected cash future cash flows, such as interest payments. Repayments flows as indicated by our deposit retention history. Table 9.2.A Contractual maturities of undiscounted cash flow of liabilities at 31 12 2018 Withdrawable < 3 months 3 to 12 1 to 5 years More than Total on demand months 5 years Financial liabilities from trading activities – 333 – – – 333 Due to banks 2,153 36,258 250,096 24,420 21,520 334,447 Public and private sector liabilities 8,650,343 63,444 97,941 243,156 102,221 9,157,105 Derivatives 333,349 10,035 15,998 49,842 60,091 469,316 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss – 15,753 147,330 605,548 181,793 950,423 Issued debt securities – 6,250 2,374 1,049,877 517,500 1,576,001 Of which bond loans and notes – – – – – – Of which covered bond – 6,250 1,375 1,029,125 517,500 1,554,250 Of which notes as part of securitisation transactions – – – – – – Of which floating-rate notes – – 999 20,752 – 21,751 Subordinated loans – 956 8,954 39,639 253,268 302,818 Total undiscounted liabilities 8,985,845 133,029 522,692 2,012,482 1,136,393 12,790,442 Table 9.2.B Contractual maturities of undiscounted cash flow of liabilities at 31 12 2017 Withdrawable < 3 months 3 to 12 1 to 5 years More than Total on demand months 5 years Financial liabilities from trading activities – 1,899 – – – 1,899 Due to banks 9,529 26,234 1,810 40,310 24,840 102,723 Public and private sector liabilities 8,648,322 39,027 71,441 358,072 120,901 9,237,762 Derivatives 188,350 8,837 19,748 49,230 52,252 318,417 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss – 5,437 78,563 695,270 212,282 991,553 Issued debt securities – 6,250 1,037,133 555,933 1,023,750 2,623,066 Of which bond loans and notes – – 595,026 – – 595,026 Of which covered bond – 6,250 1,375 530,500 1,023,750 1,561,875 Of which notes as part of securitisation transactions – – 439,563 – – 439,563 Of which floating-rate notes – – 1,168 25,433 – 26,601 Subordinated loans – 956 8,954 39,639 264,088 313,638 Total undiscounted liabilities 8,846,201 88,639 2,252,407 1,244,511 2,204,364 13,589,057 10. Securitisation risk transfer has been achieved since only the most senior notes We treat securitisation as an asset class in our investment were placed with investors. As these securitisations are portfolio as well using it as a funding tool. We are not party accounted for as funding transactions, there is no to any synthetic securitisations and have no trading position recognition of gains on the sale/placement of the in securitisations. transactions. No hedges are used to mitigate the risk of retained RMBS, and the exposure of the underlying Funding mortgages of retained and placed RMBS thus remain on our We do not structure securitisations for other entities and balance sheet. There are no liquidity risks connected to the have no other role in our own securitisations other than as RMBS transactions. The RMBS transactions are rated by seller and servicer and, in some cases, back-to-back swap Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. Retained RMBS can provider. As we use residential mortgage-backed securities be used as collateral and form a contingent liquidity buffer. (RMBS) only as one of the available funding tools (placed or retained), there is no obligation to use the originated Investments mortgages in securitisation transactions. In cases when Part of our liquidity investment portfolio is invested in RMBS. RMBS was used as a funding tool, no significant risk We invest only in the most senior tranches of RMBS Risk management 148 transactions that qualify as high-quality liquid assets in We have the following tools in place to manage financial assessing the liquidity coverage ratio. This means that the reporting risks: credit quality of the investments should have at least two – Periodic management reports and KPI dashboards, ratings from an external credit assessment institution (ECAI). accompanied by analysis of financial and non-financial figures and trends; As the investments are part of the liquidity buffer, they can be – A risk and control framework describing processes and used as collateral, in repo transactions, or sold if necessary. procedures, and setting out primary controls such as authorisations and segregation of duties; Risk exposures within the investment portfolio – The findings from the review of the functioning of the The credit risks of the investments are not hedged. Our internal control system by Group Audit, which are investment portfolio as a whole is monitored by the Treasury discussed with the Executive Board, the Statutory and Credit Risk Approval departments on a daily basis. Board, the Audit and Compliance Committee and the Supervisory Board; Management – The Van Lanschot Kempen Accounting Manual, which Interest rate risk is limited, as RMBS are typically floatingsets out the principles we pursue with respect to rate notes. Interest rate risk is monitored at balance sheet financial accounting; level and includes the investment portfolio. We use the IRB – Assessment and approval of the annual report by the methodology to calculate the total risk exposure of RMBS Statutory Board and discussion of this by the Audit and investments. Compliance Committee and by the Supervisory Board. 11. Compliance risk The Statutory Board states with reasonable assurance that Van Lanschot Kempen and its subsidiaries fulfil a role as the internal risk management and control systems for service providers to the public, a role that we can only play financial reporting are performed at an adequate level and to the full if we enjoy the trust of every stakeholder. Our that our financial reporting is free of material misstatement. integrity and that of our employees forms the basis for that The management teams of the relevant divisions have trust. The Compliance department provides a strong provided the Statutory Board with in-control statements on safeguard by ensuring that integrity is embedded in our the extent of internal control, based on the results of testing operations, while the statutory and regulatory rules provide procedures for the risk and control framework, the risks the framework. Within that framework, we have translated reported on a quarterly basis, the follow-up of these risks, the main rules and regulations into requirements for and the incidents reported. Group Risk Management and processes and procedures. To enable these requirements to Compliance have evaluated these statements. be met, Compliance organises regular training and awareness-raising sessions for staff, monitors compliance with the statutory and regulatory rules, and proposes improvements where necessary. Failure to comply with the statutory and regulatory rules can lead to significant reputational or financial damage. The Compliance department, which reports directly to the Chairman of the Statutory Board, is responsible for ensuring that the bank’s boards, senior management and employees comply with regulations and legislation. 12. Financial reporting risk The Statutory Board is responsible for devising and implementing an adequate system of internal control for our financial reporting. The system is designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability of financial reporting and that the financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and applicable legislation and regulations. Risk management 149 13. Fair value The estimated present value of future cash flows is used to determine the fair value of the other financial instruments. 13.1 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the A portion of the financial instruments are measured at fair present value of estimated future cash flows. The discount value in the statement of financial position. Tables 13.1.A, rate is the same as the market interest rate at the reporting 13.1.B and 13.1.C provide a breakdown of these date for a similar instrument subject to the same conditions, instruments into three levels. The fair value is based either taking into account collateral furnished under credit support on quoted prices in active markets, inputs other than annexes (CSAs). quoted prices that are observable in the market, or inputs based on data not observable in the market. The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to forward exchange rates at the reporting date. We have developed a policy on the criteria for allocating financial instruments recognised in the statement of Estimates and judgements made are based on past financial position at fair value to each of the three levels. experience as well as other factors, including expectations A review is carried out at the end of each reporting period with respect to future events that could reasonably occur to determine whether any changes have taken place in given current circumstances. Estimates and judgements are the hierarchy between the levels. assessed on an ongoing basis. Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets Level 3: Significance of unobservable market data The fair value of financial instruments traded in an active The financial instruments in this category are assessed on market is based on the price at the reporting date (market an individual basis. Their valuation is based on the best price). The bid price is applied for financial assets and the estimate of management by reference to the most recent offer price for financial liabilities. Since these instruments prices, prices of similar instruments and, to a not are traded in an active market, their prices adequately insignificant extent, information not observable in the reflect current and frequent market transactions between market. Unobservable inputs may include volatility, unrelated parties. correlation, seasonality and credit spreads. A valuation technique is used in which at least one input that has a Level 2: Inputs observable in the markets significant effect on the instrument’s valuation is not based The fair value of financial instruments not traded in an on observable market data. A significant effect on the active market (e.g. over-the-counter financial derivatives) is instrument’s valuation is considered to be present when the established using cash flow and option valuation models. unobservable input accounts for at least 10% of the total Using estimates, we make assumptions based on the instrument’s fair value and exceeds a threshold of €50,000. market conditions (observable data) at the reporting date. The effect of fair value adjustments on the instrument’s valuation is included in the assessment. Table 13.1.A Financial instruments at fair value at 31/12/2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Financial assets from trading activities 58,119 3,877 472 62,468 Derivatives 42,640 279,941 10,138 332,719 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 156,658 40,782 21,143 218,583 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 1,803,584 – – 1,803,584 Total assets 2,061,001 324,600 31,753 2,417,354 Liabilities Financial liabilities from trading activities 333 – – 333 Derivatives 39,879 420,796 8,641 469,316 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss – 912,465 27,896 940,361 Total liabilities 40,212 1,333,261 36,537 1,410,010 Risk management 150 Table 13.1.B Financial instruments at fair value at 01/01/20181 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Financial assets from trading activities 35,553 2,561 119 38,234 Derivatives 33,779 285,225 3,254 322,258 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 295,120 47,207 74,572 416,899 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 1,716,354 – – 1,716,354 Total assets 2,080,807 334,993 77,945 2,493,745 Liabilities Financial liabilities from trading activities 1,882 – 17 1,899 Derivatives 33,113 284,929 375 318,417 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss – 947,541 23,912 971,453 Total liabilities 34,995 1,232,471 24,303 1,291,769 Table 13.1.C Financial instruments at fair value at 31/12/2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Financial assets from trading activities 35,553 2,561 119 38,234 Derivatives 33,779 285,225 3,254 322,258 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 295,120 47,207 52,571 394,898 Available-for-sale investments 1,716,354 – 22,001 1,738,355 Total assets 2,080,807 334,993 77,945 2,493,745 Liabilities Financial liabilities from trading activities 1,882 – 17 1,899 Derivatives 33,113 284,929 375 318,417 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss – 947,541 23,912 971,453 Total liabilities 34,995 1,232,471 24,303 1,291,769 Transfers of financial assets or liabilities between levels transferred to Level 2 as a result of the input variables’ We have developed a policy document for the fair value correlation and seasonality; the shorter remaining term to hierarchy. This divides the variables used into observable maturity of these financial instruments meant that these and unobservable market inputs. If the unobservable input input variables qualified as non-significant, justifying a variables are significant, the instrument is classified as transfer to Level 2. In the case of Derivatives (assets), this Level 3. An unobservable input variable is significant if entailed a transfer of €1.0 million from Level 2 to Level 3 the change in the fair value due to the application of the and a transfer of €0.1 million from Level 3 to Level 2. In the variable is greater than the set threshold values. Our policy case of Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, is to recognise transfers into and out of fair value hierarchy it involved a transfer of €1.1 million from Level 3 to Level 2. levels at the end of the reporting period. The transfer of Derivatives (liabilities) includes a €4.1 million shift from Level 3 to Level 2. In 2018, our valuation technique remained unchanged, with non-observable input variables being assessed on Breakdown of movements in financial assets and significance. As a result of this assessment, some financial liabilities classified under Level 3 instruments included in Derivatives (assets and liabilities) Tables 13.1.D and 13.1.E provide a breakdown of the and in Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss movements in all financial assets and liabilities classified have been transferred from Level 2 to Level 3 and vice as Level 3 items and recognised at fair value in the versa. The Derivatives receivables and payables and statement of financial position. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss were 1 This table includes the new presentation requirements related to the application of IFRS 9 as from 1 January 2018. Risk management 151 Table 13.1. Breakdown of movements in financial liabilities classified as evel 3 in 2018 At 1 January To statement To equity1 Issues Settlements Transfers At 31 of income December Assets Financial assets from trading activities 119 –3 – 450 –95 – 472 Derivatives 3,254 –562 6,516 –7 938 10,138 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 74,572 184 – 404 –54,019 – 21,143 Total assets 77,945 –380 – 7,371 –54,121 938 31,753 Liabilities Financial liabilities from trading activities 17 – – – –17 – – Derivatives 375 930 – 4,552 –183 2,968 8,641 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 23,912 –666 – 4,650 – – 27,896 Total liabilities 24,303 263 – 9,202 –200 2,968 36,537 Total assets liabilities 53,642 –644 – –1,832 –53,921 –2,030 –4,784 Table 13.1. Breakdown of movements in financial liabilities classified as evel 3 in 2017 At 1 January To statement To equity2 Issues Settlements Transfers At 31 of income December Assets Financial assets from trading activities 33 2 – 95 –11 – 119 Derivatives 4,085 90 – – –784 –138 3,254 Financial assets at fair value through profit 52,571 or loss 5,311 –2,240 – 49,500 – – Available-for-sale investments 39,423 9,165 –5,395 5,262 –26,455 – 22,001 Total assets 48,852 7,018 –5,395 54,858 –27,250 –138 77,945 Liabilities Financial liabilities from trading activities 5 – – 17 –5 – 17 Derivatives 1,242 –343 – 143 –27 –641 375 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 32,825 1,029 – – – –9,942 23,912 Total liabilities 34,072 686 – 160 –32 –10,583 24,303 Total assets liabilities 14,780 6,331 –5,395 54,698 –27,218 10,446 53,642 Table 13.1.F Fair value changes recognised in profit or loss of financial instruments classified as evel 3 2018 2017 Realised Unrealised Total Realised Unrealised Total Net interest income 109 – 109 1,971 – 1,971 Income from securities and associates –3 –476 –479 6,502 –2,240 4,263 Result on financial transactions – –274 –274 – –596 –596 Impairments – – – 3,191 –2,497 694 Total 106 –750 –644 11,664 –5,333 6,331 1 The changes in value recognised in equity are included in the statement of comprehensive income as Revaluation of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income. 2 The changes in value recognised in equity are included in the statement of comprehensive income as Revaluation of equity instruments and Revaluation of debt instruments. Risk management 152 Table 13.1.G Notes on fair value determination using unobservable market inputs (Level 3) Fair value Valuation method Significance of observable market inputs2 Assets 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Financial assets from trading activities – Face value Shares, unlisted 472 119 119 – Net asset value – Net asset value Derivatives Structured product derivatives – Options1 5,508 244 244 – Option model – Volatility – Correlation – Equity swaps1 3,803 3,010 3,010 – Discounted cash flow – Volatility model – Correlation – Option model – Equity forwards1 827 – – – Option model – Correlation Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Debt instruments: company cumprefs 7,042 10,850 – – Discounted cash flow – Interest rate (shareholdings) (FVPL mandatory)1 model – Discount rates Shares, unlisted 7,437 54,435 52,571 – Net asset value – Most recent published net asset values of the underlying assets – Kempen: Cost or lower market value 1,905 7,013 – – Net asset value – Net asset value – Market value 2,783 528 – – Net asset value – Multiple analyses of comparable companies less a discount for illiquidity and company size based on EVCA guidelines – Most recently known share price 1,976 1,746 – – Net asset value – EBITA – Issue or transfer price – Market price on final trading day – Face value less provisions Available-for-sale investments Debt instruments: company cumprefs – – 10,850 – Discounted cash flow – Interest rate (shareholdings) model – Discount rates Shares, unlisted – – 1,864 – Net asset value – Most recent published net asset values of the underlying assets – Kempen: Cost or lower market value Shareholdings – – 7,013 – Net asset value – Net asset value – Market value – – 528 – Net asset value – Multiple analyses of comparable companies less a discount for illiquidity and company size based on EVCA guidelines – Most recently known share price – – 1,746 – Net asset value – EBITA – Issue or transfer price – Market price on final trading day – Face value less provisions Total assets 31,753 77,945 77,945 Liabilities Financial liabilities from trading activities Shares, unlisted – 17 17 – Net asset value – Net asset value – Face value Derivatives Structured product derivatives – Credit-linked swaps 2 183 183 – Discounted cash flow n/a model – Options1 7,111 – – – Option model – Volatility – Correlation – Equity swaps1 1,528 48 48 – Discounted cash flow – Volatility model – Correlation – Option model – Equity forwards – 143 143 – Option model – Correlation Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Structured debt instruments1 27,896 23,912 23,912 – Discounted cash flow – Volatility model – Correlation – Option model Total liabilities 36,537 24,303 24,303 1 Please refer to Tables 13.1.H and 13.1.I for the range and sensitivity of these financial instruments. No range or sensitivity information is available for the other financial instruments. 2 The significance of unobservable market inputs only relates to 2018. Risk management 153 Table 13.1.H Notes on range and sensitivity of unobservable market inputs (Level 3) at 31/12/2018 Significant unobservable market inputs Range (weighted Sensitivity average) Assets Derivatives Structured product derivatives – Options – Correlation –17% – 20% (1%) Total impact –€0.4m – Volatility 10% – 13% (12%) Total impact €1.0m – Equity swaps – Correlation –21% – 30% (2%) Total impact €0.0m – Volatility 10% – 13% (12%) Total impact €0.2m – Equity forwards – Correlation –10% – 12% (1%) Total impact –€0.1m Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Debt instruments: company cumprefs – Interest rates –7% – 12% (9%) Change of 1%/change of €0.1m (shareholdings) – Discount rates –7% – 12% (9%) Change of 1%/change of €0.1m Liabilities Derivatives Structured products derivatives – Options – Correlation –21% – 30% (1%) Total impact €1.5m – Volatility 10% – 13% (12%) Total impact €0.4m – Equity swaps – Correlation –21% – 25% (2%) Total impact –€0.1m – Volatility 9% – 13% (12%) Total impact €1.8m Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Structured debt instruments – Correlation –19% – 25% (3%) Total impact €0.1m – Volatility –9% – 13% (11%) Total impact €0.1m Table 13.1.I Notes on range and sensitivity of unobservable market inputs (Level 3) at 31/12/2017 Significant unobservable market inputs Range (weighted Sensitivity average) Assets Derivatives Structured products derivatives – Options – Volatility 8% – 18% (13%) Total impact €0.2 million Available–for–sale investments Debt instruments: company cumprefs – Interest rates –5% – 13% (9%) Change of 1%/change of €0.1m (shareholdings) – Discount rates –8% – 13% (9%) Change of 1%/change of €0.1m Liabilities Derivatives Structured products derivatives – Equity forwards – Correlation –9% – 9% (0%) Total impact €0.0 million Risk management 154 13.2 Financial instruments not recognised at fair value The value of financial instruments not recognised at fair Table 13.2 shows the carrying amount and fair value of value is taken as the amount for which the instrument could financial instruments not recognised at fair value, with the be exchanged in a commercial transaction between willing exception of line items Cash and cash equivalents and parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. If there is an balances at central banks, Other assets and Other liabilities. active market, we use the market value to determine the fair For these financial instruments the carrying amount is a value. For financial instruments for which no market prices reasonable approximation of the fair value. are available, the fair values shown in Table 13.2 are estimated on the basis of the present value or using other estimation or valuation methods. Table 13.2 Financial instruments not recognised at fair value 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Level Valuation method Significant observable Fair value Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value Carrying and amount amount amount unobservable market inputs Assets Due from banks 538,910 539,180 186,461 186,459 186,461 186,459 2 Discounted cash Interest rate flows using and discount applicable money rate market rates Held-to-maturity – – – – 552,183 521,349 1 Quoted prices in – investments active markets Loans and advances 8,794,997 8,561,497 9,291,007 9,092,207 9,291,007 9,103,327 3 Discounted cash Interest rate, to the public and flows using current discount rate private sectors market fees for and comparable loans counterparty and taking into credit risk account the creditworthiness of the counterparty Other financial 576,970 554,209 552,183 521,349 – – 1 Quoted prices in – assets at amortised active markets cost Liabilities Due to banks 334,902 334,902 101,084 101,645 101,084 101,645 2 Discounted cash Interest rate flows using and discount applicable money rate market rates for liabilities Public and private 9,165,416 9,090,939 9,196,050 9,145,119 9,196,050 9,145,119 3 Discounted cash Interest rate, sector liabilities flows using discount rate applicable money and own market rates for credit risk liabilities with a comparable term to maturity, taking account of own credit risk Issued debt 1,532,823 1,521,504 2,445,114 2,411,671 2,445,114 2,411,671 1 Quoted prices in Interest rate securities active markets and discount rate Subordinated loans 184,108 173,473 225,634 173,620 225,634 166,802 3 Discounted cash Interest rate, flows using applicable discount rate money market rates and own for debt instruments credit risk with a comparable term to maturity, taking account of own credit risk Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 155 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION (€1,000) 1. Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 1,406,864 1,832,751 1,832,751 Cash 38 43 43 Balances at central banks 1,283,903 1,724,927 1,724,927 Statutory reserve deposits at central banks 12,783 12,877 12,877 Amounts due from banks 110,139 94,903 94,903 Impairments –0 –0 – Statutory reserve deposits comprise balances at central banks within the scope of the minimum reserves requirement. We cannot use these balances in our day-today operations. Reconciliation with consolidated statement of cash flows 2018 2017 Movements Cash and cash equivalents 1,406,864 1,832,751 –425,887 Due from banks, available on demand 104,659 40,145 64,515 Due to banks, available on demand –37,951 –46,163 8,212 Due from/to banks, available on demand, net 66,708 –6,018 72,726 Total 1,473,572 1,826,733 –353,161 2. Financial assets from trading activities 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 62,468 38,234 38,234 Debt instruments Structured debt instruments 3,877 2,561 2,561 Total debt instruments 3,877 2,561 2,561 Equity instruments Shares, listed 58,119 35,553 35,553 Shares, unlisted 472 119 119 Total equity instruments 58,590 35,673 35,673 3. Due from banks 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 539,180 186,459 186,459 Deposits 172,824 135,352 135,352 Receivables arising from unsettled securities transactions 104,659 40,145 40,145 Reverse repo transactions 250,000 – – Loans and advances 11,697 10,962 10,962 Impairments –0 –0 – Deposits include deposits to a total of €152.3 million (2017: €74.1 million) which serve as collateral for liabilities arising from derivatives transactions. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 156 4. Derivatives At 31 December 2018 Asset Liability Contract amount Total 332,719 469,316 12,396,497 Derivatives used for trading purposes Currency derivatives 93 92 17,499 Equity derivatives 309 107 416 Client option positions 42,547 39,787 39,787 Total derivatives used for trading purposes 42,949 39,986 57,701 Derivatives used for hedge accounting purposes Derivatives: fair value hedge accounting 56,804 56,580 2,844,430 Derivatives: portfolio fair value hedge accounting 1,077 36,341 2,380,000 Derivatives: cash flow hedge accounting – 18,247 100,000 Total derivatives used for hedge accounting purposes 57,881 111,168 5,324,430 Other derivatives Economic hedges 4,766 6,085 243,547 Structured product derivatives 227,122 312,076 6,400,818 Total other derivatives 231,888 318,161 6,644,365 At 31 December 2017 Asset Liability Contract amount Total 322,258 318,417 10,055,326 Derivatives used for trading purposes Interest rate derivatives 397 1,047 30,468 Currency derivatives 212 200 9,080 Equity derivatives 1,143 – 62,468 Client option positions 33,567 32,913 33,391 Total derivatives used for trading purposes 35,320 34,159 135,407 Derivatives used for hedge accounting purposes Derivatives: fair value hedge accounting 52,665 58,046 2,946,905 Derivatives: portfolio fair value hedge accounting 10,988 15,243 2,015,000 Derivatives: cash flow hedge accounting 663 14,131 100,000 Total derivatives used for hedge accounting purposes 64,316 87,421 5,061,905 Other derivatives Economic hedges 11,300 24,972 524,576 Structured product derivatives 211,321 171,864 4,333,438 Total other derivatives 222,622 196,837 4,858,014 We use derivatives for both trading and hedging purposes. The following types of equity derivatives are used: – Equity forwards; Note 4, Derivatives shows both the positive and negative – Futures; market values of the derivatives, as well as their notional – Long and short structured product options; values. – Equity swaps. The following types of interest rate derivatives are used: Inflation-linked swaps and swaptions are also used. – Interest rate swaps; – Interest rate options. The following types of currency derivatives are used: – Currency options; – FX forwards. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 157 We use interest rate swaps and inflation–linked swaps as hedging instruments in our hedge accounting. Ineffectiveness of derivatives for hedge 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 accounting purposes Fair value Ineffective Fair value Ineffective Fair value Ineffective Total –53,287 –221 –23,104 652 –23,104 652 Fair value hedge accounting model –1,031 49 –5,381 876 –5,381 876 Portfolio fair value hedge accounting model –35,264 –270 –4,255 –224 –4,255 –224 Cash flow hedge accounting model –18,247 – –13,468 – –13,468 – The total ineffectiveness of fair value hedges at year-end 2018 was €0.2 million (2017: €0.7 million), comprising €29.7 million in negative value changes in hedging instruments (2017: €3.2 million negative) and positive changes in the value of the hedged items of €29.5 million (2017: €3.9 million). edged items in cash flow hedge Within 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years 5 years and longer accounting by term at 31/12/2018 Total – – – –13,509 Cash inflow – – – – Cash outflow – – – –13,509 edged items in cash flow hedge Within 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years 5 years and longer accounting by term at 31/12/2017 Total – – – –9,825 Cash inflow – – – – Cash outflow – – – –9,825 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 158 . Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 31/12/2018 01/01/20181 31/12/2017 Total 218,583 416,899 394,898 Debt instruments Government paper and government-guaranteed paper 2,513 33,299 33,299 Banks and financial institutions, listed 10,933 6,035 6,035 Covered bonds 94,922 211,035 211,035 Puttable investment funds 70,281 61,905 61,905 Company cumprefs (shareholdings) (FVPL mandatory) 7,042 10,850 – Total debt instruments 185,691 323,123 312,273 Equity instruments (FVPL mandatory) Shares, unlisted 32,892 93,775 82,625 Total equity instruments 32,892 93,775 82,625 ovements in financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 2018 2017 At 31 December 394,898 336,238 Impact of adopting IFRS 9 22,001 – At 1 January 416,899 336,238 Purchases 306,573 174,486 Sales –232,531 –50,002 Redemptions –264,076 –62,100 Value changes –8,391 –3,724 Other movements 109 – At 31 December 218,583 394,898 All financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition with the exemption of puttable investment funds, company cumprefs (shareholdings) and equity instruments. The maximum credit risk to which we were exposed in the reporting period is equal to the carrying amount. 1 Due to the adoption of IFRS 9 as of 1 January 2018, equity instruments and company cumprefs (shareholdings) previously included under the line item Available-for-sale investments have been reclassified to Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 159 6. Financial assets at fair value through 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 other comprehensive income Fair value Face value Fair value Face value Fair value Face value Total 1,803,584 1,798,601 1,716,354 1,703,564 – – Debt instruments Government paper and governmentguaranteed paper 372,453 369,943 233,271 229,854 – – Sovereign, supranationals and agencies (SSA) bonds 44,205 44,000 68,819 69,000 – – Banks and financial institutions, listed 36,332 36,000 142,865 141,000 – – Covered bonds 843,168 842,281 570,938 568,828 – – Asset-backed securities 497,760 496,727 668,105 662,377 – – Companies, listed 9,666 9,650 32,357 32,505 – – Total debt instruments 1,803,584 1,798,601 1,716,354 1,703,564 – – Movements in gross carrying amount of Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Stage 1 At 1 January 1,703,564 Additions or releases without transfer –853,654 New financial assets originated or purchased 948,691 At 31 December 1,798,601 Movements in Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 2018 2017 At 31 December – – Impact of adopting IFRS 9 1,716,356 – At 1 January 1,716,356 – Purchases 1,001,047 – Sales –579,312 – Redemptions –329,760 – Value changes –2,165 – Other movements –2,582 – At 31 December 1,803,585 – Due to the adoption of IFRS 9 as of 1 January 2018, debt instruments excluding company cumprefs (shareholdings) previously included under the line item Available-for-sale investments have been reclassified to Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income. The loss allowance for financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income is recognised in Other comprehensive income and does not reduce the carrying amount of the financial asset. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 160 7. Available-for-sale investments 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Fair value Face value Fair value Face value Fair value Face value Total – – – – 1,738,355 1,715,453 Debt instruments Government paper and government-guaranteed paper – – – – 302,090 298,854 Banks and financial institutions, listed – – – – 142,865 141,000 Covered bonds – – – – 570,938 568,828 Asset-backed securities – – – – 668,105 662,377 Companies, listed – – – – 32,357 32,505 Company cumprefs (shareholdings) – – – – 10,850 11,889 Total debt instruments – – – – 1,727,204 1,715,453 Equity instruments Shares, unlisted – – 1,864 Shareholdings – – 9,287 Total equity instruments – – 11,151 Movements in available-for-sale investments 2018 2017 At 1 January – 1,680,036 Purchases – 863,432 Sales – –626,765 Redemptions – –181,884 Share premium (discount) of debt instruments – –2,852 Value changes – 1,366 Impairments – 3,051 Other movements – 1,972 At 31 December – 1,738,355 Due to the adoption of IFRS 9 as of 1 January 2018, debt and company cumprefs (shareholdings) reclassified as instruments excluding company cumprefs (shareholdings) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. have been reclassified as Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income and equity instruments 8. Held-to-maturity investments 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Carrying Carrying Carrying Face value Face value Face value amount amount amount Total – – – – 521,349 490,000 Debt instruments Government paper and governmentguaranteed paper – – – – 324,723 300,000 Banks and financial institutions, listed – – – – 196,627 190,000 Total debt instruments – – – – 521,349 490,000 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 161 Movements in held-to-maturity investments 2018 2017 At 1 January – 513,438 Purchases – 14,976 Share premium (discount) of debt instruments – –7,065 At 31 December – 521,349 Due to the adoption of IFRS 9 as of 1 January 2018, these items have been reclassified under the line item Other financial assets at amortised cost. 9. Loans and advances to the public and private sectors 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 8,561,497 9,092,207 9,103,327 Mortgage loans 6,289,139 6,267,532 6,267,532 Loans 1,447,782 1,710,486 1,710,486 Current accounts 578,442 962,916 962,916 Securities-backed loans and settlement claims 267,221 206,396 206,396 Subordinated loans 1,510 4,487 4,487 Value adjustments fair value hedge accounting 90,212 71,911 71,911 Impairments –112,811 –131,520 –120,400 Impairments 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/20171 Total –112,811 –131,520 –120,400 Mortgage loans –10,483 –14,082 –11,296 Current accounts –69,335 –74,639 – Other loans and advances –32,994 –42,798 –109,103 Movements in gross carrying amount of Loans and Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total advances to the public and private sectors At 1 January 7,762,425 1,684,215 392,728 9,839,368 Additions or releases without transfer –924,506 –290,088 –102,255 –1,316,850 Transfer to Stage 1 896,890 –882,587 –14,303 – Transfer to Stage 2 –936,556 978,090 –41,534 – Transfer to Stage 3 –23,926 –89,969 113,895 – New financial assets originated or purchased 785,164 – – 785,164 Amounts written off – – –12,295 –12,295 At 31 December 7,559,491 1,399,661 336,236 9,295,388 We acquired no financial or non-financial assets during the See “Risk management” (under 2, Credit risk) for more year through the seizure of collateral held as security (2017: information about loans and advances to the public and nil). In general, the policy is to dispose of these assets private sectors. within a reasonably short period. The proceeds are used to redeem the outstanding amount. 1 Prior to the introduction of IFRS 9 the impairments on Current accounts were included under Other loans and advances. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 162 10. Other financial assets at amortised 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 cost Fair value Face value Fair value Face value Fair value Face value Total 554,209 532,000 521,321 490,000 – – Debt instruments Government paper and governmentguaranteed paper 318,043 300,000 324,723 300,000 – – Banks and financial institutions, listed 236,200 232,000 196,627 190,000 – – Impairments –34 – –28 – – – Due to the adoption of IFRS 9 as of 1 January 2018, debt instruments previously included under the line item Heldto-maturity investments have been reclassified to Other financial assets at amortised cost. ovements in gross carrying amount of Other financial assets at amortised cost Stage 1 At 1 January 490,000 New financial assets originated or purchased 42,000 At 31 December 532,000 ovements in Other financial assets at amortised cost 2018 2017 At 31 December – – Impact of adopting IFRS 9 521,349 – At 1 January 521,349 – Purchases 42,000 – Value changes –34 – Other movements –9,107 – At 31 December 554,209 – 11. Investments in associates using the equity method Movements in investments in associates using the equity method 2018 2017 At 1 January 70,390 75,559 Acquisitions and contributions 9,609 27,147 Sales and repayments –25,407 –42,255 Income from associates 11,759 13,129 Impairments 783 –335 Dividend received –3,473 –3,833 Reclassification of assets classified as held for sale –7,882 – Other movements –1,709 978 At 31 December 54,071 70,390 All associates valued using the equity method are unlisted investments; see “Disclosure of interests in other entities”. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 163 12. Property and equipment 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 48,238 63,468 63,468 Buildings 35,465 41,973 41,973 IT, operating system software and communications equipment 5,453 5,929 5,929 Other assets 7,214 15,335 15,335 Work in progress 106 231 231 The carrying amount of buildings not in use amounted to of the minimum future lease payments is €1.6 million. €3.5 million at year-end 2018 (2017: €3.5 million). The present value of minimum future lease payments is €1.3 million, of which €0.2 million falls within one year, In 2014, we sold a building and entered into a lease contract €1.0 million between one and five years and €0.1 million for this location with a term of ten years and an extension after five years. option of five years. We retain the economic risk, and this building is therefore recognised in this section. The carrying No restrictive rights apply to property and equipment. amount of the building is €1.3 million and the total amount Movements in property and equipment 2018 Buildings IT, operating system Other assets Work in Total software and progress communications equipment At 1 January 41,973 5,929 15,335 231 63,468 Capital expenditure 1,125 2,648 1,358 4,525 9,656 Disposals –4,679 –7 – – –4,686 Capitalisation of investments – – – –4,650 –4,650 Depreciation –2,399 –3,118 –1,968 – –7,485 Impairments – – – – – Reclassification of assets classified as held for sale –558 – –7,518 – –8,076 Other 3 – 8 – 11 At 31 December 35,465 5,453 7,214 106 48,238 Historical cost 76,582 16,256 22,258 106 115,203 Accumulated depreciation and impairments –41,117 –10,804 –15,044 – –66,964 Net carrying amount at 31 December 35,465 5,453 7,214 106 48,238 Movements in property and equipment 2017 Buildings IT, operating system Other assets Work in Total software and progress communications equipment At 1 January 47,239 5,837 17,866 1,061 72,003 Capital expenditure 2,999 3,772 2,869 6,128 15,767 Disposals –6,543 –295 –206 – –7,044 Capitalisation of investments – – – –6,957 –6,957 Depreciation –2,467 –2,789 –4,235 – –9,491 Impairments –243 – – – –243 Other 988 –597 –959 – –568 At 31 December 41,973 5,929 15,335 231 63,468 Historical cost 90,462 14,580 42,397 231 147,671 Accumulated depreciation and impairments –48,489 –8,652 –27,063 – –84,203 Net carrying amount at 31 December 41,973 5,929 15,335 231 63,468 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 164 13. Goodwill and other intangible assets 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 183,083 218,389 218,389 Goodwill 130,247 154,981 154,981 Other intangible assets 52,836 63,408 63,408 Movements in goodwill and other Goodwill Client bases Third-party Brand Application Total intangible assets 2018 distribution names software channels At 1 January 154,981 48,678 409 6,898 7,424 218,389 Additions – – – – 879 879 Disposals – – – – –160 –160 Amortisation – –6,398 –409 –767 –1,742 –9,315 Impairments – – – – –263 –263 Reclassification of assets classified as held for sale –24,734 – – – – –24,734 Other – – – – –1,712 –1,712 At 31 December 130,247 42,280 – 6,131 4,426 183,083 Historical cost 130,247 106,084 4,899 15,330 65,487 322,047 Accumulated amortisation and impairments – –63,804 –4,899 –9,198 –61,063 –138,964 Net carrying amount at 31 December 130,247 42,280 – 6,132 4,424 183,083 Movements in goodwill and other Goodwill Client bases Third-party Brand Application Total intangible assets 2017 distribution names software channels At 1 January 155,747 24,649 817 7,664 5,576 194,453 Additions 1,919 28,700 – – 5,623 36,242 Disposals –666 – – – –38 –704 Amortisation – –4,671 –408 –767 –2,796 –8,641 Impairments –2,019 – – – –1,563 –3,582 Other – – – – 622 622 At 31 December 154,981 48,678 409 6,898 7,424 218,389 Historical cost 154,981 106,084 4,899 15,330 78,064 359,358 Accumulated amortisation and impairments – –57,406 –4,490 –8,432 –70,640 –140,969 Net carrying amount at 31 December 154,981 48,678 409 6,898 7,424 218,389 The accumulated impairments on goodwill amounted to €53.0 million at 31 December 2018 (2017: €75.4 million) and have been deducted from the historical cost. Allocation of goodwill to CGUs (based on segments) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Total 130,247 154,981 Private Banking 1,695 1,695 Asset Management 49,292 49,292 Merchant Banking 76,293 76,293 Non-strategic investments 2,967 27,701 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 165 In 2018, we performed impairment tests on the goodwill Cash flow estimates are based on our strategic plans and arising from acquisitions in earlier years. The tested potential future trends. Events and factors that could have a goodwill was allocated to CGUs Private Banking, Asset significant impact on the estimates include market Management, Merchant Banking and Non-strategic expectations, effects of mergers and acquisitions, investments. competitive conditions, client behaviour and changes in the client base, cost structure, trends in interest rates and risks, The recoverable amount of the CGUs is calculated on the and other circumstances specific to the industry and sector. basis of value in use. This calculation uses cash flow Cash flows are discounted using a discount rate for each projections for each CGU for a five-year period. These CGU which reflects the risk-free interest rate, supplemented projections for each CGU are based on the current year and with a surcharge for the market risk exposure of each CGU. on the financial estimates used by management to set objectives. Our growth target has been set at the long-term The weighted average cost of capital (WACC) is used as market growth rate of 1.0% for the period after the explicit the discount rate for the cash flows in the impairment test projections per CGU. Management has compared the main for non-strategic investments. assumptions against market forecasts and expectations. CGU % Discount rate before tax % Discount rate after tax % 2018 2017 2018 2017 Private Banking 9.5 9.1 7.4 7.1 Asset Management 9.9 11.1 7.8 8.7 Merchant Banking 8.7 7.8 6.9 6.1 Non-strategic investments 11.9 12.3 12.5 9.9 9.4 9.7 The impairment tests performed in 2018 did not result in An annual test is carried out for indications of impairment of goodwill impairments for CGUs Private Banking, Asset other intangible assets with a finite useful life. For the line Management, Merchant Banking and Non-strategic item Client bases, movements in the number of clients are investments. The model uses a baseline scenario. A assessed. For Third-party distribution channels, an sensitivity analysis was also performed, focusing particular assessment is carried out to determine whether the attention on a decrease in net profit, a change in the relationships with these parties still exist. The useful life pay-out ratio and a further increase in the cost of equity. tests carried out in 2018 provided no indication of a need This analysis demonstrated that a deterioration in the for further examination, nor of impairments. variables did not lead to an impairment in the four CGUs in 2018. 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024-2033 Expected amortisation of intangible assets 6,994 6,708 6,567 6,126 5,267 21,173 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 166 14. Tax assets 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 25,941 31,669 26,719 Current tax assets 1,231 1,491 1,491 Deferred tax assets 24,709 30,179 25,228 Movements in deferred tax Employee Property Derivatives Loss Commission Other Total assets 2018 benefits and available equipment for set-off At 31 December 3,122 2,593 3,275 15,639 128 471 25,228 Impact of adopting IFRS 9 – – – 1,478 – 3,465 4,943 At 1 January 3,122 2,593 3,275 17,117 128 3,937 30,172 Withdrawals through profit or loss – –317 – –6,426 – –383 –7,126 Additions through profit or loss 439 – – 1,190 75 – 1,704 Tax rate adjustments –180 26 – – – – –155 Total through profit or loss 258 –292 – –5,236 75 –383 –5,578 Directly from/to equity 28 – 208 – – –121 115 At 31 December 3,408 2,301 3,483 11,881 203 3,433 24,709 Movements in deferred tax Employee Property Derivatives Loss Commission Other Total assets 2017 benefits and available equipment for set-off At 1 January 4,262 2,448 3,628 28,489 79 1,004 39,910 Withdrawals through profit or loss –1,029 – – –12,850 – –533 –14,412 Additions through profit or loss – 145 – – 48 – 193 Total through profit or loss –1,029 145 – –12,850 48 –533 –14,218 Directly from/to equity –111 – –352 – – – –464 At 31 December 3,122 2,593 3,275 15,639 128 471 25,228 A proportion of the deferred tax assets depends on future assets that is expected to be recovered or settled after taxable profits. Tax losses incurred can be offset against more than 12 months amounts to €17,827. See Note 39, taxable profits in future years. Based on the most recent Income tax, for more information. forecast, it is likely that the existing tax losses can be offset well before expiry. The non-current portion of deferred tax Tax losses to be offset Amount Final year for Financial year offsetting 2012 31,239 2021 2013 – 2022 2014 – 2023 2015 6,992 Indefinitely 2016 4,360 Indefinitely 2017 736 Indefinitely 2018 4,198 Indefinitely The total amount of tax losses is recognised as a deferred tax asset based on the prevailing tax rate. The tax loss for 2012 has an expiry date of 31 December 2021. The losses of 2015 through 2018 arose from the permanent establishment in Belgium. As Belgium does not apply a time limit for offsetting losses, they can be carried forward indefinitely. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 167 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Unrecognised losses 24,167 23,682 The unrecognised losses are losses for which it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the unused tax losses can be utilised. 1 . Assets classified as held for sale 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 68,058 – – Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks 1,729 – – Loans and advances to the public and private sectors 1,719 – – Investments in associates using the equity method 9,956 – – Property and equipment 8,127 – – Goodwill and other intangible assets 29,465 – – Other assets 17,062 – – On 12 December 2018, Van Lanschot Kempen announced In the second half of 2018, Van Lanschot Chabot Mandema that an agreement has been reached with funds under the & Partners was classified as held for sale. On 19 February management of Bencis about the sale of the stake in 2019, Van Lanschot Kempen announced the sale to De non-strategic interest AIO II BV (acquired in 2009 by Goudse Verzekeringen of its interest in Van Lanschot Van Lanschot Kempen). AIO II BV is the holding company Chabot | Mandema & Partners. The proposed transaction is of pharmacy chain Medsen and wholesale chemist Ceban. expected to be completed in the first half of 2019. We plan The transaction is completed in February 2019. Due to this to sell assets at a price which is reasonable considering development, AIO II is included in the statement of financial their current fair value, as a result of which a sale is highly position under the line item Assets and liabilities classified probable and expected to be completed within one year. as held for sale; the result is recognised in the income statement under Discontinued operations. 16. Other assets 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 121,513 142,277 142,277 Interest receivable 16,622 22,980 22,980 Commission receivable 53,629 58,268 58,268 Transitory items 36,280 38,814 38,814 Assets acquired through foreclosures 190 651 651 Inventories 785 4,825 4,825 Other 14,006 16,740 16,740 Assets acquired through foreclosures relate to property. Inventories are related to the non-strategic investments. We aim to convert these to cash as soon as practicable. 17. Financial liabilities from trading activities 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 333 1,899 1,899 Equity instruments Shares, listed 333 1,882 1,882 Shares, unlisted – 17 17 Total equity instruments 333 1,899 1,899 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 168 18. Due to banks 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 334,902 101,645 101,645 Deposits 46,951 55,482 55,482 Repo transactions 250,000 – – Payables arising from unsettled securities transactions 35,798 23,134 23,134 Loans and advances drawn 2,153 23,029 23,029 19. Public and private sector liabilities 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 9,090,939 9,145,119 9,145,119 Savings 3,362,404 3,718,970 3,718,970 Deposits 231,472 228,567 228,567 Current accounts 5,130,131 4,831,497 4,831,497 Other client assets 365,808 365,239 365,239 Value adjustments fair value hedge accounting 1,123 845 845 20. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 940,361 971,453 971,453 Unstructured debt instruments 142,021 258,498 258,498 Structured debt instruments 798,340 712,955 712,955 All financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are notes and fixed-rate notes, and structured debt instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial such as index guarantee notes and trigger notes. Our own recognition. credit risk in the reporting year increased by €1.0 million (2017: down €4.4 million), reflecting an increase of We have issued debt instruments which are managed on €7.3 million on the back of the improvement in our own the basis of fair value. The fair value is paid to the issuer on credit quality, a reduction of €6.3 million for the passage maturity date. Management believes that valuation at fair of time and for changes in the notional amount. The value through profit or loss applies, as this largely eliminates cumulative change in the fair value of Financial liabilities or reduces inconsistencies in valuation and disclosure, and at fair value through profit or loss which can be allocated performance is assessed on the basis of fair value. to the changes in own credit risk amounted to a total Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include increase of €14.3 million (2017: €13.3 million). non-structured debt instruments such as floating-rate 21. Issued debt securities 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 1,521,504 2,411,671 2,411,671 Bond loans and notes – 465,290 465,290 Covered bonds 1,493,179 1,491,850 1,491,850 Notes as part of securitisation transactions – 436,467 436,467 Floating-rate notes 18,898 22,134 22,134 Value adjustments fair value hedge accounting 9,427 –4,069 –4,069 Issued debt securities comprise debt instruments with rates Face value versus carrying amount of interest that are either fixed or variable, in so far as not The value adjustment of debt securities as a result of hedge subordinated. None of these debt securities becomes accounting is recognised under the line item Issued debt payable on demand in 2019 (2018: €904 million). securities. Issued debt securities fell by €890.2 million relative to 2017 following the redemption of a €500.0 million senior unsecured bond in the first half of 2018 and the redemption of €436.5 million on the notes as part of securitisation transactions in the second half of 2018. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 169 Face value versus carrying amount of Face value Value adjustments Premium/discount Carrying amount issued debt securities at 31/12/2018 fair value hedge accounting Total 1,518,755 9,427 –6,678 1,521,504 Covered bond 1,500,000 9,427 –6,821 1,502,606 Floating-rate notes 18,755 – 143 18,898 Face value versus carrying amount of Face value Value adjustments Premium/discount Carrying amount issued debt securities at 31/12/2017 fair value hedge accounting Total 2,426,011 –4,069 –10,271 2,411,671 Bond loans and notes 467,614 1,599 –2,324 466,889 Covered bonds 1,500,000 –5,668 –8,150 1,486,181 Notes as part of securitisation transactions 436,467 – – 436,467 Floating-rate notes 21,930 – 204 22,134 22. Provisions 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 28,965 24,284 23,084 Provisions for pensions 15,313 14,545 14,545 Provision for employee discounts 112 177 177 Provision for long-service benefits 2,352 2,322 2,322 Provision for restructuring 6,356 66 66 Provision for interest rate derivatives recovery framework 1,025 2,064 2,064 Provision for financial guarantees and loan commitments 286 1,200 – Other provisions 3,520 3,910 3,910 Compared with 2017, provisions increased by €5.9 million, – Kempen operates an average salary scheme under mainly due to the provision for restructuring. which 1.875% of the pensionable salary – salary less state pension offset, with an annual ceiling of €40,571 We operate a number of employee schemes under which – is accrued for each year of service and which is based participants receive payments or benefits after they retire. on a retirement age of 68. The surviving dependants’ Specifically, there is a pension scheme and a discount pension is insured on a risk basis. scheme for mortgage interest rates, as well as a long– – The pension plans of F. van Lanschot Bankiers (Schweiz) service benefits scheme. have been set up according to the Swiss method of defined contributions but do not fulfil all the criteria of a The following defined benefit schemes were valued for the defined contribution pension plan according to IAS 19. purpose of the 2018 financial statements: For this reason, the Swiss pension plans are treated as – Van Lanschot Kempen employees were eligible for defined benefit plans in the consolidated financial discounted mortgage interest rates. Entitlement to this statements. discount continued beyond retirement from active service. The pension schemes have been placed with insurers and a – The long–service benefits depend on the number of pension institution, which are responsible for the pension years of service. administration, risk insurance and communication of legal – Both a defined contribution scheme and a defined documents to employees who are scheme members. benefit scheme are in place for employees working at Decisions on and changes to pension scheme content are the Belgian branch. The pensionable salary for the taken by an internal pensions committee. Where applicable, defined benefit scheme is taken as the average basic in the Netherlands the Works Council is consulted for its salary over the last five years of service. The pension opinion and/or consent. capital is insured with UKZT (Uitgesteld Kapitaal Zonder Tegenverzekering). The accompanying term life Only within a Kempen pension scheme, plan assets fund assurance is funded from risk premiums. The defined the obligations (i.e. the scheme is funded). The other contribution pension plans have been set up according schemes are unfunded; payments in any year are made to the Belgian method of defined contributions but do directly by the company. not fulfil all the criteria of a defined contribution pension plan according to IAS 19. For this reason, the defined The obligations are calculated using the projected unit contribution pension plans are treated as a defined credit method. benefit plan in the consolidated financial statements. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 170 Obligations/assets included in the Pensions Early retirement Employee Long-service statement of financial position by scheme discounts benefits at 31/12/2018 Defined benefit obligations 213,343 58 112 2,352 Fair value of plan assets 198,088 – – – Surplus/deficit –15,255 –58 –112 –2,352 Obligation at year-end –15,255 –58 –112 –2,352 Obligations/assets included in the Pensions Early retirement Employee Long-service statement of financial position by scheme discounts benefits at 31/12/2017 Defined benefit obligations 207,094 83 177 2,322 Fair value of plan assets 192,632 – – – Surplus/deficit –14,462 –83 –177 –2,322 Obligation at year-end –14,462 –83 –177 –2,322 ovements in defined benefit obligations for pension scheme 2018 2017 Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 207,094 199,811 Current service costs 5,899 5,871 Interest costs 3,580 3,644 Members' contributions 1,242 774 Financial assumptions –3,811 3,010 Gross benefits –2,034 –2,689 Transfers 1,111 –990 Changed assumptions 262 –2,337 efined benefit obligations at 31 ecember 213,343 207,094 At 31 December 2018, the weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation was 23.5 years (2017: 24.6 years). ovements in defined benefit obligations for early retirement scheme 2018 2017 Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 83 18 Current service costs – 74 Gross benefits –25 –9 efined benefit obligations at 31 ecember 58 83 ovements in defined benefit obligations for employee discount scheme 2018 2017 Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 177 4,100 Current service costs 9 56 Interest costs 2 15 Financial assumptions –66 –688 Gross benefits –10 –84 Discontinuation – –3,222 efined benefit obligations at 31 ecember 112 177 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 171 ovements in defined benefit obligations for long service benefits scheme 2018 2017 Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 2,322 2,317 Current service costs 143 162 Interest costs 28 23 Financial assumptions –21 –46 Gross benefits –120 –134 efined benefit obligations at 31 ecember 2,352 2,322 Movements in fair value of pension plan assets 2018 2017 Fair value at 1 January 192,632 187,526 Expected return on plan assets 3,442 3,506 Financial assumptions –3,548 120 Employer's contribution 5,776 5,218 Employees' contribution 300 229 Gross benefits –1,833 –2,492 Transfers 1,317 –1,477 Fair value at 31 December 198,088 192,632 Actual return on plan assets –105 3,627 Current service costs of pensions included in statement of income 2018 2017 Current service costs 5,898 5,871 Net interest income 3,580 3,644 Expected return on plan assets –3,442 –3,506 Net costs 6,036 6,008 Current service costs of early retirement included in statement of income 2018 2017 Current service costs – 74 Gross benefits –25 –9 Net costs –25 65 Current service costs of employee discounts included in statement of income 2018 2017 Current service costs 9 56 Net interest income 2 15 Net costs 11 71 Current service costs of long service benefits included in statement of income 2018 2017 Current service costs 143 162 Net interest income 28 23 Financial assumptions –21 –46 Net costs 150 139 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 172 Plan assets by investment category 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Fair value Percentage Fair value Percentage Total 198,088 100 192,632 100 Fixed income 125,668 63 118,198 61 Equities 33,097 17 41,642 22 Mixed funds 1,686 1 1,715 1 Real estate 6,657 3 6,419 3 Cash and cash instruments –830 0 –848 0 Other 31,809 16 25,507 13 At each reporting date, an asset/liability matching study is The maximum investment risk is linked to a strategic asset carried out by the pension fund’s asset manager, in which mix comprising 73% fixed income and 27% equity income the consequences of the strategic investment policies are investments, with a duration match of 75%. A bandwidth of analysed. The strategic investment policies of the pension 5% is in place. The other investment category consists of fund are bound by the maximum investment risk. funds managed by an external pension fund manager. The most significant actuarial assumptions made at the reporting date are as follows: Assumptions 2018 2017 Actuarial interest rate pension 0.8% – 2.1% 0.65% – 1.8% Actuarial interest rate employee discounts 1.2% 0.9% Actuarial interest rate long-service benefits 1.3% – 1.4% 1.1% – 1.2% Expected return on investments 0.8% – 2.1% 0.65% – 1.8% Price inflation 1.75% – 2.0% 1.75% – 2.0% General salary increase 1.00% – 1.75% 1.0% – 1.8% Retirement age 64–68 years 64 – 67 years The mortality rate is based on publicly available mortality obligations and a rise of 3.7% in the current service costs in tables for the relevant countries. For the calculations at the statement of income. 31 December 2018, the following mortality tables were used: For the Belgian branch, a reduction of 50 basis points in the – Kempen: the mortality tables as published by the Dutch actuarial interest rate will lead to an increase of 6.8% in the Association of Actuaries (Prognosetafel 2018); pension obligations and a rise of 50 basis points in the – Belgian branch: the mortality table as published by the actuarial interest rate will lead to a decrease of 6.1% in the Institute of Actuaries in Belgium (MR/FR) with an age pension obligations. correction of -3 years. – F. van Lanschot Bankiers (Schweiz): the mortality table For F. van Lanschot Bankiers (Schweiz), a reduction of as published by BVG (BVG 2015 GT). 50 basis points in the actuarial interest rate will lead to an For Kempen, a reduction of ten basis points in the actuarial increase of 9.2% in the pension obligations and a rise of interest rate will lead to an increase of 2.5% in the pension 50 basis points in the actuarial interest rate will lead to a decrease of 8.0% in the pension obligations. History of movements in pension scheme 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 gains and losses Defined benefit obligations 213,343 207,094 199,811 167,276 168,771 Fair value of plan assets 198,088 192,632 187,526 157,030 160,993 Surplus deficit –15,255 –14,462 –12,285 –10,246 –7,778 Actuarial gains/losses on obligations –3,811 3,010 13,484 –5,627 –267,278 Actuarial gains/losses on investments –3,548 120 16,734 –8,377 140,542 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 173 Pension obligations Employee discounts Long-service Expected contributions for 2019 benefits scheme Total 6,243 7 179 Expected employer's contributions 4,762 7 179 Expected employees' contributions 1,481 – – Provision for restructuring 2018 2017 At 1 January 66 630 Withdrawals –1,216 –601 Additions 7,506 37 At 31 December 6,356 66 Provision for interest rate derivatives recovery framework 2018 2017 At 1 January 2,064 8,853 Release –1,040 –8,517 Additions – 1,728 At 31 December 1,025 2,064 Other provisions 2018 2017 At 1 January 3,910 5,844 Withdrawals related to acquisitions/consolidation base –399 – Withdrawals –865 –2,997 Release –942 –312 Additions 1,780 1,462 Other changes 36 –86 At 31 December 3,520 3,910 Other provisions include provisions made for various legal claims. An amount of €0.8 million has an expected maturity of one year or longer. 23. Tax liabilities 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 5,764 13,007 12,841 Current tax liabilities 2,222 4,992 4,992 Deferred tax liabilities 3,542 8,015 7,849 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 174 Movements in deferred tax liabilities 2018 Property and Intangible Investment Other Total equipment assets portfolio At 31 December 873 3,852 3,061 63 7,849 Impact of adopting IFRS 9 – – 166 – 166 At 1 January 873 3,852 3,227 63 8,015 Withdrawals through profit or loss – –793 – – –793 Additions through profit or loss 736 – – – 736 Tax rate adjustments 23 –471 – – –448 Total through profit or loss 760 –1,264 – – –504 Directly from/to equity – – –4,017 48 –3,969 At 31 December 1,633 2,588 –790 111 3,542 Movements in deferred tax liabilities 2017 Property and Intangible Investment Other Total equipment assets portfolio At 1 January 312 2,821 2,201 – 5,334 Withdrawals through profit or loss –678 – – – –678 Additions through profit or loss 1,240 1,031 – 92 2,363 Tax rate adjustments – – – – – Total through profit or loss 562 1,031 – 92 1,685 Directly from/to equity – – 860 –30 831 At 31 December 873 3,852 3,061 63 7,849 See Note 39, Income tax, for more information. 2 . iabilities classified as held for sale 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 20,871 – – Provisions 284 – – Other liabilities 20,587 – – For more information, see Note 15, Assets classified as held for sale. 25. Other liabilities 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 125,383 156,820 156,820 Interest payable 24,943 31,007 31,007 Other accruals and deferred income 58,034 62,944 62,944 Other 42,407 62,869 62,869 Other liabilities comprise income received to be credited to future periods and amounts payable such as accrued interest, payables, suspense accounts and unsettled items. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 175 26. Subordinated loans 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 173,473 173,620 166,802 Certificates of indebtedness 156,402 156,818 150,000 Other subordinated loans 16,563 16,676 16,676 Value adjustments fair value hedge accounting 509 126 126 We have modified the terms of the certificates of As IAS 39 prescribes, we have adjusted the effective indebtedness with a nominal value of €150.0 million. IAS interest of these subordinated loans. Under IFRS 9 there is 39 describes a modification of the terms as substantially now a minimum requirement for a substantial modification, different if the present value of the cash flows under the and any difference is directly recognised in the statement of new terms is at least 10% different from the discounted income. As a result of adopting IFRS 9, we recognised a present value of the remaining cash flows of the original modification loss of €6.8 million in equity under the line financial liability. We calculate the difference between the item Other reserves for an amount of €5.1 million. A tax present value at €6.8 million. This difference is less than asset of €1.7 million was also recognised. These 10% and there is thus no substantial modification that adjustments to the characteristics of our certificates of would result in a derecognition of the financial liability and a indebtedness resulted in an optimisation of the total capital recognition of a new financial liability. ratio, as these certificates are now fully eligible for inclusion in the total capital ratio. Amortised cost versus carrying amount The value adjustment of subordinated loans used as hedged items is recognised under Subordinated loans. Amortised cost versus carrying amount subordinated Amortised cost Value Premium/ Carrying loans at 31/12/2018 adjustments discount amount fair value hedge accounting Total 166,563 509 6,402 173,473 7.320% subordinated bond loan 08/33 25,000 – 1,205 26,205 7.218% subordinated bond loan 08/38 25,000 – 1,563 26,563 7.269% subordinated bond loan 08/43 50,000 – 3,634 53,634 3.396% subordinated bond loan 16/26 50,000 –285 – 49,715 Other subordinated loans 16,563 794 – 17,357 The average coupon on the other subordinated loans in 2018 was 6.06% (2017: 6.07%). Amortised cost versus carrying amount subordinated Amortised cost Value Premium/ Carrying loans at 31/12/2017 adjustments discount amount fair value hedge accounting Total 166,676 126 – 166,802 6.716% subordinated bond loan 08/33 25,000 – – 25,000 6.665% subordinated bond loan 08/38 25,000 – – 25,000 6.614% subordinated bond loan 08/43 50,000 – – 50,000 3.396% subordinated bond loan 16/26 50,000 –819 – 49,181 Other subordinated loans 16,676 945 – 17,621 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 176 27. Total equity 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 1,268,195 1,334,742 1,349,124 Equity attributable to shareholders Issued share capital 41,362 41,147 41,147 Treasury shares –8,678 –7,869 –7,869 Share premium reserve 385,115 441,459 441,459 Revaluation reserve –3,065 9,682 14,013 Actuarial results on defined benefit schemes –17,591 –17,885 –17,885 Currency translation reserve 104 1,602 1,602 Cash flow hedge reserve –13,509 –9,825 –9,825 Own credit risk reserve –11,394 –9,966 – Retained earnings 809,008 780,625 780,711 Other reserves 763,553 754,234 768,616 Undistributed profit (attributable to shareholders) 74,631 89,508 89,508 Total equity attributable to shareholders 1,255,982 1,318,478 1,332,860 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests 6,529 10,827 10,827 Undistributed profit attributable to non-controlling interests 5,684 5,437 5,437 Total equity attributable to non-controlling interests 12,213 16,264 16,264 Share capital 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Number Value Number Value Class A ordinary shares (nominal value €1) 41,361,668 41,362 41,146,668 41,147 Unissued shares 108,638,332 108,638 108,853,332 108,853 Authorised capital 150,000,000 150,000 150,000,000 150,000 Movement in share capital 2018 2017 Number Value Number Value At 1 January 41,146,668 41,147 41,091,668 41,092 Shares issued 215,000 215 55,000 55 Capital increase 61,525,532 61,526 41,146,668 41,147 Capital return –61,525,532 –61,526 –41,146,668 –41,147 At 31 December 41,361,668 41,362 41,146,668 41,147 Share premium reserve Van Lanschot Kempen holds 344,647 depositary receipts At an extraordinary general meeting in ’s-Hertogenbosch for Class A ordinary shares to meet open positions (2017: on 5 October 2018, our shareholders approved the return 299,695). For more information on share-based payments, of capital in the amount of €1.50 per share, as announced see Note 35, Staff costs. on 22 August 2018. The capital return paid on 19 December 2018 amounted to €61.5 million and is charged No option rights have been granted since 2008. By the end to the share premium reserve available for distribution. These of 2018, board members held a total of 187,080 shares transactions are exempt from Dutch dividend tax. and depositary receipts for shares in Van Lanschot Kempen. Awards of unconditional shares and depositary receipts to All shares were paid up in cash. During the financial year staff are linked to performance and employment contracts. Van Lanschot Kempen conditionally granted 55,890 For more information about shares and options schemes depositary receipts for Class A ordinary shares. for staff and the Statutory Board, see page 72. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 177 Movements in Revaluation reserve of RevaluaActuarial Currency Cash flow Own credit Retained Total reserves 2018 available-for-sale tion results on translation hedge risk earnings investments reserve defined reserve reserve reserve financial benefit assets at schemes Equity Debt fair value instruments instruments through other comprehensive income At 31 December 4,828 9,185 – –17,885 1,602 –9,825 – 780,711 768,616 Impact of adopting IFRS 9 –4,828 –9,185 9,682 – – – –9,966 –86 –14,382 At 1 January – – 9,682 –17,885 1,602 –9,825 –9,966 780,625 754,234 Net changes in fair value – – –9,951 – – –3,684 – – –13,635 Realised gains/losses through profit or loss – – –2,731 – – – – – –2,731 Net impairment to profit or loss – – –65 – – – – – –65 Value change own credit risk – – – – – – –2,198 – –2,198 Profit appropriation – – – – – – – 30,139 30,139 Share plans – – – – – – – –445 –445 Actuarial results – – – 294 – – – – 294 To retained earnings – – – – – – 770 –770 – Other changes – – – – –1,499 – – –542 –2,040 At 31 December – – –3,064 –17,591 104 –13,509 –11,394 809,008 763,553 Tax effects – – 3,985 –91 – 208 733 – 4,835 In 2018, the dividend for 2017 was set at €1.45 per ordinary share. Movements in reserves Revaluation reserve of Actuarial Currency Cash flow Retained Total 2017 available-for-sale results on translation hedge earnings investments defined reserve reserve benefit schemes Equity Debt instruments instruments At 1 January 13,517 6,732 –16,625 2,257 –10,883 761,447 756,445 Net changes in fair value –7,778 7,258 – – 1,057 – 537 Realised gains/losses –911 –4,805 – – – – –5,716 through profit or loss Profit appropriation – – – – – 16,380 16,380 Share plans – – – – – 988 988 Actuarial results – – –542 – – – –542 To retained earnings – – –718 – – 718 – Other changes – – – –655 – 1,179 524 At 31 December 4,828 9,185 –17,885 1,602 –9,825 780,711 768,617 Tax effects – –860 38 – –352 – –1,175 In 2017, the dividend for 2016 was set at €1.20 per ordinary share. Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 178 Nature and purpose of other reserves Currency translation reserve: This reserve (which is not available Treasury shares: Covers the cost price of treasury shares kept for free distribution) covers currency exchange differences by Van Lanschot Kempen for shares awarded to staff under resulting from the valuation of investments in group companies current remuneration and equity schemes. at the prevailing exchange rate in so far as the currency rate risk is not hedged. Share premium reserve: Covers amounts paid to Van Lanschot Kempen by shareholders above the nominal value of purchased Own credit risk reserve: Covers the changes in shares. Van Lanschot Kempen’s own credit risk of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. Revaluation reserve: Covers movements in the fair value of FVOCI investments. ash ow hedge reserve Covers the share in the gain or loss on hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge that has ctuarial results on defined benefit schemes Covers actuarial been designated as an effective hedge. gains and losses on revaluation of investments and defined benefit obligations. The actuarial gains and losses related to a Retained earnings Covers past profits added to equity and shortfall in minimum performance on defined contribution plan changes in connection with the share scheme. assets, required under Belgian and Swiss law, are also included. 28. Contingent liabilities 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 134,449 122,189 122,189 Guarantees, etc. 134,449 122,189 122,189 For several group companies, guarantees of €225.6 million (2017: €150.1 million) have been issued. It is impossible to predict whether, when and how much of these contingent liabilities will be claimed. 29. Irrevocable commitments 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 853,276 861,342 861,342 Unused credit facilities 815,157 814,030 814,030 Other 38,119 47,312 47,312 The following movements are related to the gross carrying amount of the contingent liabilities and the irrevocable commitments. Movements in gross carrying amount of guarantees and loan Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total commitments At 1 January 230,844 14,133 3,690 248,667 Additions or releases without transfer –349,114 –5,277 –1,729 –356,120 Transfer to Stage 1 7,757 –7,532 –225 – Transfer to Stage 2 –9,050 9,050 – – Transfer to Stage 3 –1,487 –48 1,535 – New financial assets originated or purchased 345,766 – – 345,766 At 31 December 224,716 10,326 3,271 238,313 Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position 179 The following tables show the contingent items (contingent For each transaction that we have guaranteed, the liabilities and irrevocable commitments) based on their maximum guaranteed amount is included in the relevant remaining contractual terms to maturity at the reporting term bucket. For each obligation arising from an irrevocable date. commitment, the committed amount is classified in the relevant term bucket. Contractual maturity of contingent items at 31/12/2018 ithdrawable < 3 months 3 to 12 1 to 5 years More than Total on demand months 5 years Total 644 121,340 11,574 12,238 841,930 987,725 Guarantees 644 3,370 11,083 7,803 111,549 134,449 Unused credit facilities – 117,970 491 1,466 695,230 815,157 Other irrevocable commitments – – – 2,969 35,150 38,119 Contractual maturity of contingent items at 31/12/2017 ithdrawable < 3 months 3 to 12 1 to 5 years More than Total on demand months 5 years Total 722 119,384 5,708 23,016 834,700 983,530 Guarantees 722 3,234 4,444 13,610 100,179 122,189 Unused credit facilities – 116,150 1,264 6,428 690,188 814,030 Other irrevocable commitments – – – 2,978 44,334 47,312 Notes to the consolidated statement of income 180 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME (€1,000) 30. Net interest income 2018 2017 Total interest income 304,344 340,051 Interest income on cash equivalents 103 124 Interest income on banks and private sector 238,356 258,108 Interest income on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 5,040 – Interest income on other financial assets at amortised cost 8,485 – Interest income on available-for-sale investments – 7,423 Interest income on held-to-maturity investments – 10,238 Interest income calculated using the effective interest method 251,985 275,893 Interest income on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 2,192 4,654 Interest income on derivatives 45,262 56,905 Other interest income 4,904 2,599 Other interest income 52,359 64,158 Interest expense 2018 2017 Total interest expense 129,131 144,202 Interest expense on balances at central banks 5,855 5,455 Interest expense on banks and private sector 27,755 31,519 Interest expense on issued debt securities 23,333 31,039 Interest expense on subordinated loans 9,575 8,306 Interest expense calculated using the effective interest method 66,518 76,319 Interest expense on derivatives 61,084 67,574 Other interest expense 1,528 308 Other interest expense 62,612 67,882 Net interest income 175,213 195,849 In 2018, interest result was €20.6 million lower than in The interest result on loans subject to impairment was 2017. The decrease was the outcome of lower interest €11.1 million (2017: €4.1 million). income due to the run-off of the Corporate Banking loan portfolio and the repricing of the Private Banking loan portfolio. 31. Income from securities and associates 2018 2017 Total 31,323 37,029 Income from associates using the equity method 14,171 12,949 Realised result of associates using the equity method 14,557 11,125 Realised and unrealised gains/losses on investments at fair value through profit or loss 2,410 3,567 Realised result of available-for-sale equity instruments – 7,408 Dividend received on available-for-sale equity instruments – 3,450 Other gains on sales 184 –1,470 Notes to the consolidated statement of income 181 32. Net commission income 2018 2017 Total 293,247 266,986 Securities commissions 25,131 33,082 Management commissions 213,416 197,557 Cash transactions and funds transfer commissions 7,663 9,100 Corporate Finance and Equity Capital Markets commissions 38,125 19,116 Other commissions 8,913 8,131 Compared with 2017, commission income was up by €26.3 million. The increase was primarily due to higher management commissions (€15.9 million) driven by inflows, AuM from the acquisition of UBS s wealth management activities in the Netherlands, and partly offset by negative market performance. Corporate Finance and Equity Capital Markets commissions came in €19.0 million higher due to increased deal flow at Merchant Banking. 33. Result on financial transactions 2018 2017 Total –805 14,127 Gains/losses on securities trading –662 –408 Gains/losses on currency trading 8,007 7,860 Gains/losses on derivatives under hedge accounting –4,684 830 Gains/losses on trading derivatives 600 3,120 Realised gains on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 3,764 – Realised gains on available-for-sale debt instruments – 6,407 Gains/losses on economic hedges/hedge accounting not applied –29,037 19,929 Gains/losses on financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 21,207 –23,610 Compared with 2017, result on financial transactions was down by €14.9 million, €5.5 million of which was due to higher unrealised losses on derivatives under hedge accounting. The balance of losses on economic hedges and gains on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss came in €4.1 million higher. This balance reflects the revaluation result caused by changes in capital market yields in the marked-to-market portfolio and a number of derivatives positions. 34. Other income 2018 2017 Total 7,304 8,548 Net sales 11,020 12,020 Cost of sales –3,716 –3,472 Other income comprises net sales and cost of sales from non-strategic investments arising from debt conversion. In certain cases, where a company has not been able to repay a corporate loan granted by Van Lanschot Kempen, the loan has been converted into a shareholding, thus giving the company time to recover. We aim to sell any shares in non-strategic investments in due course. Notes to the consolidated statement of income 182 35. Staff costs 2018 2017 Total 263,724 246,343 Salaries and wages 192,332 180,904 Pension costs for defined contribution schemes 18,324 18,062 Pension costs for defined benefit schemes 6,976 5,846 Other social security costs 22,181 19,448 Share-based payments for variable remuneration 4,510 6,493 Other staff costs 19,401 15,590 Staff costs were up €17.4 million. The increase in salaries and The depositary receipts for Class A Van Lanschot Kempen wages was partly due to higher costs associated with the shares will be granted in 2019 on the second trading day acquisition of UBS’s wealth management activities in the after the release of Van Lanschot Kempen’s annual figures for Netherlands and to general salary increases. The rise in other 2018. social security costs was mainly caused by a higher contribution to the Dutch government’s sector fund. Changes As the participants in the Kempen Management to staff mortgage arrangements had resulted in a one-off Investment Plan pay the fair value of the equity instruments, positive effect in 2017. As this effect was not present in no expenses related to this are included in staff costs. 2018, other staff costs were higher. The average number of staff in 2018 was 1,843 In 2018, share-based payments added €5.3 million to equity (2017: 1,878), or 1,747 in full-time equivalents (2017: €4.9 million). Of the total expenses arising from (2017: 1,779), as shown below: share-based payments, €2.7 million is included in Salaries and wages (2017: €2.5 million); this amount includes the profit-sharing plan. Pension costs for defined contribution schemes include €1.1 million for Statutory Board members (2017: €0.7 million). Average FTEs 2018 2017 Total 1,747 1,779 Netherlands 1,553 1,580 Belgium 141 143 Other 53 56 Unconditional options granted to staff 2018 2017 Number of options Weighted-average Number of options Weighted-average exercise price (€) exercise price (€) At 1 January 6,679 73.53 10,721 65.05 Expired options –6,679 73.53 –4,042 51.04 At 31 December – n/a 6,679 73.53 Unconditional options can be exercised twice a year in the open period after the release of the interim and full-year figures. No option rights were exercised in 2017 or 2018. Conditional depositary receipts for shares granted to staff (excluding Statutory Board) 2018 2017 At 1 January 308,770 453,119 Granted 55,890 52,227 Vested –136,495 –181,520 Forfeited rights –5,234 –15,057 At 31 December 222,930 308,770 Notes to the consolidated statement of income 183 Conditional depositary receipts for shares are granted Conditional variable remuneration can be revised down if so to staff both under the variable remuneration policy for prompted by risks and performances identified later (malus). identified staff and the long-term share plan (LTP). Employees do not receive any dividends during the The fair value is determined based on the volume-weighted vesting period. If an employee ceases to be employed by day price for depositary receipts for Class A ordinary Van Lanschot Kempen within this period, their rights will shares on the second trading day after release of be forfeited, except in limited circumstances judged on Van Lanschot Kempen’s annual figures. The fair value is an individual basis. equal to the share price less discounted value of expected dividends. Depositary receipts granted in 2018 had a fair A part (around 50%) of the conditionally awarded value of €24.16 (2017: €18.94). depositary receipts is used to pay income tax. In 2018, 10,587 conditional depositary receipts for shares were granted under the LTP to a number of senior Share-based payments Kempen managers other than members of the Statutory Board Management Investment Plan (MIP) (2017: 7,960). Under the terms of the MIP, selected Kempen staff invest indirectly via depositary receipts in Kempen shares and Long-term share plan Kempen’s profit-sharing certificates. Kempen issued these to The long-term share plan allows us to award variable Kempen Management Investeringsplan Co peratief US remuneration to certain key employees, including identified (Co peratie MIP), a cooperative with two members, Stichting staff. It offers a special type of variable remuneration in Administratiekantoor Kempen Management Investeringsplan which the total variable pay takes the form of depositary (Stichting MIP) and Van Lanschot, with Stichting MIP holding receipts for Class A Van Lanschot Kempen shares. For the virtually all membership rights. Stichting MIP issues 2011-14 LTP, 50% of the Van Lanschot Kempen shares depositary receipts to selected staff, who pay their issue were awarded conditionally over a period of three years and price and receive the indirect right of beneficial ownership of 50% over a period of five years. As from LTP 2015, 60% of the underlying Kempen shares and profit-sharing certificates. the Van Lanschot Kempen shares are awarded immediately Any dividends Kempen pays on the ordinary shares owned and unconditionally, while 40% are awarded conditionally by Co peratie MIP and profit-sharing rights on the profitover a period of three years. sharing certificates are distributed to Co peratie MIP, which in turn distributes the profits to its members: Stichting MIP Conditional depositary receipts for shares will vest if: and Van Lanschot. Stichting MIP will subsequently pay out (i) Van Lanschot Kempen’s financial position allows this in its share of the profits to the individual staff members, pro the year of vesting; rata their holding of depositary receipts; for more information, (ii) Risks have been reviewed and no material, unforeseen see “Disclosure of interests in other entities”. risks have occurred; and (iii) The individual has not left Van Lanschot Kempen in the Individual staff finance the issue price entirely from three or five-year period. their own means and are not financially supported by Van Lanschot Kempen in any way. 36. Other administrative expenses 2018 2017 Total 162,043 168,481 Accommodation expenses 20,078 20,353 Marketing and communication 13,746 13,937 Office expenses 5,990 6,889 IT expenses 63,240 65,528 External auditors fees 3,066 3,160 Consultancy fees 18,705 15,748 Travel and hotel fees 3,665 3,736 Information providers fees 13,714 12,835 External service provider charges 6,331 6,019 Other 13,507 20,276 Consultancy fees relate to advisory services (business consultancy, tax) and the implementation and maintenance of software and hardware. Notes to the consolidated statement of income 184 Fees charged by the external independent auditors (and their network of offices) can be broken down as follows: Fees charged by external independent auditors 2018 Auditor wC Other auditors Total auditors Total 2,876 190 3,066 Financial statements audit fee 1,464 83 1,547 Fee for other audit services 659 – 659 Financial statements audit fee for funds managed by Kempen 627 – 627 Other non-audit assurance fees 127 106 233 Fees charged by external independent auditors 2017 Auditor wC Other auditors Total auditors Total 2,982 177 3,160 Financial statements audit fee 1,640 – 1,640 Fee for other audit services 814 – 814 Financial statements audit fee for funds managed by Kempen 506 – 506 Other non-audit assurance fees 23 177 201 This is a summary of the services rendered by our auditor – Assurance engagement F. van Lanschot Bankiers PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants NV: (Schweiz); – Financial statements audit; – ISAE 3402 report on Kempen Capital Management, – Financial statements audit for funds managed Private Banking and DGS; by Kempen; – Non–audit assurance engagements on safeguarding – Statutory audits of controlled and related entities; client assets; – Assurance engagement relating to the sustainability – Non–audit assurance engagement on cost price models. information in the annual report; – Audit of the regulatory returns to be submitted to De Nederlandsche Bank; 37. Depreciation and amortisation 2018 2017 Total 14,427 14,166 Buildings 2,399 2,429 IT, operating system software and communications equipment 3,118 2,791 Application software 1,742 2,796 Intangible assets arising from acquisitions 7,573 5,845 Results on disposals of property and equipment –2,373 –1,862 Other depreciation and amortisation 1,968 2,166 Notes to the consolidated statement of income 185 38. Impairments 2018 2017 Total impairments –13,416 –11,461 Cash and cash equivalents and balances at central banks 0 – Due from banks –0 – Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income –119 – Loans and advances to the public and private sectors –11,709 –11,875 Other financial assets at amortised cost 5 – Financial guarantees and loan commitments –913 – Impairment of financial instruments –12,737 –11,875 Available-for-sale investments – –3,051 Investments in associates using the equity method –892 335 Property and equipment – 243 Goodwill and intangible assets 263 2,796 Assets acquired through foreclosures –50 92 Other impairments –679 414 39. Income tax 2018 2017 Operating profit before tax from continuing operations 79,504 105,010 Profit before tax from discontinued operations 16,275 15,504 Total gross result 95,779 120,514 Prevailing tax rate in the Netherlands 25% 25% Tax on continuing operations 12,086 22,129 Tax on discontinued operations 3,378 3,440 Total tax 15,464 25,569 Expected tax 23,945 30,129 Increase/decrease in tax payable due to Tax-free income from securities and associates –9,649 –9,277 Non-deductible impairments – 229 Non-deductible costs 2,092 2,318 Non-deductible losses –228 91 Adjustments to taxes for prior financial years –239 168 Impact of foreign tax rate differences –146 –43 Release deferred tax assets –82 1,814 Other changes –229 141 Total increase/decrease –8,481 –4,560 Total tax 15,464 25,569 This tax amount consists of the tax expense for the financial year on the operating result as disclosed in the statement of income, also allowing for any tax relief facilities. When determining the tax amount, we have applied currently existing tax rules. Changes in the effective tax rate were mainly due to the equity holding exemption and nondeductible costs. In 2017, the effective tax also changed due to the statutory tax rate change in Belgium. Notes to the consolidated statement of income 186 The breakdown of deferred assets and liabilities is as follows: Key income tax components 2018 2017 Total 15,464 25,569 Standard tax 10,775 9,541 Income/expense from foreign tax rate differences –146 –43 Income/expense from changes in deferred tax assets 14 5,578 14,218 Income/expense from deferred tax liabilities 23 –504 1,685 Income/expense from prior-year adjustments –239 168 Deferred tax assets 2018 2017 Total 5,578 14,218 Employee benefits –258 1,029 Commissions –75 –48 Property and equipment 292 –145 Tax-loss carry-forwards 5,236 12,850 Other 383 533 Deferred tax liabilities 2018 2017 Total –504 1,685 Property and equipment 760 562 Intangible assets –1,264 1,031 Other – 92 0. Net profit from discontinued operations 2018 2017 Net interest income –377 –469 Income from securities and associates 276 665 Other income 45,108 44,577 Total income from operating activities 45,007 44,773 Staff costs 17,286 16,642 Other administrative costs 9,481 10,045 Depreciation and amortisation 1,965 1,796 Impairments – 786 Total expenses 28,732 29,269 Operating profit before tax 16,275 15,504 Income tax 3,378 3,440 Net profit 12,897 12,064 For more information, see Note 15, Assets classified as held for sale. Notes to the consolidated statement of income 187 41. Earnings per ordinary share 2018 2017 Net result 80,315 94,945 Share of non-controlling interests –5,684 –5,437 Net result for calculation of earnings per share 74,631 89,508 Net result for calculation of earnings per share from continuing operations 61,734 77,444 Net result for calculation of earnings per share from discontinued operations 12,897 12,064 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 41,004,769 40,959,989 Earnings per ordinary share (€) 1.82 2.19 Earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations (€) 1.51 1.89 Earnings per ordinary share from discontinued operations (€) 0.31 0.29 Proposed dividend per ordinary share (€) 1.45 1.45 To calculate earnings per ordinary share, the number of ordinary shares consists solely of the weighted average number of shares in issue, ignoring any treasury shares held by the company. 42. Diluted earnings per ordinary share 2018 2017 Net result for calculation of diluted earnings per share 74,631 89,508 Net result for calculation of diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 61,734 77,444 Net result for calculation of diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations 12,897 12,064 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 41,004,769 40,959,989 Potential shares 294,240 409,429 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue, fully diluted 41,299,009 41,369,418 Diluted earnings per ordinary share (€) 1.81 2.16 Diluted earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations (€) 1.49 1.87 Diluted earnings per ordinary share from discontinued operations (€) 0.31 0.29 Diluted earnings per ordinary share are calculated the same upon conversion into ordinary shares of all potential shares. way as earnings per share, but taking into account the Options are dilutive when triggering the issue of ordinary number of shares that could potentially cause dilution. shares that are at a price below average ordinary share Diluted earnings per ordinary share reflect the weighted prices over the period. average number of ordinary shares that would be in issue Related parties 188 RELATED PARTIES The Executive Board comprises our key management personnel and is responsible for implementing our strategy and managing our four core activities. The Board is made up of the Chairman of the Van Lanschot Kempen Statutory Board, the Van Lanschot Kempen CFO/CRO, the Van Lanschot Kempen COO and the members of the management team with responsibility for our core activities Private Banking, Asset Management and Merchant Banking. Remuneration of Executive Board 2018 2017 Total 6,510 5,540 Fixed salary, amount in cash 2,961 2,999 Fixed salary, amount in shares1 1,949 1,225 Fixed payment for pension and disability insurance costs 1,600 985 Deferred variable pay for previous years, cash – 98 Deferred variable pay for previous years, shares – 234 For transactions with key management personnel, see “Remuneration of the Statutory and Supervisory Boards”. Affiliates 2018 2017 Income xpenses Income xpenses Stichting Pensioenfonds F. van Lanschot 950 – 941 – 1 Expenses recognised under IFRS-EU accounting for Van Lanschot Kempen shares differ due to the treatment under IFRS 2. For 2018, expenses under IFRS amounted to €1.993. Related parties 189 Parties with significant influence in Van Lanschot empen The table below shows the year-end income and On the basis of regulatory guidelines, management has expenditure relating to these parties in the statement of decided that entities with a shareholding of at least 5% in income and the statement of financial position. Van Lanschot Kempen are parties with significant influence in Van Lanschot Kempen. arties with significant influence in an anschot empen in 2018 Income xpenses Amount receivable Amount payable Stichting Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen – – – 52 APG Asset Management NV – – – – LDDM Holding BV 0 – – 1,304 Janus Henderson Group plc – – – – Wellington Management Group LLP – – – – Reggeborgh Invest BV – – – – arties with significant influence in an anschot empen in 2017 Income xpenses Amount receivable Amount payable Stichting Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen 41 – – 52 APG Asset Management NV – – – – LDDM Holding BV – – – 9 Janus Henderson Group plc – – – – Wellington Management Group LLP – – – – Reggeborgh Invest BV – – – – Coöperatieve Rabobank UA1 9,108 9,751 – – Loans to parties with significant influence in Van Lanschot Kempen did not grant any guarantees in 2018 Van Lanschot Kempen were granted at market conditions, or 2017, and neither were impairments recognised for and collateral was provided. receivables. 1 Stake sold in September 2017. Related parties 190 ist of shareholders In compliance with Section 5.3 of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, the following notifications have been recorded in the major interests register held by the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM). The percentages reflect the number of shares on the register on the dates listed and the current number of shares. Shareholder Notification date Interest Stichting Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen 24 May 2013 96.80% epositary receipt holder Notification date Interest APG Asset Management NV 30 January 2018 9.89% LDDM Holding BV 3 June 2014 9.68% Janus Henderson Group plc 17 October 2016 5.56% Wellington Management Group LLP 28 December 2018 5.11% Reggeborgh Invest BV 9 April 2018 5.00% FMR LLC 7 July 2016 4.96% CRUX Asset Management Limited 14 September 2017 3.23% Investec Asset Management Limited 3 January 2018 3.09% T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. 9 May 2017 3.06% Invesco Limited 11 August 2017 2.99% Disclosure is required once a shareholder’s interest reaches, exceeds or falls below certain threshold values, and it should be noted that current stakes of listed shareholders and/or depositary receipt holders may have changed since notification date. Stichting Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen currently holds more than 99.99% of the Class A ordinary shares. For transactions in associates, see “Disclosures of interest in other entities”. Disclosure of interests in other entities 191 DISCLOSURE OF INTERESTS IN OTHER ENTITIES ey judgements and assumptions Interests in subsidiaries We rely on key judgements and assumptions when The consolidated statement of financial position and determining control and significant influence. We have statement of income comprise subsidiaries and entities included these under the headings “Basis of consolidation” in which Van Lanschot Kempen has control, but excludes and “Summary of significant accounting policies”. the names of relatively minor subsidiaries and entities. Subsidiaries ( ) 2018 2017 Van Lanschot NV 100 100 F. van Lanschot Bankiers (Schweiz) AG 100 100 Kempen & Co NV 98 96 Van Lanschot Participaties BV 100 100 Quion 17 BV 100 100 AIO II BV 72 72 Allshare BV 97 97 Holowell Holding BV 90 90 No restrictions apply between Van Lanschot Kempen and its subsidiaries. Consolidated structured entities controlled Courtine RMBS 2013-I BV by an anschot empen On 1 August 2013, we finalised the Courtine RMBS 2013-I In the consolidated statement of financial position we transaction, involving Dutch home mortgages to an amount consolidate structured entities. These are designed in such of €862.6 million. Repayments totalling €60.7 million were a way that the voting rights are not the dominant factor in received in 2017. The facility for topping up the pool with deciding who controls the entity, and the relevant activities mortgages was ended in 2016. The credit risk was not are governed by contractual arrangements. Van Lanschot transferred and Van Lanschot Kempen purchased the debt Kempen is exposed to substantially all of the risk of the instruments itself. Senior Class A2 notes are eligible for use structured entity and thereby controls it. Therefore these as collateral with DNB. The transaction therefore supports structured entities do not qualify as a transfer of financial the bank’s liquidity management and our role in the assets and are not derecognised from our statement of structure is that of pool servicer. The way the structure is financial position. set up, Van Lanschot Kempen does not have access to all liquidities of the Courtine RMBS 2013-I entity. At year-end We consolidate the following structured entities: 2018, the liquidity to which Van Lanschot Kempen had no – Courtine RMBS 2013-I BV access amounted to €12.8 million (2017: €12.8 million). – Lunet RMBS 2013-I BV Van Lanschot Kempen is also not able to sell the securitised – Van Lanschot Kempen Conditional Pass-Through loans to third parties. The structure does not impose any Covered Bond Company BV other restrictions on Van Lanschot Kempen. Disclosure of interests in other entities 192 Courtine R BS 2013 I B Fitch Standard & Original Date of Principal at First call Contractual Spread Ratings oor s principal securitisation 31 12 2018 option date maturity date Total 862,600 9 73 Senior Class A1 175,000 01/08/2013 – 26/09/2019 26/09/2050 1.15% Senior Class A2 AAA AAA 370,000 01/08/2013 160,573 26/09/2019 26/09/2050 2.15% Mezzanine Class B AAA AA+ 81,500 01/08/2013 81,500 26/09/2019 26/09/2050 0.00% Mezzanine Class C 112,000 01/08/2013 112,000 26/09/2019 26/09/2050 0.00% Junior Class D 115,500 01/08/2013 115,500 26/09/2019 26/09/2050 0.00% Subordinated Class E 8,600 01/08/2013 – 26/09/2019 26/09/2050 0.00% The Courtine transaction is a traditional securitisation. The second bond loan of €500 million was placed in March A characteristic of a traditional securitisation is that the 2016 (maturity of seven years: coupon of 0.375%) and the beneficial title to the securitised receivables is transferred third bond loan of €500 million was placed in February to an entity for securitisation purposes, which subsequently 2017 (maturity of ten years: coupon of 0.875%). All loans issues securities. The securities issued create a payment were placed with institutional investors. obligation for the securitisation entities rather than for Van Lanschot Kempen. The tables below show the total amounts of the mortgage loans involved in each securitisation transaction. Lunet RMBS 2013-I BV The Lunet RMBS 2013-I securitisation transaction, which became active in 2013, was redeemed on 28 December 2018, the first call date (FORD). Conditional pass through covered bond programme (C TCB) Van Lanschot Kempen established a CPTCB programme in March 2015. Investors have a dual recourse claim: initially against Van Lanschot Kempen, and, in the event of the bank’s failure, against a pool of cover assets. In April 2015 the bank launched the first bond loan of €500 million (maturity of seven years: coupon of 0.275%). Securitised loans at 31 12 2018 Fair value Carrying Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Impairments amount Total 2 322 2 1 2 213 90 1 9 1 92 2 9 98 2,427 09 Courtine RMBS 2013-I BV 478,648 460,461 390,018 68,016 2,427 409 Covered bond programme 1,843,603 1,753,444 1,551,474 201,970 – – Securitised loans at 31 12 2017 Fair value Carrying Neither past ast due loans Impaired loans Impairments amount due nor impaired loans Total 3 138 782 3 0 8 977 30 3 1,257 23 3 285 Courtine RMBS 2013-I BV 538,286 526,314 524,682 520 1,112 285 Lunet RMBS 2013-I BV 663,424 648,670 648,420 – 250 – Covered bond programme 1,937,073 1,893,993 1,892,254 737 1,001 – Van Lanschot Kempen provides no financial or other support to the securitisation entities, and has no intention of providing such support. Disclosure of interests in other entities 193 Non-consolidated structured entities Van Lanschot Kempen has no other interests in nonAsset-backed securities (RMBS) are classified as financial consolidated structured entities such as commitments, assets at fair value through other comprehensive income. guarantees, provisions, derivatives or other obligations. These RMBS investments are structured entities. We do The maximum exposure to non-consolidated structured not consolidate these because Van Lanschot Kempen is entities is equal to the acquisition cost and amounted to not exposed to substantially all of the risk of the structured €501.3 million at 31 December 2018 (2017: €668.9 million). entity. The table below shows Van Lanschot Kempen’s investments in non-consolidated structured entities and Van Lanschot Kempen provides no financial or other the total income from these investments. The Investments support to non-consolidated structured entities, and has column shows the carrying value as recognised in the no intention of providing such support consolidated statement of financial position. Non consolidated structured entities 2018 Interest income Comprehensive Total income Investments income Total 1,856 2 9 93 97 7 0 Asset-backed securities 1,856 –2,549 –693 497,760 Non consolidated structured entities 2017 Interest income Comprehensive Total income Investments income Total 2 9 3 090 7 9 668,105 Asset-backed securities 2,659 3,090 5,749 668,105 Non-controlling interests The consolidated statement of financial position and statement of income include a number of non-controlling interests; a list of non-controlling interests in Van Lanschot Kempen subsidiaries is provided below. Non controlling interests 31 12 2018 31 12 2017 Total 12 213 16,264 Kempen MIP 5,103 13,631 Consolidated investment funds 38 12 Consolidated shareholdings 7,072 2,621 Van Lanschot Kempen’s minority interests are recognised under non-controlling interests as part of equity. Disclosure of interests in other entities 194 Movements in 2018 2017 Non-controlling interests Non-controlling Undistributed Total Non-controlling Undistributed Total interests profit attributable interests profit attributable to non-controlling to non-controlling interests interests At 1 January 10,827 5,437 16,264 9,391 4,065 13,456 Profit appropriation 4,542 –4,542 – 3,393 –3,393 – Dividend – –895 –895 – –672 –672 Result for the reporting period – 5,684 5,684 – 5,437 5,437 Other changes –8,840 – –8,840 –1,957 – –1,957 At 31 December 6,529 5,684 12,213 10,827 5,437 16,264 Kempen Management Investment Plan (MIP) Several employees decided to accept this offer, exchanging Before the Kempen Management Investment Plan (MIP) a total of 6,649 depositary receipts. At 31 December 2018, was implemented in 2010, all Kempen shares were held by there were 15,000 depositary receipts in issue, i.e. 100% of Van Lanschot NV. These shares were all converted into the total available underlying depositary receipts under MIP. Class A ordinary shares following the implementation of the MIP. At the same time, within the scope of this Coöperatie MIP has granted Van Lanschot a call option to implementation, Kempen issued 1,658,671 new Class B acquire the outstanding shares and profit-sharing ordinary shares to Coöperatie MIP in exchange for a total certificates in MIP held by Coöperatie MIP. This call option purchase price of €15.0 million. may be exercised at any time during a three-month period starting on 1 January of every fifth year following the In 2013, the MIP’s structure changed, with Class A ordinary implementation of the MIP, the first of which started on shares converted to ordinary shares and Class B shares to 1 January 2016. Van Lanschot has the right to exercise the ordinary shares and profit-sharing certificates. call option in the event of undesired outcomes with regard to the MIP or other unexpected circumstances. Therefore, Coöperatie MIP has two members, Stichting MIP and the execution of the call option is designated as a Van Lanschot, which hold the membership rights issued by contingent settlement alternative. As a contingent Coöperatie MIP, with Van Lanschot’s membership being settlement alternative at 31 December 2018 is considered legally required. Stichting MIP issued depositary receipts for unlikely, the MIP is treated as a share-based payment its membership right in Coöperatie MIP to selected Kempen transaction settled in equity instruments. Van Lanschot employees who accepted the offer to invest in the MIP. The decided not to exercise the call option in the MIP in 2016, total purchase price of the depositary receipts amounted to but to continue the MIP with a few adjustments to the €15.0 million. return profile and governance structure. The earliest period in which Van Lanschot can exercise its call option will be In 2018, Kempen employees who owned depositary from January to March 2021. receipts in MIP were offered a one-time opportunity to exchange (a part of) their depositary receipts for certificates for Van Lanschot Kempen shares with the same fair value. Kempen MIP 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Number of depositary receipts issued 4,799 12,741 Legally required contribution by Van Lanschot Kempen (€) 100 100 Disclosure of interests in other entities 195 Financial information for empen I 31 12 2018 31 12 2017 Total assets 15,965 16,054 Total liabilities – – Equity attributable to shareholders 10,862 2,423 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 5,103 13,631 Total income from operating activities 965 1,054 Total expenses – – Taxes – – Net income 965 1,054 Of which attributable to shareholders 656 159 Of which attributable to non-controlling interests 309 895 Consolidated investments We consolidate three investments in which non-controlling minority interests of third parties are included. These non-controlling interests of third parties in consolidated investments include minority stakes in AIO II BV of Breda, the Netherlands (28.40%), in Holowell Holding BV of Tholen, the Netherlands (9.77%), and in Allshare BV of Hoofddorp, the Netherlands (2.95%). The table below provides aggregated information on consolidated investments. Financial information consolidated investments 31 12 2018 31 12 2017 Total assets 49,400 42,670 Total liabilities 36,523 50,186 Equity attributable to shareholders 5,805 –10,137 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 7,072 2,621 Total income from operating activities 52,126 53,149 Total expenses 34,142 38,691 Taxes 3,521 3,810 Net income 14,464 10,647 Of which attributable to shareholders 9,305 6,104 Of which attributable to non-controlling interests 5,158 4,544 Disclosure of interests in other entities 196 Associates Investments in associates using the equity method As part of our investment policy, we invest in medium-sized companies in the Netherlands, only holding minority of interests of between 20% and 49%. These investments are classified as investments in associates using the equity method. The table below shows the largest investments in associates based on the carrying amount (excluding Van Lanschot Chabot Mandema & Partners, which is classified as held for sale). Name Activities ead office Interest Bolster Investments Coöperatief Bolster is a long-term investor specialising in taking minority Amsterdam 29.75% UA shareholdings of 20-50% in private companies and pursuing a flexible, long-term investment horizon, allowing its companies portfolio to realise their long-term growth potential. Fire Safety Holding BV (Gerco) Gerco is the Dutch market leader in the field of fire compartmentation Schoonhoven 42.50% of buildings. Marfo Food Group Holding BV Marfo creates and prepares fresh frozen meals for airlines, hospitals, Lelystad 37.50% care homes, detention centres and remote locations. Movares Group BV Movares provides engineering and consultancy services in the fields of Utrecht 36.30% mobility, infrastructure, spatial planning and transport systems. OGD Beheer BV OGD provides ICT services to medium-sized and large companies, public Delft 32.20% and semi-public and non-profit organisations. Its services include service management, outsourcing, software development and ICT training. Ploeger Oxbo Holding BV Ploeger Oxbo develops, manufactures and sells a wide range of specialist Roosendaal 11.87% harvesting equipment to customers across the world. Quint Wellington Redwood Quint is an independent consultancy focusing on the strategic Amstelveen 18.25% Holding1 BV management, sourcing and outsourcing, and implementation of IT-related processes in organisations. Software Huis Holland BV Kraan Bouwcomputing provides a wide range of software products for Rotterdam 49.00% (Kraan Bouwcomputing) the construction and real estate sectors. Tecnotion Investment BV Tecnotion designs, produces and sells linear motors across the world, Almelo 37.98% to the semiconductor, electronics, LCD, automotive and robotics industries among others. 1 Not in any way linked to Wellington Management Group LLP. Disclosure of interests in other entities 197 Aggregated financial information of associates for which an anschot empen 31 12 2018 31 12 2017 applies the equity method Associates, Attributable to Associates, Attributable to equity method Van Lanschot Kempen equity method Van Lanschot Kempen Total 13 1 54,071 224,500 70 390 Current assets 132,049 45,461 190,623 55,453 Non-current assets 385,906 89,198 276,243 94,586 Current liabilities –90,040 –25,562 –124,918 –42,408 Non-current liabilities –293,464 –54,296 –117,449 –37,511 Goodwill 7,653 5,851 Impairments –6,496 –7,356 Other –1,887 1,775 Other financial information Dividend received 3,473 3,833 Income from operational activities 10,683 21,932 Share of net income 11,759 13,129 Unrecognised share of losses 3,517 3,207 Comprehensive income – – The table below shows the income and expenses that we report in the statement of income and the positions included in the statement of financial position, as well as guarantees issued at year-end in respect of these entities. Transactions with associates using the equity method 31 12 2018 31 12 2017 Income 7 267 Expenses 30 – Amount receivable 850 1,375 Amount payable 1,142 642 Guarantees 29 29 Loans granted to entities in which we exercise significant influence but do not have decisive control are granted on market terms and secured on collateral provided. No impairments were applied to the receivables in either 2018 or 2017. Disclosure of interests in other entities 198 Van Lanschot Participaties stakes resulting from debt conversions and consolidated Investments using the equity method are managed by in the Van Lanschot Kempen accounts (note that this is not a Van Lanschot Participaties, with the exception of our stakes core activity for Van Lanschot Participaties). The table below in Bolster Investments Coöperatief. As part of its direct shows Van Lanschot Participaties’ financial impact on the holdings, Van Lanschot Participaties issues subordinated consolidated statement of financial position and statement loans and cumulative preference shares, while it also invests of income. The table does not include information about in a portfolio of equity funds. In addition, Van Lanschot controlling interests. Participaties is the controlling shareholder of a number of Investment activity Item Carrying Interest Income from Impairments Total value securities and associates Direct investment Investment in associates using the equity method 37,938 – 9,832 783 10,615 Shareholdings Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 7,042 768 – 109 877 Subordinated loans Loans and advances to the public and private sectors 1,510 157 – – 157 Fund investment Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 7,429 – 2,114 – 2,114 Total 3 920 92 11 9 892 13 7 Joint ventures in which Van Lanschot empen is a partner We have no joint ventures. Commitments 199 COMMITMENTS Lease and rental agreements We have included the following operating lease payments in the statement of income under Other administrative expenses. Lease and rental agreements 2018 2017 Total 17,759 16,070 Minimum lease payments 5,259 5,531 Rent 12,500 10,539 We expect to include the following minimum payments for contractually agreed lease and rental agreements over the next few years. Future payments for lease and rental agreements 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Total 86,317 84,149 Within 1 year 16,198 15,738 1 to 5 years 44,835 39,239 More than 5 years 25,284 29,173 Commitments (€ million) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Rent Rent for buildings (including service fees and rent for parking spaces) 77.7 75.1 Future lease payments Car lease costs 7.8 8.6 Lease costs for copying equipment 0.8 0.4 The remaining terms of the lease and rental agreements range between one month and ten years. Commitments 200 Other commitments IT contracts In the past, Van Lanschot Kempen entered into several IT contracts, e.g. for hiring services and capacity, and for licensing and maintenance of our systems. Our future contractual payment commitments for the new and existing IT contracts amount to €37.8 million, as shown below. Future payments for IT contracts Total 37,776 Within 1 year 9,517 1 to 5 years 21,432 More than 5 years 6,826 Early termination of these contracts could result in additional costs. Exit fees are linked to the remaining term of the contracts. Segment information 201 SEGMENT INFORMATION Segmentation of our activities is based on operating segments, as our risk and return profile is chiefly affected by differences in our products and services. Internal cost allocation is based on use of services. Our activities break down into six operating segments, while intrasegment transactions are conducted on an arm’s length basis. Private Banking Private Banking offers private clients and entrepreneurs a broad range of products in the private banking market, while also focusing on business professionals and executives, healthcare professionals, foundations and associations. Evi Evi, Van Lanschot Kempen’s online investments and savings coach, targets people just entering the wealth management market and Private Banking clients preferring an online service in the Netherlands and Belgium. Its activities also specifically target mass-affluent individuals and Millennials. Asset Management A specialist asset manager, Asset Management focuses on a range of investment strategies while also offering fiduciary services to domestic and international institutional clients such as pension funds and insurers. Merchant Banking Merchant Banking offers specialist services including equities research and trading, mergers & acquisitions services, structured investment activities, capital market transactions and debt advisory services to institutional investors, corporates, financial institutions and public and semi-public entities. Corporate Banking A team of experts within Corporate Banking is engaged in managing and winding down the real estate and SME loan portfolios not linked to Private Banking clients. Other activities These comprise activities in the fields of interest rate, market and liquidity risk management, staff departments, as well as the activities of Van Lanschot Participaties/ Bolster and consolidated investments. Segment information 202 Operating segments in 2018 (€ million) Private Asset Merchant Corporate Other Banking Evi Management Banking Banking activities Total Statement of income Net interest income 137.7 2.5 –0.0 –0.0 21.6 13.5 175.2 Income from securities and associates – – –0.2 – – 31.5 31.3 Net commission income 127.0 4.4 100.0 58.0 1.9 1.9 293.2 Profit on financial transactions 1.1 – –0.0 1.0 – –2.8 –0.8 Other income – – – – – 7.3 7.3 Total income from operating activities 265.7 6.9 99.8 58.9 23.5 51.4 506.3 Staff costs 105.7 4.2 45.8 26.3 1.0 80.7 263.7 Other administrative expenses 67.2 9.1 23.8 9.1 0.5 52.3 162.0 Allocated internal expenses 61.5 2.9 12.8 9.9 9.9 –97.1 – Depreciation and amortisation 5.8 0.0 1.0 0.0 – 7.6 14.4 Impairments –2.9 0.0 – –0.0 –10.6 0.1 –13.4 Total expenses 237.4 16.2 83.4 45.3 0.8 43.7 426.8 Operating result before tax 28.4 –9.3 16.3 13.6 22.7 7.8 79.5 Operating result of discontinued operations before tax – – – – – 16.3 16.3 Operating segments in 2017 (€ million) Private Asset Merchant Corporate Other Banking Evi Management Banking Banking activities Total Statement of income Net interest income 151.4 3.3 –0.0 0.0 33.1 8.0 195.9 Income from securities and – – –1.2 – – 38.3 37.0 associates Net commission income 124.5 4.5 92.5 41.7 2.6 1.1 267.0 Profit on financial transactions 1.0 – –0.1 4.5 – 8.7 14.1 Other income – – – – – 8.5 8.5 Total income from operating activities 276.9 7.9 91.2 46.2 35.8 64.6 522.5 Staff costs 97.6 4.6 39.6 23.4 5.7 75.4 246.3 Other administrative expenses 71.6 7.9 21.9 8.0 2.3 56.9 168.5 Allocated internal expenses 57.9 7.0 10.9 9.2 12.1 –97.0 – Depreciation and amortisation 4.4 0.0 0.6 0.0 – 9.1 14.2 Impairments –3.2 0.0 – – –6.0 –2.3 –11.5 Total expenses 228.3 19.5 73.0 40.6 14.0 42.1 417.5 Operating result before tax 48.6 –11.6 18.2 5.6 21.7 22.5 105.0 Operating result of discontinued operations before tax – – – – – 15.5 15.5 Segment information 203 The tables below give additional information on the geographical spread of income from operations. Geographical segments in 2018 (€ million) Netherlands Belgium Other Total Statement of income Total income from operating activities 450.0 30.5 25.8 506.3 Of which income from other segments –4.2 3.6 0.6 – Statement of financial position Due from banks 158.3 – – 158.3 Investments in associates using the equity method 54.1 – – 54.1 Total non-current assets1 212.4 – – 212.4 Geographical segments in 2017 (€ million) Netherlands Belgium Other Total Statement of income Total income from operating activities 464.2 32.0 26.3 522.5 Of which income from other segments –6.9 5.8 1.2 – Statement of financial position Due from banks 47.2 – – 47.2 Investments in associates using the equity method 70.4 – – 70.4 Total non–current assets1 117.6 – – 117.6 1 Other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post-employment assets. Segment information 204 Country-by-country reporting on a consolidated basis at 31 December 2018 Country Name of main Nature of Average Total income Operating Income tax Government subsidiary activities number of from result before (€ million) subsidies staff (FTEs) operating tax (€ million) activities (€ million) (€ million) Total 1,747 506.3 79.5 12.1 – Netherlands Van Lanschot NV Wealth management 1,553 450.0 83.2 12.6 – Belgium Van Lanschot NV Wealth branch management 141 30.5 –5.3 –1.3 – Switzerland F. van Lanschot Wealth Bankiers management (Schweiz) AG 24 11.2 0.8 0.2 – United Kingdom Kempen Capital Asset (England) Management NV management branch 14 6.3 0.3 0.3 – United Kingdom Kempen Capital Asset (Scotland) Management management (UK) Ltd 9 5.3 0.4 0.1 – United States Kempen & Co Securities trading USA Inc. and research distribution 6 3.0 0.5 0.2 – France Kempen Capital Asset Management NV management branch – – –0.4 – – Country-by-country reporting on a consolidated basis at 31 December 2017 Country Name of main Nature of Average Total income Operating Income tax Government subsidiary activities number of from result before (€ million) subsidies staff (FTEs) operating tax (€ million) activities (€ million) (€ million) Total 1.779 522.5 105.0 22.1 – Netherlands Van Lanschot NV Wealth management 1.580 464.2 102.1 19.3 – Belgium Van Lanschot NV Wealth branch management 143 32.0 –0.6 1.9 – Switzerland F. van Lanschot Wealth Bankiers management (Schweiz) AG 23 11.4 1.4 0.4 – United Kingdom Kempen Capital Asset (England) Management NV management branch 20 7.2 0.3 0.1 – United Kingdom Kempen Capital Asset (Scotland) Management management (UK) Ltd 8 5.2 1.8 0.3 – United States Kempen & Co Securities trading USA Inc. and research distribution 5 2.6 0.1 0.1 – France Kempen Capital Asset Management NV management branch – – –0.1 – – Company statement of financial position at 31 December 2018 205 COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 (€1,000) Assets 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Investments in subsidiaries a 1,255,982 1,332,860 Total assets 1,255,982 1,332,860 Equity and liabilities 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Equity b 1,255,982 1,332,860 Total equity and liabilities 1,255,982 1,332,860 COMPANY STATEMENT OF INCOME FOR 2018 (€1,000) Statement of income 2018 2017 Income from subsidiaries c 74,631 89,508 Net result 74,631 89,508 The letters alongside the items refer to the relevant note to the company financial statements. ACCOUNTING POLICIES GOVERNING COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The company financial statements of Van Lanschot Kempen have been prepared in accordance with the statutory provisions of Article 402, Part 9, Book 2, of the Dutch Civil Code. We have availed ourselves of the facility offered by Section 362(8), Book 2 to use the same accounting policies (including those for the presentation of financial assets as equity or debt) as used in the consolidated financial statements. This does not apply to investments in associates, which are recognised at net asset value. The consolidated financial statements are denominated in euros, the functional and reporting currency of Van Lanschot Kempen. Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are given in thousands of euros. Notes to the company financial statements 206 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (€1,000) a Investments in subsidiaries Van Lanschot NV is measured at net asset value, with our Income from subsidiaries. Movements in this item were as share in the result recognised in the statement of income under follows: Investments in subsidiaries 2018 2017 At 1 January 1,332,860 1,340,470 Share premium payment –61,526 –40,847 Revaluations –89,983 –56,271 Group company results 74,631 89,508 At 31 December 1,255,982 1,332,860 Further information on the revaluations can be found in Van Lanschot Kempen has issued undertakings pursuant Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements, Equity. to Article 403, Book 2, of the Dutch Civil Code for: – Kempen & Co NV – NNE BV – Efima Hypotheken BV – Van Lanschot Participaties BV – BV Beheeren Beleggingsm Orthenstraat b Equity Equity 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Total 1,255,982 1,332,860 Issued share capital 41,362 41,147 Treasury shares –8,678 –7,869 Share premium reserve 385,115 441,459 Revaluation reserve –3,065 14,013 Actuarial results on defined benefit schemes –17,591 –17,885 Cash flow hedge reserve –13,509 –9,825 Own credit risk reserve –11,394 – Statutory reserves 29,338 34,843 Reserves under the Articles of Association 104 1,602 Available reserves 779,669 745,868 Other reserves 763,552 768,616 Result for the current financial year 74,631 89,508 For movements in equity, see Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements, Equity. In the year under review, conditional rights to 55,890 c Income from subsidiaries depositary receipts for Class A ordinary shares were This item includes the net profit attributable to awarded, for no consideration. To cover its open positions, shareholders. Van Lanschot Kempen retains 344,647 depositary receipts for Class A ordinary shares (2017: 299,695). RELATED PARTIES For related parties information, see “Related parties” The statutory reserves comprise a reserve in the amount of on page 188. the share in the positive income from associates (Article 389(6), Book 2, of the Dutch Civil Code) of €27.3 million and a reserve for currency translation differences on associates of €0.1 million. Profit appropriation 207 PROFIT APPROPRIATION If the annual general meeting approves the dividend proposal as included in these financial statements, the appropriation of net result will be as follows: rofit appropriation 2018 2017 Total 74,631 89,508 Addition to/withdrawal from reserves 15,156 30,280 Dividend on Class A ordinary shares 59,475 59,228 Remuneration of the Statutory and Supervisory Boards 208 REMUNERATION OF THE STATUTORY AND SUPERVISORY BOARDS For further details of remuneration received in 2018, see “Remuneration” on page 73. Total direct compensation of the individual members of the Statutory Board in 2018 Fixed salary, amount Fixed salary, amount Total fixed salary Deferred variable pay in cash in shares1 for previous years, shares2 Total 2,087 1,323 3,410 – Karl Guha 773 387 1,160 – Constant Korthout 438 312 750 – Arjan Huisman 438 312 750 – Richard Bruens 438 312 750 – Total direct compensation of the individual members of the Statutory Board in 2017 Fixed salary, amount Fixed salary, amount Total fixed salary Deferred variable pay in cash in shares1 for previous years, shares2 Total 2,111 825 2,936 136 Karl Guha 779 225 1,004 34 Constant Korthout 444 200 644 34 Arjan Huisman 444 200 644 34 Richard Bruens 444 200 644 34 Pension and disability insurance costs for the individual members of the Statutory 2018 2017 Board Total 1,110 681 Karl Guha 378 225 Constant Korthout 244 152 Arjan Huisman 244 152 Richard Bruens 244 152 The total remuneration related to 2018, consisting of fixed salary, pension and disability insurance, amounted to €1,538,000 for Karl Guha (2017: €1,263,000); €994,000 for Constant Korthout (2017: €830,000); €994,000 for Arjan Huisman (2017: €830,000); and €994,000 for Richard Bruens (2017: €830,000). 1 Expenses recognised under IFRS-EU accounting for Van Lanschot Kempen shares differ due to treatment under IFRS 2. For 2018, expenses under IFRS for Karl Guha amounted to €404, for Constant Korthout to €324, Arjan Huisman to €324, and for Richard Bruens to €324. A proportion of fixed salary is paid in the form of Van Lanschot Kempen shares. Karl Guha received 15,165 shares in two tranches (2017: 11,058 shares) and the other members of the Statutory Board each received 8,493 shares (2017: 9,830 shares). The number of shares granted in tranche 1 is based on the average share price for the first four trading days of 2018 (€26.28; 2017: €20.35); for tranche 2 the average share price is €24.53. IFRS takes the share price at grant date as the basis for recognition. This price for tranche 1 amounted to €26.28 (2017: €20.35) and the price for tranche 2 amounted to €24.53. 2 As of 2015, the remuneration of the Statutory Board was changed and variable pay was ended as part of the new remuneration policy. The table “Remuneration of Statutory Board” in the Remuneration section on page 74 of the directors’ report does not show variable remuneration payable in shares awarded. IFRS, as adopted within the European Union, prescribes that the costs of deferred variable share-based compensation should be spread over the period within which the relevant activities were performed. The vesting period for shares conditionally awarded in the 2014 financial year was 2015 to 2017; the shares vest in equal portions. Remuneration of the Statutory and Supervisory Boards 209 Number of depositary receipts for shares held by Statutory Board members in 2018 Sold/postAt 1 January Bought/awarded At 31 December employment Total 154,677 32,403 – 187,080 Karl Guha 43,124 9,378 – 52,502 Constant Korthout 45,326 7,675 – 53,001 Arjan Huisman 24,939 7,675 – 32,614 Richard Bruens 41,288 7,675 – 48,963 At 31 December 2018, the members of the Statutory Board held no options for depositary receipts for shares. Loans to Statutory Board members at 31 December 2018 At 31 December Repaid Interest Collateral Total 1,988 349 Constant Korthout 357 93 2.30% Mortgage 150 – 1.90% Mortgage Arjan Huisman 80 230 Floating Mortgage Richard Bruens 537 18 1.90% Mortgage 600 – 1.90% Mortgage 264 8 1.90% Mortgage Loans to Statutory Board members at 31 December 2017 At 31 December Repaid Interest Collateral Total 2,336 245 Constant Korthout 450 – 2.30% Mortgage 150 – 1.90% Mortgage Arjan Huisman – 220 1.40% Mortgage 310 – Floating Mortgage Richard Bruens 554 17 1.90% Mortgage 600 – 1.90% Mortgage 272 8 1.90% Mortgage No advances or guarantees have been granted to members of the Statutory Board. No impairments or write-offs have occurred on loans granted to Statutory Board members. Remuneration of the Statutory and Supervisory Boards 210 Remuneration of the Supervisory Board 2018 2017 Total 556 444 Willy Duron 127 107 Manfred Schepers (from 18 May 2017) 95 49 Frans Blom (from 5 October 2018) 19 – Jeanine Helthuis 76 64 Bernadette Langius 79 62 Godfried van Lanschot (until 31 May 2018) 32 60 Maarten Muller (from 31 May 2018) 43 – Lex van Overmeire (from 30 January 2017) 85 65 Jos Streppel (until 18 May 2017) – 36 No loans or advances had been granted to members of the Supervisory Board at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017. The company and its subsidiaries only grant personal loans, guarantees and the like to Supervisory Board members within the scope of normal operations and in keeping with conditions laid down in the financial services regulations for directors of Van Lanschot Kempen, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board. Loans are not forgiven. ’s-Hertogenbosch, 20 February 2019 Supervisory Board – Willy Duron, Chairman – Manfred Schepers, Deputy Chairman – Frans Blom – Jeanine Helthuis – Bernadette Langius – Maarten Muller – Lex Van Overmeire Statutory Board – Karl Guha, Chairman – Constant Korthout – Arjan Huisman – Richard Bruens Events after the reporting period 211 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD There have been no significant events since the reporting date that affect the relevance of information provided in the 2018 financial statements. Other information Independent auditor's report 213 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT To: the general meeting and supervisory board of We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is Van Lanschot Kempen N.V. sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Report on the financial statements 2018 Independence We are independent of Van Lanschot Kempen N.V. in Our opinion accordance with the European Regulation on specific In our opinion: requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest Van Lanschot Kempen N.V.’s consolidated financial entities, the ‘Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties’ (Wta statements give a true and fair view of the financial position – Audit firms supervision act), the Verordening inzake de of the Group as at 31 December 2018 and of its result and onafhankel kheid van accountants b assuranceopdrachten’ cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with (ViO – Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by regulation with respect to independence) and other relevant the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of independence requirements in the Netherlands. the Dutch Civil Code; Furthermore, we have complied with the ‘Verordening Van Lanschot Kempen N.V.’s company financial statements gedragsen beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA – Code of give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with Company as at 31 December 2018 and of its result for the respect to rules of professional conduct). year then ended in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Our audit approach What we have audited Overview and context We have audited the accompanying financial statements Van Lanschot Kempen N.V. is a Dutch wealth management 2018 of Van Lanschot Kempen N.V., Den Bosch (‘the institution operating in the segments private banking, online Company’). The financial statements include the investments and savings platform Evi, asset management, consolidated financial statements of Van Lanschot Kempen merchant banking, corporate banking and other activities. N.V. together with its subsidiaries (‘the Group’) and the The Group is comprised of several components and therefore company financial statements. we considered our group audit scope and approach as set out in the section ‘The scope of our group audit’. We paid The consolidated financial statements comprise: specific attention to the areas of focus driven by the the consolidated statement of financial position at operations of the Group, as set out below. 31 December 2018; • the following statements for 2018: the consolidated As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality statement of income, the consolidated statement of and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of financial statements. In particular, we considered where the changes in equity and the consolidated statement of executive board made important judgements, for example, in cash flows; and respect of significant accounting estimates that involved the notes, comprising significant accounting policies making assumptions and considering future events that are and other explanatory information. inherently uncertain. In the section Summary of significant accounting policies’, subsection Significant accounting The company financial statements comprise: judgements and estimates’ on page 114 of the financial the company statement of financial position at statements the Company describes the areas of judgement 31 December 2018; in applying accounting policies and the key sources of • the company statement of income for 2018; and estimation uncertainty. Of the judgements and estimates • the notes, comprising the accounting policies applied mentioned in this section we considered the impairments of and other explanatory information. financial assets (of which impairment of loans and advances to the public and private sectors is part) and the The financial reporting framework that has been applied in determination of fair value of financial instruments as most the preparation of the financial statements is EU-IFRS and significant for the financial year 2018. Given the significant the relevant provisions of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil estimation uncertainty and significance of both the impact on Code for the consolidated financial statements and Part 9 of the organisation and the Group results of the implementation Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code for the company financial of the new accounting standard IFRS 9, we consider the statements following matters key audit matters, as set forth in the key audit matter section of this report: the impairment of loans The basis for our opinion and advances to the public and private sectors and the We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, valuation of financial instruments at fair value. including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. We have further described our responsibilities under those standards in the The various IT change initiatives (such as the outsourcing of section Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial operational activities to third parties, the large scale phasing statements’ of our report. out of legacy computer systems, the optimisation of the regulatory reporting tool and the realisation of a one control Independent auditor's report 214 documentation environment across the Group) bring inherent As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of operational and reputation risks that could also have an management override of internal controls, including indirect and direct impact on the business and financial evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the reporting processes of the Group. executive board that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud and non-compliances with laws As these change initiatives may affect systems, processes and regulations. and the effectiveness of controls they could affect the financial statements and our audit. Therefore, we also As part of our responsibility, we ensured that the audit teams included this as part of the key audit matter reliability and at both group and component level included the appropriate continuity of IT systems. skills and competences, which are needed for the audit of a wealth management organisation with banking operations. Other areas of focus in our audit of the financial statements, We therefore also included specialists in the areas of IT, but that were not considered to be key audit matters, were accounting and valuation of financial instruments, fraud, the implementation of new accounting standards (e.g. IFRS employee benefits and taxation in our team. 9, 15 and 16), goodwill, deferred tax assets, share-based payments, intended sale of participation AIO II (note 15 in The outline of our audit approach was as follows: the financial statements) and non-financial information. Materiality – Overall materiality: €4.7 million. Audit scope – We conducted audit work primarily in the Netherlands. – Site visits were conducted to Belgium and Switzerland. – Audit coverage: 98.2% of consolidated revenue, 99.2% of consolidated total assets and 95.2% of consolidated profit before tax. Key audit matters – Impairments of loans and advances to the public and private sectors. – Fair value measurement of financial instruments. – Reliability and continuity of IT systems. Materiality set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative The scope of our audit is influenced by the application of considerations, helped us to determine the nature, timing materiality, which is further explained in the section ‘Our and extent of our audit procedures on the individual responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’. financial statement line items and disclosures and to evaluate the effect of identified misstatements, both Based on our professional judgement, we determined individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements as certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the a whole and on our opinion. overall materiality for the financial statements as a whole as Overall Group materiality €4.7 million (2017: €6.025 million). Basis for determining materiality We used our professional judgement to determine overall materiality. As a basis for our judgement we used 5% of profit before tax from both continuing and discontinued operations Rationale for benchmark applied We used profit before tax as the primary benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, based on our analysis of the common information needs of users of the financial statements. On this basis, we believe that profit before tax is an important metric for the financial performance of the Company. We included both profit before tax from continuing and discontinued operations in our benchmark. The profit before tax resulting from discontinued operations relates to the component AIO II B.V. which is intended to be divested in 2019. Component materiality To each component in our audit scope, we, based on our judgement, allocate materiality that is less than our overall group materiality. The range of materiality allocated across components was between €1.0 million and €4.7 million. Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality. Independent auditor's report 215 We also take misstatements and/or possible misstatements sufficient appropriate audit evidence as a basis for our into account that, in our judgement, are material for opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole qualitative reasons. is obtained. We issued instructions to the component audit teams in our audit scope and these instructions included We agreed with the supervisory board that we would amongst others our risk analysis, the expected materiality report to them misstatements identified during our audit to be applied and requested scope of the work to be above €235 thousand (2017: €300 thousand) as well as performed by them. We explained to the component audit misstatements below that amount that, in our view, teams the structure of the Group, the main developments warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. that are relevant for the component auditors, the risks identified, the materiality levels to be applied and our global The scope of our group audit audit approach. We had individual calls with each of the Van Lanschot Kempen N.V. is the parent company of a in-scope component audit teams during the year including group of entities. The financial information of this Group is upon conclusion of their work. During these calls, we included in the consolidated financial statements of Van discussed the significant accounting and audit issues Lanschot Kempen N.V. identified by the component auditors, the reports of the component auditors, the findings of their procedures and We tailored the scope of our audit in such a way to ensure other matters and developments, which could be of that we performed sufficient work to be able to give an relevance for the consolidated financial statements. opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the management structure of the Group, the nature The group engagement team visits the most significant of operations of its components, the accounting processes component teams and local management. Therefore, the and controls, and the markets in which the components of group audit team visited the Belgian and Swiss components the Group operate. In establishing the overall group audit given the significance of these components to the Group’s strategy and plan, we determined the type of work required financial information as a whole. On a rotational basis we to be performed at component level by the Group review a selection of working papers of component engagement team and by each component auditor. auditors. For this year, we reviewed a selection of working papers of the Belgian component. The group audit primarily focused on the significant components: Van Lanschot N.V., Kempen & Co N.V., The group engagement team performed the audit work on Van Lanschot Belgian Branch, F. van Lanschot Bankiers the Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and (Schweiz) AG, Van Lanschot Participaties B.V. and AIO II a number of complex items at the head office. These B.V. As these components were individually financially included derivative financial instruments, hedge accounting significant to the Group, they were subject to audits of their and the impairments of loans and advances to the public complete financial information. and private sectors (including the implementation of the new IFRS 9 accounting standard). Additionally, we selected one component (Quion 17 B.V.) for which audit procedures were performed to achieve The Company has outsourced part of its IT activities, its appropriate coverage on financial line items in the mortgage administration services and its treasury software. consolidated financial statements. In our assessment of these service providers, we made use of the ISAE 3402 Type 2 report from reliable independent In total, in performing these procedures, we achieved the auditors. In this context, for the ISAE 3402 for the following coverage on the financial line items: outsourced mortgage administration services, we have been involved in planning the ISAE 3402 work by the service provider auditors. For all ISAE 3402 work, we Revenue 98.2% discussed progress and interim findings of the audit and, finally, evaluated the ISAE 3402 assurance reports once Total assets 99.2% they were finalised. Based on these procedures performed, rofit before tax 95.2% we conclude that in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Company, we could rely on the ISAE 3402 Type 2 assurance reports. None of the remaining components represented more than 1% of total group revenue or total group assets. For those By performing the procedures above at components, remaining components we performed, among other things, combined with additional procedures at group level, we analytical procedures to corroborate our assessment that have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit there were no significant risks of material misstatements evidence on the Group’s financial information, as a whole, to within those components. provide a basis for our opinion on the financial statements. For the components Van Lanschot Belgian Branch, F. van Key audit matters Lanschot Bankiers (Schweiz) AG and AIO II B.V. we Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional instructed component auditors that are familiar with the judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the local laws and regulations to perform the audit work. For financial statements. We have communicated the key audit the other significant components, the group audit team matters to the executive board and the supervisory board. performed the work. The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters identified by our audit and that we discussed. In Where component auditors performed the work, we this section, we describe the key audit matters and include a determined the level of involvement we needed to obtain summary of the audit procedures we performed on those from their audit work to be able to conclude whether matters. Independent auditor's report 216 We addressed the key audit matters in the context of our These key audit matters are in line with our prior year’s audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming auditor’s report, as they relate to the operations of the bank, our opinion thereon. We do not provide separate opinions on except for the inclusion of IFRS 9 in the key audit matter these matters or on specific elements of the financial related to impairments of loans and advances to the public statements. Any comments or observations we made on the and private sectors since the new standard replaced IAS 39. results of our procedures should be read in this context. Key audit matter Our audit work and observations Impairments of loans and advances to the public and Control design and operation effectiveness private sectors We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of key See note 9 to the financial statements for the disclosures of loans and controls in the following areas: advances to the public and private sectors including impairments, the – credit management process to assess the loan quality classification to paragraph Impairments’ of the summary of significant accounting identify impaired loans; principles and subsection 2.8 and 2.9 of the risk management paragraph – implementation of a new definition of default; containing the disclosures in view of credit risk. – input controls and data lineage in respect of the critical data elements; – the governance over the development, validation, calibration and The gross loans and advances to the public and private sectors amount to implementation of the impairment models; €8,561 million, the total impairment as at 31 December 2018 amounts to – the completeness and accuracy of the transfer of data from underlying €112.8 million. source systems to the expected loss calculations; – the review and approval process that management has in place for As at 1 January 2018, the Company has adopted accounting standard stage transfers between reporting periods; IFRS 9 and moved from an incurred loss model to an expected credit loss – the review and approval process that management has in place for the (ECL) model resulting in an impact on the impairment of loans and outputs of the impairment models, and the top level adjustments that advances to public and private sectors of €11.1 million, which has been are applied to the model outputs; and recognised in the opening balance of retained earnings. – the valuation of future cash flows and existence and valuation of collateral, based on the appropriate use of key parameters for the Three-stage expected credit loss impairment model stage 3 specific impairment allowance. In connection with the implementation of the new accounting standard IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ as from 1 January 2018, the Company Based on the testing of controls, we determined that it was appropriate to implemented a three-stage expected credit loss impairment model place reliance on the above controls for the purpose of our audit. consisting of: – stage 1 (gross carrying amount €7,559 million, impairment Assessment of model-based impairments €3.7 million): recognition of allowances measured at an amount equal With support of our internal valuation experts we performed the to the 12 month expected credit losses of the financial assets (loans following procedures on the model-based impairments: and advances to the public and private sectors); – evaluation of the reasonableness of the applied model methodology – stage 2 (gross carrying amount €1,400 million, impairment in line with IFRS-EU; €8.6 million): recognition of allowances measured at an amount equal – evaluation of the macro-economic scenarios and macro-economic to the lifetime expected credit losses for financial assets for which variables applied; credit risk has significantly increased since initial recognition, but that – testing the input data and data lineage in respect of the critical data are not credit-impaired; and elements; – stage 3 (gross carrying amount €336 million, impairment – challenging management on the reasonableness of their provided €100.5 million): financial assets that are credit-impaired. explanations and evidence supporting the key model parameters; – reperformance of the key tests per model on initial calibration and The Company determines loan impairments in stage 1, and 2 on a continued model monitoring performance in view of model validation; modelled basis. For stage 3 exposures, a loan by loan impairment is – assessment of the dashboard covering the outcomes of the model determined on which a model overlay is applied to account for macroperformance as at 31 December 2018; and economic variables and forward-looking information. – assessment of stage transfers as at 31 December 2018. Model methodology and inputs Based on the above we assessed the methodology and inputs to be in For the modelled loan impairments the Company utilises the point in time line with market and industry practice. probability of default (PD), the loss given default (LGD) and the exposure at default (EAD) models for the majority of the loan portfolio. The critical Assessment of stage 3 specific impairment allowance (baseline data elements as input for these models are retrieved from the core scenario) banking source systems. Three global macro-economic scenarios are Considering the inherent estimation risk of individually impaired loans incorporated into these models and the probability of the scenarios is (stage 3), we performed risk-based sample testing and selected samples weighted in order to determine the expected credit losses. When specific from both the whole loan portfolio as well as from the stage 3 – specific macro-economic exposures are not sufficiently covered by the models or impaired loans population and analysed the latest developments at the when data limitations or other inherent model limitations are identified, a borrower and considered whether the key judgements applied in the top-level adjustment is made. impairment allowance are acceptable for both the balance as at 1 January 2018 and 31 December 2018. Stage 3 specific impairment allowance For each individually impaired loan the Company determines an We substantively tested for a risk-based sample of the loans and advances impairment allowance based on the most likely scenario taking into the judgemental elements including: account timely identification of impairment triggers, expected future cash – classification as a performing or non-performing loan based on the flows, discount rates and the value and recoverability of the (non-)existence of triggering events; corresponding collateral. This impairment allowance is the neutral – nature and accuracy of the expected future cash flows with reference scenario (baseline). A model overlay is applied to calculate for alternative to the current economic performance, the assumptions most scenarios and the impact of macro-economic variables and forwardcommonly used in the industry, and a comparison with external looking information. The final ECL is a weighted average over scaled ECLs evidence or historical trends; under the neutral and alternative scenarios. Independent auditor's report 217 Judgements and estimation uncertainty – the accuracy of the applied discount rate with reference to external The judgements and estimation uncertainty in the impairment allowance sources; and of loans and advances is primarily linked to the following aspects: – the valuation of the corresponding collateral (for example using – the identification of impaired loans including the assessment for appraisal reports and/or other information) with support of our which loans credit risk has significantly (de)/increased since inception valuation experts, with reference to industry standards and the (stage transfers); inspection of legal agreements and supporting documentation to – the determination of the future cash flows based on the appropriate confirm the existence and legal right to collateral. use of key parameters (such as forward-looking information) and the valuation of the recoverable collateral for the specific loan by loan We found that management’s judgement is supported by available (stage 3) impairment allowance. Furthermore the probability evidence. weighting of each impairment scenario in this category is inherently subjective in nature; Finally, we assessed the main areas of judgement and estimates are – the assumptions regarding the PDs, LGDs and EADs applied disclosed in the financial statements in line with the requirements of the including the assumptions applied in overlay models in the model IFRS 9 standard as included in EU-IFRS. based impairment allowances (stages 1 and 2); and – any top side adjustments that management applies across the model based impairment allowances (stages 1 and 2). Given the illustrated complexity, judgements and the impact it may have on the results, this area is subject to risk of material misstatement. Therefore, we consider this area as a key audit matter in our audit. Fair value measurement of financial instruments We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of the See notes 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 17, and 20 to the financial statements for the internal controls with respect to the governance over the applied disclosures of the financial instruments valued at fair value and valuation models, the financial instrument deal capturing process, the subsection 13 of the risk management paragraph in the financial source data management and the valuation of financial instruments. statements: ‘fair value’ that contains the fair valuation policies, its disclosures and the split of financial instruments to level 1, 2 and 3. We determined that we could rely on these controls for the purpose of our audit. The total asset value of financial instruments measured at fair value as at 31 December 2018 amounts to €2,417 million and the total liability value For each type of level 2 and 3 financial instruments we tested, with amounts to €1,410 million. support of our valuation specialists, the outcome of management’s valuation process as follows: The fair value measurement of financial instruments consists of: – testing the appropriateness of the settings within the applied – financial assets and liabilities from trading activities; valuation models used with market practices; – derivatives; – comparing on a sample basis the observable input data with – financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss; and independent data sources and externally available market data – financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income. (where available), which included assumptions and estimates such as market prices, credit spreads, (amongst others CVA/DVA) yield Level 1 financial instruments (€2,061 million assets, €40 million curves, correlations and volatilities; liabilities) – evaluating the inputs and models used in determining the For financial instruments traded in active markets and for which unobservable inputs via independent sources where available; observable market prices or other market information is available (level 1), – independently re-performing, on a sample basis, the valuation using there is limited judgement involved in determining the fair value of these our own valuation tools and with external data sources where instruments. available; and – assessing the appropriateness of the classification as either level 1, Level 2 and 3 financial instruments (€356 million assets, €1,370 million level 2 or 3. liabilities) However, when directly observable market prices or other market We found that management’s outcome of the models and classification information are not available the fair value is subject to (significant) used for the fair value of the level 2 and 3 financial instruments fell within judgement. Fair value of financial instruments significantly affects the a reasonable and acceptable range of outcomes. measurement of profit and loss and disclosures of financial risks in the financial statements. We assessed the completeness and accuracy of the disclosures relating to the level 1, level 2 and 3 financial instruments measured at fair value The fair value of such financial instruments is determined using either and verified compliance with disclosure requirements from EU IFRS. proxy valuations (level 2) or valuation techniques (such as discounted cash flow models and option valuation models) (level 3) in which judgements made by management and the use of assumptions and estimates such as market prices, credit spreads, (amongst others CVA/ DVA) yield curves, correlations and volatilities are important factors. Due to the magnitude of financial instruments measured at fair value, the migration to the new treasury system Ambit, the complexity of the valuation techniques used and the judgements applied by management’s measurement of such financial instruments (level 2 and level 3 financial instruments), this area is subject to risk of material misstatement. Therefore, we determined this to be a key audit matter for our audit. Independent auditor's report 218 Reliability and continuity of IT systems As part of our audit, our efforts were focused on: The Group relies on the reliability and continuity of information – entity level controls over information technology in the IT technology (IT) systems for its operational, regulatory and financial organisation, including IT governance, IT risk management and reporting processes. The Goup’s accounting and reporting processes are cybersecurity management; heavily dependent on IT general controls (ITGCs) that establish and – governance over the strategic IT transformational projects including preserve the ongoing integrity of the system access rights and vendor risk and third party assurance; restrictions intended in the design of internal control. – for the outsourced activities relevant to our audit scope, we reviewed service level agreements and ISAE 3402 Type 2 reports where we The Group is executing a significant number of IT projects and have evaluated the scope of these reports, the outcomes and impact implementing cybersecurity measures to continue to meet the high on our audit procedures; reporting standards and expectations from stakeholders relating to – management of access to programs and data, including user access operating effectiveness, efficiency, cybersecurity and data quality. In this to the network, access to and authorisations within applications, way the Group is accommodating the ongoing regulatory changes privileged access rights to applications, databases and operating imposed to the banking industry. These projects result to changes in systems; several of the Group’s control activities related to financial reporting. This – management of changes to applications and IT infrastructure, could increase the risk of material misstatement in financial reporting. including the change management process and the implementation of changes in the production systems; and For 2018 the IT related implementation for IFRS 9 and the migration to a – computer operations, including batch monitoring, back-up and new treasury system are considered the most significant IT projects that recovery and incident management. were completed during the year. The IT projects related to the implementation of IFRS 9 and the new Deficiencies in ITGCs as such could have a pervasive impact across the treasury systems were part of our audit procedures as described in the Company’s internal control framework. Also the outsourcing to third party first and second key audit matters above. The ITGCs as described above service providers is considered an additional focus area to our audit as were also tested for these. this brings extra complexity to the IT environment. Through the period of change, there is an increased risk that ITGCs are not operating as We focused on the ITGCs to the extent relevant for the purpose of our intended. Therefore, we identified the reliability and continuity of audit of the financial statements. information technology of the Company as a key audit matter. Our audit procedures indicate that we could place reliance on these controls for the purpose of our audit Report on the other information included in The executive board is responsible for the preparation of the annual report the other information, including the report of the executive In addition to the financial statements and our auditor’s board (consisting of Our strategy, Our business themes and report thereon, the annual report contains other information Progress report) and the other information in accordance that consists of: with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. – Chairman’s message. – About Van Lanschot Kempen. Report on other legal and regulatory – Our strategy. requirements – Our business themes. – Progress report. Our appointment – Report of the Supervisory Board. We were appointed on 13 May 2015 as auditor of Van – Corporate governance. Lanschot Kempen N.V. by the general meeting following a – Our Executive and Supervisory Boards. recommendation by the supervisory board. Our – Van Lanschot Kempen shares. appointment has been renewed annually by shareholders – Reconciliation of IFRS and management reporting. representing a total period of uninterrupted engagement – Other information, including the other information appointment of three years. pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. No prohibited non-audit services Based on the procedures performed as set out below, we To the best of our knowledge and belief, we have not conclude that the other information: provided prohibited non-audit services as referred to in – is consistent with the financial statements and does not article 5(1) of the European Regulation on specific contain material misstatements; requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest – contains the information that is required by Part 9 of entities. Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Services rendered We have read the other information. Based on our The services, in addition to the audit, that we have provided knowledge and understanding obtained in our audit of the to the Company and its controlled entities, for the period to financial statements or otherwise, we have considered which our statutory audit relates, are disclosed in note 36 to whether the other information contains material the financial statements. misstatements. By performing our procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of such procedures was substantially less than the scope of those performed in our audit of the financial statements. Independent auditor's report 219 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the executive board and the supervisory board for the financial statements The executive board is responsible for: – the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; and for – such internal control as the executive board determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the executive board is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks mentioned, the executive board should prepare the financial statements using the going-concern basis of accounting unless the executive board either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The executive board should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements. The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process. Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our responsibility is to plan and perform an audit engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for our opinion. Our audit opinion aims to provide reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high but not absolute level of assurance, which makes it possible that we may not detect all misstatements. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered to be material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. Materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. A more detailed description of our responsibilities is set out in the appendix to our report. Amsterdam, 20 February 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. Original has been signed by R.E.H.M. van Adrichem RA Appendix to the auditor’s report on the financial statements 2018 of Van Lanschot Kempen NV 220 APPENDIX TO OUR AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 OF VAN LANSCHOT KEMPEN N.V. In addition to what is included in our auditor’s report, we Considering our ultimate responsibility for the opinion on the have further set out in this appendix our responsibilities for consolidated financial statements, we are responsible for the the audit of the financial statements and explained what an direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. In audit involves. this context, we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures for components of the Group to ensure The auditor s responsibilities for the audit of the financial that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion statements on the financial statements as a whole. Determining factors We have exercised professional judgement and have are the geographic structure of the Group, the significance maintained professional scepticism throughout the audit in and/or risk profile of group entities or activities, the accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which requirements and independence requirements. Our the Group operates. On this basis, we selected group entities objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether for which an audit or review of financial information or the financial statements as a whole are free from material specific balances was considered necessary. misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Our audit consisted, among other things, of the following: We communicated with the supervisory board regarding, – Identifying and assessing the risks of material among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the misstatement of the financial statements, whether due audit and significant audit findings, including any significant to fraud or error, designing and performing audit deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit audit. In this respect, we also issued an additional report to evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a the audit and compliance committee in accordance with basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities. The resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, information included in this additional report is consistent forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the with our audit opinion in this auditor’s report. intentional override of internal control. – Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant We provide the supervisory board with a statement that we to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose independence, and to communicate with them all of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the relationships and other matters that may reasonably be Company’s internal control. thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, – Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies related safeguards. used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the executive board. From the matters communicated with the supervisory board, – Concluding on the appropriateness of the executive we determine those matters that were of most significance in board’s use of the going-concern basis of accounting, the audit of the financial statements of the current period and and based on the audit evidence obtained, concluding are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these whether a material uncertainty exists related to events matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation and/or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are is in the public interest. required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report and are made in the context of our opinion on the financial statements as a whole. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. – Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Assurance report of the independent auditor 221 ASSURANCE REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR To: the general meeting and the supervisory board of We apply the ‘Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen’ Van Lanschot Kempen N.V. (NVKS – ‘Regulations for quality systems’) and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control Assurance report on the sustainability including documented policies and procedures regarding information 2018 compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and other applicable legal and regulatory Our conclusion requirements. Based on our procedures performed nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability Reporting criteria information included in the 2018 annual report of The sustainability information needs to be read and Van Lanschot Kempen N.V. does not present, in all material understood in conjunction with the reporting criteria. respects, a reliable and adequate view of: The executive board of Van Lanschot Kempen is solely – the policy and business operations with regard to responsible for selecting and applying these reporting corporate social responsibility; and criteria, taking into account applicable law and regulations – the thereto related events and achievements for the year related to reporting. ended 31 December 2018, in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Standards Van Lanschot Kempen developed its reporting criteria on of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the internally the basis of the Sustainability Reporting Standards of GRI, applied reporting criteria as included in the section as disclosed in the section ‘Reporting principles’ of the ‘reporting criteria’. corporate social responsibility supplement. The information in the scope of this assurance engagement needs to be read What we have reviewed and understood in conjunction with these reporting criteria. We have reviewed the sustainability information for the The absence of a significant body of established practice on year ended 31 December 2018, as included in the 2018 which to draw, to evaluate and measure non-financial annual report, pages 4 until 71 and the 2018 corporate information allows for different, but acceptable, social responsibility supplement (hereafter together referred measurement techniques and can affect comparability to as: the sustainability reporting). This review is aimed at between entities and over time. obtaining a limited level of assurance. Limitations to the scope of our review The sustainability information comprises a representation of The sustainability information includes prospective the policy and business operations of Van Lanschot information such as expectations on ambitions, strategy, Kempen N.V., Den Bosch (hereafter: Van Lanschot Kempen) plans and estimates and risk assessments. Inherently, the with regard to corporate social responsibility and the actual results are likely to differ from these expectations. thereto related business operations, events and These differences may be material. We do not provide any achievements for the year ended 31 December 2018. assurance on the assumptions and the achievability of prospective information in the sustainability information. The basis for our conclusion We have performed our review in accordance with Dutch The links to external sources or websites in the law, which includes the Dutch Standard 3810N sustainability information are not part of the sustainability Assuranceopdrachten inzake maatschappel ke verslagen’ information reviewed by us. We do not provide assurance ('Assurance engagements on corporate social responsibility over information outside of the section mentioned in reports'). Our responsibilities under this standard are paragraph “What we have reviewed”. further described in the section ‘Our responsibilities for the review of the sustainability information’ of this assurance Responsibilities for the sustainability information report. and the review We believe that the assurance information we have Responsibilities of the executive board obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for The executive board of Van Lanschot Kempen is responsible our conclusion. for the preparation of the sustainability information in accordance with the reporting criteria as included in section Independence and quality control Reporting criteria’, including the identification of We are independent of Van Lanschot Kempen in stakeholders and the definition of material matters. The accordance with the ‘Verordening inzake de choices made by the executive board regarding the scope of onafhankel kheid van accountants b assuranceopdrachten’ the sustainability information and the reporting policies are (ViO – Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a summarized in the section ‘Reporting principles’ of the regulation with respect to independence) and other for the corporate social responsibility supplement. The executive engagement relevant independence requirements in the board is responsible for determining that the applicable Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the reporting criteria are acceptable in the circumstances. Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA – ‘Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a The executive board is also responsible for such internal regulation with respect to rules of professional conduct’). control as the executive board determines is necessary to Assurance report of the independent auditor 222 enable the preparation of the sustainability information that – Identifying areas of the sustainability information with a is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or higher risk of misleading or unbalanced information or errors. material misstatement, whether due to fraud or errors. Designing and performing further assurance procedures The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the aimed at determining the plausibility of the sustainability company’s reporting process on the sustainability information responsive to this risk analysis. These information. procedures consisted amongst others of: • Interviewing management and relevant staff at Our responsibilities for the review of the sustainability corporate and business level responsible for the information sustainability strategy, policy and results; Our responsibility is to plan and perform the review • Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient the information for, carrying out internal control and appropriate assurance information to provide a basis for procedures on, and consolidating the data in the our conclusion. sustainability information; • Obtaining assurance information that the Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance sustainability information reconciles with underlying are aimed to determine the plausibility of information and records of the company; vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent, than • Reviewing, on a limited test basis, relevant internal for a reasonable assurance engagement. The level of and external documentation; assurance obtained in review engagements is therefore • Performing an analytical review of the data and substantially less than the assurance obtained in audit trends in the information submitted for consolidation engagements. at corporate level. – Reconciling the relevant financial information with the Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and are financial statements; considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they – Evaluating the presentation, structure and content of could reasonably be expected to influence the economic the sustainability information; decisions of users taken on the basis of the sustainability – To consider whether the sustainability information as a information. The materiality affects the nature, timing and whole, including the disclosures, reflects the purpose of extent of our review procedures and the evaluation of the the reporting criteria used. effect of identified misstatements on our conclusion. Procedures performed Amsterdam, 20 February 2019 We have exercised professional judgement and have PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. maintained professional scepticism throughout the review, in accordance with the Dutch Standard 3810N, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Original has been signed by Our procedures included amongst others: R.E.H.M. van Adrichem RA – Performing an analysis of the external environment and partner obtaining insight into relevant social themes and issues and the characteristics of the company; – Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used, their consistent application and related disclosures in the sustainability information. This includes the evaluation of the results of the stakeholders’ dialogue and the reasonableness of estimates made by the executive board; – Obtaining an understanding of the reporting processes for the sustainability information, including obtaining a general understanding of internal control relevant to our review; Profit appropriation 223 PROFIT APPROPRIATION Articles of Association on profit appropriation Profit is appropriated in accordance with Article 32 of the Articles of Association. This article states that the dividend on Class C preference shares1 must first be paid from distributable profits (Article 32(1)). The Statutory Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, will then determine what portion of remaining profits after dividend distribution on Class C preference shares will go to reserves (Article 32(3)). The portion of the profit remaining after the distribution on Class C preference shares and transfer to the reserves will be at the disposal of the annual general meeting, providing that no further distributions shall be made on Class C preference shares. If losses have been suffered in any financial year which could not be covered by a reserve or in any other way, no profit distributions will be made until such losses have been recovered (Article 32(5)). The Statutory Board may decide that a dividend distribution on Class A ordinary shares will be made in full or in part in the form of shares or depositary receipts rather than in cash. This decision is subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board (Article 32(8)). 1 There are no Class C preference shares in issue. Stichting Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen 224 STICHTING ADMINISTRATIEKANTOOR VAN GEWONE AANDELEN A VAN LANSCHOT KEMPEN Board report and relevant Dutch remuneration laws to be able to take Stichting Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A a considered position on this sensitive issue. Van Lanschot Kempen (“the Stichting”) reports on its Prior to the AGM, the Board determined the Stichting’s activities in 2018. preliminary position in relation to the remuneration proposal, primarily based on the following considerations: Board meetings In 2018, the Board of the Stichting (“the Board”) held six – It is a given that companies’ executive remuneration board meetings. Topics covered in these meetings included: policies are currently a topic of public debate. This is not – The Stichting’s 2017 financial statements; a negative development, but can be interpreted as a – Van Lanschot Kempen’s 2017 financial statements; growing awareness that companies have a social – The items on the agenda of the general meeting of responsibility. This is particularly true of banks and even Van Lanschot Kempen held on 31 May 2018 (“the more so of banks that have recently been bailed out with AGM”) and the Stichting’s voting intentions; taxpayers’ money – to which category Van Lanschot – The proposal to the AGM to increase the remuneration Kempen does not belong. The turn taken by this public of the Statutory Board of Van Lanschot Kempen; debate could affect the company’s reputation and – The composition of the Board; would, for this reason alone, rank among the factors that – Van Lanschot Kempen’s 2018 half-year results; the Stichting would emphatically consider in its – The items on the agenda of the extraordinary general deliberations. meeting of Van Lanschot Kempen held on 5 October 2018 (“the EGM”) and the Stichting’s voting intentions; – When exercising the voting rights, the Board must – Preparation for the meeting of holders of depositary primarily act in the interests of depositary receipt receipts held on 13 November 2018. holders, and must also factor in the interests of the company, its associated enterprise and all other parties In addition to these board meetings, the Board held three involved. It is not the Board’s job to serve the public conference calls and another informal meeting. interest. In this case, however, these interests coincide to a significant degree: both depositary receipt holders Van Lanschot Kempen’s general meetings and society at large benefit from Van Lanschot The Board attended both the AGM and the EGM. For each Kempen´s continued existence as a healthy company, of these general meetings, the Stichting granted proxy which generates returns as well as employment, and votes to holders of depositary receipts for shares who creates knowledge. This requires an experienced, expert attended the meeting in person or were represented by and robust board, and remuneration policies that help to third parties. This enabled these depositary receipt holders ensure such a board is in place. to vote at their own discretion for the number of Class A ordinary shares held by them at record date. The Stichting – Public debate is not infrequently too much dominated by voted, at its own discretion, the Class A ordinary shares for emotion, and is not always sufficiently informed by the which no proxy votes had been requested. Such shares facts. In this particular instance, the debate was represented 33.1% and 29.1 % respectively of the total significantly influenced by other remuneration proposals number of votes that may be cast at the AGM and the EGM. in the Dutch financial sector, which unfortunately played After careful consideration of the relevant interests, the out at around the same time as the AGM. Board decided to vote in favour of all items put to the ballot. – Two key elements can be discerned in the remuneration Remuneration of the Board of Directors proposal for the Statutory Board: Introduction • Raising the pension allocation for the members of The preparations for the AGM required a great deal of the Statutory Board to 30% of fixed pay. The Board attention this year, mainly in relation to the proposal understands this increase to be a matter of “overdue regarding the remuneration of the Statutory Board of maintenance”: after the major overhaul of the Van Lanschot Kempen (“the Statutory Board”). After remuneration structure of the past few years caused extensive and careful consideration (as set out in detail the pension allocation to fall way behind of what is below), the Board decided to vote in favour of the proposal. – according to Willis Tower Watson – common practice in the industry. The proposal aims to remedy Considerations in relation to the remuneration proposal this at least in part, with the allocation as a In the run-up to the AGM, the Board met and discussed percentage of fixed pay still remaining at the lower the remuneration proposal with representatives of end of the relevant range. the supervisory board of Van Lanschot Kempen (“the Supervisory Board”) on multiple occasions, at which Raising fixed pay for the members of the Statutory meetings the Board challenged the Supervisory Board on Board by 15.5-16.5%, all of which to be awarded in both the background to and all elements of the proposal. shares. This is in line with the best practice The Board also delved into the relevant best practice provisions of the new Dutch Corporate Governance provisions of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code Code, which strongly recommend remuneration Stichting Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen 225 policies focused on long-term value creation. The Conclusion Board believes that, opting for the salary increase to The Board delved deeply into the proposal, into the be paid in shares only – and shares that must be held arguments underpinning it, and into the arguments put over a long period of time – serves the interests of forward against it. All things considered, the Board felt that both the depositary receipt holders and the the proposed increase in the total compensation may come company. across as rather large, but that it is not extreme under the circumstances. Importantly, a large proportion of the rise – Two main objections were put forward to the proposed was down to an adjustment of the pension allocation. The pay increase, both of which were taken into pension allocation had fallen way behind of what is common consideration in the Board’s deliberations: practice in the industry. This backlog has now been partially resolved, it being noted that the allocation, as a percentage The first objection is reflected in the voting of fixed pay, remains on the lower end of the relevant range. recommendations issued by two Anglo-Saxon proxy In addition, the mechanism of the pay rise focused on advisory firms, Glass Lewis and ISS. They believe long-term value creation. The Statutory Board had and has that a pay rise as proposed should only be agreed to amply demonstrated its ability to implement the company’s if it is part of an incentive scheme. This assessment strategy and to make solid progress, including a return for is apparently based on what was and still is common depositary receipt holders of 150% over the past five years. practice in the Anglo-Saxon world. In the The Board believes that it is in the interests of the Netherlands, by contrast, the possibility of depositary receipt holders that senior management receive introducing bonus schemes has been strongly competitive remuneration, allowing Van Lanschot Kempen curtailed in the past few years by laws and to retain this high-performing team and, if necessary, regulations. Besides, the Board feels that, in 2015, attract good new directors. the AGM had very good cause to decide to forgo a bonus scheme altogether. By committing to a pay Amendment of the Articles of Association rise in shares only – and linking this to long-term The amendments to the Stichting’s Articles of Association value creation –a solution has been proposed that as resolved upon in 2017 were adopted and effected at the serves the interests of both the depositary receipt beginning of 2018. holders and the company itself, and that fits within the requirements of the law. Composition of the Board and meeting of depositary receipt holders • The second objection is to the composition of the In 2018, a vacancy arose on the Board due to the retirement peer group used to compare the Statutory Board’s by rotation of Mr H.G. van Everdingen. Mr Van Everdingen remuneration – the Dutch Banking Code demands a was not available for reappointment. During the reporting peer group comparison. It is beyond doubt that the year, the Board considered various candidates and selected peer group selected by the Supervisory Board – at Mr W.F. Hendriksen as the preferred candidate for the advice of Willis Towers Watson – contained appointment. The Board called a meeting of holders of companies significantly larger than Van Lanschot depositary receipts which took place on 13 November Kempen. However, it is impossible to make a 2018. Holders of depositary receipts were given the mathematical correlation between the size of a opportunity, in advance of this meeting, to make a company and the optimum compensation of its recommendation to fill this Board vacancy. They did not directors. In fact, the median remuneration within make a recommendation. During the meeting, the Board the peer group is only one factor that was considered explained its intention to appoint Mr. Hendriksen. and the proposal assumes compensation well below Subsequent to the meeting of holders of depositary that median. That said, even if the size of a company receipts, the Board appointed Mr Hendriksen as member would be argued to play an absolute role in of the Board until the meeting of holders of depositary calculating executive remuneration, it should also be receipts to be held in 2022. The Board is very grateful to noted that, in multiple ways, Van Lanschot Kempen Mr Van Everdingen for his measured judgment in its staged significant growth in the past few years. discussions over the past ten years, through which he has contributed to the Stichting as chairman of the Board. – In addition, the Board decided only to make its final determination in relation to the proposal immediately Holders of depositary receipts were also given the prior to the vote at the AGM, in order to allow for the opportunity, in advance of the meeting, to make a debate during the AGM and any arguments put forward recommendation for the vacancy in the Board as a result at that time to also guide the Stichting’s vote. This is of the expiration of the term of Mr J. Me er Timmerman why the full Board attended the AGM. However, the Th ssen. Mr Th ssen was available for reappointment. AGM saw hardly any discussion of the remuneration The holders of depositary receipts did not make a proposal. One depositary receipt holder with a major recommendation. At the meeting, the Board explained its stake in the company spoke in this regard and this intention to reappoint Mr Th ssen until the meeting of depositary receipt holder spoke in favour of the depositary receipt holders in 2020. Subsequent to the resolution. Only one of the other depositary receipt meeting of holders of depositary receipts, the Board holders made critical remarks about the size of the appointed Mr Th ssen as a member and as Chairman of proposed increase in the pension allocation. All told, the the Board until the meeting of holders of depositary discussions during the AGM did not give the Board any receipts held in 2020. reason to depart from its preliminary position on the proposal. Stichting Administratiekantoor van gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen 226 At the request of the Board, the holders of depositary receipts confirmed their trust in the Board at the meeting of holders of depositary receipts. The Board’s current members are: J. Me er Timmerman Th ssen, Chairman C.M.P. Mennen-Vermeule, Secretary W.F. Hendriksen Mr Me er Timmerman Th ssen is a consultant with Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer. Ms Mennen-Vermeule is Chief Financial Officer at BrandLoyalty Group. Mr. Hendriksen is a partner at Van Doorne. The annual remuneration of the Chairman of the Board amounts to €10,000 (excluding VAT), and that of each other Board member to €7,500 (excluding VAT). Expenses Other expenses incurred by the Stichting amounted to €13,592 in 2018. Outstanding depositary receipts On 31 December 2018 the Stichting held 41,360,667 Class A ordinary shares with a nominal value of €1 each, for which depositary receipts with the same nominal value were issued. Other The Stichting is a legal entity independent of Van Lanschot Kempen, as referred to in Section 5:71 (1) sub-paragraph (d) of the Financial Supervision Act (Wft). Stichting contact details The Stichting’s Board can be contacted at: Secretariat of Stichting Administratiekantoor gewone aandelen A Van Lanschot Kempen PO Box 1021 5200 HC ’s-Hertogenbosch The Netherlands The Board ’s-Hertogenbosch, the Netherlands, 18 Februari 2019 Stichting Preferente aandelen C Van Lanschot Kempen 227 STICHTING PREFERENTE AANDELEN C VAN LANSCHOT KEMPEN Board report Stichting preferente aandelen C Van Lanschot Kempen (“the Stichting”) was set up on 28 December 1999 and has its seat in ’s-Hertogenbosch, the Netherlands. The purpose of the Stichting is to safeguard the interests of Van Lanschot Kempen and its stakeholders, and to avert outside influences that could threaten its continuity, autonomy or identity to the detriment of such interests. The Stichting pursues its purpose by acquiring Class C preference shares in the capital of Van Lanschot Kempen, and by exercising the rights attached to these shares. The Stichting and Van Lanschot Kempen have signed a call option agreement granting the Stichting the right to acquire Class C preference shares up to 100% of the value of Van Lanschot Kempen’s share capital in issue before the exercise of the call option, less one share. When acquiring Class C preference shares, the Stichting is required to pay a minimum of 25% of the nominal amount. To ensure it will be able to pay when the time comes, the Stichting has a funding agreement with ING Bank in place. Van Lanschot Kempen aims to keep any period with outstanding Class C preference shares as brief as possible, and has committed itself to a maximum of one year as the term within which Van Lanschot Kempen will propose to the general meeting to redeem any Class C preference shares. In 2018 the Board held one meeting. The Board appoints its own members. The present members of the Board are: A.A.M. Deterink, Chairman P.J.J.M. Swinkels H.P.M. Kivits Mr Deterink is a former partner of Deterink Advocaten en Notarissen. Mr Swinkels is the former Chairman of the Board of Directors of Bavaria. Mr Kivits is the former Chairman of Stage Entertainment. The annual remuneration of the Chairman of the Board amounts to €10,000 (excluding VAT), and that of each other Board member to €7,500 (excluding VAT). The Stichting is a legal entity independent of Van Lanschot Kempen, as referred to in Section 5:71 (1) sub-paragraph (c) of the Financial Supervision Act (Wft). The Board ’s-Hertogenbosch, the Netherlands, 15 February 2019 Glossary 228 GLOSSARY Advanced internal ratings-based approach (A-IRB) Basel III leverage ratio (LR) The most sophisticated credit risk measurement technique. The leverage ratio represents the relationship between total Under A-IRB, a bank is allowed to develop its own models, assets plus contingent items and the Basel III Tier 1 capital. based on direct or indirect observations, to estimate It is calculated in accordance with the Delegated Act. parameters for calculating risk-weighted assets. Credit risk under A-IRB is determined by using internal input for Basel IV probability of default (PD), loss given default (LGD), The reform of Basel III, commonly referred to as Basel IV , exposure at default (EAD) and maturity (M). involves the final calibration and design of capital output floors, based on revised standardised approaches. It also Amortised cost includes reforms of the IRB approach and the standardised The amount for which financial assets or liabilities are approach for credit and operational risk. initially recognised less redemptions, plus or minus accumulated depreciation/amortisation using the effective Capital conservation buffer interest rate method for the difference between the original Under CRD IV, Van Lanschot Kempen is required to maintain amount and the amount at maturity date, less impairments Common Equity Tier 1 capital equivalent to 2.5 times total or amounts not received. risk exposure as a capital conservation buffer. If an institution fails to maintain this capital conservation buffer, it will be Assets under administration (AuA) restricted in making discretionary distributions. Assets which are entrusted by clients to Van Lanschot Kempen purely for custody or for which solely Carried interest arrangement administrative services are performed. Clients take their A carried interest arrangement relates primarily to private own investment decisions, over which Van Lanschot equity fund managers who are given the opportunity to Kempen has no influence. obtain a stake in a company acquired. This arrangement is financed by a subordinated loan or by cumulative preference Assets under discretionary management shares that do not participate in any surplus profits. The Client assets entrusted to Van Lanschot Kempen under manager holds ordinary shares and participates in any a discretionary management agreement, irrespective surplus profits. of whether these assets are held in investment funds, deposits, structured products (Van Lanschot Kempen Cash flow hedges (hedge accounting) index guarantee contracts) or cash. Instruments to hedge the exposure to fluctuations in cash flows of assets, liabilities or future transactions, arising as Assets under management (AuM) a result of interest rate changes and/or inflation. Assets deposited with Van Lanschot Kempen by clients, breaking down into assets under discretionary management Client option positions and assets under non-discretionary management. Clients are unable to buy or sell share options directly on the stock exchange. Van Lanschot Kempen purchases or Assets under monitoring & guidance sells on behalf of these clients and covers this with Client assets that are only subject to monitoring, plus minor offsetting transactions on the stock exchange. Such advisory and related services. Clients make their own receivables and payables are recognised under Derivatives. investment decisions and Van Lanschot Kempen has little or no influence on the management of these assets. Combined buffer requirements From 2016, subject to transitional provisions, institutions Assets under non-discretionary management are required to maintain capital buffers in addition to the Client assets held for clients by Van Lanschot Kempen, own funds requirements contained in the Capital irrespective of whether these assets are held in investment Requirements Regulation (CRR). For Van Lanschot Kempen, funds, deposits, structured products (index guarantee the combined buffer requirement consists of the capital contracts) or cash, with either a Van Lanschot Kempen conservation buffer extended by the institution-specific investment adviser advising the client on investment policy countercyclical capital buffer. The G-SII buffer, O-SII buffer or clients making their own investment decisions without and systemic risk buffer are not applicable to Van Lanschot Van Lanschot Kempen’s input. Kempen. Assets under screening (AuS) Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital The part of the assets under management that are screened Also referred to as core capital. Common Equity Tier 1 for sustainability issues. CET1 capital encompasses a bank’s share capital, share premium and other reserves, adjusted for deductions as Basel III specified by regulators, such as goodwill, deferred tax The new framework drawn up by the Basel Committee on assets and IRB shortfall. Banking Supervision, which introduces a stricter definition of capital and several new ratios and buffers with which Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio banks must comply. The gradual transition from Basel II Common Equity Tier 1 capital as a percentage of total to Basel III is taking place over a period of five years and risk-weighted assets. started in 2014. Glossary 229 Contingent liabilities Derivatives All commitments arising from transactions for which Financial assets whose value derives from the value the bank has given a guarantee to third parties. of other financial assets, indices or other variables. Van Lanschot Kempen holds both derivatives whose Countercyclical capital buffer size (face value), conditions and prices are determined CET1 capital equivalent to the total risk exposure amount between Van Lanschot Kempen and its counterparties (calculated in accordance with the CRR) multiplied by the (OTC derivatives), and standardised derivatives traded weighted average of the countercyclical buffer rates. The on established markets. countercyclical buffer rates are set by the designated authority in each member state on a quarterly basis. The Discounted cash flow (DCF) buffer is determined by calculating the weighted average of A method to value an investment by estimating future the countercyclical buffer rates that apply in the cash flows, taking account of the time value of money. jurisdictions of the relevant credit exposures. Duration of equity Credit-linked swaps A measure of the interest rate sensitivity of equity that Swaps where variable interest payments linked to Euribor, reflects the impact on equity of a 1% parallel shift in the possibly with a lower or upper limit, are exchanged for interest curve. credit guarantees in respect of a third party. The counterparty is obliged to pay out if the third party is no Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) longer able to meet its payment obligations. The contract The Dutch regulator for financial institutions in the will identify specific payment-triggering events. Netherlands. afm.nl/en Credit risk Economic hedges The risk that loans are not repaid, not fully repaid or not Derivatives used to manage risks without applying hedge repaid on time. accounting, carried at fair value. At Van Lanschot Kempen, these primarily take the shape of interest rate derivatives. Credit support annex (CSA) Forming part of an international swaps and derivatives Effective interest rate agreement (ISDA), a CSA regulates credit support The rate that discounts estimated cash flows to the net (collateral) for obligations resulting from derivatives. carrying amount of the financial asset over the life of an instrument, or, where appropriate, over a shorter period. Credit valuation adjustment (CVA) An adjustment made on the valuation of derivatives Efficiency ratio transactions with a counterparty, reflecting the current Operating expenses excluding impairments and result from market value of counterparty credit risk. the sale of public and private sector loans and advances, as a percentage of income from operating activities. Currency options Currency options grant their buyer the right, but not the Engagement obligation, to buy or sell a quantity of a certain currency at a A sustainability strategy that seeks to persuade companies, pre-determined exchange rate during or at the end of a fund managers, borrowers and other stakeholders through pre-determined period. The currency option constitutes an active dialogue that their sustainability policies should be obligation for the seller. Van Lanschot Kempen’s currency made compatible with international treaties and conventions. options mainly relate to client transactions covered by offsetting transactions in the markets. Expected loss (EL) Expected loss on loans, expressed in the formula De Nederlandsche Bank (DNB) EL=PD*EAD*LGD. The Dutch central bank. dnb.nl/en Exposure at default (EAD) Basel Defined benefit scheme Exposure at the time of a client’s default, also referred to as A pension scheme other than a defined contribution scheme net exposure. (see below). In a defined benefit scheme, the company has the constructive obligation to make up any deficit in the Exposure at default (EAD) IFRS 9 scheme. This does not have to be based on any legal The exposure at default is an estimate of the exposure at a requirements, but may be simply on the basis of an historical future default date, taking into account expected changes in intention on the part of the company to make up any deficits. the exposure after the reporting date, including repayments of principal and interest, whether scheduled by contract or Defined contribution scheme otherwise, expected drawdowns on committed facilities, A scheme in which the company makes agreed contributions and accrued interest from missed payments. to a separate entity (a pension fund) to secure pension rights. The company is not obliged, either legally or effectively, to pay Fair value hedges (hedge accounting) additional contributions if the pension fund does not have A portfolio of fair value hedges comprises one or more enough assets to cover all of its current and future obligations. swaps concluded to cover the changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates, of debt securities and Depositary receipts for shares (DRS) available-for-sale investments, for example. Hedge relations Depositary receipts for shares have no voting rights, but do are typically exact hedges, involving debt securities and entitle their holders to profits. available-for-sale investments with fixed rates and terms being offset by swaps with exactly the same terms and fixed interest rates. Glossary 230 Fiduciary management Gross exposure Holding assets as a trustee or in another fiduciary role for The value at which receivables are recognised in the individuals, trusts, pension providers and other institutions. consolidated statement of financial position, with the These assets are not included in the consolidated financial exception of derivatives. Gross exposure is calculated on statements because they are not Van Lanschot Kempen’s the basis of an add-on percentage of the nominal value assets. (fixed percentages in accordance with the Financial Supervision Act) and the positive replacement value. Fitch Credit rating agency. fitchratings.com Hedge Protection of a financial position – against interest rate risks Forbearance in particular – by means of a financial instrument (typically a Making a concession regarding the terms and conditions of a derivative). loan agreement due to actual or anticipated financial difficulties which prevent a client from meeting its obligations IFRIC (International Financial Reporting Interpretations vis-vis Van Lanschot Kempen. The concession enables the Committee) client to meet the revised obligations. This may also include The interpretative body of the International Accounting the whole or partial refinancing of the existing loan. Standards Board (IASB). IFRIC interprets the application of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) to ensure Forum Ethibel consistent accounting practices throughout the world and A Belgian consultancy in the field of corporate social provide guidance on reporting issues not specifically responsibility (CSR) and socially responsible investment addressed in IFRS. (SRI). forumethibel.org Impairment Forwards Amount charged to the result for possible losses on nonContractual obligations to purchase or sell goods or performing or irrecoverable loans and advances. Alternatively, financial assets at a future date at a pre-determined price. an impairment test may suggest lower asset values, if fair Forward contracts are customised contracts traded on the values have dipped below carrying amounts and/or the fair OTC markets. value of investments and associates have moved below cost. Foundation internal ratings-based approach (F-IRB) Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change (IIGCC) An advanced credit risk measurement technique. Under A European collaborative platform for institutional investors F-IRB, a bank is allowed to develop its own models, based in relation to climate change. on direct or indirect observations, to estimate parameters for calculating risk-weighted assets. Credit risk under F-IRB Interest rate option is determined by using internal input for probability of An agreement between a buyer and a seller, under which default (PD). In contrast to A-IRB, the loss given default the seller guarantees the buyer a maximum interest rate (LGD) is included, based on prescribed values. (cap) or minimum interest rate (floor) for a fixed term. Funding ratio Interest rate risk The ratio between public and private sector liabilities and The risk that profit and equity are impacted by changes in total loans and advances (excluding bank borrowing and interest rates, in particular in the event of an intentional or lending). unintentional mismatch in the terms of funds lent and borrowed. Futures Contractual obligations to purchase or sell goods or Interest rate swaps financial assets at a future date at a pre-agreed price. A contract in which two parties exchange interest payments Futures are standardised contracts traded on organised for a pre-agreed period and a notional principal amount, while markets, with stock exchanges acting as intermediaries and not swapping the face value. An interest rate swap typically requiring daily settlement in cash and/or deposits of involves exchanging fixed-rate cash flows for floating-rate collateral. Van Lanschot Kempen has a number of futures on cash flows in the same currency, with the floating rate based share indices on its books, partly for own use and partly for on a benchmark interest rate (usually Euribor). clients, for offsetting transactions in the markets. Internal capital adequacy assessment process (ICAAP) General meeting Strategies and procedures designed for the bank’s The body formed by voting shareholders and others with continuous assessment as to whether the amount, voting rights. composition and distribution of its equity still reconcile with the size and nature of its current and potential future risks. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) An independent organisation which develops guidelines for Internal ratings-based approach (IRB) sustainability reports. Van Lanschot Kempen’s integrated An advanced approach used to calculate credit risk. Van annual report is based on GRI. globalreporting.org Lanschot Kempen applies both the foundation internal ratings-based (F-IRB) and advanced internal ratings-based (A-IRB) approaches. In this report, IRB refers to both internal ratings-based models approaches. Glossary 231 International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) MSCI Accounting and reporting standards drawn up by the A global equity index by Morgan Stanley Capital International Accounting Standards Board. These standards International, typically used as a standard benchmark. have been adopted by the European Union and have been applied by us from the 2005 financial year. MSCI ESG Research A data provider specialising in non-financial investment Irrevocable commitments information. Van Lanschot Kempen has used the services of All obligations resulting from irrevocable commitments that MSCI ESG Research for its sustainable investment process could result in loans being granted. since 2015. msci.com/research/esg-research KCM Net stable funding ratio (NSFR) Kempen Capital Management NV The relationship between available stable funding and the required amount of stable funding. Kempen Kempen & Co NV Non-performing loans Loans are classed as non-performing if they meet one or Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets more of the following criteria: 1) significant limit overrun for The fair value of financial instruments traded in an active a period of more than 90 days; 2) a probability of default of market is based on the price at the reporting date (market 1; 3) a provision has been taken; 4) forborne exposures for price). The bid price is applied for financial assets and the which the two-year probation period has not started. offer price for financial liabilities. Since these instruments are traded in an active market, their prices adequately Operational risk reflect current and frequent market transactions between The risk of direct or indirect losses as a result of inadequate unrelated parties. or defective internal processes and systems, inadequate or defective human acts, or external events. Level 2: Inputs observable in the markets The fair value of financial instruments not traded in active Net Promoter Score (NPS) markets (e.g. over-the-counter financial derivatives) is The NPS provides information on client loyalty and the established using cash flow and option valuation models. number of promoters of the organisation. The score lies On the basis of its estimates, Van Lanschot Kempen selects within a range of -100 to 100 points, the higher the better. a number of methods and makes assumptions based on the The formula is as follows: NPS % promoters % market conditions (observable data) at the reporting date. detractors. Promoters give the organisation a score of 9 or 10, whereas detractors award a score of between 0 and 6. Level 3: Significance of unobservable market data The financial assets in this category have been assessed on Non-controlling interests an individual basis. Their valuation is based on management’s Non-controlling interests in entities that are fully best estimate by reference to the most recent prices, prices consolidated by Van Lanschot Kempen. of similar instruments and, to a not insignificant extent, information not observable in the market. Probability of default (PD) Basel The likelihood that a client will default within one year. Liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) The LCR represents the ratio between high-quality liquid Probability of default (PD) IFRS 9 assets and the balance of cash outflows and cash inflows in The probability of default is an estimate of the likelihood of the next 30 days. default over a given time horizon. A default may only happen at a certain time during the assessed period if the facility has Liquidity risk not been previously derecognised and is still in the portfolio. The risk that the bank has insufficient liquid assets available to meet current liabilities in the short term. Proxy voting Kempen regards it as its fiduciary responsibility to vote at Loss given default (LGD) Basel shareholder meetings for its own (Kempen) funds and – at An estimate of the loss for Van Lanschot Kempen after the request of clients – for discretionary mandates. Its proxy liquidation of the received collateral. voting policy describes how it fulfils this responsibility. kempen.nl/proxyvoting Loss given default (LGD) IFRS 9 The loss given default is an estimate of the loss arising in Residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) the event of a default occurring at a given time. It is based Securities backed by residential mortgages. A provider of on the difference between the contractual cash flows due residential mortgages (typically a bank) will sell these on to and those that the lender would expect to receive, including a separate entity, a special purpose vehicle (SPV). To from the realisation of any collateral. It is typically expressed finance the mortgages, the SPV will then issue securities as a percentage of EAD. called RMBS, which are secured by the mortgages. Market risk The risk that the value of a financial position changes due to movements in stock exchange prices, foreign exchange and/or interest rates. Glossary 232 Risk-weighted assets (RWA) Total Tier 2 capital The assets of a financial institution after being adjusted by Capital instruments and subordinated loans may be a weighting factor, set by its regulators, that reflects the designated Tier 2 capital under certain conditions. relative risk attached to the relevant assets. Risk-weighted assets are used to calculate the minimum amount of capital Value at risk (VaR) the institution needs to hold. CRR/CRD IV uses the term Statistical analysis of historical market trends and volatilities, “total risk exposure amount” instead of RWA, but for now used to estimate the likelihood that a portfolio’s losses will we follow common usage. exceed a certain amount. Settlement risk Van Lanschot Kempen The risk for financial transactions that are not settled within Van Lanschot Kempen NV five days of the agreed deadline if the difference between the agreed settlement price and the price at the reporting Van Lanschot date could lead to a loss. Van Lanschot NV (formerly F. Van Lanschot Bankiers NV) Shortfall Weighted average cost of capital (WACC) The difference between the calculated expected loss (EL) A measure of the average cost of a company’s capital, in and the provision made for a loan for which the capital which debt and equity are proportionally weighted. adequacy requirement is calculated using the IRB method. If the calculated EL exceeds the provision made, the difference Wft (Financial Supervision Act) must be deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital. Wft governs the supervision of the financial sector in the Netherlands. Solvency The bank’s buffer capital expressed as a percentage of Wholesale funding risk-weighted assets. A type of funding, in addition to savings and deposits, used by banks to fund operations and manage risks. Standard & Poor’s Credit rating agency. spratings.com Standardised approach (SA) A method used under Basel to measure operational, market and credit risks, based on a standardised approach, in which risk weightings are prescribed by the regulators. Strategic risk Current or future threats to the bank’s results or equity resulting from not or inadequately responding to changes in the environment and/or from taking incorrect strategic decisions. This is a part of the business risk. Structured products Synthetic investment instruments specially created to meet specific needs that cannot be met by the standardised financial assets available in the markets. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) In 2015, the United Nations set out the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for 2030: a set of 17 highly ambitious goals relating to climate, poverty, healthcare, education and other challenges. Tier 1 capital ratio The ratio between total Tier 1 capital and risk-weighted assets. Total capital ratio The percentage of a bank’s capital adequacy, calculated by dividing qualifying capital by the risk-weighted assets as defined by the Bank for International Settlements (BIS). Total Tier 1 capital Total Tier 1 capital of the bank includes share capital, share premium and other reserves, adjusted for certain deductions set by the regulator, such as goodwill and shortfall. Ten-year figures 233 TEN-YEAR FIGURES 20181 2017 2016 2015 2014 Results (€1,000) Total income from operating activities 506,282 522,539 524,400 561,140 566,187 Operating expenses 440,193 428,990 440,729 422,516 337,138 Impairments –13,416 –11,461 –2,115 61,937 95,529 3 Operating profit before tax 79,504 105,010 85,785 54,284 133,520 Net result (group profit) 80,315 94,945 69,800 42,754 108,701 3 Statement of financial position ( 1 000) 3 Equity attributable to shareholders 1,255,982 1,332,860 1,340,470 1,299,358 1,292,274 2 Public and private sector liabilities 9,090,939 9,145,119 9,679,764 9,908,391 10,499,160 3 Loans and advances to the public and 8,561,497 9,103,327 3 9,624,048 10,504,423 2 11,021,107 private sectors Total assets 13,980,007 14,658,875 14,877,411 15,831,775 17,259,438 Key data Number of ordinary shares at year-end (excluding treasury shares) 41,017,021 40,846,973 40,873,462 40,961,353 40,826,361 Average number of ordinary shares 41,004,769 40,959,989 40,908,194 40,919,503 40,918,849 Earnings per ordinary share based on average number of ordinary shares (€) 1.82 2.19 1.61 0.83 2.42 Dividend per ordinary share (€) 1.45 1.45 1.20 0.45 0.40 Efficiency ratio (%) 86.9 82.1 84.0 75.3 59.5 Return on average Common Equity Tier 1 (%) 5 7.4 8.6 6.2 3.2 8.8 Total capital ratio (phase-in) (%) 23.6 22.3 20.9 17.0 15.2 Tier 1 capital ratio (phase-in) (%) 21.4 20.5 19.0 16.3 14.6 Common Equity Tier 1 ratio (phase-in) (%) 6 21.4 20.5 19.0 16.3 14.6 1 The 2018 figures have been prepared in accordance with IFRS 9; those for the years from 2009 to 2017 in accordance with IAS 39. 2 The 2015 figures have been adjusted to reflect the discontinuing of offsetting current account balances. 3 Includes the Result on loans and advances to the public and private sectors amounting to €22.4 million negative. 4 Some amounts differ from the 2012 financial statements, reflecting changes resulting from the implementation of revised standard IAS 19 Employee Benefits. 5 The figures for the years from 2009 to 2013 represent return on Core Tier 1 Equity. 6 The figures for the years from 2009 to 2013 reflect the Core Tier 1 ratio. Ten-year figures 234 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Results (€1,000) 4 Total income from operating activities 551,193 541,764 552,386 630,887 568,467 4 Operating expenses 408,633 449,200 426,456 439,893 428,802 4 Impairments 105,117 258,021 79,394 102,458 176,043 4 Operating profit before tax 37,443 –165,457 46,536 88,536 –36,378 4 Net result (group profit) 33,506 –147,281 43,127 66,710 –15,720 Statement of financial position ( 1 000) 4 Equity attributable to shareholders 1,283,487 1,262,348 1,507,245 1,461,676 1,238,418 Public and private sector liabilities 10,161,397 11,368,814 13,100,131 13,545,650 13,380,188 Loans and advances to the public and private sectors 12,490,723 13,464,234 14,270,431 15,710,224 17,036,279 4 Total assets 17,670,365 17,940,865 18,453,522 20,325,117 21,264,839 Key data Number of ordinary shares at year-end (excluding treasury shares) 40,926,249 40,879,922 40,809,337 40,819,359 34,888,086 Average number of ordinary shares 40,917,566 40,883,330 40,870,488 38,366,748 34,869,875 Earnings per ordinary share based on 4 average number of ordinary shares (€) 0.71 –3.67 0.84 1.47 –0.75 Dividend per ordinary share (€) 0.20 0.00 0.40 0.70 0.00 Efficiency ratio (%) 74.1 82.9 4 77.2 69.7 75.4 Return on average Common Equity Tier 1 (%) 5 2.5 –12.7 4 3.0 5.6 –2.8 Total capital ratio (phase-in) (%) 13.9 11.9 11.9 13.9 11.6 Tier 1 capital ratio (phase-in) (%) 13.1 11.0 10.9 11.9 9.5 Common Equity Tier 1 ratio (phase-in) (%) 6 13.1 11.0 10.9 9.6 6.5 1 The 2018 figures have been prepared in accordance with IFRS 9; those for the years from 2009 to 2017 in accordance with IAS 39. 2 The 2015 figures have been adjusted to reflect the discontinuing of offsetting current account balances. 3 Includes the Result on loans and advances to the public and private sectors amounting to €22.4 million negative. 4 Some amounts differ from the 2012 financial statements, reflecting changes resulting from the implementation of revised standard IAS 19 Employee Benefits. 5 The figures for the years from 2009 to 2013 represent return on Core Tier 1 Equity. 6 The figures for the years from 2009 to 2013 reflect the Core Tier 1 ratio. Text and editing Van Lanschot Kempen NV Vicky Hampton Copy & Content Design Capital Advertising Dtp JARGO design Photography Cover: Bert Teunissen Portrait photos: Jessy Visser English translation and editing Anita Graafland, Tom Scott Headquarters Van Lanschot Kempen NV Hooge Steenweg 29 5211 JN ’s-Hertogenbosch Telephone +31 (0)20 354 45 90 investorrelations@vanlanschotkempen.com vanlanschotkempen.com/en ’s-Hertogenbosch Trade Register no. 16014051 We welcome your views and opinions – please see our contact details above. This annual report was published on 28 February 2019.
