PURPOSEDRIVEN 2017-2018 Sustainability Report 3 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report AT A GLANCE CONTENTS 69 MILLION Life-improving products sold 124 MILLION beneficiaries used our products Preface 5 Financial PURPOSE-DRIVEN performance Business Performance 6 8 2017-2018 $197 million Products 9 Impact 10 2016-2017 $217 million Innovation 12 2015-2016 $182 million Production 14 Sustainability 17 Community commitments 24 Policies and frameworks 26 63 CLIENTS 63 COUNTRIES Governance People 28 50 served supplied to country profiles Afghanistan 30 Bangladesh 34 $827,207 Democratic Republic of Congo Ethiopia 38 40 donated to charitable projects by Indonesia 44 Bilqees Sarwar Foundation Yemen 46 4 5 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report AS A COMPANY, WE ALIGN PROFIT WITH PREFACE PURPOSE Purpose, to us, means to ensure an effective supply of aid, relief and malaria tools to among other things, as a result of an internal materiality assessment, followed by a strategic positively impact the lives of the beneficiaries session with key internal stakeholders. who ultimately use our products. It is a deep Moreover, we continue to support the ten principles sense of commitment to our clients, colleagues of the UN Global Compact and the Agenda 2030 and end-users that underpins our intention to has provided a clear framework to tackle the create shared value and social impact. world’s biggest challenges, pushing corporations Purpose propels our company forward and has to apply a principled approach towards the transcended into our business strategies. As part Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDG of a humanitarian supply chain too important icons on relevant pages indicate our commitment to fail, serving UN and aid agencies, it is our to the respective goals and the targets associated purpose compass that guides us on the day-towith it. In particular, our sustainable journey has day approach to business. Every batch of tents we led us to the realization that SDG #12 Responsible produce matters, every shipment of mosquito nets Production and Consumption speaks directly to will save lives and every solar product we make will humanitarian suppliers; half of its targets directly brighten someone’s day. relate to our core business. Therefore, we have decided to go ‘all in’ on SDG #12 and we invite you In this report we reflect on the year 2017-2018 from to read more about it on page 17. a purpose perspective. It has been a noteworthy year for us, in which we witnessed both strong Lastly, we introduce a series of Country profiles performance as well as challenges. TANA Netting’s in this Sustainability Report, highlighting the operations presented a strong result with the sale humanitarian and health emergencies where the of 64 million long-lasting insecticidal nets, yet products that we manufacture are deployed. We NRS Relief was confronted with the unpredictable operate in a complex supply chain, yet we aim to nature of the relief sector and saw the previous provide insight on the road ‘from factory to field’. exceptional growth trend stagnate. There is a story behind every shipment and you will find these on page 30. This year we have seen an increased focus from our clients on an inclusive, sustainable supply We believe we do better work if we keep our eyes chain, a trend we welcome. We have been on the purpose of our business. We collaborate advocating for accountability and transparency in and co-create with our clients and the humanitarian the critical sector we operate in, which led to our community, forging public-private partnerships first annual report publication four years ago. and embracing the ‘new way of working’, with the overall aim to efficiently and timely supply aid and The momentum observed has confirmed the health survival tools to those who need it the most. growing interest in sustainability reporting, and therefore we have decided to disclose data Ahmar Sarwar on a wider range of social, environmental and Managing Director economic indicators. This is NRS International’s first Sustainability Report, with our annual UNGC Communication on Progress integrated to it. The disclosures will include energy consumption, carbon emissions and social aspect breakdowns of our workforce. The new indicators were identified, 6 7 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report PURPOSE-DRIVEN BUSINESS Vision Central to our approach to business is the thorough understanding of the purpose of the NRS International’s sole business is supplying to the humanitarian and public health sector. To design and manufacture work carried out by our clients. We align our Our corporate heritage dates back 45 years. business capabilities with the goals and needs of humanitarian and development actors, who Responding to the growing global demand for canvas, we opened our first manufacturing facility in sustainable products that will respond to pressing issues such as forced displacement, natural disasters or action to end 1973, which produced high quality tents, tarpaulins and canvas. A pivotal event in our company history improve lives of vulnerable malaria. was the moment we started to supply tents to the As a leading supplier of shelter solutions, relief United Nations during the Iran-Iraq War in 1980. populations around the world. items and long-lasting insecticidal nets, our team This was when we became a trusted partner to is guided by a set of core values. These values UN agencies and international aid agencies, with are the cornerstones of our company’s culture and embody the way we act towards our clients and whom we have co-created various shelter solutions and relief items over the past decades. We have To create job opportunities in each other. witnessed a steady growth of our product portfolio and global reach and expanded into the production of long-lasting insecticidal nets in 2012. Over time, Pakistan in order to promote Our 45-year we have invested in research and development, innovation and in our human capital to meet economic empowerment. company heritage the humanitarian and public health challenges VALUES of today. Our vision recognizes our pursuit to has instilled a strong produce products with a purpose, never losing sense of purpose, sight of developing economic opportunities in the which translates communities we operate in. into the following five values. We embrace the meaning of our company business is imperative. Our corporate social slogan in full. ‘Combining strengths, improving responsibility and sustainability agenda is woven lives’ exemplifies how we leverage our into the fabric of our organization. We leverage individual expertise, create an environment of a variety of resources in pursuit of economically, Commitment cross-fertilization and knowledge sharing. Our environmentally and socially sustainable responsibility as an employer of thousands in a operations. Over the past 45 years, we have developing country such as Pakistan, is something continuously made improvements across our we do not take lightly. Our aim is to use our operations and we have aligned our business reliability (human) resources efficiently, reduce overhead costs, and to constantly improve our products to ensure beneficiaries will receive the highest quality goals with the Sustainable Development Goals. We understand that this entails an ongoing commitment to the well-being of our employees, the environment loyalty standards products. We focus on our commitment and the communities where we work. to create products that better the lives of those who We outline the actions and commitments towards are forced to flee their homes as a result of conflict our social assets and sustainability agenda on value or natural disasters, or those who live in malarious page 17. An overview of charitable work and social areas. projects is presented on page 24. Our corporate structure Diversity NRS International is the parent company to NRS Relief and TANA Netting and we are strategically located in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE), a global humanitarian hub. We manufacture what we sell in our modern production facility – H. Sheikh Noor-ud-Din & Sons – in Lahore, Pakistan. Sustainability at the heart As an actor in our sector, being a responsible Manufacturing arm, supplier to NRS International 8 9 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report Products overview Core relief items Blankets Buckets Emergency shelter kits Sleeping mats Stove Tarpaulins Water containers Family tents GeoHome Geodesic family tents Viva family tents Winterization kits Multipurpose tents Dispensary tent Huggy 24/42/72 m HuggyPRO 24/42/72 m Legend 33/45 m LegendMEDI Mobile storage units (MSU) Rex Hall 6.5x8 | 10x24 | 10x32 | 10x36 Rex Hall – temperature controlled Enlight solar items – NRS Relief’s solar brand Enlight Essential Solar Shelter Kit Solar Lighting Kit Long-lasting insecticidal nets DawaPlus® 2.0 DawaPlus® 3.0 DawaPlus® Sandfly Net DawaPlus® Curtain DawaPlus® Canopy Hammock 10 11 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report PURPOSE-DRIVEN Items sold in 2017-2018 69 IMPACT million 7% Tents (Family & Multipurpose) Economic performance can be measured in a 23,709 PRODUCTS JORDAN PAKISTAN 6% multitude of ways. Given the nature of our business as supplier to humanitarian and global health Mobile storage units 322 impacting 6% MALI BANGLADESH institutions, impact assessment is an important indicator of our progress. In 2017-2018 we have Tarpaulins 124 8% 8% supplied a total of 69 million products to our GHANA clients, impacting potentially a total of 124 million beneficiaries worldwide. 1,868,237 million 20%NIGERIA UGANDA 7% Blankets CAMEROON DRC We are part of a supply chain too important to fail and recognize our position as manufacturer in this value chain, yet we never lose sight of the purpose of our business; 1,039,014 people. 5% 19% Stoves providing relief essentials, shelters, and long-lasting MADAGASCAR 250 14% insecticidal nets through our subsidiaries NRS Relief and TANA Netting. Providing support to displaced populations Top 10 countries Figure 2: Percentage of value of forced to flee conflict-induced violence, natural disasters Hygiene kits served in 2017-18 sold items distributed per country. and and people living in malarious areas requires a coordinated effort of public and private sectors. 4,600 This year we have widened the scope of our data set to Kitchen sets measure our consolidated progress and trends. Apart from disclosing the volume of items dispatched, we 5,600 have generated in-depth data on the value of revenue Sleeping mats generated per client, see Figure 1. Our key accounts for LLINs are Chemonics (USAID Global Health Supply Chain Program – PSM), IDA Foundation and PMI. 576,215 UNHCR, UNICEF and ICRC were the top clients for relief Water containers commodities and shelters. 1,079,344 Furthermore, we have calculated the value of items Solar lights Overall, we dispatched on country level, referenced in Figure 2. The top 3 countries we have supplied to carry a high malaria burden, namely Nigeria, Democratic Republic of Congo 252 and Madagascar. In the reporting year, the highest impact of our relief and health commodities can be attributed to Long-lasting insecticidal nets 64,395,334 served 63 clients in Africa (additionally Ghana, South Sudan, Uganda and Kenya), Asia (Pakistan and Bangladesh) and the Middle East (Jordan). Total 68,992,933 63 countries Top 10 clients 1 1 worldwide 2 21 PSM/Chemonics In 2017-2018 we shipped in 2017-2018. 8 38 IDA Foundation UNHCR 52,000 2,314 Value of UNICEF tons of goods containers 10 revenue per client PSI 2017-2018 ICRC (in %) 2% WFP 13% 17 IFRC Africa One Acre Fund Top region Middle East 20 IOM we supplied 18% Asia 67% Others Figure 1 12 13 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report PURPOSE-DRIVEN 2 LegendMEDI tent INNOVATION The LegendMEDI medical tent is NRS Relief’s latest addition to its comprehensive range of multipurpose shelters. Developed in response Innovation that lasts is frequently purposeto the Ebola outbreak in 2014, which has cost driven. In the humanitarian sector, innovation over 11,000 lives, this breakthrough product is often led by someone on a mission to create offers separate, easy-to-disinfect cabins for both value and social impact. At NRS International suspected and confirmed hemorrhagic fever we are committed and compelled to innovate in patients. The medical tent is in compliance with order to overcome the product challenges we MSF‘s quality standards and can also be deployed face in our respective sectors. for schooling, office, storage or temporary shelter purposes. Its 30-sqm structure can accommodate We strive to pioneer products that meet all up to 40 persons and can be attached to one present and future needs of the end-user. another to make a medical structure. Product development and innovation is a holistic, collaborative process which is the result of an New-generation longongoing dialogue with our clients. Humanitarian 3 agencies operating in the field are well-situated to lasting insecticidal net establish the strengths and shortcomings of certain Building on the success of TANA Netting’s widely relief essentials and shelter solutions. Recognizing LegendMEDI medical tent used DawaPlus® 2.0 long-lasting insecticidal that we as a supplier have the manufacturing nets, subsequent innovation has resulted in the resources to pursue an R&D trajectory, we welcome new-generation DawaPlus® 3.0 net, which uses Aid. They personally witnessed how easy non-FR the trend of co-creation with our clients. In this proprietary dual-insecticide release technology treated tarps catch fire, and that camp fires are still relatively new approach, suppliers like us receive to improve nets efficacy. The Piperonyl butoxide a reality. A blaze in 2017 in the same area left three a design brief specifying requirements and usages (PBO) is a co-insecticide that considerably people dead, almost 100 tents were burned to the of a desired product. As with other public-private enhances the effectiveness of the primary ground and 700 refugees were evacuated, once partnership models, there is a considerable degree insecticide, here deltamethrin, by suppressing the more forced to flee. Therefore, it is our commitment of freedom for suppliers to design and develop the mosquito’s enzyme defenses. This net is designed to continue raising the relevance of safe and fit-foroptimal solution, promoting a competitive marketspecifically for regions in which mosquitoes have purpose products to our buyers. driven framework. developed metabolic resistance to pyrethroid In this reporting year, we have brought four key insecticides. Our DawaPlus® 3.0 net incorporates Fires still a significant product innovations to the market, ranging from the PBO into the roof netting, with the sides of a fit-for-purpose medical structure for Ebola and GeoHome ICRC/IFRC/IOM Standard threat deltamethrin coated polyester. Each roof yarn is hemorrhagic fever patients to a treated mosquito optimized to release either PBO or deltamethrin A pivotal moment of our innovation journey was the net designed specifically for regions in which plus PBO. introduction of fire-retardant products. In 2014, our mosquitoes have developed resistance. The subsidiary NRS Relief proudly introduced the firstimplementation of the following innovation projects Solar Shelter Kit and ever fully fire retardant (FR) tents and tarpaulins to demonstrates our commitment to nurturing ideas 4 the humanitarian community. The essence of FR that serve a purpose. Enlight Essential innovation is to improve safety in refugee camps We believe that everybody should have access and prevent loss of properties, injuries and deaths. to the free, clean and abundant energy of the Self-standing The introduction of the FR products is considered 1 sun. This includes the 68 million displaced people a significant milestone in the history of the family tents who are fleeing humanitarian crises and natural humanitarian sector. Shelter is a basic human need and is critical for disasters, living in tented settlements in remote survival in most disasters. It is a temporary home areas, without electricity. It is for this reason that We applaud the wide acceptance by leading and provides personal safety and protection against DomeHome UNHCR Standard NRS Relief has expanded its product line to launch humanitarian agencies. Unfortunately, however, harsh climate conditions. Leading humanitarian the Enlight solar brand — to create solar products fires are still a significant threat to refugees as long responders, the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) The GeoHome is a single skin free-standing specifically designed to meet beneficiaries’ needs as non-FR products are dispatched to the field. In and the International Committee of the Red Cross geodesic shaped dome tent focusing on rapid and and, ultimately, improve their living conditions. the fall of 2018 two (ICRC) / International Federation of Red Cross temporary sheltering of families. The DomeHome The Solar Shelter Kit and the Enlight Essential NRS International and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) have identified offers more comfort thanks to the poly-cotton liner, are durable solar products that promise to bring a colleagues the need to develop new-generation family tents. square living area and vertical gable walls, making better life to those living in temporary settlements participated in a In collaboration with the shelter experts of the it more suitable for prolonged sheltering of families. in the aftermath of crises. Our inhouse engineering fieldtrip to Arsal aforementioned agencies, we have developed According to the UN Refugee Agency, the latter team integrates the latest solar technology in refugee camp in two new self-standing, rapidly deployable domecan be divided into two separate rooms through the lamps, while considering the special circumstances the Bekaa Valley in shaped family tents significantly improving the living integrated poly-cotton partitions for increased safety beneficiaries will use them. Lebanon, hosted environment of displaced people, at the lowest and privacy. by our client Polish possible cost. 14 15 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report PURPOSE-DRIVEN One-stop-shop Emergency stock available PRODUCTION We manufacture what we sell and are a onestop-shop for frequently procured non-food-items in humanitarian responses; from shelter to solar 24/7 We ensure that our emergency stockpiles are available at all times to immediately respond to client demands and humanitarian crises. Compliance and quality Our dedicated quality team conducts ongoing audits and implements new procedures to optimize product performance and meet new standards. We apply the latest production technologies to manufacture products that are 100% compliant with the highest standards required by our clients. All our products are manufactured in a sustainable and socially responsible manner. This helps to retain skilled workers, nurture our reputation within the community, and promotes sustainable practices in our day-to-day business. Zero-waste policy As part of this approach, we strive to continuously reduce waste and our environmental footprint by recycling surplus plastic into accessories and packaging items, and repurposing our fabric offcuts into circular economy initiatives, such as the Peace Doves and Tent Totes upcycling projects. Lastly, we recognize that female empowerment is fundamental to the progress of communities, and as a result, our factory has a unit completely managed and staffed by women. to treated mosquito nets to combat malaria. We produce the full range of NRS Relief’s family tents and core relief items such as tarpaulins, blankets, sleeping mats, winterization kits, and water containers for the humanitarian sector. The factory also produces all our multipurpose tents for medical, educational, logistic and management support use, as well as mobile storage units. Furthermore, we have the capacity to produce millions of long-lasting insecticidal nets for TANA Netting on a monthly basis, the company that sold Our factory is the beating heart of our operations, 64 million malaria-preventing net in this reporting year. On the following page, you will find an where our products with a purpose are being infographic illustrating our supply chain, explaining our business model in more detail. manufactured. H. Sheikh Noor-ud-Din & Sons (HSNDS) adheres to sustainable business standards and fully Recent upgrades Our factory is spread out over three manufacturing controls the entire product development process, sites, covering a space of 28 football pitches (50 from manufacturing through to final delivery. We acres) that hosts various specialized production units. Recent upgrades have modernized our offer jobs with dignity and the factory uses the latest manufacturing facilities significantly, offering safe, technology to manufacture ranges of products that clean and comfortable workspaces and communal facilities, such as a canteen and prayer areas. meet the highest technical standards of international aid agencies. 17 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report Supply chain The PROBLEM PURPOSE-DRIVEN SUSTAINABILITY 68 million that propels our sector forward. Sustainability Forced Natural Health reports are an important tool to measure and displacement disasters epidemics Case study LOcalization communicate our social and environmental due to conflict progress and impact to our stakeholders. Moreover, Local production of long-lasting insecticidal it allows us to create baselines and standards of (LLIN) nets means local incentives to make the Business development fight against malaria sustainable. Since 2017 we excellence for the humanitarian community. proudly produce nets in Nigeria, a country that The non-financial indicators included in this carries almost 30% of the global malaria burden. report are energy consumption, energy intensity, In this reporting year, we opened a treated greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions, work-related Responding to procurement mosquito net manufacturing facility in Aba, as injuries, staff training and breakdowns such as requests from UN agencies, NGOs, bilateral donors part of our commitment to localize production in gender, age, and category. Additionally, we share malarious regions. The production, a partnership our principled approach to the UN Sustainable Dubai, UAE with our contracted manufacturer, Rosie’s Textiles Development Goals (SDGs) and explain why we Ltd., is part of our ‘DawaPlus: Made in Africa’ are convinced #SDG 12 – Responsible Production program that aims to foment local development and Consumption fits the humanitarian sector ‘like raw materials by providing local employment. a glove.’ Our facility in Nigeria operates on a cut-to-pack We invite industry peers to join the Supplies from: principle, whereby treated LLIN material is sustainability journey, in which we aim China South East Asia shipped in bulk to Aba from our manufacturing At NRS International we believe to sustain the balance between social, Middle East base in Pakistan, H. Sheikh Noor-ud-Din & Sons. that contributing to a sustainable environmental and financial health. Corporate Europe All employees are trained to finish WHO prehumanitarian supply chain is sustainability for the humanitarian sector is qualified LLINs. This allows us to maintain strict a way of honoring our purpose the true meaning of honoring the purpose of our control over the critical chemical processes and as relief supplier. We see purposeproducts. production core intellectual property while placing most of driven sustainability as our contribution the employment in Nigeria – over 85% of labor towards social, environmental as well as Energy and emissions 6 production units needed to make LLINs lies on the cutting, sewing and packing stages. economic progress. With a record high number of displaced people During this reporting period, NRS International has supplied over 69 million life-improving products to humanitarian and health emergencies. It Our award-winning worldwide caused by conflict and natural disasters, takes great human and natural capital to make millions of relief items were distributed to the ‘DawaPlus: Made in Africa’ affected populations in 2017-2018. Many of us are that happen. Therefore, reporting on energy impact is essential to drive improvements, quality control program unaware of the production effort it takes to address create benchmarks and inform our clients on Our commitment to localize production through these emergencies, and how responding to crises how we increase the efficiency of our processes our ‘DawaPlus: Made in Africa’ project was does not exempt the humanitarian sector from its continuously. awarded by the Distinction in Local Development social and environmental impact on the planet. and Empowerment in Malaria Programming in A clear example of that is how our subsidiary TANA Raw Inspection Lab tests Final audit ISO This year we have turned inwards to take a critical materials 9001:2015 2018. The award was presented by GBC Health’s Netting has eliminated an energy-intensive process look at our sector, and have further invested in Corporate Alliance on Malaria in Africa (CAMA), upstream our supply chain. A preliminary fabric the sustainability of our manufacturing processes alongside the Private Sector Malaria Prevention heating process that was previously conducted by and supply chain, prioritizing transparency. We transport Project (PSMP), UK Aid and the National Malaria are building on the recognition we received for the our suppliers in China, was transferred to Pakistan. Control Programme of the Ghana Health Services, The reduction of energy consumption and CO₂ second edition of TANA Netting’s sustainability during the West Africa Regional Malaria Safe emissions at a global level was significant, but report based on the Global Reporting Initiative Awards ceremony in Accra, Ghana. first met with an immediate increase of the same (GRI) guidelines, which we published in 2018. indicators internally due to the need of larger Following this report, we have committed to quantities of coal to perform the new process. increasingly add data concerning our social and Even though coal still represents 61% of our total NRS Relief is not responsible for distribution Measuring the impact environmental performance as a group. This CO₂ equivalent emissions, the first half of 2018 publication is the first NRS International solutions delivery In 2017-2018, the Aba facility has delivered close to was marked by a drop in 7% of coal consumption, Sustainability Report. 800,000 LLINs to programs overseen by NMPE and even though production was higher within the same Our clients ensure goods are to a private NGO, being: We hope to inspire humanitarian suppliers and period. delivered to beneficiaries buyers to adopt similar practices and regularly »» 425,000 LLINs on behalf of The Global Fund/IDA; Due to the absence of national guidance in issue annual reports containing relevant information »» 10,000 LLINs to the United Methodist Church; Pakistan, the conversion factors used in this »» 377,188 LLINs on behalf of The Global Fund/IDA. 18 19 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report document to calculate emissions units and turnover. Energy intensity This is the first time we report Sustainable Development NRS International has decided to implement a belong to the Hong Kong and the ratios frame energy consumption energy consumption and emissions principled-approach to #SDG 12 – Responsible United Kingdom guidelines for within a company in combination with of all production units. The Goal 12: Concrete targets Production and Consumption. To us, half of quantification and reporting of GHG gross values. It helps to contextualize figures below represent our entire for the Humanitarian the targets under #SDG 12 speak directly to emissions and removals. Gases the organization’s efficiency, and manufacturing facilities in Pakistan, humanitarian suppliers, and we have decided to included in our calculations of CO₂ enables us to compare to other with the Dubai office’s data added Sector embrace them in our corporate strategy, namely: equivalent emissions were carbon sector actors. This indicator is a only to the “Electricity from grid” dioxide (CO₂), methane (CH4) and clear example of how the entire category. nitrous oxide (N2O). The Global humanitarian community could Target 12.2 Target 12.4 Target 12.5 Target 12.6 Target 12.7 Warming Potential rates are from the benefit from sustainability reporting. IPCC– Intergovernmental Panel on By including this type of information Climate Change assessment reports in this report, NRS International is NRS INTERNATIONAL CO2 based on a 100-year timeframe. Also taking an essential step towards a EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS for the first time, we are providing more sustainable humanitarian supply 2017-2018 (tons) energy intensity in terms of product chain. Efficient use Chemicals Reduce, Sustainability Sustainable of natural and waste recycle and reporting procurement Energy consumption from fuel and grid Electricity from grid resources management reuse 10,663 Electricity (kWh) Diesel (liters) Coal (kg) Natural gas (m2) Heavy fuel oil (kWh) Inspired by #SDG12 and international corporate Inspired by our customers, UN agencies and aid sustainability trends, we are working towards taking organizations, we are also engaging with our a stronger grip on our social and environmental own suppliers on sustainability aspects. Over HSNDS HSNDS Headquarters Total indicators, tracking them periodically and the past few years, we have seen an increase (Relief) (Netting) (Dubai) Diesel systematically in order to monitor our progress. Our in questionnaires, audits and general inquiries goal is to gradually increase the insertion of those regarding our production social and environmental 690 aspects in our public reports. As previously stated, we certainly wish transparency spreads across the aspects, and therefore decided to apply similar methods up the supply chain. We have requested 7,234,893 15,286,720 156,420 22,687,033 humanitarian sector, and we aim to provide our CSR forms from most of our international suppliers 132,726 130,847 263,573 buyers with sustainability benchmarks to facilitate achieving a 33% response rate during this 10,232,240 10,232,240 procurement decisions. reporting period. We aim to continuously expand 1,860,050 1,860,050 Coal our sustainability supplier engagement, both 26,812 6,508,740 6,508,740 quantitavely and qualitatively. Energy intensity Supplier Engagement natural gas Energy used in kwh 3,807 123,968,426 Suppliers’ female Over 80% of supplierAll respondents workforce varied respondents hold ISO claim to audit their from 13% to 43% 9001 certification own suppliers Heavy fuel oil Units of products Turnover in USD 1,746 68,992,933 197,429,139 Total Energy intensity per product Energy intensity per USD 43,717 1.80 0.63 20 21 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report The #SDG12 target on ‘sustainable procurement’ Adamant to not compromise the quality of our Disclosing social was first intended to target governments. However, products, we have implemented procedures to it was soon transferred to corporations. More reduce their impact on the planet. For example, we indicators recently the global goal was also embraced by UN have a zero-waste policy and in-house recycling Corporate responsibility goes far beyond agencies, such as UNICEF, which has released facilities. We recycle and reuse our waste as much corporate philantropy. As much as we recognize their own supply/procurement procedures based as we can, mostly on the packaging material, the importance of engaging with communities on #SDG12. Other aid organizations followed suit. accessories and items for internal use. In fact, and ‘giving back’ to society, if humanitarian For example, the The International Federation of we have recently applied some circular economy suppliers genuinely commit to being part of a Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) has principles to repurpose our waste with the sustainable supply chain, they will have to open Total recordable recently released a case study called Greening PeaceDoves and TentTotes projects. their doors and share more about the human work-related injuries IFRC supply chains; mapping our GHG emissions, capital their companies are built upon. 2017-2018 First-aid Hospital attention as part of their Green Response program. The two Supporting upcycling That said, NRS International has its own nonkey messages from this study are: projects July 2017 82 11 profit arm called Bilqees Sarwar Foundation »» A significant share of the greenhouse gas The PeaceDoves and TentTotes are two upcycling (BSF) which provides medical treatments and (GHG) emissions of humanitarian operations projects launched in 2018 that highlight the August 2017 79 10 education to thousands of people in Lahore, occur from logistics, considering it is often a importance of a sustainable humanitarian supply Pakistan. More information about BSF can be September 2017 93 8 global supply chain with items traveling great chain, meanwhile raising awareness for refugees found at 44. distances. and displaced people worldwide. October 2017 69 11 Social indicators are an important factor »» The materials and the source of energy used The PeaceDoves is a partnership with UK-based when creating benchmarks for diversity, work in the production of relief items have a drastic November 2017 77 11 NGO Empathy Action. The toy doves are made conditions and the overall social-economics of a impact on their carbon footprint. Promotion of from leftover refugee blanket and tarpaulins, with December 2017 83 4 particular area and/or industry. We are happy to renewable energy and recyclable materials can a special touch from our factory’s female stitchers report zero fatalities or high-consequence workhave a major impact on the lifetime emissions January 2018 72 8 in Pakistan, who have embroidered their personal related injuries during the 2017-‘18 reporting of a single item. signature to the doves. period across all of our units of operation. February 2018 75 5 Furthermore, we have logged 1165 minor Speaking about the PeaceDoves concept, Sandy March 2018 65 5 injuries throughout the year, of which only 8% Glanfield, Innovations Manager at Empathy required a visit to a local hospital for treatment. Action, says: “I designed the doves to nestle in April 2018 100 9 The remainder were treated on site with simple their recipient’s hand, but I hadn’t planned on bandages. No hospitalizations have been the broad shoulders they would need to carry so May 2018 147 4 recorded. many messages; peace, upcycling, public-private partnerships, empowering women, the power of a June 2018 128 9 The strong performance can partially attributed gift, refugees and love. The doves carry a reminder to the highly automated and modern production 1,070 95 that for the 68 million refugees around the world, a facilities, and mainly to our onsite compliance blanket or tarpaulin is a basic necessity to survive. Total departments that have facilitated a total of 454 The passionate and skillful women who made the trainings on Health & Safety and Production & doves, add the love into this story.” Quality during this reporting period. In line with similar principles, we have also created the TentTote bags, made from tent material offcuts, Training such as poly-cotton and mudflap fabric. These bags are literally made from the same batch of tents Production No. of Total hours of training Type of that are sheltering displaced people around the unit (HSNDS) trainings No. of participants provided training world. Similarly to the doves, this project gives NRS International 100% control of its supply upstream the chain, as there is no need to purchase extra Unit 1 & 3 (Relief) 335 4,484 198 materials to make them. Health & Safety, Production & Quality The PeaceDoves and TentTotes are non-profit upcycling projects, and we hope organizations Unit 2 (Netting) 119 3,500 179 will support us in extending the lifespan of these products. They make a great corporate gift, and these two projects represent an essential step Software, Safety, towards a circular economy for relief items. Dubai 20 67 430 Business & Extended Education Total 474 8,051 807 22 23 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report Several members of our staff in Dubai have Number of 16% embraced the life-long-learning principle and took 23% the opportunity to make the most of our Continuing employees and Level of Secondary school Education and Training (CET) Policy; from two-day country of origin NETHERLANDS: 2 DENMARK: 3 Technical diploma software trainings to long-term degree courses. education GERMANY: 1 in Dubai office Bachelor’s degree This year we report for the first time on their level BULGARIA: 1 SERBIA: 1 Master’s degree of education, and will expand this disclosure to our ITALY: 2 19% other units in the future. We look forward to keeping SYRIA: 1 42% upgrading our employees’ skills, performance, and ALGERIA: 1 LEBANON: 1 PAKISTAN: 14 to remain investors in their career development. NEPAL: 3 INDIA: 2 PHILIPPINES: 10 NIGERIA: 1 Employee data BRAZIL: 1 CAMEROON: 1 Staff breakdowns such as gender, age, and category provide a quantitative measure of diversity within an organization and can be used in conjunction with sectoral or regional benchmarks. Our biggest Gender balance and challenge remains to address female inclusion into our operations in Lahore, Pakistan, where job diversity are very markets are predominantly male-dominated, with rates as low as 25% women participation. much present at our headquarters in Dubai, where Senior management Management Administrative Factory workers our staff consists of 16 different < 30 30-50 >50 < 30 30-50 >50 < 30 30-50 >50 < 30 30-50 >50 Dubai nationalities, and 42% of HSNDS women. Female Senior management Management Administrative 1 5 1 40 15 0 0 0 0 682 350 61 (Relief) representation at < 30 30-50 >50 < 30 30-50 >50 < 30 30-50 >50 leadership positions HSNDS amounted to 37% Male 1 11 3 9 1 25 2 16 2 111 84 4 32 36 21 1214 536 46 from management (Netting) categories. Female 2 5 3 8 18 Dubai 0 3 0 0 16 0 6 17 1 0 0 0 Total 3 2 3 151 115 4 38 53 22 1896 886 107 Green office three consecutive months, something particularly significant during summer months in the United In 2018, the Dubai office has launched several Arab Emirates. initiatives to decrease its environmental impact 30 270 113 on the planet. A relatively small office in an urban Our water reduction has exceeded our area, such as ours, might be overlooked in terms of expectations, and it shows how simple initiatives, 413 2889 significance of the so-called ‘green office’ initiatives. such as encouraging people to use the dishwasher However, in less than six months operative we instead of hand-washing kitchen utensils, can have managed to recycle 209.6 kilograms of waste. come a long way. Monthly water reductions from 20% of this is plastic, which alone is equivalent our target year (2016) ranged between 12% to Total number of employees to roughly 300kg of CO₂ emissions, the same 50% over the past six months. We had a similar amount released by an average car driven experience with paper usage: by implementing HSNDS (Relief) HSNDS (Netting) Dubai Total double-sided printing, we managed to extend our for 11.6 hours non-stop. 1155 2104 43 3302 Located in an environmentally orders interval and drop our paper usage in 16% within six months. challenging country when it comes to natural resources The simplicity of the actions implemented such as potable water, our demonstrates how having a ‘green’ office is office reductions of electricity, really about coworkers taking action to make a paper, and water consumption positive impact on their work environment, and are off to a great start. Since consequently the planet. We have created a Green 1% 99% 4% 96% 42% 58% 3% 97% its implementation, we have Team in our office that meets once a month to managed to keep our electricity evaluate our results, brainstorm new ideas and talk bill lower than the previous year for about sustainability, both corporate and individual. Gender representation 24 25 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report PURPOSE-DRIVEN community commitments We are committed to caring for the community community members in the sectors of healthcare, we call home. Through our family-run charitable education, prisoner welfare and humanitarian arm, the Bilqees Sarwar Foundation (BSF), we assistance. have the opportunity to create positive impact Mrs. Sarwar launched the first community impact in our community in Lahore, Pakistan. The program in 2005 after a devastating earthquake Foundation is a registered welfare organization, shook regions of Pakistan. She took the initiative to which aims to provide public health and provide humanitarian assistance to those affected educational support to the local community. in the SWAT region. Throughout the relief efforts The Foundation is named after the matriarch of the undertaken by Mrs. Sarwar, the Sarwar family Sarwar family, Mrs. Bilqees Sarwar, who, to date, became one of the largest donors of providing core serves as the Chairwoman. In March 2018, Mrs. relief items to the victims of the earthquake. While Sarwar has been conferred with “Tamgha-e-Imtiaz”, working for the welfare of the community members the fourth highest state organized honor of State of for over ten years, in 2014 she laid the foundation Pakistan to acknowledge her efforts in serving the of BSF. kEY ACHIEVEmENTS OF BILqEES followed by numerous successful transplants at the eye care facility. SARWAR FOUNDATION »» The hospital houses Punjab’s largest dialysis Bilqees »» BSF positively impacted the lives of 250,000 underprivileged Pakistanis to date. center, the Razia Begum Dialysis Center. The center has the capacity to conduct 100 free sarwar »» In 2017-2018 the Foundation invested more than USD 800,000 in various projects. »» BSF expanded the Bilqees Sarwar Hospital with dialysis procedures on daily basis and since its inception in 2016, 300,000 free dialysis procedures have been conducted successfully. HOSPITAL a state-of-the-art diagnostic center comprising of a CT scan, MRI, ultrasound, digital x-ray and »» The Foundation has invested significantly in upgrading the medical facilities in government PERFORMANCE comprehensive laboratory facilities. »» The total number of patients treated at the Bilqees Sarwar Hospital in 2017-2018 totals hospitals such as the Mayo Hospital in Lahore, where four medical wards were refurbished with the latest equipment. IN TREATMENTS 72,968. »» In the District Jail Lahore, a medical ward was 723 »» The hospital offers an eye care facility, treating established to improve the welfare of prisoners, up to 5,000 eye patients per month, and which was later named after Mrs. Sarwar. conducted more than 6,000 optical surgeries. »» The Foundation provide 100 scholarships to Diagnostic center (CT scan, In June 2018 the first corneal transplant pupils enrolled in the Customs Public School in MRI, X-ray, Ultrasound) surgery was performed by one of our senior Lahore. eye surgeons, Dr. Akash Mathew, which was 25,802 Dialysis center 44,623 Eye care center 1,661 Dentistry Total 159 72,968 General out-patient 26 27 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report PURPOSE-DRIVEN and most of the non-financial disclosures included Engaging with global aid actors and their policies in this Sustainability Report were based on GRI come as a given to members of the humanitarian POLICIES AND FRAMEWORKS Standards 2016. TANA Netting is also one of the ten signatories to sector, relief suppliers in particular. At NRS International we have kept a close eye on the consultation process and final text of the Global the Integrity Pact for Global LLIN Procurement. The NRS International welcomes the inclusion approach to the Goals by the private sector. In Compact on Refugees, which was adopted by the body is created by the Global Fund, the biggest of international policies, standards, and the past few years, the Compact has also forged UN General Assembly in December 2018. Analyses long-lasting insecticide-treated nets (LLIN) donor frameworks of quality and sustainability into partnerships, linkages and framework alignment and training on the subject have been offered to in the world and monitored by the Basel Institute of our corporate strategy and operations. This with ISO Standards, the OECD Guidelines for our staff, focusing on the key themes such as the Governance. Signed and effective since December approach moves beyond straightforward Multinational Enterprises and the Global Reporting emphasis on local development, inclusion, and self2014, the Integrity Pact resolutions focus on five customer requirements, and instead, represents Initiative (GRI). reliance aligned with emergency response. aspects below. an essential step towards sector alignment, NRS International identifies with UNGC mission enabling a more transparent and sustainable in remaining contemporary, hands-on and more future. importantly, relevant to its stakeholders. We are LLIN In 2012 NRS International became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), members of UNGC’s Steering Committee at the United Arab Emirates local network and provide Integrity the largest corporate sustainability initiative in the world, in what can be considered our earliest digital media, communications and marketing support on a volunteering basis, particularly for pact 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. action towards becoming part of an international the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) creation of transparency greater enhanced reporting community of responsible companies. We have Taskforce in the UAE. From our experience, an integrity in the bidding alignment in transparency potential now elevated our level engagement to Participant being part of such network has only added to our monitor process compliance in the product and abusive level, showing an even stronger commitment. company and pushed us to do better. Our principled controls registration procurement approach to #SDG12 is a statement to that process practices The Global Compact offers a policy framework commitment (see more information on page 17) to guide businesses on sustainability strategies, along with the increasing support for transparency while offering a platform of members to encourage within the humanitarian sector. partnerships. The framework is based on ten principles under the four pillars of human rights, During these past six years we have submitted labor, the environment and anti-corruption, six Communication on Progress (CoP) reports, Corporate who in turn made sure the SDGs but since the introduction of the Sustainable available at UNGC’s online platform, and for the sustainability would become a useful tool not just Development Goals (SDGs) in 2015, the Compact first time this year it is fully integrated within is gaining for governments, but to the private has made its main mission to promote a principled this Sustainability Report as suggested by importance sector as well. CoP policy. More recently we have used GRI Guidelines as our latest inspiration for reporting Why and recognition and is also What followed was a sequence of partnerships and linkages between on sustainability aspects. Our subsidiary, TANA framework on the rise in frameworks, such as UNGC, GRI and Netting, has published two GRI-referenced reports humanitarian alignment supply chain ISO, culminating on the publication of the SDG Compass, the ultimate (read more on is essential Sustainability chapter guide and business case for the SDG implementation and integration to page 17). Yet, given to drive the complex nature of our corporate strategy (www.sdgcompass.org). Framework sustainability sector, in which the public, private and civil society interact, it can be alignment for corporate sustainability, reporting, and voluntary monitoring in the difficult to navigate the global web systems is essential to the of policies and standards. humanitarian Many businesses rely on ISO humanitarian supply chain. The global and immediate nature of emergencies sector Standards for management systems, and GRI Standards for reporting, demands suppliers to take on the responsibility to assure humanitarian considering they are tailor-made aid will not cause a negative social for the private sector to address and environmental impact during the day-to-day operations. production. Humanitarian suppliers When the SDGs were launched should not shy away from gradual, in 2015, companies were faced but steady, implementation of global with the challenge of integrating a sustainability frameworks into their new framework into their corporate businesses, as they all become sustainability agenda. These concerns increasingly connected and customechoed back to the United Nations, built for private companies. 28 29 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report PURPOSE-DRIVEN GOVERNANCE Labor Health and safety Implementation standards of workers Whistleblowing (of the Code) 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Conflicts of (No tolerance) Protection of Limitation of interest Human environment liability trafficking Corporate governance can be defined as the over one million companies in over 170 countries systems, policies and processes in place certified. It provides guidance and tools on how which determine how companies are managed, to make sure customers get consistent quality controlled and directed. For NRS International, products, and it is based on a number of quality governance mechanisms reflect our purpose to management principles, including top management supply quality life-saving products for those in participation and continual improvement. ISO Our Code of need, while curbing our impact on the planet. 14001 Environmental Management Systems Conduct is (EMS) provides companies with the requirements As a private company with subsidiaries and a comprised of 16 manufacturing unit providing employment to over for a successful EMS, which in turn will enhance ethical principles the organizations’ environmental performance and 3,000 employees globally, NRS International places achieve their sustainability goals. in the following strong emphasis on governance through internal order: policies and standard operating procedures. Our HSNDS is also SA8000 certified, a system of aim is to create an equitable organization, to offer standards established by Social Accountability jobs with dignity and ensure human and workplace International to advance human rights for workers rights are respected at all times. around the world, reaching over 2 million workers Safeguarding (No) Money (No) Corruption today. This standard, which was later developed Loyalty and of fundamental laundering and due and inappropriate Every new staff member who joins the Dubai into a framework, is directed to factories and diversity human rights diligence checks practices office is introduced to NRS International’s Code of organizations that wish to demonstrate their Conduct and Employee Handbook, the latter which fair treatment of workers across all industries. It contains our policies and procedures for grievance, focuses on human rights elements, such as child/ health and safety, learning and development, forced labor and discrimination, fair pay policies among other subjects. and a safe and dignified work environmental for Several management systems are currently in all. We believe corporate governance is essential 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 place to make sure our social and environmental to improved sustainability performance. Strong principles are periodically monitored. We policies and procedures are the foundation of rely on our ISO (International Organization businesses’ long-term survival. for Standardization) certificates to shape our operating procedures at our manufacturing site. At the end of this reporting period, all of H. Certifications Sheikh Noor-ud-Din & Sons (HSNDS) production Reliability Compliance and (Free) (No) Political »» ISO 9001:2015 units hold ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015 respect for the Competition contributions »» ISO 14001:2015 certifications. ISO 9001 – Quality management law »» SA8000 is the most prevalent of all ISO standards with 30 31 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report COUNTRY PROFILE Country profiles AFGHANISTAN In this Sustainability Report we introduce a series of Country profiles, highlighting the humanitarian (Protracted crisis) and health emergencies where the products that we manufacture are deployed. We operate in a Humanitarian assistance complex supply chain, yet we aim to provide insight on the road ‘from factory to field’. There is a story can no longer be behind every shipment and in this publication, we illustrate how our team has responded to client requests in Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Ethiopia, framed with a shortDemocratic Republic of Congo, Indonesia and Yemen. This evidence-based contribution provides term lens alone.1 valuable information about the current pressures and challenges on the emergency response The extent of global system, as well as insight into the social impact of the products we produce. forced displacement has already reached World War II record 3.3 MILLION Afghans in need of levels, currently assistance in 2018 standing at 68 million 5.2 million displaced persons, and Afghan refugees have returned to their home country the prolonged nature since the early 2000s of manmade protracted NRS International sold a total of crises has become 2.16 million the ‘new normal’. products intended to be deployed in Afghanistan Afghanistan is a dire example of a protracted 2.1 million conflict, lasting already Long-lasting insecticidal nets four decades, which 57,000 Tarpaulins has hindered poverty 1,200 reduction, development Viva family tents and humanitarian 400 support. Huggy multipurpose tents »» 1. WFP. The “New Normal” of Protracted Humanitarian Crises, https://www.wfpusa.org/ articles/the-new-normal-of-protracted-humanitarian-crises/ 32 33 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report The politically vulnerable country dangerous countries in the world, with Returning refugees refugees have returned home with faces continuous security and military 10 civilians being killed every day the assistance of the refugee agency The extremely complex humanitarian challenges, which handicaps the by acts of war and terror. Moreover, since the early 2000s, even though crisis has left 3.3 million Afghans implementation of humanitarian Afghanistan is prone to recurring this trend has stalled in 2018. in need of life-saving assistance campaigns. These obstacles natural disasters. The fragility of the in 2018. In addition, Afghan crossOur response compromise the ability of responding political and economic landscape border refugees count for the second aid organizations to reach vulnerable undermines the country’s ability to At NRS International, the Afghan largest refugee population in the populations and provide safety and cope with the consequences of such displaced population has been central world. The escalating violence and security for aid workers. As it stands disasters, which makes humanitarian to many of our emergency response attacks on civilian infrastructure in today, Afghanistan is one of the most operations even more difficult. operations throughout decades, both country have forced over one million in Afghanistan and in main hostpeople to live in new and prolonged country Pakistan. In the reporting (internal) displacement. The majority year 2017-2018 NRS International of nationals are forced to flee from has sold a total of 2.16 million their homes and find a temporary products intended to be deployed place to stay within the Afghan in Afghanistan, of which over two borders. At the same time, the country million were long-lasting insecticidal is impacted by a mass of refugees nets. A focus product has been our who have returned from neighboring UNICEF standard Huggy tents, of Pakistan, yet resettlement has been which we dispatched 400 pieces. challenging. Returning refugees face These multipurpose structures are communities under pressure, limited most likely utilized as child-friendly job opportunities and security and spaces or classrooms. Furthermore, protection risks. According to UNHCR, we have dispatched large quantities approximately 5.2 million Afghan of tarpaulins and family tents. In 2017-2018 NRS International has delivered a total of 2.16 million products Sources »» UNHCR: Returning Afghan refugees rebuild despite challenges to Afghanistan. »» »» Norwegian Refugee Council: 7 things you should know about the crisis in Afghanistan International Rescue Committee: Afghanistan: What you need to know about one of the world’s longest refugee crises 34 35 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report COUNTRY PROFILE BANGLADESH According to UN officials, the Rohingya refugee emergency is an ethnical genocide that needs to be accounted for as a human rights 1.3 MILLION violation.1 Once a small people in need of humanitarian assistance group residing on the western coast of 906,572 Myanmar, the Rohingya refugees, of which: population were forced 81% to flee to neighboring are arrivals since August 2017 Bangladesh due to targeted violence and 55% human rights abuse are under 18 years old since August 2017. 52% Many walked for days through the forest to are women About reach safety. 150,000 refugees are vulnerable to landslides and flooding due to annual monsoon season. »» 1. https://www.reuters.com/article/us-myanmar-rohingya-un/myanmar-army-chiefmust-be-prosecuted-for-rohingya-genocide-u-n-rights-envoy-idUSKCN1PJ1AK 36 37 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report The forced displacement of the Rohingya minority from Myanmar to Bangladesh in the past 18 months has created the Two months after the main exodus, our team members visited Cox’s Bazar to assess the needs of aid organizations According to largest and most congested refugee settlement in the world in Cox’s Bazar and beneficiaries on the ground. We identified the crucial need for highthe UN Refugee district. Even though the Bangladesh government has responded generously to this crisis, the large and immediate quality plastic sheeting to ensure a safe, dignified living space for the displaced, acknowledging the area is prone to Agency, the influx on people has put great pressure on their villages and already limited heavy rains and floods. The evident lack of quality, fit-for-purpose tarpaulins was biggest threat resources. According to the UN Refugee Agency, clearly compromising the very basic living conditions of the affected community. At NRS International we believe we today is “an emergency the biggest threat today is “an emergency have the responsibility to share the within an emergency”, meaning that message that quality means appropriate the lack of basic services, sanitation and infrastructure combined with the looming monsoon season will have assistance and effective response. within an life-threatening diseases and natural disasters, such as landslides and flooding, as a consequence. emergency” The deployment of appropriate shelter solutions is imperative to appease the effect of overcrowding and heavy storms. Joint efforts from various sectors of the humanitarian supply chain and increased funding to aid organizations are imperative to face this challenge. Our response Since September 2017, over one million core relief and health items manufactured by NRS International have been supplied 485,000 to Rohingya refugees through a variety of international aid organizations, including UNHCR, IFRC, Oxfam and UNICEF. Tarpaulins We have effectively supplied quality This strategy has proven to be successful during emergencies, leveraging the 100,000 combination of quick logistics with locally Blankets life-improving products to the displaced obtained situational understanding and 30,000 Rohingya population through our Rapid partnerships. Field assessments are essential Response Strategy (RRS), which has a to better comprehend how we can optimize four-pronged approach: our intervention, learn about the challenges Long-lasting insecticidal nets encountered by the organizations in field and to Formation of 24/7 rapid response taskforce identify the best logistics solutions to facilitate the supply chain. See breakdown of core relief items supplied to Bangladesh during 2017-2018 5,000 Tents reporting period on the right. 301,000 Field assessments Sources Sleeping mats Logistical support »» UNOCHA Rohingya refugee crisis 149,000 »» Reliefweb Country profile Bangladesh »» International Rescue Committee Why is the monsoon Building community season so dangerous for Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh? resilience »» UNHCR Rohingya emergency Water containers 38 39 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report COUNTRY PROFILE Our response Democratic The Democratic The complexity of the ‘forgotten’ humanitarian crisis requires a Republic of Republic of Congo collaborative effort from all actors involved. NRS International and its subsidiaries are one link in the Congo (Complex, protracted crisis) (DRC) is witnessing humanitarian supply chain and our manufacturing efforts have resulted in the production of over one of the most 11 million long-lasting insecticidal nets to be delivered to the DRC. complex and The mosquito nets are used in a large-scale national malaria control campaign to curb the long-standing widespread disease and death. Secondly, our shelter team has humanitarian crises fast-tracked the development of our Ebola-specific aid structure in the world, a in light of the new outbreak. The 1 MILLION result of decades LegendMEDI is the outcome of an innovation trajectory initiated in response to the people were forced to flee Ebola outbreak in 2014, which home in 2018, on top of 4.5 million IDPs of armed conflict has cost over 11,000 lives. This breakthrough product offers separate, easy-to-disinfect cabins 13 million in the eastern part for both suspected and confirmed hemorrhagic fever patients. people are living on one meal or less a day of the country. In our reporting year the country faced a multitude of emergencies, making it very difficult for inYou will find more information about this medical tent on our Innovation chapter on page 12. Malaria kills NRS International country responders to meet the humanitarian needs. The Congolese population was confronted The delivery of 16,000 tarpaulins to International Rescue Committee last year, was a particular 400 played a significant by floods and landslides due to heavy rains challenge and a prime example of our commitment and the second largest Ebola outbreak in world to go the extra mile. Despite very difficult weather history. The outbreak of the Ebola virus in North children per day role in supplying Kivu province resulted in 500 registered cases, taking the lives of over 300 men and women. and road conditions, our logistics team managed to truck the much-needed relief items from Goma to the remote response area, overcoming many DRC is NRS International’s second biggest recipient of products humanitarian and Sources »» WHO Outbreaks and Furthermore, the ongoing violence has spurred waves of displacement, and it is estimated one million Congolese have become internally displaced obstacles. The gratitude and feedback from our client served as an acknowledgement that manufactured by us: malaria tools, with Other Emergencies, Week 7: 10 16 February in 2018. This is on top of the already 4.5 million perseverance is not only necessary, but also appreciated. 11 million DRC being the second 2018. people displaced in the country in 2017, and »» IFRC: Democratic currently 13 million people across DRC are living on Despite the fact that we thoroughly track our data, Republic of the Congo: one meal or less a day. it is impossible for us to provide social impact Long-lasting insecticidal nets Floods in Kinshasa numbers on country level. As a supplier, we either 75 biggest recipient of Emergency Plan of Action Health crises are another major source of concern deliver directly to affected countries, or we supply (EPoA) and the Central-African country is left with its public »» UNOCHA: Democratic to our clients’ humanitarian depots. In the latter health infrastructure virtually broken down. Malaria Huggy tents our relief products, »» Republic of Congo ReliefWeb: UNHCR is the main killer, and DRC has the second largest situation, tents and relief items are dispatched on a needs-basis from regional warehouses managed 16,000 totaling up to 11 warns of massive shelter number of malaria cases and deaths worldwide by our clients such as UNHCR, IFRC and MSF. needs of DR Congo’s (11% of all cases and 11% of deaths worldwide). In terms of direct deliveries, we have delivered displaced Over 400 children die every day in DRC because of Tarpaulins »» ReliefWeb & WHO: DR significant volumes of UNICEF standard Huggy this preventable and treatable disease. 12,000 million items. Congo: Ebola Outbreak multipurpose tents, tarpaulins and buckets. May 2018 »» World Malaria Report Buckets 2017 40 41 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report COUNTRY PROFILE Ethiopia Renewed intercommunal violence and clashes throughout Ethiopia in the spring of 2018 have forced at least one million people to flee their homes, the majority being women and children. In the reporting year 20172.6 MILLION 2018, NRS International IDPs scaled up the response Of which to the growing 1 million were forced to flee in 2018 displacement crisis. Climate change will result in 86 million internal climate migrants across sub-Saharan Africa by 2050 Items NRS International dispatched to country 77,000 Long-lasting insecticidal nets 20,000 Source: Tarpaulins Rikka Tupaz / IOM 42 43 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report Displaced woman and girl beneficiaries of emergency Our response Within the scope of this report, when the alarming news about the shelter and non-food-items Recent figures of the USAID situation in Ethiopia reached us in in front of their makeshift Ethiopia office reflected that 3% of shelter carrying a jerry the Spring, we actively responded the allocated budget was spent on can in Guji Zone Oromia to the crisis through our ‘Rapid Region, Eastern Africa. Shelter & Settlements, 4% on Health Response Strategy’ (RRS) approach. Photo Rikka Tupaz (UN (including malaria) and 21% on Water, For instance, we worked closely with Migration Agency). Sanitation & Hygiene. This distribution IOM to ensure a healthy pipeline can be seen as a blueprint for other and supply of the required goods. UN and aid agencies, who follow Our account managers worked with similar patterns. It is in these areas both the Global Supply Unit in Manila our company can and is continually (Philippines) as well as the country contributing. office in Addis Ababa, which resulted In this reporting year we have in close to half a million core relief primarily provided long-lasting items being dispatched in the second insecticidal nets (77,000) and half of 2018. At the same time, we tarpaulins (20,000) directly at country replenished our emergency stock level. Tarpaulins are sometimes in Lahore, Pakistan, to safeguard referred to as the ‘aid workers’ secret adequate levels of shelters and relief tool’, thanks to its strength and items for future operations. versatility. In the first phase of any emergency relief operation, adequate we actively shelter is a basic need to ensure protection against the elements. A responded to the tarpaulin can be used to create a first-phase temporary accommodation in which beneficiaries can shelter. In crisis through our addition, it provides privacy, comfort and emotional security. NRS Relief ‘Rapid Response manufactures reinforced tarpaulins (UNHCR/UNICEF standard) as well as woven flexible tarpaulins (IFRC/ Strategy’ (RRS) ICRC/MSF/Oxfam standard). approach. Sources »» USAID – Crisis in Ethiopia – Complex Emergency »» UNOCHA – Ethiopia – Country profile »» Reliefweb The Crisis Below the Headlines: Conflict Displacement in Ethiopia »» UNFPA Ethiopia Humanitarian Emergency Human displacement in Ethiopia caused loss of grow rapidly by 60–85 percent by 2050. Reliance assets, disrupted livelihoods and basic services, on rainfed agriculture makes rural livelihoods and damaged infrastructure. Aid agencies reported especially vulnerable to the effects of climate critical gaps in accessing basic services such as change. shelter, food and water, as the majority of internally Many of these people were sheltering in schools or displaced people (IDP) left their houses with close temporary facilities and were in need of immediate to nothing. protection services and access to safe drinking These newly displaced people are in addition to water. The latest information released by the United the 1.6 million Ethiopians elsewhere in the country Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian that have been pushed from their homes by conflict Affairs (UNOCHA) estimates there are 8.5 million or drought since the previous year. A recent World people in need of some form of humanitarian Bank Report concludes that worsening climate aid and a multi-sectoral assistance is necessary impacts will result in 86 million internal climate to respond to the acute needs of this vulnerable migrants across sub-Saharan Africa by 2050. In population. Ethiopia, for example, the population is projected to 44 45 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report COUNTRY PROFILE Our subsidiary NRS Relief characterized as a very challenging immediately mobilized emergency emergency response due to the indonesia (Natural disaster) shelters in support of the earthquake response in Indonesia led by the UN complicated logistics procedures in terms of permissions to grant to Asia-Pacific remains the Migration Agency (IOM) to meet the emergency shelter needs of displaced operate charter flights. The team had very limited time to complete world’s most disasterpersons in the region. The operation was funded by the United Nations the delivery due to the closure of Balikpapan airport in Indonesia. The prone region and in Central Emergency Response Fund. IOM emergency shelters were immediate and direct collaboration with the IOM Global Procurement and Supply Unit in Manila, Philippines, 2018 natural disasters supplied to Balikpapan airport via B767 charter flight. The challenging was the key to a successful and speedy delivery. once again affected logistic operations were successfully executed in collaboration with NRS The photography represents the Relief logistics team and DHL Global process of tent displacement via air millions of people. Even Forwarding Dubai. cargo to implementation in the field. (All images courtesy of @iomjakarta Our Asia Rapid Response team though our response managed to release the emergency stock in a matter of days once the via Instagram). to the earthquake that order was confirmed. It can be triggered a tsunami in Sulawesi (Indonesia) in October 2018 falls outside of the scope of 7.4 this report, we have MAGNITUDE earthquake only 10 meter deep chosen to briefly shed light on this operation. More than 2,000 people lost their lives 65,000 houses destroyed, 330,000 people without adequate shelter By the end of 2018, 134,000 still internally displaced 46 47 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report COUNTRY PROFILE YEMEN (Complex emergency) The unprecedented human catastrophe unfolding in war-torn Yemen has challenged the entire humanitarian system and supply chain, including suppliers. Despite strong funding commitments by the 29 MILLION donor community, people are in need of humanitarian assistance* the delivery of aid to millions of people 14 million was one of critical people were facing famine* issues faced by aid 8 million organizations and people did not know when to expect their next meal* manufacturers like NRS International. NRS International sold a total of It required intense 400,000 products intended to be humanitarian diplomacy deployed in Yemen as well as new modus THERMAL BLANKETS TARPAULINS operandi from the FAMILY TENTS (VIVA) supplier side. MULTIPURPOSE TENTS (LEGEND 45) * Statistics as per December 2018 48 49 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report In the fall of 2018 the United Nations and the involved team was closely reported that 14 million people following the developments. Overall, were facing famine and about 8 we have dispatched almost 400,000 million people did not know where core relief items in our reporting their next meal was coming from. year, primarily blankets and industry Yemen is plagued by widespread standard tarpaulins. Our proactive violence, poverty, malnutrition and communications approach was infectious diseases, resulting in the positively welcomed by our clients biggest global humanitarian crisis and partners and hopefully this year of this decade. The conflict that has will we are able to send even more entered the fourth year has taken vital goods to the country that needs a tremendous toll on the 29 million it the most. people in need of humanitarian Lastly, it is worth mentioning how we assistance. At the time of publication benefit from our strategic location of this Sustainability Report, peace in the humanitarian hub Dubai. Part talks in Sweden have resulted in a of the supplier impact story is that, ceasefire, which will allow aid to enter in many cases, we deliver goods to the country. our clients’ warehouse facilities, from Overall, Our response The conflict destroyed public where the cargo will be dispatched to humanitarian hotspots. For instance, we have we work closely with Emirates Red infrastructure and blocked access Crescent, a key responder to the to basic supplies. With airports and Yemen crisis based in the UAE. dispatched seaports such as the Hodeidah port being affected, our operations team outlined the available shipping options Since the start of the conflict we have delivered 8,000 family tents, almost 400,000 which are now all deployed in the to deliver cargo aid to our clients. Arabian country. Similarly, in 2017 Through a targeted email campaign, we produced 150 Legend 45 tents for core relief we updated our Middle Eastern clients about the transportation options by air, sea and land. At the time, we were WFP, which is based at International Humanitarian City in Dubai. These items in MSF standard tents currently serve as able to offer air and sea options to the field hospitals in Yemen. humanitarian hub in Djibouti, as well 2017-2018 as to the Port of Aden and the Yemeni capital Sana’a. This Rapid Response approach required ongoing monitoring and Source: all shipping options were subject Muse Mohammed / IOM to change due to the ongoing developments and updated guidelines and restrictions as issued by international transport authorities. Our office turned into a ‘situation room’ Sources »» International Rescue Committee: Why is Yemen the world’s worst humanitarian crisis? »» UNOCHA – Yemen country profil »» Mercy Corps Yemen crisis What is happening in Yemen 50 51 PURPOSE-DRIVEN. 2017-2018 Sustainability Report PURPOSE-DRIVEN People True fulfillment does not only stem from and South America. Diversity is a core value enjoying what you do, but also to serve a and is not only represented by the multitude of purpose. Our colleagues share the common nationalities, but also by our close to even number belief that working as a supplier for the of men and women in our team. We are an equalhumanitarian and development sector is both opportunity employer and pursue an active gender meaningful and rewarding. We never lose equality agenda, from junior to decision-making sight of the impact our products can have level. The senior management even has a 67% on people’s lives. Every shelter, every childfemale representation compared to 33% of men, friendly space that is dispatched to the field, however, we always aim for evenly distributed every container that leaves our factory full of gender balance at each organizational level. mosquito nets we know that each and every We understand that our achievements result in product matters. real social impact by our clients, which creates There is a common misconception that companies exceptional job satisfaction. Our Dubai Human must be either purpose-driven or profit-driven, Resources department has launched a Continual and that the two are not compatible. At NRS Education & Training (CET) program to support the International we disagree to this statement. ‘lifelong learning’ philosophy and both our freshAccording to Forbes Magazine, research proves graduates as well as more senior members of staff that purpose fuels profits and this we can endorse. have demonstrated a very steep learning curve in Purpose-driven companies are more likely to have this highly complex working environment. more motivated and energized employees, more We work hand-in-hand with our colleagues in satisfied clients and as a result, better business Pakistan, who operate our factory H. Sheikh outcomes. As a company we can thoroughly attest Noor-ud-Din & Sons. Regular knowledge to this, and our growing majority market shares in exchange sessions and mutual visits ensure the our respective fields of operations ultimately prove understanding of our common goals and priorities. this point. In this Sustainability Report we have dedicated a Our head office is strategically located in section to report on social indicators, which can be Dubai (United Arab Emirates), a key global found in the Sustainability chapter on page 17, such humanitarian hub, from which we manage all our as trainings provided, work related injuries, staff sales, marketing, logistics, finance and support breakdowns in terms of gender, age, job category operations. We have a multicultural and multilingual and level of education. team and our professionals hail from 16 different countries and four continents: Asia, Africa, Europe PURPOSEDRIVEN 2017-2018 Sustainability Report Tel +971 4 888 0125, Fax +971 4 888 0124 Email info@nrsinternational-fzco.com, Web www.nrs-international.com NRS International FZCo, PO Box 261218, Jebel Ali, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
