COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN Global Compact 17 July 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 17 July 2019 Statement of Continued Support I am pleased to reconfirm the GPT Group’s support of the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. GPT is one of Australia’s largest diversified property groups, with total assets under management of over AUD $24 billion across the Retail, Office and Logistics sectors. In this our seventh annual Communication on Progress (COP) report, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles as part of our strategy, culture and day to day operations and the achievement of our purpose. We understand that a key requirement of participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a COP. We support public accountability and transparency and commit to reporting on progress each year in accordance with Global Compact COP Policy. In addition to this COP, GPT makes a Statement of this commitment to the Global Compact to our stakeholders and the general public at http://www.gpt.com.au/sustainability/community/human-rights. We also continue our commitment to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader sustainable development goals of the United Nations. Yours sincerely Bob Johnston CEO & Managing Director The UN Global Compact asks companies to support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti‐corruption: Human Rights Principle Description of Assessment, policy & goals Implementation Measurable results Further information / principle and outcomes links 1 Businesses should support GPT’s goal is to have a work environment that It is an employee’s responsibility to No incidents of human rights Code of conduct and respect the protection is free of discrimination, harassment, understand and meet the requirements violations have come to GPT’s Supplier code of of internationally proclaimed victimisation and bullying. Employees and of working at GPT and identify and attention in financial year conduct human rights; and suppliers must avoid circumstances which may report incidents of non-compliance. 2018. Equal employment 2 make sure that they are not render them susceptible to allegations of illegal, Refer to GPT’s corporate governance opportunities complicit in human rights unethical or inappropriate conduct. This is principles and policies. Our people abuses. articulated in GPT’s Code of Conduct, Supplier Diversity and Inclusion Code of Conduct, Equal Employment Corporate governance Opportunities Policy and Diversity and Inclusion Policy.. Labour Principle Description of Assessment, policy & goals Implementation Measurable results Further information principle and outcomes 3 Businesses should uphold GPT’s goal is to ensure there is no forced or GPT’s Freedom of Association Policy GPT had no incidents of: Code of conduct the freedom of association compulsory labour within its operations or and approach is owned by the People Freedom of Association Our people and the effective recognition parties dealt with externally. GPT encourages and Performance team. violations or Supplier code of of the right to collective and supports Freedom of Association and Forced or compulsory labour conduct bargaining; elimination of all forms of forced and It is an employee’s responsibility to laws. Supplier policy 4 the elimination of all forms compulsory labour. This extends to understand and meet the requirements Our suppliers of forced and compulsory relationships with our suppliers; contained of working at GPT and identify and We recognise the right to Corporate governance labour; within the Supplier Policy and Supplier Code of report incidents of non-compliance. collective bargaining and have 5 the effective abolition of Conduct are GPT’s expectations of the Refer to GPT’s corporate governance not cancelled any contracts or child labour; and activities of suppliers. principles and policies. agreements on the basis of forced or compulsory labour in It is each supplier’s responsibility to financial year 2018. achieve and maintain the standards as set out in the Supplier Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct. GPT enacts these policies through the Supplier Management Framework. 6 the elimination of GPT is an equal opportunity employer and Details of specific goals can be found Information on performance in Equal employment discrimination in respect of promotes an inclusive workplace. GPT's Equal on Our People overview page. line with GPT’s diversity and opportunities employment and Employment Opportunities Policy and Diversity inclusion targets is found at Diversity and Inclusion occupation. Policy govern its operations. The Supplier GPT has a Diversity and Inclusion Our People – Diversity. Supplier code of Code of Conduct details expectations of Working Group (DIWG) which conduct suppliers. regularly comes together to develop, Our people COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 17 July 2019 implement, monitor and report on the Reconciliation Action Group’s diversity initiatives. Plan GPT Diversity It is an employee’s responsibility to Reporting 2018 understand and meet the requirements of working at GPT and identify and report incidents of non-compliance. Refer to GPT’s corporate governance principles and policies. It is each supplier’s responsibility to achieve and maintain the standards as set out in the Supplier Code of Conduct. Environment Principle Description of Assessment, policy & goals Implementation Measurable results Further information principle and outcomes 7 Businesses should support Environmental sustainability is integrated into GPT enacts the Sustainability Policy Detailed information on Sustainability policy a precautionary approach to the management of the GPT portfolio through the Sustainability performance against Corporate governance environmental challenges; operations and development projects. Working Management System. environmental targets is found Sustainability overview 8 undertake initiatives to with site teams and other key stakeholders, in our Environmental reporting Environment promote greater performance is reviewed and targets set to on the GPT website. Waste Resources environmental improve GPT’s environmental sustainability Management responsibility; and performance each year Water 9 encourage the development and diffusion of GPT supports the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly environmentally friendly practices and technologies. technologies though our Sustainability Policy and actions across: resource use and waste minimisation biodiversity water management climate change and energy and community engagement and development. Anti-corruption Principle Description of Assessment, policy & goals Implementation Measurable results Further information principle and outcomes 10 Businesses should work The goal is to have no incidents of corruption It is an employee’s responsibility to There were no known Code of conduct against corruption in all its within the organisation or in any dealings with understand and meet the requirements incidents of corruption or Whistleblower policy forms, including extortion external parties. GPT has a Code of Conduct, of working at GPT and identify and bribery registered or identified Fraud and Corruption and bribery. Whistleblower Policy and Supplier Policy that report incidents of non-compliance. by GPT in financial year 2018. Prevention supports and underpins our commitment to Supplier policy COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 17 July 2019 work against all forms of corruption, including Corporate governance extortion and bribery. Refer to GPT’s corporate governance Our suppliers principles and policies. It is each supplier’s responsibility to achieve and maintain the standards as set out in the Supplier Policy and to train their employees and contracted parties on their consequential rights and responsibilities. GPT enacts these policies through the Supplier Management Framework.
