2019 Communication on Progress COP Communication on Progress CONTENTS Leading & Leaping COMPANY PROFILE 06 Company Overview 07 Statement of Continued Support 08 The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles 09 Sustainability Management System 10 Stakeholder Communication SDGs Chemical UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 12 Human Rights 16 Labor 18 Environment 22 Anti-Corruption PART1. COMPANY PROFILE 02 PART1. COMPANY PROFILE With its pioneering spirit, dedication, and integrity, Hanwha Chemical has set many milestones as a leader in the Korean chemical industry through market-leading general-purpose plastics and a range of inorganic chemical products. Based on the market leadership in Korea, Hanwha Chemical is emerging as a leader in the global chemical industry by securing unrivaled creativity and competitiveness, leading paradigm shifts, and fulfilling its social responsibilities. Leaping Creative Chemical Leader Competitive 1st No.1 Leading Hanwha Chemical 2019 Communication on Progress 04 Company Overview Since its founding in 1965, Hanwha Chemical has led the Korean petrochemical industry through marketleading general-purpose plastics and a variety of inorganic chemical products. As the first producer of PVC goods in Korea, Hanwha Chemical succeeded in producing a full array of primary petrochemical products, including LDPE (Low Density Polyethylene), LLDPE (Linear Low Density Polyethylene), and CA (caustic soda/ chlorine). Based on its leadership in the petrochemical market, Hanwha Chemical is now achieving prominence in the polysillion and Toluene Diisocyanate (TDI) fields, leaping forward as a leader in the chemical industry with its unrivaled creativity and competitiveness. Company Information Company Name Hanwha Chemical Corporation Date Founded August 1965 No. of Employees 2,408 (As of December 2018) CEO Chang-Bum Kim Major Businesses PO, PVC, CA, TDI, and Polysilicon Head Office Hanwha Building, 86 Cheonggyecheon-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea Key Economic Performance 39,977 Sales (Unit: KRW in billion) 2016 2017 2018 34,828 39,654 3,537 Operating income 2016 2017 2018 (Unit: KRW in billion) 4,003 5,884 Products at a Glance Hanwha Chemical offer top-of-the-line products through R&D activities and market analysis. PO PVC • LDPE • HDPE • PVC Resin • OA • EVA • W&C • Copolymer • PA/MA • LLDPE Compounds • Terpolymer • CPVC • Paste Resin • ECO-DEHCH • Plasticizers CA TDI Polysilicon • Caustic Soda • ECH • TDIs • Polysilicon (NaOH) • Hydrochloric • TDI Derivatives • Chlorine(Cl2) Acid(HCI) • TDA • EDC • HYPO • VCM 05 PART1. COMPANY PROFILE Comany Overview/Statement of Continued Support Statement of Continued Support To become a leader in the chemical industry with creativity and competitiveness, Hanhwa Chemical devises strategies for sustainability management that focus on value creation and social contribution with its new vision statement, Be Creative and Competitive toward a Chemical Leader. Hanwha Chemical became a member of the United Nations Global Compact in January 2012 for the purpose of growing together with its stakeholders including customers, shareholders, partner companies, employees, and local communities. Hanwha Chemical honors and practice the UNGC’s ten principles of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anticorruption. This Communication On Progress includes data for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2018, related to the company’s activities and performance in compliance with the ten principles of UNGC. With all of these accomplishments, however, Hanwha Chemical is not resting. Through active engagement and communication, the company will make every efforts to create sustainable values for all stakeholder groups. Thank you. Chang-Bum Kim President & CEO Hanwha Chemical Hanwha Chemical 2019 Communication on Progress 06 UN Global Compact (UNGC) Hanwha Chemical became a member of the United Nations Global Compact in January 2012. Hanwha Chemical honors and practice the UNGC’s ten principles of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anticorruption as a responsible corporate citizen. The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles 1. Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 2. Labour Standards Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 3. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 4. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 07 PART1. COMPANY PROFILE UN Global Compact(UNGC)/Sustainability Management System Sustainability Management System Integrity Declaration for Sustainable Growth Management As a forward-looking, socially responsible company, Hanwha Chemical requires all employees to observe six key principles in their daily operations. These principles reflect the Company’s business objectives and management philosophy: Environmental Partnership Management Management • We conduct all business to ensure social and environmental sustainability and benefit; Sustainable • We respect regional characteristics and contribute to local development; Society • We address the wishes of stakeholders and improve in areas where they raise concern; • We meet our duty to law and ethical standards sincerely and fairly; • We respect the importance of environmental management and comply with environmental, safety, and health guidelines; • We share with communities and contribute through social activities with pride and responsibility. Talent Volunteer Management Management Key Directions of Sustainability Management Hanwha Chemical conducts sustainability management with a view toward economic, social, and environmental goals, while also reflecting the diversity of opinions from stakeholders. Classification Directions Organization • Diversify the business portfolio through eco-friendly and futureoriented approaches Environmental • R&D Center • Continuously improve the stability and eco-friendliness of products Management • Environment Safety Team • Foster competitiveness in renewable energy technologies • Provide environmental, safety, and health management systems • HR Planning Team • Implement fair, systematic HR development Talent • Recruiting Strategy Team • Adopt systems to encourage work-life balance Management • E mployee & Labor Relations • Empower female employees Team • Set clear objectives for social outreach activities • Conduct social contribution programs to engage local communities Volunteer • Promote employees’ voluntary and active participation • General Affairs Team Management • Continue in social contribution activities customized for beneficiaries • Establish partnership based on trust Partnership • Grow the Company’s business with customers • Partnership Development Team Management • Enhance the competitiveness of partner companies • Comply with laws and market regulations Integrity • Conduct periodical education programs and appoint fair-trade • CR Planning Team Management compliance officers • Legal Affairs Team • Develop ethical guidelines and whistle-blowing system Hanwha Chemical 2019 Communication on Progress 08 Stakeholder Communication Hanwha Chemical develops close cooperative relationships with stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, suppliers, non-profit organizations and government agencies, and regularly provides them with relevant information through its sustainability reports, website and social media. The Company provides the communication channels listed below in order to reflect the opinions of stakeholders on sustainable development. Key Communication Channels % Shareholders and Employees Partner and Customer Local Communities Government Investors Companies and Environmental and NGO's Organizations • General shareholders' • Square channel • Suppliers' CEO meetings • Volunteer activities • Partnership Committee meetings • Employee meetings • Shared Growth activities • Environmental preservation • Fair trade agreement • Annual reports, disclosures • Labor-management Council • Seminars on energy • Safety Council • Mutually beneficial • IR meetings • Photovoltaic Business relationship index • IR presentations Startup School Hanwha Chemical annually Hanwha Chemical encourChaired by the CEO, the Hanwha Chemical provides Hanwha Chemical operates convenes a general meeting ages strong internal comCompany conducts informal a range of socio-cultural Partnership Committee to of shareholders and invesmunication, collecting creameetings with the CEOs of assistance for socially marensure fair trade and mututors to inform them of its tive ideas from employees partner companies to adginalized groups. Working ally beneficial solutions, and current business status and through Square, its own indress their problems and with local communities, the Ethical Management Comfinancial performance. The ternal communication chanseek mutually beneficial Company conducts periodic mittee to secure its compliCompany provides time for nel. The Company also mainsolutions. Through cooperaenvironmental preservation ance with laws and transparshareholders to present their tains careful, cooperative tion with Korea Energy Agenactivities, thus taking the ent management. Hanwha opinions on key agendas. labor-management relations cy, Hanwha Chemical assists lead in maintaining a clean Chemical proactively reThrough periodic IR sessions through its labormanagepartner companies in their local environment. It also sponds to key industry issues and analysis, as well as telment council and employee competitiveness enhanceoperates Photovoltaic Busithrough meetings and volephone consultations and meetings. ment in the energy industry, ness Startup School to boost untary agreements with govdata updates, it discloses key along with supports for facilthe solar power generation ernment and non-governmanagement performance ity investment. industry. mental organizations. The data. Company also actively fulfills its commitment to fair trade agreement and Win-Win Index, an index to measure how large corporations treat their small subcontractors. 09 PART1. COMPANY PROFILE Stakeholder Communication PART2. UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SDGs Environ. Economy Social Chemical Hanwha Chemical transforms itself to secure sustainable growth in all of its economic, social, and environmental performance, thus charting a path toward its utmost goal of becoming a future-oriented technology company that enhances the quality of life for everyone. Even with its accomplishments as a leader in the Korean market, Hanwha Chemical is not resting, but restarting a new chapter as a world leader in every way, including humanitarian activities and eco-friendliness. Human Rights Hanwha Chemical repects for human dignity and prioritizes human rights in its workplaces. The Company guarantees benefits and wellfare programs of its employees, as well as contributing to the well-being of local communities by providing various social contribution activities. The Ideal Individual Hanwha Chemical has grown based on credit and loyalty – the credit that allows it to build trustworthiness and the loyalty that enables it to make a relationship last in any situation. The Company fosters talented for Hanwha Chemical individuals with its core values in mind, including a pioneering spirit, dedication, and integrity. Ideal Individuals Individuals who possess a high degree of pioneering spirit, dedication, and integrity Core Values Pioneering Dedication Integrity Spirit Individuals who seek changes, Individuals who value Individuals who behave fairly in innovation, and solutions to long-lasting relationships with observance of principles and with problems, and who think out of the Company, customers, and a sense of self-esteem the box to do so colleagues, and who endeavor to achieve greater goals • Individuals who abide by basic principles • Individuals who actively develop with an ability to resist the temptation of themselves to become top-tier experts in • Individuals who put top priority on shared immediate reward their fields goals with others • Individuals who treat others fairly • Individuals who discern new methods • Individuals who keep their pledges according to their ability and performance and opportunities with open-minds and to customers and consistently create to avoid conflicts of interest creativity customer value • Individuals who set and achieve goals with • Individuals who cooperate with colleagues indomitable spirit and high self-confidence and promote teamwork PART2. UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 11 PART2. UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Human Rights Welfare and Hanwha Chemical provides a variety of welfare programs that place great value on the personal lives of employees. In one example, the Company offers a personal leave program called Refresh, which provides Benefits all employees with vacations lasting ten or fewer days—time that they can use for self-development. The Company contributes to the well-being of employees by providing medical expenses for employees and their families, stipends of congratulations and condolence, and commuter bus services. In addition, employee clubs receive support, and the company provides financial supports for personal development, welfare points, family days, invitation events for parents, and a variety of other events. Happy Workplace Healthy Workplace Housing and Children's Education • Commuter bus services at head office, • Medical expenses for employees • Company housing at workplaces and Yeosu and Ulsan Plants and their families dormitories for singles • In-house cafeteria (Single room for a single person) • Operation of medical service rooms • Employee clubs supports at plants • Supports for moving costs • Welfare points support • Periodical health exams for employees • Provision of interest-free housing loans and their spouses • Congratulatory money for children’s • Various sports facilities admission into schools and education expenses • Various sports events • Leaves and stipend for congratulation and condolence • Operation of daycare centers Self-development and Vacations A Desirable Workplace for Mothers • Degree programs including overseas MBAs, • Adjustable office hours during pregnancy executive MBAs, and PhD programs • Maternity protection programs such as maternity leaves • A month paid leave for a new promotion • Miscarriage and stillbirth leaves • Support for participation in regional specialist • Shared parental leaves programs and overseas conferences • Adjustable office hours during the first stages of parenting • Education expenses for intensive English and other foreign language courses • Childcare leaves • Rewards for exemplary employees • Leaves and financial supports used to treat infertility • Rewards for employees with long services (10, 20 and 30 years) and support for overseas travels • Rewards for outstanding employees by job function each year • Use of Hanwha Resorts across the country at member prices • Use of a recreation center provided by each plant during summer vacation season Hanwha Chemical 2019 Communication on Progress 12 Social Contribution Social Contribution Philosophy Activities “Go Far Together” Hanwha Chemical has built strong relationship with local communities based on its founding spirit that insisted the essential role of entrepreneurship in the national economic development, as well as keeping trust and loyalty in business growth. The Company is now fulfilling its corporate citizenship in line with its social contribution motto, “Go Far Together”. Social Contribution Mission “Hanwha Chemical creates a happy tomorrow with everyone to go far together” Core Areas and Objectives Human Resource Culture and Arts Eco-friendly Volunteering Development Patronage Environment and Public Charity To respect and assist To enrich life To make tomorrow Works employees in fulfilling by expanding better for the current To promote the value their dreams opportunities and and next generations of living together experiences alike Social Contribution Activities That Make Everyone’s Life Worthwhile Hanwha Chemical's social contribution strategies assist people in making their lives worth living through ongoing sustainable development. To make the world healthier, cleaner, and happier to live, its CSR activities expands into environmental preservation, culture and arts patronage, and other public charity work, especially for future generations and the less privileged. 13 PART2. UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Human Rights Energy Class for Tomorrow Since 2013, Hanwha Chemical has conducted the Energy Class for Tomorrow, an employee volunteer program that helps elementary students to understand the importance of energy in our daily lives and energy-savings. The program also offers hands-on experience for children in difficult science topic such as renewable energy sources. To provide in-depth learning opportunities, the Company develops courses through the collaboration with an outside professional educational center. As a result in 2018, Hanwha Chemical won a grand prize from the Donation for Education of the Korea Foundation for the Advancement of Science and Creativity, as well as accredited as an excellent company in education program. Head Office: Employee Volunteer Programs in Line with Their Talent Hanwha Chemical operates We Care Volunteer Corps, a bridging program between international adoptees and their families in Korea through the participation of employees who are affluent in foreign languages. The Company also conducts Global Village Classes for children from multicultural families. In addition, employee club members offer free photos to celebrate the first birthday of babies in lowincome families. Its National Pottery Contest for the Physically Challenged encourages the disabled to participate in cultural activities. Daejeon : Volunteer Education Programs Using Employees Expertise Daejeon R&D Center has launched Hanwha Chemical School that allows children learn chemicals with fun and excitement through unconventional coursework. For the future career development of local high schoolers, the center also provides practical information about higher education opportunities. Furthermore, the center actively participates in joint CSR activities through the collaboration with other affiliates of Hanwha Group. Yeosu: Supports for Marginalized Areas and Multicultural Families Volunteers from the Yeosu Plant visit and help residents on neighboring islands in preventing fire accidents and improving their residential surroundings. The plant also continues to support families with multicultural backgrounds and holds promotional campaign to protect marine environment, as part of its social contribution activities for local residents. Ulsan: Cooperation with Regional Professional Organizations and Other Corporations Ulsan Plant expands local-friendly contribution activities. These activities include a local stream bank cleanup using soil balls containing effective microorganisms (EM), memorial day event for war veterans and patriots, periodical volunteer activities of production teams through cooperation with outside professional organizations, the Kimchi-making events of employees’ families, and joint projects with local corporations. Hanwha Chemical 2019 Communication on Progress 14 Labor Hanwha Chemical seeks cooperative labor-management relationships and mutually beneficial growth between management and employees by sharing corporate vision together. Through active feedback systems and programs, the Company also addresses employee voices for their equal opportunities and fair compensation. A Fair and Hanwha Chemical promotes employee engagement and satisfaction through fair performance-based assessment and compensation. Transparent Personnel System Hanwha Chemical evaluates and compensates individuals based on their competencies and performance. In addition, the Company encourages employee participation in establishing and evaluating objectives by conducting discussion sessions, in turn ensuring clear and fair evaluation processes. One-to-one feedback sessions are also conducted with team leaders to help employees understand evaluation results. The Company conducts a special promotion program that allows selected employees to be promoted earlier than what its guideline requires, thereby encouraging young talent to develop their careers with a frontier spirit and greater confidence. Labor-Management Hanwha Chemical seeks cooperative labor-management relationships and mutually beneficial growth between management and employees to realize its CSR vision. The Company assists labor unions in Partnership understanding the current state of operations through informal CEO meetings and other communication channels. The Company also makes every effort to embed safety management in its business processes through education programs led by plant managers and joint labor-management inspections. Additionally,iIt appoints honorary safety inspectors along with an Industrial Safety and Health Committee, and through participation in international expositions of industrial equipment. Labor-management Cooperation Activities in 2018 Dates Activities Region Dates Activities Region New-year mountain Yeosu Camps for children of January August 3 Yeosu climbing event Ulsan employees Safety education led January 26 Yeosu October 10 One Heart event Yeosu by plant managers Cheering event for shift Volunteer work at founding April~October Ulsan October 12 Ulsan workers anniversary Cheering event for shift June 8 Spouse invitation events Yeosu November 2 Yeosu workers June 22 Veterinary events Ulsan November 3 Employee sports events Ulsan 15 PART2. UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Labor Diversity and Hanwha Chemical complies with the conventions of the International Labour Organization and all domestic labor laws. The Company prohibits child labor and forced labor, and it does not tolerate discrimiAntidiscrimination nation based on gender, religion, political affiliation, social status, nationality, or ethnicity, in hiring, assignments, promotions, compensation, or education. The Company also builds mutual respect and works against human rights violations in the workplace through inter-cultural training for both executives and employees. A Desirable Hanwha Chemical promotes gender equality and the empowerment of women at workplaces through a variety of programs. During pregnancy, the Company guarantees periodic prenatal screenings, and Workplace for allows mothers to adjust their office hours during pregnancy and the first stages of parenting. The ComMothers pany provides maternity protection programs that exceed legal requirements. It provides family days to help new mothers maintain a balance between work and family. The Company recognizes employees who are giving birth with a gift set called a “Mom's Package,” which includes guides offering advice on protecting mothers and their newborns as well as supplies that will assist mothers through their pregnancies. One month before new mothers return to work from their maternity leaves, the Company holds counseling sessions organized by trained personnel managers. These sessions help mothers relieve some of the psychological anxiety that may result from long-term maternity leave and address issues of resettlement at work. Prevention of Hanwha Chemical conducts sexual harassment prevention sessions for all employees at least twice a year and appoints at least one sexual harassment prevention counselor for each workplace, with strinSexual Harassment gent penalties for sexual misconduct. Hanwha Chemical 2019 Communication on Progress 16 Environment Hanwha Chemical greatly assists the nation’s greenhouse gas reduction plans through the production of Polysilicon, a basic material for photovoltaic business, and startup entrepreneurship course for photovoltaic business. It also makes concerted efforts to preserve natural resources such as air, water, and soil for regional communities. In particular, its stricter guidelines for the treatment of hazardous chemicals ensures the prevention of environmental incidents. For substances restricted domestically and overseas, Hanwha Chemical also implements thorough risk management system to minimize environmental impact. Air Pollution Control of Air Pollutant Dispersion Protection Yeosu Plant has signed a cooperation agreement with Jeollanamdo Provincial Government to reduce air pollutants at Gwangyang Bay area. The plant has also installed an equipment to remove fume generated * The LDAR (Leak Detection And Repair) during the tank truck distribution of PVC and CA products, and changed loading system from top to system is designed to periodically measure chemicals generated from bottom. In addition, the plant upgraded chemical sampling equipements of chlorine, VCM, EDC and non-point pollutant sources, including other hazardous air pollutants to maintain sealed. Particularily, the sealing system of compressors and valves, flanges, and pumps at production facilities. In the event of out-of-range pumps are replaced to double type to reduce the amount of air pollutant dispersion. emissions, the system repairs emitting facilities. The Yeosu Plant currently operates an LDAR system for 6 production LDAR System Implementation and Odor-causing Substances Management teams and more than 110,000 points. The Company’s Yeosu Plant uses barcode tags and implements LDAR* systems to track suspicious non-point sources of pollutants that may generate volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and hazardous * The Telemetry System (TMS) is an chemicals. During the scrubbing process in its production of hydrochloric acid, the plant also periodiautomatic, around-the-clock air pollution treatment system that allows cally employs TMS* to monitor the concentration of pollutants. To minimize odors, the plant has the Company to measure levels in the provided a special map that includes the location of odor sources, and it proactively eliminates concentration of air pollutants and to keep related data at an air-pollution odor-causing substances through patrol and inspection. control center. Yeosu Plant operates four TMSs. Water Conservation Wastewater Treatment To reduce risk factors caused from the violation of environmental regulations, all wastewater generated at the Ulsan Plant is treated primarily at on-site contamination prevention facilities; it is then transported to sewage treatment facilities within the industrial complexes where it is located. Ulsan Plant 1 transports and reprocesses wastewater at the Yongam Wastewater Treatment Plant, which has been operated by the government since February 2011. Wastewater Concentration Controlled by Water Analysis Laboratory Yeosu Plant operates an on-site water analysis laboratory to check wastewater parameters such as pH, COD, and SS in a daily basis for each process. Additionally, 11 major hazardous wastewater substances are analyzed by GC-MS* equipments that allow the plant to measure and maintain concentration levels * GC-MS: Gas Chromatography Mass of the wastewater discharges at 30% below those required by the regulation. CCTVs was also installed at Spectrometer waterway to manage non-point pollutant sources inside the plant. The plant monitors water quality with pH meters, and sends detected hazardous substances to wastewater treatment facilities through sumps, preventing the leak of the hazardous substances off the plant. 17 PART2. UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Environment Waste Treatment Due Diligence with Outsourced Recycling Contractors and Soil Protection To maximize waste recycling, Hanwha Chemical continuously improves its production processes and develops new business relationships with outsourced recycling providers. Every year, the Company conducts due diligence with its contractors to fulfill legal requirements for waste treatment. Periodic Assessment of Soil Contamination Hanwha Chemical prevents soil contamination through thorough periodic assessments of its manufacturing facilities. The Company identifies BTEX (benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylene) and TPH (total petroleum hydrocarbons) from the soil surrounding storage tanks at designated sampling points, pursuant to Article 13 of the Soil Environment Conservation Act. These soil contamination assessments and management include neighboring regional communities and company housing facilities. Management of Enhanced Response Plans for Chemical Incidents Chemicals Through thorough assessment of each process at treatment facilities, Hanwha Chemical provides plans for the mitigation of external impact from chemical incidents. The Company uses assessment results to improve scenario-based training and contingency plans, and it conducts emergency drills on a regular basis. Stricter Chemical Management Guidelines Managers at the Yeosu Plant conduct weekly self-assessments for each process in the treatment of hazardous chemicals. The plant also supplies protective equipment for every individual to use during treatment of hazardous chemicals, and it deploys resources for disaster prevention near high-risk equipment and facilities. In addition, the plant periodically rates facilities and continually improves its erosion control measures, thus augmenting the safety of its chemical treatment equipment. The plant also holds careful checkups through non-destructive testing, including visual inspections. In line with the Company’s maintenance plans, old facilities which may be susceptible to damage and leakage are replaced as they reach the end of their expected life spans. Streamlining New Chemicals Information Gathering System Yeosu Plant has built database for all chemicals it uses, produces, and sells. The plant has also streamlined an integrated chemical product lifecycle management system which allows the plant easy access to information on hazardous products, manage a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS), and maintain information on materials in the supply chain. To preview new materials prior to their use, the plant convenes a Reactive Chemicals Subcommittee * REACH is the EU's new chemical management program. It includes the to deliberate on new materials and to approve the use of these new materials. Only materials that are registration, evaluation, authorization, approved by the subcommittee are used in the plant. During procurement, suppliers must provide full and restriction of chemicals according to amount and toxic level. information about chemical substances, and plant administrators must preview and verify these proce* RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous dures before approving final purchase, thus strictly managing the overall purchase process. Substances)regulates six hazardous materials used in the electronics material industry, including Pb, Hg, Substances Restricted Domestically and Overseas and Cd. To comply with both domestic and overseas environmental regulations, including REACH*, RoHS*, GHS*, * GHS (Global Harmonized System) is a globally accepted labeling system for and K-REACH, Hanwha Chemical provides an integrated chemical product lifecycle management system chemicals according to toxic level. to prevent health risks to employees and minimize environmental impact. Hanwha Chemical 2019 Communication on Progress 18 Strategies for To proactively deal with global climate change and participate in emissions trading schemes, Hanwha Chemical has introduced a company-level organization dedicated to climate change response. This organization Climate Change preemptively identifies risk and opportunity factors and devises strategies to address management issues reResponse lated to climate change. It also shares information on these climate change issues throughout the Company, thereby encouraging employee participation and promoting awareness. As part of the Group’s task force for emissions trading, the organization also assists in the enactment and execution of its Group-wide guidelines. Mid-to-long-term Vision and Target Vision To become a Green Global Chemical Leader through green, sustainable growth Target To participate effectively in emissions trading schemes through low-carbon systems and technologies Strategies and Major Tasks Strategies Major Tasks • Manage greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction objectives on a long-term basis Low-carbon infrastructure • Implement strategies for emissions trading schemes • Develop a special organization to address low-carbon issues • Implement GHG reduction tasks GHG reduction activities • Attract external funding for GHG reduction • Lay infrastructure for GHG management • Enhance marketing activities promoting low-carbon policies External partnerships • Implement external carbon offset projects • Prepare for government policies Green Global Chemical Leader PNP PSR 1st No.1 19 PART2. UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Environment Analysis of The eco-friendliness of products is one of the most significant issues in sustainability management. Hanwha Chemical manages product quality through analysis of restricted hazardous substances (RoHS) Eco-friendliness and total volatile organic compounds (TVOC). In addition, Hanwha Chemical R&D Center has obtained certification from the Korea Laboratory Accreditation Scheme (KOLAS) for its advanced hazardous materials analysis system. Analyses and assessments include the following: Classification Details •R  estricted hazardous substances (RoHS), including Pb, Cd, Cr, Hg, Brominated flame Analysis of retardants (BFRs) * Phthalates are chemical additives used in Hazardous • Nine phthalates* the softening of plastics Substances •O  ther materials restricted upon request, such as heavy metals, in addition to those * T VOC stands for total volatile organic compounds designated in the RoHS * FA stands for failure analysis, for Aldehyde in particular • T VOC*, FA* and individual VOC* analysis, including 20L Small Chamber, Headspace, * Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) cause TVOC Analysis TD, Tedlar bags, HPLC, GC, GC, and MSD, for raw materials and finished products photochemical smog by generating and Evaluation • T VOC discharged from and FA for raw materials and finished products for oxidizing materials such as ozone through photochemical reaction in the air. construction and materials used in automotive interiors Hanwha Chemical R&D Center is laying the foundation for Sustainable sustainable growth through exploration of new, future-oriented Technology business ventures, including eco-friendly energy and proprietary Development technologies and products, in turn achieving our utmost goal of becoming a creative, competitive leader in the global chemical industry. Eco-friendly Plasticizers(ECO-DEHCH) Current As the world’s awareness of environmental protection rises, the monitoring and Status regulation of chemical substances has become more stringent than ever. The market for PVC plasticizers* is also undergoing increased interest in eco-friendly materials. Along with this market change, the development of high-quality perPNP fect non-phthalate plasticizers is urgently needed. In addition to general-purpose plasticizers, the development of specialty plasticizers that fulfill the needs of more segmented markets is indispensable in meeting current trends in the PVC market. Our Solution In response to the growth of eco-friendly markets, Hanwha Chemical is developing eco-friendly perfect nonphthalate plasticizers. Following toxicity tests, it has completed verification and registration of these products as * A plasticizer is an organic substance eco-friendly materials. The Company is also preparing for the commercial production of perfect non-phthalate added to plastics or paints for plasticizers. To produce high-quality general-purpose and specialty plasticizers, the Company is also developimproving processability at high ing manufacturing processes and assessments of the stability and processability of these products. temperature. Paste Resin for Eco-Friendly Wallpaper Current Eco-friendly additives with minimal amounts of VOCs are used in the production Status of eco-friendly wallpaper. However, low-VOC additives are known to cause some PSR production problems, including lower melt speeds and higher viscosity. Our Solution To resolve the problems of lower melt speeds and higher viscosity, Hanwha Chemical is developing a highperformance paste resin (PSR) that features a high melt speed and lower viscosity. Recently, the Company’s prototype undergoing screening through wallpaper manufacturers. Hanwha Chemical 2019 Communication on Progress 20 Anti-Corruption To fulfill the Company's social responsibilities, Hanwha Chemical’s employees are required identify values and act according to ethical management standards during their daily operations. The Company considers integrity to be one of the core values in its business performance. Under the Ethics Charter promulgated in April 2003, the Company prevents risk and misconduct that may arise from low ethical standards among employees and partner companies, and it reinforces its standards through a special organization dedicated to monitoring ethical management. Ethical The Ethical Management Committee is chaired by the CEO of the Company. The Ethical Management Secretariat oversees the company-wide ethical management, conducts education programs, and sends Management periodic reminders to inculcate ethical values and management principles among employees. Organizations Organizations of Ethical Management Ethical Management Committee Chairperson | CEO Committee members | Heads of Business Ethical Management Secretariat Ethical Management Officer | Team Leaders Code of Conduct for 01 We shall always respect customer opinions and strive to earn their trust through high credibility and loyalty. Ethical Management 02 We shall comply with local laws where business activities are conducted, respecting commercial practices and pursuing fair competition. 03 We shall maintain mutual trust and cooperative relationships with partner companies through fair, transparent transactions. 04 We shall not use our dominant position for misconduct against suppliers, and we shall not receive money or valuables, entertainment or conveniences from them. 05 We shall not provide or disclose internal or customer information outside the Company. 06 We shall not use Company supplies or expenses for personal purposes. 07 We shall prohibit loans, guarantees, and presents between employees. 08 We shall not discriminate based on academic background, gender, religion, family relationship, place of birth, disability, nationality, or ethnicity, and we shall respect all colleagues to make the Company a better place to work. 09 We shall actively participate in social contribution activities. 10 We shall endeavor to develop eco-friendly products and services, and we shall prevent accidents through stringent safety inspections and management. 21 PART2. UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Anti-Corruption Key Ethical With the aim of protecting consumer rights while adhering to market regulations, Hanwha Chemical implements practical ethical management guidelines to allow its stakeholders to identify values and act Management according to ethical management standards. On every local holiday, Hanwha Chemical also posts ethical Activities management notices on digital bulletin boards reminders to employees. REMIND CHECK Ethical Management Guidelines Ethical Management Notices Hanwha Chemical implements practical ethical On every local holiday, Hanwha Chemical posts management guidelines. These guidelines prohibit ethical management notices on digital bulletin money and gifts from outside the Company, sexual boards reminders to employees. The Company harassment and misconduct, and undue assertion of also encourages its suppliers to practice fair, superior position. Violators are required to submit a transparent trade. report to the executives in charge. TALK PROPER Suggestion and Whistle-blowing System Guidelines for Advertisement and All internal and external stakeholders of the ComSponsorship pany may report corruption and unfair practices acHanwha Chemical prohibits improper marketing cording to the code of ethics and code of conduct to communication, but executes legal advertising the ethical management secretariat through phone and sponsorship under its principle-based mancalls, fax, e-mail, or the web. The ethical manageagement. The Company complies with advertisement secretariat guarantees protection of informament laws and regulations and has no record of tion on reporters and whistleblowers, promoting violations. fair, rational work procedures. Protection of Data Breach Prevention Customer The Company’s information security team supervises all security practices for information throughout Information the Company to the level required in all guidelines, especially for customer information. The information security secretariat and those in charge of information security at each plant conduct educational sessions to reinforce awareness of security among employees, and they encourage employees not only within the Company, but also at its suppliers to comply with regulations on information security. Classification Details •A  ccess control and firewalls to prevent hacking Technological and data breaches Information • Vaccine programs to stop malware Security • S ecurity programs to prevent leaks of personal information • Minimal collection of personal information • Privacy agreements for collection and use of Managerial personal information Information • Disposal of personal information after use Security • Periodic employee education on information security Hanwha Chemical 2019 Communication on Progress 22
