2018 Annual Report and Sustainability Report Market leader in secure facilities Contents 2018 Annual Report and Our values 1 Responsibility and Sustainability Report ­governance 46 Specialfastigheter in brief 2 The report integrates financial, Risks and risk management 47 sustain­ability and corporate goverCEO’s statement 4 nance-related information to provide Significant events in 2018 6 Sensitivity analysis 51 a comprehensive description of Business model 8 GRI Sustainability Report 52 ­Specialfastigheter’s operations. Assurance Report 60 Management approach 10 Our strengths and assets 12 Message from the Chairman 62 Administration Report Corporate Governance Business 12 The Administration Report can be found Report 63 on this page and pages 6–109. Customers 13 Board of Directors 70 Properties 14 Management 72 Sustainability Report Financial position 15 The Sustainability Report follows the Financial statements 73 2016 GRI Standards: Core option and External conditions has been the subject of a limited assurand strategies 16 Consolidated financial ance report by an external auditor. The ­statements, incl. comments 74 Market and operating scope of the Sustainability Report is Five-year summary 81 ­environment 18 detailed in the GRI list of contents on Stakeholder dialogue 20 Consolidated notes 82 page 54. Materiality analysis 21 Parent Company’s financial statements, incl. comments 99 = Sustainability Report Strategies 22 Parent Company’s notes 103 The Statutory Sustainability Report Creating customer value 23 ­pursuant to the Annual Accounts Act. Declaration by the Board 109 Best at security 25 Auditor’s report 110 Long-term profitability 27 Specialfastigheter Sverige AB (publ) Property holdings 114 – Supplier collaboration 27 Company registration number Definitions Inside cover Responsibility for the 556537-5945 ­environment and climate 30 Reporting calendar Inside cover Proactive skills sourcing 32 Annual General Meeting Inside cover While every care has been taken in the Addresses Back cover translation of this annual report, readers are reminded that the original annual Description of operations 34 report, signed by the Board of Directors, Our property portfolio 35 is in Swedish. Property management and operations 38 Property development 40 Financial management 43 Best at secure facilities Specialfastigheter owns and manages properties including correctional facilities, juvenile care homes, courts of law and police properties. These are all special operations that have stringent requirements, particularly in terms of security. We are a safe, secure and proactive property owner that focuses on long-term relationships, and we define both current and future requirements in close collaboration with our customers. Our business idea Based on sustainable business practices and long-term, commercial ownership, Special­fastigheter develops and manages properties in Sweden for customers whose operations demand high security standards. Our mission Specialfastigheter’s mission is to own, develop and manage properties with stringent security requirements in Sweden on a long-term commercial basis, wherever there is a national security interest. The guiding principle of our operations is to reduce the state’s overall costs. In a competitive market, Specialfastigheter may also own, develop and manage properties in which there are other kinds of security interests and pursue other related business. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T O U R VA LU E S Professional and ­customer­-centric Specialfastigheter has a robust and sustainable business that creates value for its customers and other stakeholders. Read more about our business model on pages 8–9. Our core values – security, long-term planning, proximity and collaboration – always form part of our daily operations. Our Code of Conduct also supports us in our daily work and helps us conduct business in a way that reflects our values. It is important that our suppliers share these values, and as this is also a precondition for long-term collaboration, we use a Code of Conduct to which our suppliers must adhere. Our dedicated and skilled employees are given – and take – substantial personal responsibility and have considerable opportunities for development, not least within the area of security. Security Long-term planning Proximity Collaboration Security issues are our We are a stable company We have a customised Together we can create ­highest priority. Our mission that invests in the long term ­organisation in which we disopportunities to ensure our requires great responsibility together with our customers. cuss plans, needs and wishes customers’ success. and skill. through open dialogue. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 1 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER I N B R I EF Specialfastigheter owns, manages and develops properties for customers with security requirements. Our property holdings comprise floor space of around 1.1 million square metres and a market value that amounts to SEK 27.3 billion. In 2018, we had sales of SEK 2,138 million and a net profit of SEK 2,423 million. Our biggest customers are the Swedish Prison and ­Probation are located across the country – from Ystad to Haparanda – Service, the Swedish Police, the Swedish National Board of as are our 150 or so employees. Our registered office is in Institutional Care, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Linköping, with the head office divided between Linköping Swedish Defence Materiel Administration. Our customers and Stockholm. Earnings Total rental income Market value 41.0% 6.0% 9.1% increased increased increased SEK million SEK million SEK million 2,500 2,000 30,000 2,423 1,956 1,846 27,288 1,725 1,714 1,751 25,000 2,000 25,002 1,500 22,999 20,000 1,500 1,638 1,719 20,271 20,919 1,390 1,000 15,000 1,000 1,178 10,000 500 500 5,000 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 CO2 emissions 5 years in brief from purchased energy fell 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 15.1% Income from property management, SEK million 1,872 1,867 1,912 2,028 2,138 Net operating income, SEK million 1,452 1,400 1,409 1,495 1,574 EBT, SEK million 1,782 1,474 2,100 2,165 2,825 Net profit for the year, SEK million 1,390 1,178 1,638 1,719 2,423 Return on equity, % 17.3 15.6 22.6 20.3 24.2 Kg CO2 eq per sq m Atemp Adjusted return on equity, % 10.8 11.8 13.7 12.8 13.0 6 Yield, % 7.3 6.8 6.5 6.2 6.0 5.6 5 Rental income, SEK/sq m 1,600 1,618 1,644 1,700 1,793 4.7 Occupancy rate, % 98.3 98.7 98.6 99.0 99.0 4 4.1 Surplus ratio, % 77.6 75.0 73.7 73.7 73.6 3 Floor space, sq m, thousand 1,066 1,058 1,088 1,079 1,094 Investments including property acquisitions, 2 SEK million 371 419 1,288 1,398 882 1 Market value, investment properties, SEK million 20,271 20,919 22,999 25,002 27,288 Loan-to-value ratio, % 44.4 57.8 55.9 53.3 49.1 0 2016 2017 2018 Equity/assets ratio, % 41.2 30.2 32.2 33.8 38.3 For definitions of key performance indicators, see page 117. No. of municipalities 100% AA+ We are where Specialfastigheter Our rating is Ongoing 70 is present, around 1.6 investment volume owned by the SEK billion Stable outlook Swedish state From Ystad in the south to (Source: Standard & Poor's) Haparanda in the north 2 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER I N B R I EF Three customer-centric business areas Our three customer-centric business areas – the Prison and with its customers and acts in line with their own specific Probation Service, Defence and Judicial System, Instituneeds. Our focus is always on identifying optimal solutions tional Care and Other Special Operations – enable us to together with customers for everything from the developprovide both efficient comprehensive solutions and valument of premises and environmental protection to security able detailed expertise. Each business area works closely issues. Prison and Probation Service Defence and Judicial System Institutional Care and Other business area business area ­Special Operations business area Our largest business area consists Within this business area, we With several facilities around the of just one customer, the Swedish mainly work with customers in the country, the Swedish National Prison and Probation Service, defence and judicial system who Board of Institutional Care (SiS) is which accounts for 39% of the are responsible for national secuthe largest customer in this busicompany’s income. We own Swerity. Our property management is ness area. Operations in this area den’s three high-security prisons highly important for the nation’s involve the care and treatment of Kumla, Hall and Saltvik along with central societal functions. young people with psychosocial other well-known prisons, such as issues and adults with addiction Hinseberg, Tidaholm and Customers problems. Österåker within this business The Swedish Police area. The Swedish Armed Forces Customers The Swedish National Courts The Swedish National Board of Customers Administration Institutional Care (SiS) The Swedish Prison and Probation The Swedish Defence Materiel The National Swedish Museums Service Administration (FMV) of Military History (SFHM) The Swedish Defence Research The Swedish Civil Contingencies Major properties Agency (FOI) Agency (MSB) Kumla high-security prison • Hall The Swedish Enforcement Authority The National Board of Forensic high-security prison • Saltvik The Swedish Prosecution Authority Medicine high-security prison • Norrtälje The Folke Bernadotte Academy prison • Skänninge prison Major properties The Swedish Migration Agency Kronoberg complex • Tre Vapen (FMV’s headquarters) • Swedish Major properties Armed Forces’ headquarters • Sandö • Revinge • Swedish Air FOI Kista Force Museum • Gudhem • Sundbo SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 3 C E O ’ S S TAT E M E N T Ready to tackle new security challenges During the year, Specialfastigheter continued to strengthen its organisation, develop bespoke solutions for secure facilities and secure long-term partnerships with contractors. We are ready to meet the major challenges posed by the new construction and renovation of secure facilities sought by our ­customers. 2018 was the year in which security issues were truly placed efficiently and Net profit for the year, under the spotlight, right across Swedish society. The issue sustainably. 2,423 of security – and particularly circumstances and actions Thanks to our SEK that threaten security – featured prominently throughout close collaborathe year in the mass media, political debate and in public tions and contindiscourse. Demands for greater resources for the police, uous experijudicial system, prison and probation service, and defence ence-based arose on many fronts, as did demands for authorities and feedback, we million other key societal players to improve their security efforts now have access in terms of preventing criminals, foreign powers and other to bespoke soluunwarranted forces from obtaining secret or sensitive infortions that satisfy both the Prison and Probation Service and mation. Demand for secure facilities is also growing. The the Swedish National Board of Institutional Care’s security clearest example of this is the Swedish Prison and Probarequirements and enable us to meet the considerable need tion Service, which announced its need to extend its facilifor extensions over the coming few years. ties in 13 different locations throughout Sweden – of which 12 are our properties – to create a total of some 900 new For several years we have focused on enhancing the mainprison spaces and around 200 remand centre spaces. tenance of our properties, and we can now see that this trend is on the rise. However, we are aware that much mainNew Protective Security Act tenance work remains to be done. The new Protective Security Act and Protective Act regulation came into effect on 1 April 2019. These will expand the Long-term supplier collaborations requirements placed on government agencies and other It is equally important to have access to contractors with businesses that handle secret and sensitive information to skills and experience relating to secure facilities. Thanks to ensure adequate protection of such assets. Many organisaour procurements carried out pursuant to the Defence and tions and property owners currently have a “security deficit” Security Procurement Act (LUFS), which permits longer that has arisen as a result of the fact that security-enhancing agreement periods, we have been able to guarantee very measures have not developed at the same rate as other long-term collaborations. We note with satisfaction that areas. For us at Specialfastigheter, where security is always there has been significant interest in Specialfastigheter’s our main focus, greater emphasis on these issues is someprocurements, and many contractors see us as an attractive thing we welcome. And we can say without hesitation: we business partner. are well-equipped to tackle the major challenges facing us. Proactive IT security initiatives Better project implementation Modern IT solutions are creating a range of new opportuniOver the past few years we have gradually strengthened ties in terms of automating and monitoring different funcour own organisation while simultaneously building longtions at a property – everything from ventilation, heating term partnerships with different partners to meet the growand lighting to fire safety, access systems and physical ing need that we have predicted for secure facilities in an access protection. However, these innovations also entail efficient manner. Meanwhile, our project volume has been entirely new risks whereby unauthorised people can gain growing continuously and our plan is for it to exceed SEK 7 access to connected systems and thus obtain secret or senbillion over the next five years. We are now planning for the sitive information. The Internet of Things is one area that extensions of the Prison and Probation Service’s Hall, Tidarepresents a significant risk factor, with many players not holm and Sagsjön high-security prisons while also working having yet taken sufficient note of the related security on a range of assignments for the Swedish National Board aspects. of Institutional Care, including the construction of new juvenile care homes and renovations of existing facilities. These issues are of the utmost importance to us at Specialfastigheter, and during the year we continued to increase Together with our customers, we have developed bespoke the number of information security audits that we conduct solutions for different types of buildings based on their at our properties. We currently conduct audits both before needs and requirements in order to build more quickly, and during ongoing operations. We carry out penetration 4 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C E O ’ S S TAT E M E N T tests to enable us to identify and remedy potential weaknesses. These necessary and continuous improvement efforts have yielded results. We now receive a signal whenever our IT systems are threatened, while parallel and unconnected IT environments make it extremely difficult to gain access to our property systems via other environments. Secure work environments for our customers Another major challenge for us, as well as society, is that many of the buildings requiring a high level of security are often important, symbolic buildings in central locations in densely populated city centres, with many people moving in and around the properties. Our customers fulfil important societal functions and this needs to be manifested through the design of their buildings. For this reason, we have an important task in finding solutions that combine a far-reaching approach to security with strong aesthetic “2018 was the year in which security issues were truly placed under the spotlight.” values. One successful example that shows how security and aesthetics can be united even in buildings with highly complex operations is the district court in Lund, which was Åsa Hedenberg CEO of Specialfastigheter opened in August. At this new property, which has been nominated for the prestigious Årets Bygge 2019 (Building of the Year) award, Specialfastigheter succeeded in creating a harmonious and inviting environment without foregoing the particularly stringent requirements governing personal security. The actual figure is still 10% and we need to review our recruitment procedures and employer branding once Enhanced sustainability efforts again. Specialfastigheter is a value-driven company and we Alongside security, sustainability is Specialfastigheter’s work continuously to foster commitment to sustainability other most important focus area. We take the rapidly issues and our established targets among our employees. developing threat to the environment extremely seriously We also take active steps to maintain a dialogue about our and therefore take all of our decisions with a view to susvalues with the contractors and other subcontractors we tainability. As a property company, our business – includwork with. ing the entire life cycle of the properties – leads to significant CO2 emissions. In order to radically reduce our Improved profit from property management negative carbon footprint from purchased energy, we have Financially, 2018 proved to be another stable year in which formulated a tough but necessary target: our emissions we exceeded our targets for profitability and for capital from purchased energy are to decline 75% by 2030 comstructure. Our profit from property management increased pared with the base year 2012. The outcome for 2018 was 6.7% year-on-year. The market value of our properties also 55%, which shows that we are making good progress. Movrose some SEK 2.3 billion. Rental income increased to SEK ing forward, we need to place greater focus on reducing 1,956 million (1,846) and the net operating income to SEK emissions in the production phase. This is a major chal1,574 million (1,495). We also maintained our positive AA+ lenge as we are dependent upon our suppliers in this rating (S&P). This year’s customer satisfaction survey regard. That said, there is great interest in collaboration resulted in an unchanged Customer Satisfaction Index of among our suppliers which gives us hope that we can suc65, while the underlying parameters of personal service, ceed. Our ambitious sustainability efforts are supported by influence and receptiveness all improved. our Board of Directors, which decided to reduce the return requirement for investments with a clear sustainability proAn organisation that delivers file. Specialfastigheter continues to support the UN Global Specialfastigheter’s operations, business and organisation Compact and its ten principles for sustainable business. all continued to develop throughout the year. The control We participate actively in several sustainability initiatives unit created in 2017 has yielded positive effects and was and networks with other players to promote sustainable expanded in 2018 to include more skills in the areas of susbusiness. tainability and quality. All in all, our efforts mean we now stand even better prepared for the major challenges that An inclusive workplace await in 2019 and beyond. During the year we also continued to focus on our efforts to increase ethnic diversity within Specialfastigheter’s organiLinköping, 18 March 2019 sation, and we took active steps to offer internships and workplace induction opportunities to students with a foreign background. Unfortunately, we did not reach our target of increasing the number of employees with a foreign Åsa Hedenberg background to 12%, despite dedicated efforts. CEO SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 5 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS Focus on sustainability and regrowth in the sector in 2018 Security forms that natural basis of our business, but 2018 was also characterised to a large extent by sustainability issues and ideas about how we can get more young people to choose the property sector. Below are some of the significant events that took place at the company during the year. Redevelopment and extension of juvenile Håll nollan care home in Hässleholm – secure conIn April, CEO of Specialfastigheter, Åsa Hedenberg, and the then General Direcstruction sites tor of the Swedish National Board of Institutional Care, or SiS, Kent Ehliasson, jointly broke ground on the extension to SiS’s juvenile care home in Hässleholm. As part of our safety initiatives The current facility will be redeveloped and extended to around 8,500 sq. m. and we joined the Håll nollan (Keep the amount of places will increase from 18 today to 42. This construction project to Zero) project, an associais expected to be completed in spring 2021. tion of property developers, contractors, suppliers and “It is extremely exciting to be part of the development of this property for SiS. It stakeholder organisations that is a building where the materials and design were selected with consideration for collaborates to ensure there both people and the environment,” Åsa Hedenberg said as ground was broken. are zero accidents within the construction industry. This collaboration is primarily focused on the work environment and safety at and around construction sites. Emissions target – reduce CO2 emissions from ­purchased energy by 75% 1st prize for attracMore ambitious tive employer index First green emissions targets Specialfastigheter was awarded a investor report prize in April by the NyckeltalsinstituIn April, we published our first The climate has become a global tet (Institute of Human Resource Indiinvestor report for the green ­existential issue, and reducing CO2 cators) for coming top of its Attractive bonds Specialfastigheter emissions to zero by 2050 will require Employer Index. The survey measures issued in November 2017. drastic measures. As a state-owned nine different social and financial key The report contained the company, Specialfastigheter should indicators that describe the working approved projects that form serve as an example within the area conditions of an organisation. We the basis of our bonds. The of sustainable business, which is why were ranked number 1 out of 235 green framework surrounding we decided in January to amend our ­participating organisations. the bond issue requires financlimate target to aim for a reduction cial figures to be published, in our CO2 emissions from purchased but we also had our auditors energy by 75% by 2030 compared to review our environmental key the base year 2012 (in contrast the performance indicators. previous target of 40%, which we have already achieved). This is a very ambitious target, but we are determined to achieve it. 6 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T SIGNIFICANT EVENTS Successful Lund district court environ­mental opened and nominated certification The newly built district court in Lund was opened in late August. One of the speakers Following extensive efforts was Justice Minister Morgan Johansson, over several years to structure who described the district court as Sweand quality-assure our environden’s most modern court and a contribument initiatives within the comtion to safety and security. The entire projpany’s organisation, in January ect proved to be a positive collaboration DNV GL carried out an envibetween Specialfastigheter, the Swedish ronmental certification audit National Courts Administration, contracin accordance with ISO 14001. tors and Lund Municipality. The district The audit was a great success court obtained preliminary certification to and in May 2018 we had the Sweden Green Building Council’s Gold certification in hand. level, won Lund’s urban construction prize for 2018 and was nominated as “Årets Bygge 2019” (Building of the Year) – the Equal treatment prestigious competition for the construction sector. workshop Almost all of our employees have now taken part in the workshop known as Important directional decision taken by “Växthuset”, which was designed by the Equality Ombudsman (DO). The the Prison and Probation Service workshop maps out the prevalence of The Prison and Probation Service has a consistently acute need of more prison discrimination and the risk of discrimiand remand spaces. Because of this, General Director of the Prison and Probanation in our business based on the tion Service, Nils Öberg, took the directional decision to order the new construcseven different grounds for discrimination and extension of high-security prisons and remand centres in 13 regions tion: gender, gender identity or gender around the country. 12 of them are our properties or projects in which we are expression, ethnic affiliation, religion involved. In addition to that decision, another handful of regions may also be due or other beliefs, physical impairment, for expansion; directional decisions were previously taken regarding extensions sexual orientation and age. to the Hall, Sagsjön and Tidaholm high-security prisons. Activities to promote future skills sourcing On two occasions during the year, CEO Åsa Hedenberg held lectures for stuRoadmap for a dents at KTH Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm. Among other things, fossil-free sector she presented the varying work tasks involved in working at a property company In line with our aim to develop today and promoted the important role of property manager. In 2018, Specialinitiatives to reduce CO2 emisfastigheter welcomed a workplace induction student from the Rinkeby school’s sions throughout our value year 8 class and collaborated with the Swedish Property Federation on a project chain, we decided in August to examining how we can get more young people to choose workplace inductions join the Roadmap for fossil-free in the property sector. This collaboration resulted in a film, “Prao i fastighetscompetitiveness initiative: Con­ branschen” (Workplace inductions in the property sector), which can be viewed struction sector. Following this, on YouTube (in Swedish). we took part in an initial workshop to flesh out the details. Fantastic employees Our employees’ motivation is incredibly important to our success. During the year, Specialfastigheter produced the training programme “Den stor­ artade medarbetaren” (Fantastic employees) together with Akademiska Hus and Jernhusen, whose aim is to develop selected employees into real agents for change who drive forward day-to-day initiatives for change. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 7 BUSINESS MODEL Our business creates sustainable value Our strengths and assets Our business A secure and sustainable business External conditions Specialfastigheter Events in our operating environment: Rapidly developing climate is a market leader threats, technical developments, hunt for talent, greater corporate in secure facilities. competition, stronger demand for security Extensive experiOur stakeholders’ expectations and needs: customers, ence and skills ­employees, owners, suppliers and investors within the area of security and longterm approaches to business relationStrategies ships are our main strengths and competitive advantages. Responsibility Creating Proactive Stable customer relationships Best at Long-term for the envicustomer skills security profitability ronment and value ­sourcing Collaboration, climate proximity and ­dialogue with our customers with security requirei n e s s d e ve l o p m e n t ments are at the Bu s core of both our ongoing management, and our long-term planning and development of secure facilities. We Leasing and have internally governed customer­transactions centric management. Our property portfolio Org i o n a l d e ve l o p m e n t Vision: a ni s a We have a focused portfolio of t i o n a l d e ve l o p ­sustainable and – the most secure and customer­-adapted attractive property comsecure facilities pany promoting a safer, spread over some Property more secure society. 70 municipalities. ­management Property We work proacer at and operation ­development me tively to develop our property holdOp nt ings in line with customers’ changing needs. Strong financial position Our strong profitability is based on Ri s k ma t our long leases – nag e m e n which provide us with a stable cash flow – and the low interest rate level of recent years. We have surplus value in Internal conditions and governance our properties, a high equity/assets ratio and a high credit rating, AA+. Corporate governance and targets Having the Swedish state as our owner Business idea: to develop and manage properties in Sweden for cusensures we have a stable foundation. tomers whose operations demand high security standards based on sustainable business practices and long-term, commercial ownership. Read more about our strengths and assets on pages 12–15 Core values: Security, long-term planning, proximity and ­collaboration 8 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T BUSINESS MODEL Specialfastigheter helps create a safer Sweden by offering efficient and security­ adapted properties to customers with security requirements. We hold a strong basic position that we continuously improve – always in partnership with our customers and suppliers. Value created for stakeholders Customers • Continued delivery of customer-adapted, susprojects looking at capacity increases for the tainable secure facilities in close to 70 municiPrison and Probation Service and the Swedish palities, which help customers fulfil their sociNational Board of Institutional Care etally important tasks • Sustainable properties throughout the life • Standard building solutions created cycle • Collaborations surrounding purchasing, • Robust finances for long-term collaboration ­procurement, energy enhancements and and investment renewable energy • Lund district court completed and awarded • Development of properties, investment volprizes ume in 2018 of SEK 882 million. Investigation Investors • Borrowing in corporate bonds and commercial • Green bonds issued at a value of SEK 1,250 paper at a value of around SEK 13 billion million • High credit rating (AA+) confirmed by • The state as our owner along with an owner ­Standard & Poor’s clause entitles investors to call in their securi• Structured risk management ties early if state ownership falls below 100% Shareholders • Adjusted return on equity of 13.0% • Reduced CO2 emissions by 55% compared • Property value of SEK 27.3 billion with base year 2012 • Equity/assets ratio of 38.3% • Ambitious sustainability initiatives • Helped create a safer society • Environmental certification carried out • Certified within the area of information ­s ecurity Suppliers • Developed purchasing organisation in which • 46 off-site audits and 5 on-site audits a central unit is responsible for strategic pro­conducted curement and signing of all agreements • Rendered more efficient by reducing suppliers • “Entreprenadfabriken” (Contract factory) – to around 1,200 (compared with 2,000 supplistrategic collaboration with contractors and ers in 2008) consultants • Total purchasing value in 2018: SEK 1,444 • More in-depth dialogue with our suppliers ­million about sustainability Employees • Ranked first in the attractive employer index • Salaries and other remuneration in 2018 survey – we are an attractive employer with amounted to SEK 84,458,000, of which SEK excellent working conditions: salaries, bene14,018,000 related to pension expenses. The fits and career development number of hours spent on skills development • Focused on becoming a more inclusive worktotalled 4,306 during the year, or nearly 30 place characterised by diversity and equality hours per person, per year. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 9 L O N G -T E R M B E N C H M A R K I N G Long-term benchmarking Starting points Overall strategic targets Specialfastigheter’s financial targets are decided by the Creating customer value owner, the Swedish state. The overall strategic targets are resolved by the Board. The aim of the targets is to ensure More satisfied customers via improved customer dialogue, CSI. efficient use of resources to help maintain the company’s strong position in a competitive market. The owner and company’s management consider sustainable business to Result, 2018 be a commercially strategic issue and the follow-up of our Target, 2019 Target, 2023 65 Target, 2018 sustainability efforts is conducted through a dialogue with Not mea75 67 the owner, partially by following up on targets and partially sured in 2019 by way of specific sustainability analyses. Satisfied customers are a prerequisite for our long-term success. To ensure that customers are satisfied with our premises and our service, Clear strategic areas to achieve we carry out the customer satisfaction index (CSI) every other year. established targets To ensure we can govern, take decisions on targets and Best at security activities, prioritise and monitor operations more clearly, we manage operations based on five strategic areas: Continued zero-tolerance towards corruption. Responsibility Creating Proactive Best at Long-term for the envicustomer skills Result, 2018 security profitability ronment and Target, 2018 value ­sourcing climate No corruption No corruption Our prioritised development areas Ensure effective compliance of new Protective Security ­legislation (processes, skills, resources). To ensure we work on the right aspects in the right manner, we focus on the development of three areas: business, operational and organisational development. We have improved Result, 2018 Target, 2019 Target, 2023 our management systems, environmentally certified our operations in line with ISO and renewed our certification in New target Approved in­Approved in­house audit house audit the area of information security. We introduced IT support for operational management in 2018, the aim of which is to for 2019 offer operations better system support for planning, follow­ The property sector has a history of corruption, which is why we have had a target of zero tolerance of corruption for many years now. We ­up, analysis and reporting. In 2019, we will complete the will continue to take active measures on this issue, but for 2019 we implementation of a project management tool and begin have opted for a new target linked to the new Protective Security Acts work on a document and case management system. A new which are highly significant to our operations. quality and sustainability unit was formed in early 2018. 17 UN Sustainable ­ Balanced capital structure Development Goals The capital structure target is for the equity/assets ratio to be Out of the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals, we in the 25–35% range. have chosen to focus on five in particular: Affordable and clean energy, Responsible production and consumption, Climate action, Life on land and Partnerships for the goals. Target, 2018 Result, 2018 Target, 2019 Target, 2023 38.3% 25–35% 25–35% 25–35% The owner has taken a decision on the capital structure target. The target equity/assets ratio determines how we finance our assets and is thus an important control instrument in terms of our level of risk. 10 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T L O N G -T E R M B E N C H M A R K I N G Specialfastigheter’s vision – to be the most secure and attractive property company promoting a safer, more secure society – forms the basis for our long-term benchmarking and our overall strategies. Ideal position Healthy profitability ” We are the first choice for every cusThe profitability target is for a net profit, after including tomer whose operations have security changes in value and associated deferred tax, of 8% of requirements.” average equity. ” We ensure that our business is sustainable in the long term and does not Result, 2018 jeopardise future generations’ chances Target, 2018 Target, 2019 Target, 2023 to meet their needs.” 13.0% 8% 8% 8% ” We and our customers have the same ambitious approach to sustainability The owner has taken a decision on the profitability target. The return and take strategic steps to achieve requirement is established based on business principles and taking into account risk and sustainability. shared environmental goals within the framework of the green leases.” ” We are at the forefront of developing sustainable indoor and outdoor enviResponsibility for the environment and climate ronments.” Reduce CO2 emissions from purchased energy by 75% between ” We are a professional purchaser, both 2012 and 2030 (2012: 9 kg CO2/sq m Atemp). internally and externally, and we are known for our strategic collaboration with customers and suppliers to find Target, 2018 Result, 2018 Target, 2019 Target, 2023 efficient and sustainable solutions. We grow by redeveloping, building new 55% 52% 56% 64% properties and through acquisitions.” Properties have a major impact on the climate, both in the building ” We are an attractive employer and have and occupancy stages. We have a science-based target for CO2 emisthe right skills today and tomorrow. Our sions from purchased energy, and in future the target should include employees put security first, are our entire value chain. engaged and curious, learn from each other, develop, perform strongly and have a lot of fun at work.” Attractive employer Become a more inclusive employer by increasing the number of employees with a foreign background. Result, 2018 Target, 2018 Target, 2019 Target, 2023 10% 12% 12% 15% As an employer, we play an important role in society, including by being inclusive. Greater diversity at the company leads to improved competitiveness, stronger profitability and helps ensure a safe and secure society. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 11 OUR S TRENGTHS AND ASSE TS: BUSINESS A secure and sustainable business We own, develop and manage properties in Sweden with security requirements. Specialfastigheter is to set exemplary security and sustainability ­standards. All employees have a shared responsibility to integrate their areas into our business as a whole. Deeply rooted sustainable values Our four core values are: security, long-term planning, proximity and collaboration. Specialfastigheter is a signatory of the UN Global Compact and adheres to the conventions on which it is based. These also form the basis of our Code of Conduct, which guides employees in their day-to-day work. To contribute to the transition needed to reduce the rapidly develMarket leader in secure oping environmental threat, we have adopted a proactive, science-based emissions target ­facilities that involves a 75% reduction in our CO2 emissions from purchased energy by 2030 (base Specialfastigheter is a market leader in secure facilities. year 2012). We have also signed up to the We have extensive experience and expertise in the area Roadmap for fossil-free competitiveness initia­ of security. Our customers place strict requirements on tive: Construction sector within the framework both properties and the handling of sensitive information, of Fossil Free Sweden. We report our sustainand we are specialists in fulfilling these requirements. ability work in accordance with the GRI StanOther important success factors in our security­related dards: Core option and are environmentally work include awareness, interest and commitment certified in line with ISO 14001. among our employees. We focus on four main areas of security – personal security, operational reliability, information security and physical security – and are helped in this by risk analyses, continuity planning, crisis management and incident reporting. Special­f astigheter has ISO-certified its entire operations in terms of information security. Active risk management and governance We work proactively with risk management, including the areas of security, the work enviRequirements placed on ronment and anti-corruption. We prevent and minimise injuries by way of extensive risk analy­suppliers ses in which we systematically identify, analyse, evaluate and manage risks. This risk manageWe create cost-effective and sustainable supply chains ment is conducted throughout our operations, by collaborating with suppliers and placing requirebut particular focus is placed on the greatest ments on procurements. An obligatory Code of Conrisks that we collate in a risk register. Once a duct, self-assessment forms, on-site audits and evaluayear the Board carries out a special follow-up of tions together with a strong dialogue all form the basis identified risks. A reporting tool helps us manof long-term, mutually beneficial partnerships. We meaage reported incidents as well as identify and sure contract compliance as it shows how effective our implement both preventive and remedial mearequirements are in terms of efficiency, security and sures. We also have a whistle-blowing system quality when purchasing. As many employees act as that enables people to anonymously report purchasers, continuous training is carried out in areas irregularities or unsatisfactory circumstances. such as business ethics and anti-corruption. 12 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T OUR S TRENGTHS AND A SSE TS: CUS TOMERS Stable customer relationships One of Specialfastigheter’s strengths is its stable customer base – principally government agencies. It gives us an almost unique position in the market for secure facilities. We have large market shares with customers such as the Prison and Probation Service and the Swedish National Board of Institutional Care. Standing strong in all Internally governed management economic conditions and projects Close, long-term customer relationCollaboration, proximity and dialogue with our customers are at ships, long leases and customers with the core of both our ongoing management and our long-term very high credit ratings result in a staproperty planning and development. Our goal is to have interble situation for us irrespective of econally governed operations and management based on a cusnomic conditions. As both we and our tomer and security perspective. customers are impacted by external developments and political decisions, Specialfastigheter has also chosen to create its own project and we closely monitor any event that could development unit to guarantee customers’ needs are met in be significant. These customer diarelation to the production and adaptation of the properties, and logues ensure mutual awareness and to maintain and develop understanding, which is a precondition our specialist skills in the for strong, long-term partnerships. Our area of security construcfocus is always on identifying optimal tion at the company. Our solutions together with customers for purchasing unit ensures everything from the development of cost-efficiency and credipremises and environmental protecbility throughout the tion to security issues. Our customers supply chain. can always feel secure with us. Growing demand and Long leases up to 25 years a low vacancy rate The majority of Specialfastigheter’s leases are signed with public-sector operations and have long leases There remains a strong and growing demand for that often run for up to 25 years. The average remainpremises, which has contributed to a low vacancy ing term in our contract portfolio is 11.8 (12.6) years, rate. As of 31 December 2018, the vacancy rate which results in sustained long-term security for the was 1.0% (1.0) – a low figure even within the public company. Rental income is secured for a long period sector properties segment. We develop our and derives from creditworthy tenants who have property holdings in collaboration with customnon-existent credit risks. ers and we generally always have a customer with us in new transactions. Vacancy rate, % Average term, years 2.0 15 15.0 14.1 1.7 12 13.2 1.5 12.6 11.8 1.4 9 1.3 1.0 1.0 1.0 6 0.5 3 0.0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 13 OUR S TRENGTHS AND ASSE TS: PROPERTIES Our property portfolio – secure facilities From Ystad to Haparanda Portfolio Specialfastigheter has properties in close to 70 development ­municipalities in Sweden, in both extremely small towns and major cities. Many of our customers and Our movement toward their operations fulfil vital societal functions, and focusing entirely on are spread across the country, from Ystad in the secure facilities has consouth to Haparanda in the north. tinued. During the year we acquired two properties The ten municipalities in the country in which with floor space totalling we have the largest property holdings around 4,000 square metres in Värnamo, where Total owned floor No. of properties SiS runs an addiction treatMunicipality space, sq m per municipality ment centre. A detailed Stockholm 332,651 6 development plan has Kumla 51,215 2 been adopted by VärSödertälje 43,813 12 Local office Sundsvall namo Municipality for an Solna 34,967 1 extension of around 1,800 Lund 33,105 3 square metres. Kramfors 30,830 3 Luleå 29,739 3 Local office We have also purchased Gothenburg 27,680 4 Örebro land in Södertälje adjaUmeå 26,330 3 Head office cent to our properties for Härnösand 23,911 1 Stockholm (joint) potential future expansion. Head office Several leases were signed Linköping (joint) with existing customers, Local office some of which had a term Gothenburg Business areas of 25 years. Many SiS insti■ Prison and Probation Service business area tutions are expanding their ■ Defence and Judicial System business area operations, which is why ■ Institutional Care and Other Special we are redeveloping and Local office Operations business area Lund extending several facilities, including in Hässleholm. Rising property value Customised, sustainable secure facilities Our property value at the end of 2018 The common denominator among our customers is their security amounted to SEK 27.3 billion, up around requirements, and our role is to ensure that there are secure, adapted SEK 2.3 billion year-on-year. The increase premises that help them fulfil their societally vital assignments. For in investment properties’ market value is us, this is a matter of understanding and creating a close dialogue in mainly due to newly signed leases, investorder to jointly create effective comprehensive solutions – the right ments and reduced return requirements. property or premises for the right operations. Our customers’ needs and conditions often change over time, which means we need to be proactive and receptive in order to adapt our offering. Market value, investment ­p roperties Properties are to be sustainable throughout their lifecycle, from plan27.3 ning and production to management, redevelopment and demoliSEK tion. For this reason, we adopt a long-term approach in every part of our business and collaborate with players in our value chain to ensure a fossil-free property sector. We work to ensure environmental certification of our buildings, reduce energy use and CO2 emissions and billion proactively choose materials that have as minimal an impact on the environment and health as possible. 14 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T OUR S TRENGTHS AND ASSE TS: FINANCIAL POSITION Strong financial position Secure owner Very high credit rating Specialfastigheter is one of 47 state-owned compaWe have held a very high credit rating from nies and is owned entirely by the Swedish state. We ­Standard & Poor’s on our long-term borrowing for are administrated by the Government Offices of a long time now, having been awarded an AA+/­ Sweden, which pursue active corporate goverStable outlook. This is thanks to our unique nance. Having a long-term, stable owner in this way ­p osition as a landlord of secure facilities, our low provides a secure future. The state considers susbusiness risk profile with a highly stable and pretainability issues into operations to be a natural dictable cash flow based on long-term leases with part of the company’s long-term strategy and busigovernment authorities, as well as our strong ness development. We are also expected to liquidity position develop the company by taking advantage of and the fact that the opportunities within technical developments and Our rating is AA+ Swedish state is our innovation. owner. This score was confirmed once again in December 2018 and shows that we are a company Stable outlook We are with a positive future (Source: Standard & Poor's) outlook. 100% owned by the Swedish state Greater equity Our capital structure target determines how we finance our assets and is thus an important control instrument for us in terms of our level of risk. Core parts of the capital structure include equity and interest-bearing liabilities, as well as the relationStable return ship between these two. The equity/assets ratio is We must manage our property holdings with a susthe measure we use to manage the capital structainable, long-term approach and with total effiture. To achieve clarity in our benchmarking while ciency from an ownership perspective. Our profitalso enabling the necessary flexibility in terms of ability target as set by the owner is 8.0% adjusted our financing, the target is expressed as a range return on equity. We exceeded our target by a wide of 25–35%. As of 31 December, we exceeded the margin, and on 31 December 2018 the result was owner’s equity/assets ratio target as the outcome 13.0%. Our strong return is mainly due to our long was 38.3. This was due to a non-recurring effect of leases – which provide us with stable cash flows – SEK 190 million that resulted from a recalculation and the low interest rate level of recent years. Our of the deferred tax liability from 22.0% to 20.6% to growth is also enabled by the fact that half of our adapt to an impending reduction in corporation earnings are reinvested into operations. tax. The unrealised changes in value of our properties after tax have also increased equity by SEK 1,095 million since 31 December 2018. Adjusted return on equity, % Equity/assets ratio, % 15 50 13.7 12 12.8 13.0 40 11.8 41.2 38.3 10.8 9 30 32.2 33.8 30.2 6 20 3 10 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 15 EXTERNAL CONDITIONS AND STRATEGIES Demand for secure facilities is increasing and we are ready to meet the need for both new builds and renovations of older buildings. Special­ fastig­heter’s five core strategic areas have been developed based on the state’s ownership policy, the company’s targets and the UN’s sustainable development goals. Creating customer value is a key issue for us. 16 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 17 M A R K E T A N D O P E R AT I N G E N V I R O N M E N T Major needs and fiercer ­competition Increased crime, overcrowding within the Prison and Probation Service and generally greater demand for secure properties are all leading to a major need for secure facilities. Competition within the sector is also increasing, with procurements that look more at price than at quality, security and sustainability. Hopes of a shift towards a safer and more secure society do Overcapacity often leads to conflicts between inmates as not seem to be coming true, judging from recent trends. well as personnel. Previous experience from the late 1990s During the first half of 2018, a total of 752,000 crimes were has shown that escapes and jail breaks increase when occureported in Sweden, which is 3% higher than the correspondpancy is high. In November, the General Director of the ing period in the previous year. The category that saw the Prison and Probation Service, Nils Öberg, took a direcgreatest increase was fraud-related crimes, with a huge rise tional decision to order the new construction and extenin computer fraud in particular. It is also concerning to note sion of high-security correctional facilities and remand centhe increasing violence seen in various criminal networks, tres in 13 regions around the country. This involves some with many shootings that often lead to fatal outcomes. 900 prison spaces and 200 remand centre spaces, while the extension will cover around half of the total estimated The consequence of this is a greater feeling of unease and requirement. The directional decision refers to the medium insecurity among the public, according to many surveys. term, that is, a 10-year period in which extensions will be Issues such as criminality, the police and the judicial system carried out in regions where the Prison and Probation also played a central role in the election campaign, along­Service already operates. side integration and healthcare. There are no indications at this time that this trend is going to reverse any time soon, An increase in crime is also putting pressure on the police and we should anticipate that property owners will need to and the need for new police officers remains acute. The make greater efforts to ensure a safe and secure environso-called January agreement saw the Social Democratic ment for their tenants. We are also becoming increasingly Party, Green Party, Centre Party and Liberals agree to vulnerable to breaches of IT systems thanks to expanding reach the target of 10,000 new police recruits by 2024. The digitisation. Putting digital external protection in place is attractiveness of a career in the police is to be improved by just as important as secure doors and unbreakable windows. way of better conditions. Two challenges will be to ensure a sufficient number of applicants to police training courses High occupancy rates at correctional facilities and retaining the personnel that the force has. A larger and remand centres police force entails a need for more premises. The lack of spaces within the Prison and Probation Service became acute in autumn 2018. According to the Prison and Competition intensifies Probation Service, occupancy at that point had reached As we note greater demand for secure facilities, Special­ between 97 and 99%, so essentially full occupancy at all corfastig­heter is also facing fiercer competition from other rectional facilities and remand centres. The desired level is an players in the property sector. Companies that are largely occupancy of 85 to 90%. Stricter sentences and a larger popfinanced by pension funds are increasingly looking for ulation are considered to be two of the causes of this trend. Public sector properties transaction volume, SEK billion Transaction volume per category, % 20 Education and childcare, 22% 15 16.12 A  dapted housing (LSS (The 14.07 Swedish Act concerning Support and Service for Persons with 10 11.17 ­C ertain Functional Impairments), sheltered accommodation, care 9.15 9.14 homes), 45% 5 Healthcare, 8% Judicial system, 2% O ther, 23% 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 The volume is based on 40 known transactions in 2018. The volume excludes Karolinska hospital that NIAM agreed to purchase in accordance with the City of Stockholm, but which it later retracted. Transactions in which minor parts of The transaction volume for public sector properties fell during the year. Source a portfolio refer to public sector properties and whose distribution is not known of diagram: CBRE have been excluded. Source of diagram: CBRE 18 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T M A R K E T A N D O P E R AT I N G E N V I R O N M E N T p ­ ublic sector properties. The sector is characterised by o ­ wners with short investment horizons at times. There are secure tenants and long contracts with secure cash flows. ­c urrently no restrictions on what kinds of companies can acquire secure facilities, which may be a risk factor moving Competition for leases is putting pressure on prices, and forward. A property can be sold on after coming onto the even rents to some extent. The challenge for Special­f astig­ market, meaning a court or a police station could end up in heter is to continuously be one step ahead of the other the hands of irresponsible or, in the worst-case scenario, companies in terms of security by showing our more than 20 criminal owners. This is one risk analysis that should be caryears of experience in the area and demonstrating the value ried out at an early stage of a procurement. of properties with a strong environmental performance. The property sector has long struggled with a lack of When the public sector carries out procurements of secure resources and skills – everything from service technicians facilities, as a rule Special­f astig­heter is involved in the proto project managers and construction engineers. This cess. A procurement is a balance between various different shortfall did not ease in 2017–2018, and thanks to new laws factors: price, quality, delivery capability, security and susand regulations expanding the responsibilities of property tainability. We place a major emphasis on providing a realisowners, the hunt for skills in these areas continues. tic price as part of our tenders, as we know that reducing the quality will be more expensive for the purchasers in the long New Protective Security legislation term. Security costs money and we do not feel there are A new Protective Security Act will come into force on 1 April grounds to compromise on that area. We also know from 2019, clarifying the protection requirements for businesses experience that building and managing this type of propwith sensitive security operations, i.e. our most security-inerty is a complex task. That said, unfortunately we still take tensive institutions. The Act is intended to reinforce protecpart in procurements where price is the decisive criterion. tions against issues such as espionage and sabotage. It is certain that this legislation will lead to more managers and The property market is becoming increasingly global due greater demand for skills. to new ownership structures, including opportunistic External trends that affect us Security has deteriorated Greater climate threat There is greater awareness of security issues in line with Rapid and extensive reductions in CO2 emissions are globalisation, IT scandals, the threat of infiltration, gang required on an unparalleled scale. According to Swecriminality and terrorist attacks. Several existing and den’s climate policy framework, Sweden is to be free potential customers are demanding more secure propfrom “net emissions” of greenhouse gases into the erties, new security solutions and/or security expertise. atmosphere by 2045. Buildings consume around 30% of The impending new Protective Security Act will drive Sweden’s total energy. CO2 emissions from properties’ this trend. Increased appropriations to law enforcement entire lifecycles must be taken into account, which authorities will lead in the long term to more prosecurequires greater focus on the production phase, inclutions, which will increase the need for secure facilities. sive materials, that currently accounts for 50–60% of properties’ CO2 emissions over their lifecycle1. Ongoing hunt for skills An attractive employer must be able to offer challenging work tasks, skills development and free and flexible working arrangements that give employees the opportunity to control their work-life balance. Competition for the best suppliers is also increasing, with good conditions playing an important part in addition to purely financial considerations. The property sector is attractive, but a high retirement rate is increasing the need to recruit more people as replacements. Fiercer competition for customers The market for secure facilities is buoyant and competition is fierce. Many investors are looking for investments – ideally with a green profile – with low returns. The Swedish state does not always increase appropriations to its agencies in line with cost trends, and customers are streamlining. Sustainability is becoming increasingly important, and customers are submitting open and detailed inquiries more frequently to several property companies simultaneously when renting. There is also a trend whereby customers procure various contracts themselves before transferring them over to the landlord. 1) R  eport from the Swedish Construction Federation, ”Minskad klimatpåverkan från nybyggda flerbostadshus” (Reduced climate impact from newly built multiple-family dwellings, in Swedish). SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 19 S TA K E H O L D E R D I A L O G U E Collaboration is a prerequisite for sustainable business We want to set an example within the area of sustainable business. We achieve this by balancing and uniting financial, social and environmental aspects in our daily work, which is supported by the state’s ownership ­policy, the company’s strategies and goals and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Thanks to close collaboration with our stakeholders, we are developing and improving our sustainable business. For us, setting an example involves manActive dialogue to ensure ­ operations, of which sustainability­aging and developing every part of our constant improvements related issues form a part. For example, business in a sustainable manner. As a The dialogue with our stakeholders we hold natural discussions about the state-owned company, we have a partichelps us to continuously develop and environment with our customers ular responsibility to set a good examimprove our operations, not least from through our green leases with accompaple in terms of acting in a way that fosa sustainability perspective. The stakenying action plans. ters confidence in us. Sustainable holders, who both influence and are business involves responsibility for, and influenced by our operations, have a Our suppliers are increasingly interested analysis of, business opportunities and major impact on the sustainability areas in collaborating in terms of sustainability risks relating to the environment, human we focus on. Our main stakeholders issues and are often positive about the rights, working conditions, anti-corrupinclude customers, suppliers, employrequirements we set. Our intention in tion, business ethics, equal opportuniees, investors and our owner. Naturally, 2019 is to further expand our supplier ties and diversity. Based on the operait is not always possible to pursue a dialogue, partly via focus seminars and tions we manage, these risks and direct dialogue with our customers’ cuspartly via the framework of the Roadmap opportunities can be found throughout tomers, but our tenants make sure that for fossil­-free competitiveness initiative: the value chain and our ability to influthey represent them and convey their Construction and civil engineering sec­ ence developments are to a large extent interests during our discussions. tor. The on-site audits we carry out are dependent on other players. Collaboraexcellent opportunities for dialogue, tion and dialogue with our stakeholders We pursue a regular dialogue with both during the audit and when followis thus of vital importance. stakeholders as part of our day-to-day ing up with measures. In addition to these dialogues, more Stakeholder dialogue comprehensive discussions and workIn their dialogue with us, our main stakeholders have highlighted the following areas as ­having shops are held annually with one or more ­particular importance: stakeholder groups. In 2018, we opted to Customers • Develop and supply secure, tailored premises extensively interview a number of inves• Satisfied customers who are able to focus on their operations tors about their expectations of our sus• Sustainable choice of materials that ensure a long lifespan and non-toxic environments tainability efforts. The outcome revealed • In-depth collaborations surrounding procurement and purchasing that a broad view of sustainability was • Robust finances for long-term collaboration and investment important for their decisions in relation to Special­f astig­heter. They particularly • Collaborations surrounding energy enhancements and renewable energy want us to focus more on sustainability Investors • Sustained long-term profitability in the construction phase, including CO2 emissions from materials and produc• Maintained high credit rating tion, selection of materials, land man• Green investments and green financing agement and work environment. • Sustainability in the construction phase The dialogue with our owner surroundOwner • Contribute to a safer society ing sustainability issues is integrated • Reduce CO2 emissions throughout the value chain with other ownership issues. During the • Sustainable supply chain over several stages year, the owner carried out an analysis of • Work environment in construction projects our sustainability efforts. The results of this showed that they consider us to be Suppliers • Long-term, strategic and mutually beneficial relationships working systematically on sustainability • Sustainable supply chain within our business and that we have rel• Clear requirements for procurements evant targets and activities and a clear distribution of responsibility. Among Employees • Attractive employer with good working conditions their recommendations were that we • Skills development intensify our work to reduce CO2 emis• Meaningful work that contributes to a safer society and satisfied customers sions throughout the value chain and • An inclusive workplace characterised by diversity and equality that we include subcontractors in our on-site audits to a greater extent. 20 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T M AT E R I A L I T Y A N A LY S I S Our material sustainability areas Our stakeholder dialogues, continuous monitoring of and anti-corruption. All areas are well integrated into operating environment and analysis of our business’s the ongoing work of Special­f astig­heter’s five strategic impact on people, the environment and the economy areas. Special­f astig­heter’s governance of and work all form the basis of our materiality analysis. Based on involving our sustainability efforts are reported in detail this, the management has prioritised nine areas in various chapters of this Annual Report and Sustaindeemed to be most significant for Special­f astig­heter. ability Report. Page 54 contains a thorough description The sustainable supply chain area has been removed as of how we translate our prioritised sustainability areas an individual area as it is deemed to be included in sevinto GRI standards. eral other areas, including emissions, work environment Material sustainability areas Why material? Customer satisfaction The long-term success of our business is based on our ability to meet ­c ustomers’ needs. Security Security is our niche and it is what differentiates us from other property ­companies. Work environment Our supply chain entails a significant risk of work environment injuries. We care about both people and the environment. Health and safety are crucial in terms of our ability to be an attractive employer and to deliver quality. Emissions (including trips and transport) There are significant CO2 emissions from energy use during the production of materials, construction, occupancy and operation of properties. Energy A property’s lifecycle involves considerable energy use. The type of energy we select in line with suppliers, projects and at our properties has an impact on CO2 emissions. Materials and chemical products (including waste) We use large amounts of materials as part of our operations. Our selection of materials is relevant to both the environment and people’s health. There is a significant amount of waste, including hazardous waste, from production and demolition. Equal treatment The company is to reflect society from a diversity perspective in order to be an attractive employer and landlord. Economic performance A basic prerequisite of our business and development opportunities. Affects our stakeholders through the economic value we create for them. Anti-corruption The property sector entails risks as it involves major investments and ­complex transactions with many parties involved. Our material sustainability areas relate to the UN SDGs in the following ways: PRIORITISE Areas that are strategically prioritised from a sustainability perspective, based on the seriousness of climate change and the impact our business has in terms of use of materials, energy use, greenhouse gas emissions and impact on biodiversity. These issues require real efforts on our part as a company. Collaboration is crucial to ensuring efficient work. We are convinced that collaboration and partnerships are required to solve the major challenges facing us. MANAGE Areas we manage actively for long-term financial results, such as customer satisfaction, security, a good work environment, equal treatment and good working conditions both internally and throughout our supply chain. We are to be open to technical innovation that contributes to sustainable cities and a sustainable society. TAKE NOTE Areas of which we take note in our daily work, such as strong business ethics free from corruption, promoting life-long learning, contributing to indirect economic development by way of creating jobs, managing water resources and minimising emissions into the sea and waterways. Pink text = Special­f astig­heter’s material sustainability areas SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 21 S T R AT E G I E S Five core strategic areas Strategies > Our strategic areas serve as important tools in our efforts to more clearly manage, take decisions on targets and activities, prioritise and monitor operations. We are to provide secure, adapted premises in a commercial and cost-effective manner, thus contributing to our customers’ operations. We work close to our customers and maintain a close dialogue, which gives us a deep understanding of their operations. Creating ­customer value Read more on page 23. Security is one of Special­f astig­heter’s core values and security issues are always our highest priority. We aim to be the property owner best able to meet both its own and its customers’ requirements and high expectations relating to security, expertise and support in an innovative and responsible manner. Best at security Read more on page 25. We have a long-term task from our owner to manage our property holdings sustainably and minimise the state’s overall costs together with our customers. Long-term profitability is a crucial aspect of fulfilling this task. Long-term ­profitability Read more on page 27. Our operations and properties affect the environment throughout their lifecycle, from planning and construction to management, redevelopment and demolition. For this reason, we adopt a long-term approach in every part of our business and collaborate with Responsibility players in our value chain to ensure a fossil-free and competitive property sector. for the ­environment Read more on page 30. and ­climate In order to achieve our targets, we need the right skills – something for which there is fierce competition. Proactive skills sourcing is therefore a central strategy for Special­ fastig­heter. Our commercial and organisational ability is based on strategic choices and activities. We are a geographically diverse organisation, which means we need inde­ Proactive pendent and committed employees who can provide every customer with the service they demand. s­ killssourcing Read more on page 32. 22 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T S T R AT E G I E S Responsibility Creating Proactive Best at Long-term for the customer skills ­security profitability ­e nvironment value ­sourcing and climate Strategy – creating customer value > Long-term planning, proximity and collaboration with customers – this is the foundation on which we can create functional and cost-effective premises that correspond to customers’ needs and wishes. In the end, it is a matter of being able to offer the right property or premises for the right operation. Special­f astig­heter has a clear assignment – to supply premTechnology for better efficiency and sustainability ises in a commercial and cost-effective way to operations Digitisation of our property automation processes and with security requirements. Being the leader in secure facilinformation flows improves efficiency as it increases searchities places stringent requirements on our properties, our ability and accessibility. In 2018, we continued to develop collaboration with customers, our monitoring of the opertechnical security solutions that are to be used in future ating environment and how we perform. projects. Close customer contact at several levels We work to provide sustainable property management in Close dialogue at different levels – locally, regionally and collaboration with our customers. At the turn of the year, centrally – is crucial in terms of pinpointing the most signifi91% of our leases had a green appendix while 95% of the cant areas for our customers and thus helps us to prioritise green appendices had an accompanying green action plan development work. Regular meetings that are followed up that is regularly reviewed. We also hold regular sustainabilprovide valuable information for both our shortand longity meetings with several of our major customers. We see term planning. The business unit is responsible for letting the potential in developing these further, and with more and transactions, while out at the properties our service of our customers, in order to create sustainability value for technicians and property managers have daily contact with customers, such as healthy environments and climate­customers as part of ongoing work. The stakeholder diasmart buildings. logue is also an important forum for collaboration (see page 20). Regular customer surveys To ensure that customers are satisfied with our premises In order to ensure efficient planning, our work is based on and our service, we conduct customer surveys that provide long-term management plans produced for each property. us with tangible proposals for improvement. The in-depth These plans guarantee long-term maintenance, performance analysis of the latest survey was completed in February quality, volume control and clear follow-up procedures. Read 2019. Read more about our customer surveys on page 38. more about this aspect on page 38. Strategies for creating customer value Examples of activities undertaken in 2018 All leases are to have a green appendix and an action 91% of our leases have green appendices, of which 95% have joint plan drawn up with the customer that contribute to the action plans. joint achievement of our environmental targets. Develop sustainable internal and external environRedevelopments, extensions and new build projects for SiS at Folåsa, ments and acquire, redevelop and build to the value Johannisberg, Ljungbacken, Ljungaskog, Björkbacken and Hässleof at least SEK 1 billion per year. holm. Acquisition of an SiS property for addiction treatment in ­Värnamo. Continued redevelopment and extension of the Hällby ­correctional facility and security-enhancing measures at the Skogome correctional facility. A number of land parcels adjacent to various properties were acquired to enable future expansion. Ensure delivery that is so efficient, secure and sustainWe have developed standard building solutions (read more on page able that customers can focus entirely on their core 24) and a concept for long-term supplier collaboration, known as operations. “Entreprenadfabriken” (Contract factory), see page 41. Our customer service has been improved in terms of processes and procedures for reporting any need for service and a new solution for on call case ­management. Enhance the efficiency of our property management Digitisation of our processes and information flows to ensure by following digital trends and embracing new and enhanced information security. Development of technical security tested technology. solutions that are to be used in future projects over the coming few years. Together with our customers, continuously produce A number of investigation projects to increase capacity together updated plans for premises’ requirements, both now with the Prison and Probation Service. Several investigations for the and for the future. Swedish National Board of Institutional Care (SiS) concerning extra places for the treatment of young people and addictives. Attract new customers by way of active market analysis The award-winning district court in Lund shows how we are able to and attractive offerings. develop attractive and secure business premises for the Swedish National Courts Administration. We have purchased land in Södertälje as well as land adjacent to our properties for potential future expansion. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 23 Bespoke solutions for facilities reduce lead times The need for premises has grown dramatically for several of our customers over the past few years. One way to shorten lead times and make the construction process more efficient is to work with bespoke solutions – generically designed building models that are developed based on the customers’ needs and the requirements of Sweden Green Building Council’s Gold level. There are many benefits linked to standardised building. Standard building for the Prison We are able to cut the lead times of the process while the and Probation ­Service costs of programming and planning are also drastically As in the case of SiS, the Prison and Probation Service has reduced. Furthermore, we are able to produce tenders rapfound itself in need of more spaces in recent years, and idly and have framework agreements prepared – a working Special­fastig­heter is therefore planning a standard building method we have opted to name “Entreprenadfabriken” with 48 spaces in security class 3. The bespoke solution (Contract factory – read more on page 41). When work gets ­facility will be a pilot project in Skenäs, where preparatory under way, we are able to call off directly as the Public Progroundworks were carried out in 2018, and the plan is then curement Act (LOU) negotiations have already been conto build it at the Rödjan correctional facility in Mariestad. ducted. We use contractors procured in different areas of Other current standard building projects are under way for the country in order to remain relatively local and near to security classes 1 and 2 and remand centres with shared the construction site. communal spaces. Collaboration with the Swedish National Board of “Around 2015, discussions began with the Prison and ProInstitutional Care bation Service about constructing bespoke solution facili“We launched a joint standard building project with SiS in ties as a replacement for end-of-life correctional facilities 2014 as the authority had a drastically increased need for from the 1950s and 60s. This need became more urgent as more spaces. They needed to create 200 new spaces as spare capacity fell drastically. Many correctional facilities soon as possible. At the same time, all premises-related and remand centres around the country are currently full. issues which had previously been taken at a local level were The Prison and Probation Service took a directional decicentralised at SiS,” explains Torbjörn Blücher, Business sion to expand capacity by around 900 prison spaces and Director at Special­f astig­heter. some 200 remand centre spaces, which overall covers around half of the total estimated need. The standard In close collaboration with the customer, Special­f astig­heter buildings give us an excellent opportunity to help our cusproduced a standard building for residents containing two tomer increase capacity quickly, cost-effectively and sussections with eight accommodation units in each, along tainably,” explains Bo Gelin, Business Area Manager for with administrative premises and staff rooms. A standard the Prison and Probation Service at Special­f astig­heter. model for a sports building had already been in place for a while, and had been constructed at several locations across Another aspect of our efforts to produce cost-effective and the country, including the Folåsa and Ljungaskog juvenile high quality solutions are the standard windows and stancare homes. Now there are also standard buildings for dard cell doors we designed in consultation with the Prison emergency power plants and smaller complementary buildand Probation Service. The synergy effects are extensive ings such as turnkey buildings, car ports, recycling stations and bespoke solutions are an area we will continue to and similar facilities. Special­f astig­heter has also produced develop for a long time to come. a standard building for a school, which is expected to enter production for the Ljungbacken juvenile care home. Standard building for the Prison and Probation Service, 48 spaces for a correctional facility in security class 3. 24 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T S T R AT E G I E S Responsibility Creating Proactive Best at Long-term for the customer skills ­security profitability ­e nvironment value ­sourcing and climate Strategy – Best at security > Special­fastig­heter aims to be the property owner best able to meet both its own and its customers’ requirements and expectations relating to security, expertise and support in an innovative and responsible manner. We have our own niche within public sector properties – secure facilities. Our customers’ operations require us to maintain high fastig­heter’s core values and security issues are always our standards of proficiency, confidentiality and commercial highest priority. For this reason, we established the term prowess. In many cases, Sweden’s security may be “secure facilities”. By this, we mean properties that are involved. The way we work with security is described adapted for operations that require security. clearly in our business plan and in our joint business management system. We work closely with our customers, but In order to accomplish our task and achieve our vision – the we always respect their integrity during any collaboration. most secure and attractive property company promoting a safer, more secure society – we have mainly concentrated Our principal should obviously feel secure with us at every on four different areas of security, namely: personal, physistage – from planning and construction to management cal, operational and information security. Read more on and development. Security is therefore one of Special­ page 26. Our most important tools to make us the best at security Knowledgeable, security-vetted personnel This collaboration is primarily focused on the physical The skills, awareness, interest and commitment of our work environment and safety at and around construcemployees are all factors for success that ensure we tion sites. succeed in our security efforts. Continuous skills development in the area of security is therefore a natural Ethics and anti-corruption part of all employees’ work. Security also forms a cenSpecial­f astig­heter’s work is founded on our core values. tral part of our recruitment process. We have a triedFor us, an upright, ethical approach to all business relaand-tested concept using a special security assesstionships is a given – we must be a strong, reliable, ment that covers all employees and reduces the risk business partner. We have an internal sustainability of incorrect recruitment. policy and a Code of Conduct that describe the company’s requirements regarding our employees and Continuous risk analyses which form the basis of how each of us should behave By systematically identifying, evaluating and managing in relation to ethical matters. To ensure that informaoperational risks, we gain an understanding of how we tion and knowledge concerning business ethics is can effectively keep them under control. The most sigaccessible throughout the organisation, we regularly nificant risks to operations are followed up at least hold discussions about ethics at each unit as well as twice a year during management reviews and once a annual training courses for purchasers. year by the Board. The international risk management standard ISO 31000:2009 guides our efforts in this Special­f astig­heter never accepts bribes or any other area. Read more about our risk management on pages form of corruption, and we have had a whistle-blower 47–51. system in place since autumn 2013 that enables people to draw attention anonymously to irregularities or Incident reporting unsatisfactory conditions at our organisation. No cases By continually following up on reported incidents, we were reported during 2016 or 2017, while two cases of create the right conditions for early follow-up of whistle-blowing were registered in 2018. Both of these near-accidents, injuries and circumstances that may were able to be written off following an internal investihave a negative impact on assets requiring protection, gation, although one has been transferred to the relesuch as individuals, tangible and intangible resources, vant authorities for further processing. the environment, our credibility or our finances. Read more about our incident reporting efforts on pages Continuity planning 26 and 57. Continuity planning is based on the most important core processes and support processes. These are the As part of our safety initiatives we joined the Håll nollan processes that must be prioritised when returning to (Keep to Zero) project, an association of property normal or other decided level of operation in the event developers, contractors, suppliers and stakeholder of breakdowns or catastrophe. organisations that collaborates to ensure there are zero accidents within the construction industry. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 25 S T R AT E G I E S Focus on four security areas Personal security The area of personal security comprises the safety and security of our employees, partners and customers. Our incident reporting system provides us with extensive knowledge of risks and allows us to proactively take preventive measures. Some of our employees work in environments where an increased understanding of their own behaviour can reduce their exposure to risk and lead to increased safety and security. In order to prevent, manage and deal with threats, violence and other risks in the work environment, we adopt a shared view and have a well thought-out approach to these issues. We therefore continued to train our personnel in how to handle threats and violence in the work environment throughout the year. We also joined the Håll nollan (Keep to Zero) project in 2018, which is an association of property developers, contractors, suppliers and stakeholder organisations that collaborates to ensure there are zero accidents within the construction industry. Operational reliability A high level of operational reliability around the clock is a prerequisite at many of our properties, as they fulfil vital societal functions. Improvements are constantly being made to our property management organisation in order to lead to greater efficiency and security. Rapid technological developments within the area of property automation demand robust operating systems, good planning and ­conscientious employees, which we supply through our own personnel who are not only well acquainted with the properties and the technical installations, but also customers’ needs. During the year we strengthened our organisation and improved the procedures for continuity planning of digital functions and moni­ toring of our properties. We also conducted a quality assurance project to enhance operational reliability in our digital systems for technical property ­operations and monitoring, and updated instructions and technical descriptions for property ­networks. Physical security Physical security is important in terms of our ability to establish a high level of security to protect both our own operations and those of our customers. It primarily consists of technical and mechanical security solutions, such as access protection, electronic access systems, automatic fire and burglar alarm installations, reinforced doors, windows, roofs and wall structures. As part of the requirements we have established in our security protection agreements, Special­f astig­heter carried out a review and follow-up of physical security statuses in 2018. We also carried out more work on security-enhancing measures at a number of correctional facilities and developed general technical security solutions that will be used in future projects. Information security Protecting both our own and our customers’ information assets is a high-priority issue for us. We must be able to trust that all information – both our own and that which we manage on behalf of our customers – is always accessible, correct, traceable and protected against unauthorised access. Our customers, we ourselves and our operating environment all undergo changes, meaning we invest a lot of time in adjusting our security protection agreements and accompanying security instructions. During the year we renewed our certification in accordance with ISO 27001:2017 and began adapting to the new Protective Security Act that is expected to take effect in April 2019. Our view is that our management system for information security means we are well equipped in terms of the new Act’s requirements. 26 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T S T R AT E G I E S Responsibility Creating Proactive Best at Long-term for the customer skills ­security profitability ­e nvironment value ­sourcing and climate Strategy – Long-term profitability > Long-term profitability is a crucial aspect of fulfilling the task set by our owner and of satisfying our customers’ high expectations throughout the entire lease period. We must therefore manage our property holdings sustainably and with total efficiency from an ownership perspective. Minimise the state’s total costs Effective governance and monitoring The owner’s intention is for us to work with our customers We work strategically to ensure we have reliable IT support to minimise the state’s total costs. We can achieve this by in place that is well adapted to operations and offers a high providing secure, adapted and sustainable premises in a level of availability. Efficient and secure IT is a basic condicommercial and cost-effective manner, thus contributing to tion of efficiency at our properties and gives us the opporour customers’ operations. tunity to improve and develop our operations so we can meet our customers’ needs. This issue is becoming increasOur capital structure target (equity/assets ratio) deteringly important as digital developments gather pace, and mines how we finance our assets and is thus an important we are working proactively to identify the opportunities control instrument in terms of our level of risk. To achieve they present us with as a company. clarity in our benchmarking while also enabling the necessary flexibility in terms of our financing, our owner’s target We introduced IT support for operational management in equity/assets ratio is expressed as a range, which is 2018, the aim of which is to offer operations better system 25–35%. The result for 2018 was 38.3%. Another target support for planning, follow-up, analysis and reporting. In used to ensure long-term profitability is adjusted return on 2019, we will complete the implementation of a project equity of 8%. The result for 2018 was 13.0%, which shows management tool and begin work on a document and case that we are efficient in terms of our business and that we management system. have a strong and effective financial management system. Long-term supplier development Purchasing strategy is key A clear, rooted purchasing strategy based on a balance between our purchasing needs identified by a spending analysis, our supplier base and how the organisation for Spending Supplier base purchasing is designed, is a prerequisite for the long-term development of our purchases in relation to cost, quality and risk. Our purchasing strategy also gives us excellent conditions to work on sustainability in an effective way throughout our supply chain. Organisation To extract the most value possible from the supply chain and ensure our ability to act in a planned and structured manner, we have developed a purchasing organisation in which a central unit is responsible for strategic initiatives, procurement and signing of all agreements. We can specify our needs and requirements for products and suppliers by categorising our purchases into product areas and based on various market conditions. This is also gives us the basis Supply chain facts: on which to develop individual strategies and the right • Highest spending (purchases measured in SEK) in supplier structure for each contract area. This way we can the areas of construction contracts, specialist adopt a long-term approach to developing our supplier skills and energy relationships and thus ensure greater continuity and higher • Around 1,200 suppliers (1,600 suppliers in 2013, quality in our deliveries. 2,000 suppliers in 2008) • Total purchasing value in 2018: SEK 1,395 million Sustainable supply chain (SEK 1,219 million in 2017) To minimise supplier-related risks, we maintain an ongoing • The majority of suppliers are domiciled in Sweden dialogue with all our suppliers. We have a documented process outlining how we check, set requirements for and • Contract compliance in 2018 amounted to 92% follow up on our suppliers. Signing our Code of Conduct is when calculated by transactions (approx. 30,000) mandatory when new central framework agreements1 are and 96% calculated by value entered into, in addition to general and product-specific requirements primarily relating to finances, the work envi1) C  entral framework agreements refer to framework agreements and supplier agreements signed by the central purchasing unit and which are fully compliant with our purchasing strategy. These account for 95% of our total purchasing. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 27 S T R AT E G I E S ronment, the environment and security, except for conBeing able to develop together with the aim of offering tracts involving both low values and low risk. positive and sustainable solutions is a good thing for both us and our suppliers. We carried out 46 off-site audits and Code of Conduct and audits – important tools 5 on-site audits during the year. When suppliers sign our Code of Conduct, they accept our guidelines and requirements in the areas of information The audits we carried out showed that several suppliers 82% security, work lack active preventative measures against discrimination environment, and a systematic work approach to setting requirements working condiand following up on their own supply chains. We know that tions, the envithere are many sustainability risks 2 in the supply chain and ronment and therefore consider maintaining a dialogue with suppliers to corruption. be an important and obvious part of our sustainability of our total purchasing is efforts. ­covered by our Supplier All suppliers who Code of Conduct have signed the As an example of the positive effect of a dialogue and Code of Conaudits, one of our construction contractors employed a duct are subject to self-assessment and off-site audits and work environment strategist to improve systematic work could be subject to on-site audits. Off-site audits are conenvironment efforts, as well as a purchasing manager to ducted on the self-assessment that suppliers are requested develop their strategic purchasing. Another example is to carry out upon signing a contract. Svensk Markservice, about whom you can read more in the interview on the next page. We conduct on-site audits in accordance with an annual plan based on a number of criteria, such as volume/spendOur intention in 2019 is to further expand our dialogue with ing, risk, external monitoring and how strategically importsuppliers about sustainability, partly via focus seminars and ant a supplier is. Experience of previous on-site audits has partly via the framework of the Roadmap for a fossil-free shown that many of our suppliers see it as an opportunity construction sector. We are convinced that collaboration to learn and open a dialogue about sustainability. is a prerequisite for a sustainable business. Development of suppliers and agreements Action plan As part of the preparations ahead of Feedback from experience a new contractual relationship, we proFeedback from purchasers and suppliers duce a needs assessment and a specifiprovides us with continuous information cation of requirements based on the about how well the agreements are fulcategories. Feedback is sought and filling our needs and strategies, and market and risk analyses are conducted reveal areas for development. where necessary. Contractual relationship Requirements Contractual relationships with suppliers General and product-specific requireare developed continuously by way of ments relating to finances, the environsupplier assessments, dialogue and ment and security are established when follow­-up. Audits and training are also signing new central agreements. Signvital parts of our development efforts. ing our Code of Conduct is mandatory. 2) Read more about sustainability risks on pages 47–50 and 59. 28 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T “The audit was inspiring and educational” It is important that our suppliers share our values. Audits are the one of the tools we use to develop our supplier relationships and thus strengthen the dialogue surrounding sustainability, as well as create close and long-term partnerships. In 2018 we carried out five supplier audits, one of which was at Svensk Markservice which works with land planning and management for us throughout the country. In line with the new sustainability reporting requirements Has the audit led to any changes in your working contained in the Annual Accounts Act, Svensk Markservice ­m ethods? identified its material sustainability issues for 2017–2018. In “In terms of responsibility along the supply chain specificonnection with this, the company also reviewed its suscally, we were very inspired by how Special­f astig­heter itself tainability initiatives, which led to the recruitment of Marie works and we are now working on systemising our Nygren-Bonnier as Director of Sustainability. She was approach to a sustainable supply chain, based to some involved in the audit of Svensk Markservice carried out by extent on Special­f astig­heter’s model. One example is that Special­f astig­heter in May 2018, and responds here to a few we have produced a Code of Conduct for suppliers, which questions about it: will serve as an appendix to our supplier agreements.” How did you perceive the audit in relation to the How will you proceed from here? requirements specified in Special­f astig­heter’s “Efforts to produce self-assessments are continuing, and in Code of Conduct? time we will also carry out on-site visits to monitor compli“The audit gave us a reason to review our systems and ance among our suppliers. We believe that systematic susworking methods, which is always useful. I personally felt tainability efforts can provide us with a competitive edge, that the audit was very inspiring and educational. We could but this entails more purchasers valuing sustainability more feel that the focus of the audit was on dialogue and parthighly and not simply basing it on price. We look forward to nership, and that Special­f astig­heter, just like us, feels we maintaining a dialogue with Special­f astig­heter and need to collaborate to create a sustainable value chain. A exchanging our experiences about how to create a sustainbonus was that we were also given a professional summary able business together.” of all the areas that had been audited together with an analysis of their status and development proposals.” Marie Nygren-Bonnier, Head of Sustainability at Svensk Markservice. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 29 S T R AT E G I E S Responsibility Creating Proactive Best at Long-term for the customer skills ­security profitability ­e nvironment value ­sourcing and climate Strategy – Responsibility for environment and climate > Our operations and properties affect the environment throughout their lifecycle, from planning and construction to management, redevelopment and demolition. It is therefore vital that we adopt a long-term approach and endeavour to be a sustainable property company in every area of our value chain. System for constant improvements To increase the proportion of renewable energy, we have We have a structured and conscious approach to reducing also decided to install solar panels on all suitable rooftops. our environmental impact and always use the precautionary principle as a guide. Our efforts are based on the More ambitious environmental efforts impact our operations have on the environment and the cliWe have become far more ambitious in terms of reducing mate. International guidelines, the UN SDGs, the Paris cliCO2 emissions from purchased energy. Our new target is to mate agreement and the generational and environmental reduce emissions by 75% by 2030 (base year 2012), which is quality targets set by the government all guide us in these in line with Fossil Free Sweden’s ambition to see a fossil­efforts. To clarify our ambitious goals and to further sysfree Sweden by 2045. temise our environmental efforts, we chose to certify our company in line with ISO 14001:2015 in 2018. Our view is We are implementing a number of measures to achieve this that this gives the organisation another incentive to work target. By 2020, we on constant improvements. will phase out all heating oil we purchase in Optimised and energy-efficient operations and replace it with A property’s lifecycle entails significant energy use and rapeseed-based biothus also CO2 emissions. Reducing CO2 emissions is a priordiesel. We are signing ity and we therefore work systematically to reduce our green district heating energy use, which is reported, analysed and followed up on agreements wherever a monthly basis in terms of property, geographical area possible and pursuing and at company level. An interesting pilot project for sava dialogue with ing energy that ended during the year was biological purifienergy suppliers to cation of air from an industrial kitchen using fat-consuming increase the share of bacteria. The aim of the project is to be able to recycle renewable district heating sources. heating from extracted air, leading to an estimated energy saving of 105 MWh per year. We see a clear need to set targets for reducing CO2 emissions in our supply chain, as around 50–60% of CO2 emisLower return requirements in energy projects sions from newly built properties occur during the producThe Board took a decision to set aside SEK 150 million to tion of materials and in the construction phase1. We have finance energy projects that do not meet the return began an analysis of CO2 emissions throughout our value requirements typically set by the company. The condition chain and opened up dialogues with suppliers about how is that the investment should pay itself off over the duration we can jointly contribute to reduced emissions. This could of the project. Within this framework, a major ventilation refer to climate-smart architecture, climate-smart choice of replacement project was approved in November and is materials or greater consideration for the environment scheduled for implementation over the next few years. during the production phase. We have also signed up to Total energy use in buildings, Emission intensity, kWh per sq m Atemp CO2 emissions, % kg CO2 eq per sq m Atemp 250 0 6 Kyla 203.6 198.8 201.7 5.6 5 200 -20 Värme 4.7 El 4 -40 4.1 150 3 100 -60 -55 2 -75 50 -80 1 0 -100 0 2016 2017 2018 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2030 2016 2017 2018 Electricity Heating Cooling Outcome Target Electricity use has increased 0.5%. Consumption of Our target is to reduce CO2 emissions from purOur CO2 emissions have fallen, which is primarily heating has fallen 2% as we have optimised the chased energy by 75% by 2030 (base year 2012). due to the active steps our district heating suppliers operation of heating systems in our properties. This reduction amounted to 55% at the end of 2018. have taken to reduce their consumption of fossil Consumption of cooling rose significantly in conenergy. nection with the hot summer in 2018. 30 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T S T R AT E G I E S the Roadmap for fossil-free competitiveness initiative: Conscious and healthy choice of materials ­Construction sector and both believe and hope strongly The construction and property sectors account for a large that collaboration within this framework will be the driving proportion of the public sector’s use of materials in terms force needed to ensure the construction sector becomes of both new builds and redevelopment. We adopt systemfossil-free by 2045. atic working methods when choosing and using materials and we try, wherever possible, to phase out materials that The energy use target (electricity at properties, operational could have a negative impact on health and the environelectricity, heating and cooling) in 2018 was 196.1 kWh per ment. Materials used in construction projects and managesq m, while actual energy use amounted to 201.7 kWh per ment are to be documented in SundaHus’s environmental sq m. The main reason this target was not achieved was database, assessed according to their criteria and should that consumption of cooling at our properties increased fulfil classes A or B. The database is based on the precauconsiderably during the hot summer. tionary principle and shows whether a material contains substances that are hazardous to health or the environIn the 2012–2018 period, we reduced our CO2 emissions ment. As our customers occasionally have special funcfrom purchased energy by 55% (the target was 52%) and tional requirements, we need to deviate from the A and B the outcome for 2018 was 15.1%. We have been able to classes in certain cases. reduce our emissions despite the fact that consumption of district heating at our properties increased during the year Special­f astig­heter’s target is for the amount of Aand and the fact that we were forced to use heating oil at one B-classified materials within production to amount to at property as a result of operational problems with a pellet least 80%. This is measured annually based on the registraboiler. This reduction in emissions is largely due to the fact tions in the database. In 2018, the number of Aand B-clasthat our district heating suppliers reduced their consumpsified materials amounted to 84.3%, meaning we achieved tion of fossil fuels in their mix. our target. An important success factor is the dialogue and collaboration we have with our suppliers. Follow-ups and Business trips and service vehicles audits of the materials chosen and registered are underWe reduced our CO2 emissions from business travel by 5% taken regularly. As 80% of CO2 emissions from the producduring the year – read more on page 57. This reduction was tion phase of buildings comes from the production of primarily due to our replacement of a large number of serbuilding materials, we will step up our efforts to reduce our vice vehicles with vehicles that use more environmentally negative climate impact from materials, with suppliers friendly fuels. The amount of air travel we take has fallen serving as a vital partner. while journeys by train have increased. Our travel policy encourages environmentally friendly travel and we make Extraction of raw materials as well as the production and extensive use of travel-free meetings. use of materials can lead to both environmental and societal risks during the lifecycle of the material. To manage In 2018, our air travel led to 46 tonnes of CO2 emissions. these risks, we place systematic demands on and monitor We compensate this by setting aside SEK 1,100 per tonne2, our suppliers by way of our Code of Conduct – read more or some SEK 50,000 per year, for environment-enhancing on pages 27–28. Read more about risks on pages 47–50 measures. and 59. We reduced our CO2 emissions from business travel by 5% during the year. 1) R  eport from The Swedish Construction Federation, ”Minskad klimatpåverkan från nybyggda flerbostadshus” (Reduced climate impact from newly built multiple-family dwellings, in Swedish). 2) The SEK 1,100 amount is based on the Swedish carbon tax that amounts to around SEK 1.1 per kg of CO2. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 31 S T R AT E G I E S Responsibility Creating Proactive Best at Long-term for the customer skills ­security profitability ­e nvironment value ­sourcing and climate Strategy – Proactive skills sourcing > The right skills are crucial in terms of achieving our vision and succeeding in our business. Fierce competition for skills in the property sector means it is particularly important for us to work on camaraderie, health, skills development and diversity – everything that builds up our brand as an employer. The right skills, today and tomorrow s­ tudents, customers and suppliers. During the year we The sector is expanding and our customers’ requirements enhanced our employees’ skills in the area of equal treatand wishes are changing constantly, and this requires us to ment, and now essentially all employees and managers be a flexible organisation open to change. This is why we have participated in the “Växthuset” workshop to assess take proactive measures relating to our resource and skills Special­f astig­heter with regard to discrimination. sourcing, with individual development plans and general succession planning. When recruiting and in every type of skills sourcing, we always concentrate on making good use of the skills and We also need specialist expertise in strategic areas such experience found in every corner of society. By promoting as security, project management, maintenance, fire, elecequal treatment at the company, we can more easily find tricity, sustainability and energy. For this reason, we the skills we look for as the talent pool is considerably strengthened the organisation during the year by adding broadened. Special­f astig­heter has been collaborating with a maintenance engineer, a project manager for property other property companies for three years now on a project automation, a fire engineer and a business strategist. New in which we receive workplace induction students from the roles and new skills also require leaders and employees to Rinkeby school in Stockholm. This gives the students the develop. During the year we focused on managers’ ability opportunity to familiarise themselves with property comto communicate. We also began training initiatives in conpanies and will hopefully help attract new talent to our secjunction with Akademiska Hus and Jernhusen, which aim to tor. In June we participated in the Järva political forum develop employeeship within our organisation. The particiweek, at which our HR Director talked about our commitpants will gain greater self-awareness and a more effective ment to workplace induction students. The aim of this was style of communication. to inspire other organisations to participate in workplace induction projects as well as to find new channels to reach Most attractive employer of the year target groups that we are not currently reaching. One prerequisite of being an attractive employer is ensuring Special­f astig­heter’s employees are happy and spread Unfortunately we did not reach our target of increasing the a positive image of us. Special­f astig­heter works strategishare of employees with a foreign background to 12% in cally with employer branding to increase awareness of our 2018. The share is currently 10% (10) and we must undercompany as an organisation and employer. We always use take dedicated efforts in relation to this issue in 2019. We our Employer Value Proposition (EVP) as a basis, which need to examine ourselves and review our procedures describes our offering to new and existing employees. Our relating to employer branding and recruitment. We take an sustainability efforts are key to attracting new employees. active approach to equality at our company and need to In addition to systematic environmental and climate-related expand our efforts in that area too, as the number of issues, we work proactively on health and safety at the women at the company had been around 30% for a long work­place, employeeship, leadership and equal treatment. period and is now only at 26% (29). The proportion of female managers was 29% (37), which is a negative trend As a testament to our committed employer branding that we need to take into account moving forward. efforts, we received the top score in the Nyckeltalsinstitutet’s (Institute of Human Resource Indicators) Attractive Health-promoting initiatives for healthy employees Employer Index. We took first place out of 235 participatWe have identified the work environment to be a significant ing companies; something we are thrilled about. The sursustainability area as the construction and property sector vey measures nine different social and financial key indicais affected from an accident and health perspective. We tors that describe the working conditions of an deem the greatest risks to be linked to our supply chain. organisation. Read more about this on pages 27–28 and 59. We are able to manage our work environment risks by way of systematic During the year, we took part in three different jobs fairs at initiatives relating to the work environment that permeate universities to attract more young people to the property our day-to-day operations and through dialogues with our sector. We also welcomed three (six) interns – a number we suppliers about the work environment. are aiming to increase. This is a great opportunity for both us and the students to learn from each other, and some A prerequisite for fulfilling our task and achieving our tarinterns have even gone on to become employed by us. gets is that our employees are in good health. For us, promoting health at work internally means that we take a holisEveryone benefits from equal treatment tic and sustainable approach, which includes wellness, We are convinced that diversity and equality enhance our leadership, employee camaraderie and skills development. competitiveness and contribute to happier and more comWe work preventively to promote good health, and sick mitted employees. Everyone at the company has a responleave at the company has remained low for a long time. sibility to promote equal treatment each and every day, Read more about this on pages 57–58. However, we are both internally and in relation to potential employees, aware that some employees are experiencing high work32 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T S T R AT E G I E S loads, and as a result we have reorganised management and recruited new employees to our project unit. Employee facts As some of our employees work in environments that could We have 144 (144) employees distributed across six lead to threats and violence, we offer training in how to local offices in Linköping, Stockholm, Sundsvall, manage such occurrences at work. Managers and health Örebro, Gothenburg and Lund. Our geographical and safety officers regularly participate in work environdistribution is, however, greater than just these ment training courses, and as part of our sustainable leadareas. We are present in close to 70 municipalities ership and employeeship efforts, all employees took part as our service technicians work at our properties on in workshops during the year focusing on a sense of cohera daily basis. ence (SOC). The number of female managers fell during the All employees are offered our comprehensive healthcare year, amounting to 29% (37). On the Board, 45% (45) insurance as well as wellness, medicine and healthcare conwere women, while in management that figure was tributions and a benefits portal with a large range of dis63% (63). The total percentage of women at the counts and offers for gyms and other health-related organicompany was 26 (29) at year end. Personnel turnsations. In addition to all the above, everyone has the over was 11.8% (5.1) during the year. opportunity to undertake eight hours of voluntary work per year during work hours. ”I have everything I need to do my job” 25-year-old Hibo Ali worked as a summer intern at Special­ fastig­heter before obtaining a permanent role. Here she recounts her journey to joining the company and what attracted her to the property sector in the beginning. Hibo Ali What is your background? ing study visits and look at the buildings before they are “I studied civil engineering at the Institute of Technology complete. Being a construction engineer means sitting at at Linköping University between 2013 and 2016. Following the computer for long periods – so these visits mean I can my degree I underwent the Swedish Association of Public get out and see how it all works in reality! I have been Housing Companies’ trainee programme for a year. After assigned a project manager as a mentor, and both she and that I worked at Linköping’s municipally owned property my line manager are really helpful, clear and pedagogical. company as a social coordinator for housing. That was They and everyone else with whom I have contact at really interesting, but I felt that I was missing the technical Special­f astig­heter are very understanding of the fact that side of things.” I am young and not that experienced – they give me everything I need to do my job.” How did you find the summer job at Special­f astig­heter? “I simply googled “properties + jobs + Linköping” and Can you identify any particular challenges linked to our found Special­f astig­heter. It ended with me working a sumniche, secure facilities? mer position that was 50% office work and 50% producing “During my degree we did not really talk about secure facildrawings. At the end of the summer this turned into a 100% ities much at all. Working at a company that has security project and drawings assistant role. I wanted to develop at its core is therefore something new for me – for example, more in the area of construction, and Special­f astig­heter I cannot leave drawings lying around or just email them could see my potential.” however I want, which is a major contrast to how things work on the housing side. For example, my family and What does it mean to be a project and drawings friends think I have a really cool job because I am involved ­a ssistant? in building prisons.” “I assist the project managers by reviewing drawings, surface area measurements and orders – I check that all necesWhat are your thoughts on the future? sary documentation is included, for example that we have “I would like to continue getting to know our properties architectural data and the correct land registry numbers. and building a stable foundation at the company – my aim This entails close collaboration with the project unit and is to become a project manager at Special­f astig­heter. with many external project managers, not least because I would also like to see more women entering the property I am the system manager for the project tools we use. The sector, of course; diversity is not its strong point. There job is challenging because I work on so many different were only 12 girls to 80 boys on my civil engineering aspects, but being involved in several different areas degree. That said, I see more and more women when I am means 1) Employees able I amwith to see a foreign the bigger background picture, are those which born abroad or is those whose parentsout somewereandbothabout at construction sites and know that the trend born abroad. thing I really appreciate. For example, I get to go on excitis moving in the right direction.” SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 33 DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS A long-term approach for a safer Sweden – this is the goal of Special­ fastig­heter’s work together with our customers and suppliers. The basis of our operations is to ensure that we have the right premises for the right operations by continuously monitoring, developing and matching customer needs with our property portfolio. Every single Special­fastig­ heter customer should feel confident in our management services so that they can focus fully on their core operations. We conduct our own project and development activities to develop and customise our properties and thus ensure our access to specialist expertise, primarily in the field of security. 34 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S : P R O P E R T Y P O R T F O L I O Unique portfolio of secure facilities Special­fastig­heter’s customers demand security. Many customers lease properties that are of a national security interest. Continuously reviewing the portfolio and ensuring that our premises are tailored to each customer’s operations and security requirements is essential for maintaining ­customer confidence in us as a landlord and thus ensuring our success. Our focus on security is what differentiates us from other • Acquisitions with new customers – increase our holdings property companies. This security aspect permeates our with new customers who need premises with built-in entire business and has been a part of it since the company security. was established in 1997. Our ambition to be Sweden’s lead• Refinement – disposal of properties that are not in line ing property company in the field of security is reflected in with our owner assignment. our extensive investments and initiatives in four different In certain cases, we may pursue the following to meet areas of security – operational, personal, physical and infor­c ustomer needs and to learn more about operations with mation security (read more on pages 25–26). We are one of a slightly lower security focus: very few Swedish companies to be certified in the area of • Develop with customers – acquire properties for those information security. parts of customers’ operations that have lower security requirements. Our employees are highly aware of security aspects and are experts in special technical areas. An important prereqNew investments uisite for maintaining and developing our portfolio of Modifications for customers entail complex property consecure facilities is our long-term relationships with customversion and development projects in the form of new ers. We have a unique dialogue and collaboration that builds, extensions and redevelopments. Special­f astig­ gives us an insight into and understanding of their various heter’s investments in projects totalled SEK 824 million businesses and security needs. Specialist knowledge and (728) at year end. Read more about ongoing and planned extensive experience form a solid basis, but it is our ability investments on pages 40–42. to convert our skills into concrete solutions specifically adapted to each customers that makes the real difference. The construction of a new district court building for the Special­f astig­heter’s starting point is always “the right Swedish National Courts Administration in central Lund premises for the right operations.” The fact box on page 36 is now complete. The building was opened in late August provides examples of our modifications for customers in 2018. our property holdings over the past year. During the year, Special­f astig­heter signed 33 new leases, Clearer focus on secure facilities all of which have a green appendix. These signed leases The hallmarks of our property operations are high quality, entail a project volume of some SEK 378.5 million, with long contract periods and creditworthy customers. redevelopments, extensions and new builds all to be Special­f astig­heter commands a strong position in the mar­c arried out. ket and our aim is to further increase our property holdings in close collaboration with existing and new customers. Acquisitions The focus of our development is to exclusively target propSpecial­f astig­heter actively monitors the market and evaluerties with customers who have security requirements – ates relevant acquisition opportunities to meet higher secure facilities. Special­f astig­heter has the following five demand for properties that meet security requirements. development strategies for its property portfolio: The market is hot and competition is fierce for properties • Property upgrades – create sustainable, modern and ready to be put up for sale. We acquired two properties in secure buildings that provide a favourable environment Värnamo during the year. These properties include buildfor employees and for customers’ operations. ings at which SiS runs addiction treatment centres. We have • Phase-out – older, low standard buildings and buildings also purchased land in Södertälje as well as land adjacent that are poorly suited for operations. Demolition and to our properties for potential future expansion. ­dismantling are handled in a sustainable manner. • Acquisitions with existing customers – expand our holdTransport Administration transaction currently ings with existing customers who currently lease from not progressing other property owners or in regions where they want to In 2018, the Swedish Parliament approved the transfer by establish operations. the government of eight of the Transport Administration’s rail traffic management centres to Special­f astig­heter by way of a sale. It has since come to light that the costs cal­ SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 35 D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S : P R O P E R T Y P O R T F O L I O culated and provided by the Transport Administration itself valuation based on actual lease income and operating to adapt the premises have increased significantly. The expenses data. Information concerning cost of capital, government considers that the consequences of these cost required yield and current market rents is cross-checked increases need to be assessed and has thus opted not to with external appraisers. To assure the quality of the interprogress with the approval it originally received. This nal evaluation, it was cross-checked against an external means there will not be any transaction at this time. evaluation of 50 (48) objects, equivalent to 90% (87) of the total value at 31 December 2018. The difference between Disposals the external and internal evaluations amounts to less than Market value, During the year 3% (3). Special­f astig­heter applies a value below that investment properties a detached obtained from the external valuations. 27.3 property in SEK Lövsta was Special­f astig­heter manages property holdings containing divested as the 99 (96) secure facilities located in close to 70 municipalities property no across the country. The unrealised changes in value reclonger forms ognised for the period amounted to SEK 1,404 million part of the billion (832). The average remaining contract term in the rental ­company’s portfolio is 11.8 years (12.6). The company’s largest customoperations. ers are the Swedish Prison and Probation Service, the Swedish Police, the Swedish National Board of Institutional Properties for over SEK 27 billion Care, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence The market value of Special­f astig­heter’s investment propMateriel Administration. The vacancy rate was very low at erties has increased significantly in recent years and 1.0% (1.0) on 31 December 2018. amounted to SEK 27,288 million (25,002) at year end. The estimated values were determined by means of an internal Examples of projects in 2018 Property and customer Project/Customer modifications District Court in Lund Construction of new district court, 10,560 sq m floor space in central Lund Opened in late August 2018. Hall correctional facility Investigation and preparatory work ahead of new builds, redevelopments and extensions. Tidaholm and Sagsjön correctional facilities Investigation/planning ahead of new builds, redevelopments and extensions. The Prison and Probation Service Investigation and planning of standard buildings ahead of future capacity increases at 12 properties nationwide. These initiatives will begin with the Skenäs and Rödjan correctional facilities. SiS’s juvenile care homes at Folåsa, Johannisberg, Ljungaskog New standard buildings and planning of a standard school. and Ljungbacken SiS Björkbacken Construction of residential section, administration and central kitchen. SiS’s juvenile care home in Hässleholm Residential sections extended. Investments including property Market value, investment properties ­acquisitions, SEK million per business area, SEK million Total rental income, SEK million 1,500 30,000 27,288 2,000 Institutionsvård och övriga specialverksamheter 1,956 1,398 25,002 1,846 25,000 22,999 1,725och rättsväsende1,751 1,200 1,288 Försvar 1,714 20,271 20,919 1,500 20,000 Kriminalvård 900 882 15,000 1,000 600 10,000 419 500 300 371 5,000 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 The reduction in 2018 was primarily due to the fact Prison and Probation Service Defence and Increased rental income is due largely to new that we did not make any major acquisitions during Judicial System National Board of Institutional leases, including the district court in Lund and the the year. Care and other special operations newly renovated Kronoberg remand centre. Market values have increased mainly due to property­specific events such as newly signed leases, investments and lower return requirements. 36 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T A modern, high-security remand centre that breaks the isolation The Kronoberg remand centre on Kungsholmen in Stockholm is the Prison and Probation Service’s second-largest high-security remand centre. A comprehensive renovation and modernisation of the premises was launched in 2011. The centre continued running as normal, which meant the project was a complex operation that dragged on and was only completed in late 2017. The newly renovated premises are highly valued by the And how was the final outcome – the renovated and Prison and Probation Service, according to Jennie Alten, redeveloped remand centre? then Director of the Kronoberg remand centre, who “Overall, we have gained a more secure and more modern responds below to a number of questions about the remand centre with fresh and appropriate premises. We ­construction process and final outcome: now have technology installed for more secure entry and exit and sluice gates, which is important from a work enviWhy did the Kronoberg remand centre need r­ enovating? ronment perspective. We now also have many communal “It was first completed in 1975 and after 40 years needed areas for exercising, playing games and watching films, as a major upgrade. A lot of new technology that we want to well as a kitchen for preparing food and baking and a prouse was developed during that period, not least in the area duction unit where inmates can undertake paid work for of security. The way the remand centre operates has also simple tasks. All of these premises are extremely important changed radically since that time, which is why the premto our operations, as the activities we run there help to ises needed to be modernised and adapted to how we break down the inmates’ isolation. Every cell has been ren­c urrently manage our operations.” ovated, and that renovation was done sustainably – around 300 cells were dismantled and renovated to brand-new What are the greatest challenges your operations face standard by inmates at a correctional facility. We also have at the remand centre? some double cells here which, I believe, may be unique to “Naturally, the remand centre must be secured against us – a door between two cells can be opened and inmates break-ins and break-outs; it should not be possible for anycan therefore keep each other company. The exercise one to escape from our units and no one should be able to yards, which play an important part in the wellbeing of gain access and sabotage our operations either. Another inmates, have been made lighter, airier and have a better main task is to create activities that break the isolation, and view in some places.” this requires appropriate, adapted premises.” How have the personnel reacted? What difficulties are involved in renovating a remand “Since the reopening of the entire remand centre in Janucentre while continuing to operate? ary 2018, we have received very few complaints from “The redevelopment process is extended significantly employees. I believe this is due to the fact that we at the when operations are ongoing. The external protection must Prison and Probation Service have been able to influence be maintained while building materials are delivered to the and share opinions throughout the entire project. For property. Evacuation routes must be functional. Workmen example, we have tested functions for locking devices and who need to work within the remand centre need to be handles, and the project organisation has adjusted soluchecked, escorted and trained in security procedures. Then tions and designs based on our views. Put simply, we build there are periods of disruption that cannot be avoided, of things the right way from the very beginning!” course, such as noise and dust from construction.” How did your collaboration with Special­f astig­heter Facts about Kronoberg high-security remand centre work? • Located on Kungsholmen in Stockholm “We have enjoyed a great collaboration with many discus• The remand centre has space for 279 inmates sion meetings at which we worked to understand each oth• The remand centre has a range of special departments er’s circumstances, helped each other, built relationships – care, high-security, female, arrest and transportation and created contact paths, all of which is key. We drew up • Around 300 cells were dismantled and renovated to procedures and worked together to ensure the remand brand-new standard by inmates at the Beateberg correccentre could continue operating and the construction tional facility could proceed.” • The construction project used around 1.5 million screws and 120 km of electric cables • Almost 1 kilometre of carpeting was torn out and an equal amount re-laid SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 37 D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S : P R O P E R T Y M A N A G E M E N T A N D O P E R AT I O N S Efficient and secure ­management Our customers feel safe, secure and able to focus on their operations because of the management services we provide using our own personnel, our focus on a high level of operational reliability and our efficient technical solutions. Flexibility when performing maintenance place at various levels in order to encompass the entire operOur customers’ operations mean we have to be flexible ations. Local tenant meetings as well as regional and central when planning and implementing our management tasks. meetings at which the overall development of the organisaSustained high utilisation rates in Swedish correctional tions are discussed are examples of important dialogues. facilities, including those run by the Swedish National Board of Institutional Care and the Prison and Probation We currently conduct two-pronged customer surveys, the Service, meant that we were unable to carry out any major first survey providing us with a customer satisfaction index maintenance involving the closure of accommodation. In (CSI) while the second survey offers an in-depth analysis of such cases, we try to redirect our maintenance to external certain focus areas. The last survey carried out in winter measures or to other spaces that have less impact on the 2016/2017 produced a CSI of 65. The in-depth analysis operations. Special­f astig­heter always attempts to coordishowed that communication in general – and maintenance nate maintenance with measures planned by the customer planning in particular – were important areas for improvein order to minimise disruption to the operations. ment. In 2017/2018 we introduced maintenance tours along with our customers ahead of maintenance planning. We Own operational personnel to create security also recruited two maintenance engineers who will offer and efficiency planning support and ensure a more uniform assessment We adopt a customer and security perspective in our aim of the maintenance needs at our various properties. We to manage our properties using our own personnel. In obtained the results of the first part of this year’s customer addition to specialist know-how in the field of security, survey in December 2018. The CSI was unchanged at 65, Special­f astig­heter’s service technicians and managers despite almost all underlying parameters increasing. This is must also have a high level of technical expertise to effidue to the fact that the weighting of customer groups was ciently manage complex and highly digitised properties. amended. For example, the index for both personal service and influence and responsiveness increased by a full four Our geographical range is a challenge to management serpoints. The in-depth analysis was carried out in February vices, as is the small-scale of many of our properties. Skills 2019 and will be followed by a new action plan. sourcing is extremely important for maintaining a highlevel of service close to properties in all locations. Read In 2018, we focused extensively on developing our cusmore about Special­f astig­heter’s work on skills sourcing tomer service, including by further improving processes on pages 32–33. and procedures for reviewing service. Efforts to more effectively adapt to our customers’ wishes are continuing. Efforts to create a stronger customer dialogue We also introduced a new solution for managing urgent Many of our customers conduct operations at a large nummatters, which will help us gain better control over this ber of locations. As a result, dialogues and collaboration take vital process. Maintenance expenses, SEK/sq m Operating expenses, SEK/sq m Media costs, SEK/sq m 300 350 150 145 145 139 315 Fastighetsdrift, kr/kvm 132 Vatten 283 300 300 123 250 266 268 267 273 253 120 El, värme och vatten, kr/kvm Värme 222 250 200 214 El 200 90 150 150 60 100 100 30 50 50 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Maintenance expenses were essentially unchanged Electricity, heating and water Electricity Heating Water compared with 2017. Property operations The cold winter, hot summer and tax rises led to an The increase in operating expenses was mainly due increase in overall expenses during the year. to higher heating and snow-clearing expenses. 38 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S : P R O P E R T Y M A N A G E M E N T A N D O P E R AT I O N S Long-term planning to obtain digital control over our properties’ climate sysOur management plans for each property contribute to tems. At the end of the year, around 70 properties had efficient, sustainable and long-term property managejoined our platform for property automation and digital ment. The plans are based on a dialogue with our custommonitoring. It is hard to estimate the energy enhancement ers and highlight what is required for us to deliver in line offered by this, but it does give us favourable precondiwith our commitments. Each part of the plan has a longtions to control, monitor and follow up areas such as energy term strategy, targets and an action plan. The plans are foluse, ventilation and heating at our properties. lowed up and revised during the year to adjust the planning to current customer needs. Our properties are very often surrounded by agricultural land and forest. In 2018, we had proposals drawn up for High operational reliability around the clock green forestry plans for several properties, with the aim of High operational reliability, in many cases around the clock, implementing them as pilot projects in 2019. The aim is to is a precondition for enabling our customers to operate increase biodiversity and to increase the recreational value their businesses in a secure and safe manner. It is essential of the forest we manage. to have robust operating systems, excellent planning and meticulous employees with in-depth understanding of cusWe take active steps to sign green appendices for our tomers’ needs, their properties and their technical equipleases and produce joint green action plans for management. The geographical range of the properties entails ment. These joint action plans specify how we are to work requirements for continuously developing technological together to reduce the burden on the environment and is aids, management systems and governance and surveila permanent agenda item of local tenant meetings. A follance systems. Digitisation means that efficiency can be low-up and update of the action plan is carried out at least enhanced but is also an area in which the risk of hacking once a year. The number of green appendices for our must always be taken into consideration, which is why inforleases increased during the year, with appendices being mation security has become one of Special­f astig­heter’s prisigned with the Swedish Defence Research Agency and oritised security areas (read more on pages 25–26). Swedish Police, among others. The production of action plans for all new appendices has not been completed yet, New property systems fully operational meaning the number of agreements with green appendiIn 2017, our new property systems became fully operaces including an action plan at the turn of the year tional, and in 2018 efforts continued to standardise workamounted to 95%. ing methods, refine and improve work processes and quality-assure data. At the same time, we are reviewing the Operation and maintenance expenses option of facilitating day-to-day work for our operational Electricity, heating and water account for the majority of personnel by reducing unnecessary administration within our operating expenses. This means that working together the property systems and by investigating options for with our customers to enhance efficiency and optimise greater mobility. operations is a key element of retaining a low cost base. Our maintenance expenses differ from many other propSustainable property management erty companies in that they often include internal mainteSustainable property management entails us working nance and other security-enhancing measures. Operating actively to reduce energy use and CO2 emissions when manexpenses for 2018 amounted to SEK 315 per square metre aging our properties. Other important areas include con(300) and maintenance expenses to SEK 268 per square sumption of materials, management of hazardous substances metre (266). The increase in operating expenses was mainly and the work environment. Read more on pages 30–31. due to higher heating and snow-clearing expenses. Energy use has a significant impact on both operating Radon assessment conducted expenses and the environment. Energy enhancements and Our entire property holdings have now been radon-asmonitoring the types of energy are priority areas in which sessed. We have taken remedial action wherever we have Special­f astig­heter works internally and alongside its cusfound elevated values, and follow-up measurements contomers. We also have a clear strategy for property automatinued during 2018. As we purchased some properties over tion. Part of the aim is to enable optimised and energy-effithe year, certain measures and control measurements will cient operation by using operationally secure technology continue into 2019. Electricity consumption, Heating consumption, Water consumption, kWh per sq m Atemp kWh per sq m Atemp L per sq m Atemp 100 100 600 97.7 95.1 585.2 94.6 91.8 552.6 90.6 88.8 500 542.7 80 80 400 60 60 300 40 40 200 20 20 100 0 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 The electricity consumption at our properties only Heating consumption fell 2%. This was due in part Water consumption fell 1.8%, which is mainly due to increased marginally compared with previous years, to the fact that we have optimised the operational the fact that we have several projects in progress despite major operations at many premises. We lifespans of ventilation systems. The figures have that have restricted the level of operations. We also replaced spent lighting with LED lights and took been corrected for a normal year. implemented a number of projects in 2017 that major measures to optimise operations. required large amounts of water. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 39 D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S : P R O P E R T Y D E V E L O P M E N T Projects with stringent security requirements Our customers have a continuous need to alter their operations and premises requirements. We are to be the best at security, and in line with this also best at managing projects with stringent security requirements. We therefore have our own project and development unit that manages complex projects. Our project volume maintained a high level throughout 2018. Special­f astig­heter has chosen to establish an in-house Gold level and our major redevelopment projects attain project and development unit to meet its need for propri­Silver. The high security standards to which our buildings etary expertise in the field of secure facilities. Our project are often subject make it difficult for us to complete the managers provide valuable expertise across the entire final certification stage since this requires an external chain from concept to completion, and we also have spereview, and for security reasons we cannot grant access to cialists in construction, water and sewerage, security, elecall information about our properties. For this reason, we tricity, sustainability, the environment, energy, property have chosen to work on the basis that our properties are automation, fire and CAD/BIM. The unit is tasked with ready for certification and we then decide on certification meeting our customers’ needs for appropriate and secure on a case-by-case basis. Our new district court building in premises in a professional manner and with contributing to Lund has been initially certified to SGBC Gold. We also long-term development of sustainable properties. As our have several ongoing redevelopment and new-build projproject volume has increased significantly over the past few ects for SiS’s facilities in Hässleholm, Ljungbacken, Ljunga­ years and we can see major volumes are forthcoming, we skog, Folåsa and Johannisberg, with the aim of building in have worked intensively on our strategies for supplying the line with SGBC Gold and Silver. To demonstrate our ambiprojects with resources. This has resulted in a concept we tion, we have issued green bonds whereby SGBC certificahave named “Entreprenadfabriken” (Contract factory) – tion is a prerequisite for obtaining financing for our proja more strategic collaboration with contractors and con­ ects. Read more about green financing on page 45. sultants in which we are able to meet the growing need for investment by way of framework agreements and strategic Projects in 2018 partnerships. We communicate our needs continuously to There were 86 (95) investment projects in progress at year the sector and recruited more employees during the year end. The total investment volume for projects in progress in our project operations. is estimated at SEK 1,597 million (2,095), of which SEK 849 million was accrued as of 31 December 2018. Of the 86 Choice of materials projects in progress, 16 had estimated investments in Special­f astig­heter operates in a material-intensive sector excess of SEK 20 million, corresponding to around 83% and a systematic method for how we select and use materiof the total investment volume. als is an important part of our sustainability efforts. We record all the materials used in new construction, extenPrison and Probation Service business area sions and redevelopments in an environmental database. The Prison and Probation Service has historically operated Among other things, this helps us to see if a material conat near-full capacity and is facing a major need to expand tains substances hazardous to health or the environment. the number of prison and remand centre spaces. In NovemThe database also enables us to retrieve information about ber, the General Director, Nils Öberg, took a directional where a material is located in our buildings should this decision to order the new construction and extension of come into question in the future. Regarding materials, our high-security correctional facilities and remand centres in standards are higher than those under the Sweden Green 13 regions around the country. To meet this need, Special­ Building Council’s criteria and we also document electrical, fastig­heter and the Prison and Probation Service together ventilation, plumbing and control systems at component developed a standard building, with the flows and floorlevel. We guide our suppliers through material selection plans being decided at central level, thus allowing to the requirements and material documentation. We also make buildings to be constructed across the country where the sure waste management follows the requirements we have need arises (read more on page 24). been given. Read more about our use of materials on page 31. Directional decisions have previously been taken concerning the expansion of spaces for the Tidaholm and Sagsjön Sweden Green Building Council correctional facilities. Security-enhancing measures have Special­f astig­heter has opted to produce properties in line been taken at a range of correctional facilities over the past with the Sweden Green Building Council (SGBC) certificafew years, and these were completed in 2018 at facilities tion system. Our aim is to see all new construction attains such as Skogome. 40 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T The right resources in the right place and at the right time with the Contract Factory Long-term projects require long-term relationships. This is the main idea behind Special­fastig­heter’s investment in “Entreprenadfabriken”, or Contract Factory – a concept for long-term supplier partnerships. Special­f astig­heter continuously manages around 200 projThe suppliers are to Rough number of ects with a wide geographical distribution. We have our gain an incentive to ­p rojects managed by own project managers, property managers and service earmark resources 200 ­Special­fastig­h eter technicians, but we hire resources such as architects, who will have the designers, environmental consultants and contractors. The opportunity to build challenge is to optimise our in-house and hired resources in-depth expertise to ensure that the right resource is always in the right place and knowledge at the right time. about our customparallel projects ers’ needs. Another Greater continuity enhances deliveries fundamental aspect A long-term perspective in collaboration with customers of the Contract Factory is that each supplier is to appoint has always been a natural part of Special­f astig­heter’s propa national key account manager to take responsibility for erty development, with leases running up to 25 years. That ensuring that the right resource is always offered to said, contracts with suppliers are typically much shorter, Special­f astig­heter, regardless of the region or project. while resources are often procured locally for one or multiple projects at a time. “By having a dedicated key account manager, suppliers will have greater opportunities to work on internal knowledge “We want to enhance opportunities for more strategic and transfer, which should reduce their dependence on people long-term partnerships. We believe there is potential to when making deliveries to us. As security is our core issue, exploit our combined skills more effectively and thus also continuity within projects is of the utmost importance in develop even more innovative and sustainable customterms of delivering top quality within the specified timeer-specific solutions over several projects,” says Henrik frame and at a reasonable price,” says Göran Cumlin, Nyström, Purchasing and IT Director at Special­f astig­heter. ­Projects and Development Director at Special­f astig­heter. Special­f astig­heter wants to improve the conditions for As part of the first stage, agreements have been signed long-term planning and collaboration by bringing together with ten suppliers of medium-sized contracts, and the all the projects managed by each supplier in every region idea is to expand by way of agreements for even larger under one agreement. contracts. Defence and Judicial System business area Institutional Care and Other Special Operations The new district court constructed for the Swedish National business area Courts Administration in Lund was completed in 2018. The Planning of a standard school had been undertaken and project won Lund’s urban construction prize and was nomithe first such school is intended to be established at SiS’s nated as “Årets Bygge 2019” (Building of the Year). In 2018, Ljungbacken residential care institution. Standard buildSpecial­f astig­heter took part in the investigation into a conings are going to be constructed at SiS’s Folåsa, Johanniscentrated headquarters for the Swedish Armed Forces, in berg, Ljungbacken and Ljungaskog properties. A redevelwhich the customer chose to proceed with a preliminary opment and extension of SiS’s juvenile care home in study together with another property owner. We also parHässleholm has begun, with operations being extended ticipated in a number of tenders regarding new establishfrom three to six departments. This project will be comments for customers within this business area. In some pleted in 2021. cases, the authorities opted to accept rental tenders submitted by private organisations, demonstrating the increasingly fierce competition for secure facilities. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 41 D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S : P R O P E R T Y D E V E L O P M E N T Investment projects in progress on Investment projects by business area 31 December 2018 Investment volume, SEK million Estimated Investment projects > SEK 20 million 1,330 ■ Prison and Probation Service business Investment projects < SEK 20 million 267 area, SEK 191 million Total investment volume, projects in progress, ■ Defence and Judicial System business SEK million 1,597 area, SEK 63 million ■ Institutional Care and Other Special Operations business area, SEK 1,343 Additional floor space, sq m million Investment projects > SEK 20 million 18,856 Investment projects < SEK 20 million 593 Total, SEK 1,597 million Total additional floor space, sq m, projects in progress 19,449 Major investment projects in progress per 31 December 2018 Property name Customer Project description Additional floor space, sq m Fridhem 9 SiS New builds and extension of accommodation and school at Hässleholm juvenile care home 7,785 Gräskärr 1:1 SiS Extension of accommodation and school at Ljungbacken juvenile care home 2,687 Grytnäs 2:1 SiS Extension of accommodation and school at Johannisberg juvenile care home 1,789 Fålåsa 12:1 SiS Extension of accommodation at Folåsa juvenile care home 1,789 Gudhem 12:3 SiS Redevelopment and extension of accommodation and communal areas at ­Gudhemgården LVM home 292 Ljungaskog 15:28 SiS Redevelopment and extension of accommodation, educational premises and new 1,980 construction at Ljungaskog juvenile care home Bergsjön 21:1 SiS Redevelopment and extension of residential sections and communal areas at Björkbacken juvenile care home 1,275 Orretorp 2:2 SiS Redevelopment and extension of residential sections at Klarälvsgården juvenile care home 969 Tumbo-Berga 1:3, 1:5 The Prison and Redevelopment and extension of building no. 9 at Hällby correctional facility ­Probation Service 290 Kronoberg 18 Swedish Policy Redevelopment of offices Authority 0 Hall 4:4 SiS Modification of premises (from prison to institution) of Tysslinge juvenile care home 0 Skogome 2:2 The Prison and Security-enhancing measures at Skogome correctional facility ­Probation Service 0 Stigby 1:9, 7:3 SiS Redevelopment of residential sections at Stigby juvenile care home 0 Fridhem 9, Hässleholm juvenile Gräskärr 1:1 Ljungbacken juvenile Kronoberg 18, Police Authority’s Fålåsa 12:1, Folåsa juvenile care care home care home offices home Bergsjön 21:1, Björkbacken juvenile Orretorp 2:2, Klarälvsgården Gudhem 12:3, Gudhemsgården Hall 4:4, Tysslinge juvenile care care home ­juvenile care home LVM-hem home Future project volumes investment volume compared to 2017 was due to two Many of our customers have indicated that their needs major projects reaching completion: the new construc­ for premises have changed and expanded. Special­ tion of the district court in Lund and a redevelopment in fastig­heter is seeing greater demand for security among the Kronoberg block. The project volume is expected to both existing and new customers. The reduction in the increase once again over the coming five years. 42 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S : F I N A N C I A L M A N A G E M E N T Secure properties – secure finances Special­fastig­heter is one of the companies in the property sector that enjoys an extremely low credit risk and a stable financial position. We monitor economic trends carefully to safeguard our position moving forward. Special­f astig­heter is owned by the Swedish state and our aim is now to issue in late 2019. Read more about green finances operations through borrowing in the Swedish and bonds on page 45. international capital markets through bond and commercial paper programmes. Borrowing is conducted against During the year, we invested SEK 900 million in Swedish the balance sheet without pledging properties. The loan covered bonds and used these as collateral for bank loans agreements include an ownership clause that reinforces in the repo market. This has provided us with opportunities the lenders’ position by entitling them to call in a loan early for faster funding for shorter terms and at negative interest if the state’s ownership level falls below 100%. rates since the repo rate is currently at negative 0.25%. The past year Loan-to-maturity periods have become longer since In 2018, interest-bearing liabilities fell by SEK 380 million, we increased funding in the long-term capital market. primarily due to a lower acquisition volume than previous The fixed-interest period is unchanged in relation to the years. In June, a bond was issued for SEK 250 million with ­previous year. a term of 30 years, while in October a bond was issued for SEK 300 million with a term of 20 years. These issues Net financial expenses amounted to SEK 110 million comincreased the duration to 0.9 years, thus creating the pared with SEK 118 million in 2017. This positive change is opportunity to counteract potential future interest-rate largely due to the low market rate and low credit spread increases. Corporate bond issues fell from just under SEK that we can exploit for new borrowings of our commercial 10.3 billion to SEK 9.7 billion in 2018. The issue volume in paper and corporate bonds. the commercial paper market increased somewhat from slightly more than SEK 2.9 billion to slightly more than SEK Changes in derivative values were a positive SEK 10 million 3.0 billion during the year. We also expanded the diversifi(negative: 18). The higher interest rate and higher price of cation of loan commitments to several different banks to electricity compared to previous years has led to a positive reduce our exposure. change in value. In November 2017, we issued our first green bonds at a Outlook for 2019 total value of SEK 1.25 billion, divided up into two tranches At its December 2018 meeting, the Riksbank’s Executive with maturities of five and seven years respectively. Interest Board decided to raise the repo rate by 0.25 percentage in these bonds was so intense that they were oversubpoints to -0.25%. The Riksbank’s forecast for the repo rate scribed by a multiple of 2.2. The plan was to continue issuindicates that the next rise will likely take place during the ing in 2018, but as a result of projects being moved back second half of 2019. Interest-bearing liabilities, SEK million Loan-to-value ratio, % Total net financial items trend, SEK million 15 000 60 300 58 13,781 13,401 56 12,861 50 53 250 12 000 256 12,088 49 40 44 200 9 000 9,000 181 30 150 6 000 136 20 100 117 100 3 000 10 50 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Our liabilities are almost unchanged in relation to The loan-to-value ratio has fallen slightly yearNet financial items have fallen as we have taken the previous year. on-year. advantage of the low interest-rate level of the past few years. The change in value for financial instruments is included in the total net financial items trend. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 43 D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S : F I N A N C I A L M A N A G E M E N T Special­f astig­heter’s external debt financing will increase Commercial paper programme over the coming years as a result of the planned increase in The company has had a commercial paper programme in project volume. We will primarily increase financing via the the Swedish market since 1999 with a limit of SEK 5 billion. bond market, mainly via green bonds. Depending on the A total of SEK 3.0 billion of the programme had been utimarket situation, we aim to have bonds with maturities of lised at 31 December 2018. 5–10 years. Our corporate bonds have been traded with low credit spreads over the past few years. These may rise Bond programme when the Riksbank ceases its quantitative easing proThe company issues bonds denominated in SEK or EUR in gramme. This will likely be done gradually over the coming the Swedish capital market under an MTN programme with years, which will lead to a gradual increase in credit spreads a maturity of one year or longer. The programme has a total that will in turn lead to higher borrowing expenses. We limit of SEK 13 billion or equivalent value in EUR. A total want to maintain the current level of financing in the shortSEK 9.7 billion (10.3) had been utilised at year end. In additerm market as our commercial paper and whole loan repos tion to the Swedish market, Special­f astig­heter has two outare currently borrowed at a negative interest rate and standing bonds in the amount of USD 50 million, equivalent because we expect the Riksbank to raise the rate gradually to just under SEK 443 million, in the European market. and cautiously. Fixed-income and currency derivatives were also entered into, meaning currency risk has been neutralised. We Special­fastig­heter’s financial operations reduce financing risk by spreading loan-to-maturity periTrends in the financial market impact the company’s cost ods over different years and via loan commitments that trend. Financial management must reflect and support the cover maturing commercial paper and bonds for the years operations’ business objectives. Special­f astig­heter’s finanimmediately ahead. The volume of unutilised loan commitcial risks are to be limited while active financial managements as of 31 December totalled SEK 5,550 million. ment is to ensure low net financial items linked to the ­operations’ targets and conditions. This is achieved by identifying risks and managing them within set frameworks. The aims of the financing activities are to: • Maintain the company’s strong financial position and credit rating of at least AA • Limit the risks of negative effects on cash flow, earnings and the balance sheet • Ensure access to necessary financing at reasonable costs • Control financial risks according to the financial policy • Ensure risk management through control and reporting Capital structure, SEK million Interest-rate trend, % Bond issues in 2018 30,000 28,558 2.5 2.28 26,842 Övriga skulder Maturity 3 mån Stibor Amount, SEK million 24,372 30 years 250 25,000 2.0 22,012 Räntebärande skulder 5 årig bostadsobligation 20,571 1.46 20 years 300 20,000 1.5 Eget kapital Specialfastigheter snittränta 4.5 years 300 0.85 15,000 1.0 0.66 The maturity refers to the final year of maturity of 10,000 0.5 0.77 the bond, while the amount refers to the nominal amount in SEK million. Issues during the year undertaken as part of the company’s MTN programme 5,000 0.0 -0.40 and in the Swedish capital market. 0 -0.5 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Equity Interest-bearing liabilities Special­f astig­heter’s average interest rate Other liabilities 5-year covered bond Equity increased in 2018 as a result of the net profit 3-month Stibor for the year. 44 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T Green financing driving environ­mental efforts forward As part of our financial sustainability initiatives, we issued our first green bonds just before the turn of the year 2017/18 at a value of SEK 1.25 billion. The bonds were oversubscribed and we are now planning to issue even more. Special­f astig­heter is to set an example in the area of sustainability, and as a long-term property owner it has the opportunity to influence several parts of the value chain. The environment is one of our core sustainability issues, as properties affect the environment throughout their lifecycle. For this reason, we integrate environmental issues into the planning and production stages, as well as management, redevelopment and demolition. Special­f astig­heter’s various units work together with customers and suppliers to ensure sustainable new-build and redevelopment production, greater energy enhancements, lower CO2 emissions and lower consumption of finite resources. “The green bonds mean we have also managed to include sustainability in our financing and are able to offer the capital market the opportunity to invest in our projects with a One of the environmental projects financed by clear environmentally friendly sustainability profile. We are green bonds was the new district court in Lund. thrilled about the substantial interest we have noted for our first issues,” says Deputy CEO/CFO Kristina Ferenius. Special­f astig­heter’s first green bonds were oversubscribed by a multiple of 2.2 The capital from the green bonds is to from purchased energy – our most important environmenfinance environmentally certified buildings, energy tal target – by 55%. We have signed green appendices for enhancement projects and renewable energy, among 91% of our leases and, together with our customers, we are other areas. One of the environmental projects financed by continuously developing green action plans. In 2018, we green bonds was the new district court building in Lund, published our first investor report in which we set out how which began operating in August 2018. we used the capital from our first green bond issues. We aim for SGBC Gold and Silver Green financing to continue Many people are in our properties around the clock, so it is Special­f astig­heter is maintaining its extensive investment vital that we can offer secure and healthy environments. programme, implementing both major new-build and renOne step in terms of producing sustainable property holdovation projects within the Prison and Probation Service. ings is for all of our new construction to attain SGBC Gold Representatives from Special­f astig­heter’s various business and our major redevelopment projects to attain Silver. In and operational areas are responsible for identifying terms of materials, we apply even stricter requirements potential environmental investments, which are then evaluthan those specified by these certifications. ated by a committee consisting of the CEO, Deputy CEO, CFO, Property Management Director, Business Director Environmental initiatives that yield results and Projects and Development Director. The committee is We have made great strides in recent years by integrating also responsible for ensuring that the projects fulfil the sustainability as an natural part of our day-to-day work. For requirements of the green framework designed by Special­ example, since 2012 we have reduced our CO2 emissions fastig­heter in conjunction with Handelsbanken. “We investors welcome both state-owned, municipal and private corporate issuers to the green bond market. It is a real pleasure to see that a state-owned ­company like Special­fastig­heter is opting to use green bonds to finance green-­ classified ­investments made by the company.” Helena Lindahl, Portfolio Manager at SPP/Storebrand SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 45 RESPONSIBILITY AND GOVERNANCE: Assuming responsibility for the entire value chain and effectively ­governing the operations are essential for creating value. We govern our operations based on a long-term and collaborative approach to increase business value for our customers, owners and other stakeholders. Key sustainability issues and risk management are integrated into all of our work. The international risk management standard ISO 31000:2009 guides our work in this area. We comply with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, and as a state-owned company we always endeavour to set a good example. Our sustainability efforts are reported in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. 46 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE: RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Balanced risk-taking All business operations entail risks. However, when handled properly, balanced risk-taking promotes long-term value creation that considers both opportunities and risks. Identifying, analysing, managing and ­following up on risks are therefore priority issues. In addition to the business opportunities that could arise when we manage risks, there are also threats that, if not managed correctly, can jeopardise our credibility and ­competitiveness and result in negative consequences for our stakeholders and operating environment. Our risk-related work is an integral part of all our operations and is based on a structured process that begins with our annual business planning. During this process, the operations’ company-wide risks are identified, based both on the possible consequences for Specialfastigheter and the consequences of our operations for our operating environment. Risk management at Specialfastigheter follows the ISO 31000:2009 standard for risk management. The risk analysis is then used as a basis for our action plan for internal control and for our internal audits. An assessment of probability and consequence is conducted for each identified risk to determine its risk level, after which point we produce an action plan with proposals of measures accompanied by timetables and distribution of responsibility. Finally we analyse our capability of managing the identified risk. We split our risks into four risk categories: business-related; legal; operational; and financial. The Board follows up incidents and any disputes on a quarterly basis. Once each year, the Board approves and follows up the plans for internal control and discusses and follows up identified risks. Specific risk analyses are conducted for larger projects. Our ambition is to consistently improve our risk management through our proactive efforts. In 2018, we initiated efforts to clarify and establish methods and systems for risk analysis. This work will continue throughout 2019. Process for managing risks Risk inventory Risk analysis Risk management Efficiency assessment Creating an inventory of Definition of the level of risk Proposals of measures, timeFollow-up, feedback existing and newly occurring based on probability and tables and distribution of and reporting on risk risks. consequence. responsibility. ­management. Analysis of probability and Risk levels Efficiency level – how we impact. ­manage each risk • Operative risks Low risk Very good efficiency • Business-related risks Medium risk Good efficiency • Financial risks • Legal risks High risk Acceptable efficiency Very high risk Unacceptable efficiency SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 47 RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE: RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Changes in risks, 2018 Risk matrix As part of our risk management, we chart the risks and possibilities that influence our operations, but during the year Very probable we have also noted how our operations in their turn impact 20 15 16 18 the environment. We have therefore added a risk, Inade­ quate measures to mitigate negative climate impact from operations, since a building gives rise to significant carbon emissions during its life cycle. The only risk with an Probable extremely high risk level is Climate change’s consequences 2 13 12 for our properties. We have also advanced our examination of suppliers and have therefore identified the risk Irregulari­ ties in the supply chain in terms of human rights, work con­ Possible ditions and work environment. Our long-standing work to 5 11 3 7 19 prevent corruption is a natural part of our work with business ethics and is thus included in the risk Poor business ethics. The extreme pace of development in digitisation also entails risks and opportunities for us. We have thereMinor 17 14 6 9 10 1 4 8 fore added the risk Inadequate or non-secure digital trans­ formation. The risk of Failure to attract suitable suppliers Probability has been merged with the risk of Project delivery failure Improbable since they essentially address the same challenges. Very limited Limited Serious Very serious Catastrophic Consequence/impact The figures indicate specific risks that are described on pages 48–50. The colour of the square indicates the risk level and the colour in the circle indicates our estimated efficiency level. Operative risks Operative risks include all risks in our day-to-day operations that affect how we handle daily operational assignments. We focus on the following risk areas: work environment, the environment, information security and organisational. Risk assessment Risk Analysis, management and checks Risk level Efficiency level 1 Loss of confidenOur management system for information security is certified in line with ISO/IEC 27001:2013 and aims to guarantee the best possible conditions to protect both our information assets tial information High Good and those of our customers. The certification was renewed in May following an audit. We have an interactive information security training course that is mandatory for all staff. We monitor the rapid developments linked to threats to the IT environment by analysing and assessing threats and vulnerabilities and using such analyses to come up with appropriate protective measures. We are aware of the risk of exposure to insider crime and work to prevent this with measures including diligent recruitment processes and continuous improvement efforts. 2 Inadequate meaDuring its life cycle, a building gives rise to significant CO2 emissions. Buildings and the property sector account for around 30% of Sweden’s total CO2 emissions (domestic and sures to reduce High Good imported). We are reducing our climate impact through ambitious goals for emissions the ­negative from operations and are working to set goals that encompass emissions across the entire impact of value chain. In 2018, we raised the bar and decided to implement stricter emissions goals. ­operations We participate in Fossil Free Sweden’s work to phase out fossil fuel and regularly follow up our ­emissions. 3 Use of substances To ensure we do not incorporate hazardous material into our buildings or use such materials in our operations, we have clear guidelines and goals for material use. An environmental hazardous to Medium Very good strategist monitors whether we have the appropriate know-how in-house and that we assess health and the every construction project regarding substances hazardous to health and the environment. environment All material included in a building, together with locations, is documented in a database for future reference. In this regard, we go beyond the SGBC’s requirements in terms of which material requires registration, since we work proactively with this issue from a precautionary perspective. 4 Physical and/ We maintain a constant focus on security for our customers and employees. We work systematically with the psychosocial and physical work environments and continuously conduct or ­psychosocial High Good training initiatives and risk analyses. In many cases, customers are contractually obliged to injury to provide alarms and guidance with the aim of preventing threats and violence. Further evalua­e mployees tion is ongoing of other supports for working alone. We also provide employees with security guard support if necessary. = Our most prioritised risks in the area 48 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE: RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Business-related risks Business-related risks are attributable to events in our operating environment, among our customers and suppliers, and at our organisation, impacting both our business and developments in the property market. We analyse risks in the following areas: market, projects, organisation, credibility and value. Risk assessment Risk Analysis, management and checks Risk level Efficiency level 5 Loss of market Competition is intensifying in the market for public sector properties Our customers are mostly state-owned operations with high security standards, so we must be best at providing position Medium Good them with secure, efficient and effective premises and good service. Work is continuously under way in collaboration with many of our customers to find good solutions that provide the best overall efficiency. Our project volume will increase through the development of our own properties. We also continued to reinforce our unique skills in the area of security and to keep updated on the new Protective Security Act that enters force on 1 April 2019. 6 Shortage of suitWe work closely with our customers to meet both their current and future needs. We constantly monitor events in the market as well as legislation and regulations. The property able premises Medium Good management plans detail how our premises can be maintained and modernised. We have reviewed our maintenance process and will continue to prioritise maintenance work in 2019. 7 Project delivery We work in a structured manner and assess projects for risks. Project reviews guarantee good control and follow-up and ensure projects are on budget, on time and meet the scope of failure High Good ­supply and quality requirements. Production cost risks are limited to the greatest possible extent through contracts with both the contractor and tenant. We have developed a concept for long-term, strategic supplier partnerships that has been positively received by the m ­ arket. In 2018, the organisation was strengthened with the addition of a manager for the project group and a project leader for property automation. A new project management tool will be implemented in 2019. 8 Inadequate or Digitisation is advancing very quickly, is difficult to predict and entails both opportunities and risks for our business. We are working with several digitisation projects internally which, non-secure digital High Acceptable inter alia, will lead to streamlining, improvement, modernisation and increased sustainability transformation for our properties, our way of working and our offering. At the same time, we always prioritise information security. We also participate in workshops and conduct active business intelligence on digitisation issues. From 2019, we have a chief information officer (CIO) tasked with focusing on digitisation and digital transformation at Specialfastigheter. 9 Shortage of In order to avoid losing vital skills and experience, we plan for replacement recruiting. We continuously conduct skills assessments with the aim of planning the right skills development appropriate skills Medium Good areas for our employees, and we also have succession planning for key employees. Moreover, today and in the we are continuing efforts to strengthen our brand as an employer. We are developing as purfuture chasers and currently procure professional non-critical expertise for our core operations from external consultants and contractors. Our values and Code of Conduct guide us during our day-to-day operations with the aim of  10 P  oor business strengthening our credibility. We have a supplier code of conduct, structured purchasing ethics Medium Very good system and we comply with the Swedish Public Procurement Act. Training for purchasers is conducted on an ongoing basis with the objective of providing know-how and understanding of ethics to prevent the occurrence of corruption. Whistle-blower and incident reporting systems aim to detect irregularities and comprise a basis for developing our operations. We have guidelines in place for addressing the threat posed by insiders and infiltrators, since this know-how is critical for credible and effective security measures. Moreover, extensive efforts to adapt to GDPR were completed in 2018. 11 Falling ­m arket Our high credit rating and very strong balance sheet enable us to cope with a market downturn. We draw up long-term development plans for each property and follow them up on an value of Medium Good ongoing basis to retain our customers and maintain the value of our properties. Maintenance ­properties measures and investments are conducted in close consultation with customers. There is a risk that maintenance works will be delayed if customers cannot give us access to the premises, resulting in a deterioration in the quality of the properties. We therefore continuously strive to improve the joint planning process. 12 C limate change’s Climate change entails rising outdoor temperatures, raised sea levels and more extreme weather events in the form of heavy precipitation, powerful winds and forest fires. Properties consequences for Very high Good that are in danger zones in terms of potential consequences of climate change are protected our properties by means of preventive measures. Examples of such measures are redundancy in terms of the supply of electricity, heating and cooling as well as weather and damp protection in buildings. 13 Irregularities in Our supply chain is complex and comprises a large number of subcontractors/­contractors. Risk increases as one progresses down the chain, and our ability to influence the risks the supply chain High Acceptable decreases. Our assessment is that the greatest risks are linked to our contracts, followed by in terms of human the goods and services we purchase. Risks include the risk of discrimination and harassment, rights, work conforced labour in production plants, unfair working conditions and a poor work environment. ditions and work Our central purchasing organisation signs all framework agreements and achieves 92% conenvironment tract compliance with our purchasers. We maintain dialogues with our contracted suppliers and set requirements through procurements and through our supplier code of conduct. We conduct off-site and on-site audits that encompass how our contracted suppliers set requirements and follow up their own suppliers. To date, we have not carried out audits of our subcontractors. = Our most prioritised risks in the area SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 49 RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE: RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Financial risks Specialfastigheter is exposed to different kinds of financial risk in its operations, including through fluctuations in profits and cash flow as a result of market valuations, financing, interest rates, credit and counterparty risks, currencies, exchangerate losses, electrical prices and risks associated with reporting, taxes and fees. Our financial policy for managing financial risks has been approved by the Board and forms a framework of guidelines and rules in the form of risk mandates and limits for financial operations. The overall objective of our financial department is to provide cost-effective funding and to minimise the adverse effects of market fluctuations on company earnings. Risk assessment Risk Analysis, management and checks Risk level Efficiency level 14 L ack of financing Financing risk is the most significant risk we have to manage. Our goal is to ensure access to the loan capital necessary for running our operations while also considering the total cost Low Very good of financing and the loan commitments necessary for the fulfilment of our financial policy. In order to limit financing risk, we must strive to raise credit with long maturities and an even maturity profile for existing loans. The majority of our financing takes places in the Swedish capital market, but issues are also made in international capital markets wherever appropriate from an overall cost and diversification perspective. To further reduce financing risk, there were unutilised backup facilities and overdrafts totalling SEK 5,550 million (4,750) as of 31 December 2018. This amount almost covers the maturity of commercial paper and bonds outstanding for a period of one and a half years. As of 31 December 2018, loan-to-maturity was 3.8 years (3.4), and taking unutilised guaranteed loan commitments into consideration, loan-to-maturity was 4.8 (4.3) years. 15 Interest-rate risk Interest-rate risk is one of the more significant risks we have to manage. Our interest rate management objective is to achieve low interest expenses over time while adapting the interest Medium Very good rate profile to the underlying business conditions. To manage interest expense and interest­ rate risks, we continually assess the existing debt portfolio including derivatives in relation to the current market yield curve. We seek an interest-rate profile that is suitable in terms of total expenses, commercial conditions and applicable business plans. The practice of taking and exiting positions with the aim of making money – referred to as trading – is not permitted. Specialfastigheter’s interest-rate profile is regulated in the financial policy by limiting the number of interest maturities within 12 months to a maximum of 70% of the net loan portfolio. The average fixed-interest term should be within the 1–5 year range. As of 31 December 2018, the average fixed-interest term was 3.2 years (3.2). 16 C hange in value Using interest-rate derivatives may give rise to changes in value due to changes in the market interest rate and the time factor. In determining fair value, we use market quotations on the of financial Medium Very good closing date and generally accepted calculation methods. The change in value is reported ­derivatives in profit or loss. Currency translation to Swedish kronor is at the rates of exchange quoted on the closing date. Interest-rate swaps are measured by discounting future cash flows to their present value. On the closing date, the change in value of interest-rate derivatives amounted to a negative SEK 12 million (negative: 21). However, losses or gains remain unrealised as long as the derivatives are not terminated prematurely. 17 C redit and To reduce credit risk, investments are only permitted in securities with high credit ratings. On 31 December 2018, investments were made in eight secured Swedish covered bonds with counter­party risk Low Very good a total nominal amount of SEK 900 million. Counterparty risk for derivatives is reduced through our agreement to net assets against liabilities with counterparties with whom we make derivative transactions. To reduce counterparty risk further, Specialfastigheter may enter into agreements that govern the management of collateral pledged at net market value. The company’s counterparty risk in derivative contracts totalled SEK 55 million (57) as of 31 December 2018; this corresponds to the company’s total receivables from unrealised derivatives with positive values. As of 31 December 2018, we have received SEK 0 million (0) as deposits from our counterparties that can be used if a counterparty cannot meet its obligations. 18 Loss in terms of Changes in market interest rates, the credit spread and time factors affect the purchase price of covered bonds. In order to counter this risk, we have taken up interest-rate swaps for equivprice of purchased Medium Very good alent amounts. These have an equivalent impact on earnings in the opposite direction, which covered bonds eliminates price gains/losses. If the price change is due to a changed credit spread on covered bonds, it will have no impact on the interest-rate swap. In this case, the impact on earnings is only on the covered bond. The covered bonds we buy have the highest credit ratings and are negotiable. A 50 basis-point change in the credit risk entails a change in value of around SEK 15 million to be recognised in profit or loss. This corresponds to barely 1% of our net operating income. Legal risks Legal risks include those that concern our property owner responsibility such as the Work Environment Act, the Swedish Environmental Code and the Planning and Building Act. Risk assessment Risk Analysis, management and checks Risk level Efficiency level 19 Deficiencies in We are constantly reviewing our requirement for skills and skills enhancement and offer training to ensure our employees understand what property owner responsibility entails. We property owner High Acceptable keep informed about changes in legislation to ensure compliance with relevant legislative responsibilities requirements. = Our most prioritised risks in the area 50 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y A N D G O V E R N A N C E : S E N S I T I V I T Y A N A LY S I S Sensitivity analysis When performing risk analyses, it is important to conduct sensitivity analyses based on various scenarios to see which of them have the ­greatest impact on income, should they occur. In our own sensitivity ­analysis we noted that the cost of capital and the yield in terms of ­property valuations have the greatest impact on our earnings. Annualised earnings Variable Change impact, SEK million Rental income +/1 percentage point 17.0 Property operations and utilities excl. electricity +/1 percentage point 4.0 Maintenance expenses1 +/1 percentage point 2.9 Interest +/1 percentage point 48.6 Market rates, derivative instruments2 +/1 percentage point 23.2 Price change, purchased covered bond3 +/1 percentage point 24.2 Cost of capital4 + 0.25 percentage points -354 Cost of capital4 0.25 percentage points 250 Yield 4 + 0.25 percentage points -850 Yield 4 0.25 percentage points 832 Each variable in the above table has been tested individually. 1) Includes capitalised maintenance expenses according to IFRS. 2) Impact on earnings relates to the change in value of derivative instruments. 3) T  he impact on earnings relates to momentary changes in deposited covered bonds as of 31 December 2018 with a nominal value of SEK 900 million. 4) Impact on earnings relates to change in value of investment properties. Stockholm district court, photographed from Polishusparken SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 51 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y A N D G O V E R N A N C E : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y GRI Sustainability Report Specialfastigheter’s Sustainability Report is integrated into the Annual Report and sustainability information pursuant to the GRI can be found in its various sections. This part of the Annual Report includes a description of our reporting principles and in-depth GRI information. Reporting principles ing one new disclosure linked to GRI 305-3, Other indirect Specialfastigheter applies the 2016 GRI Standards: Core (Scope 3) GHG emissions. We have selected 2012 as the option for sustainability reporting together with GRI’s Conbase year for our measurements of CO2 emissions, since struction and Real Estate Sector Supplement. Based on the we have reliable statistics for all types of media from 2012. company’s strategies and targets, our actual impact and Since the GRI disclosures for material are not appropriate the expectations and requirements of our stakeholders, for us based on how we work, measure and set targets in Specialfastigheter has decided to report nine sustainability the materials area, we have chosen to design our own disareas (nine GRI topics and two company-specific topics) closure to measure chosen materials. Changes to demarcathat are material and relevant to us and our stakeholders. tions and/or reporting principles for the data reported are The selected sustainability areas and GRI disclosures are indicated in the relevant text or table. shown in the GRI Content Index on page 54. Disclosures that have an environmental impact are The Sustainability Report covers the entire company reported with the property holdings for 2018. Descriptions including subsidiaries, and is applicable to the full-year of calculation and measurement methods, any limitations 2018. The organisation is not split into regions. The Susand assumptions are provided alongside each disclosure. tainability Report follows the financial year and is published annually. The most recent Sustainability Report was pubThe energy monitoring system takes into account the date lished in the 2017 Annual Report on 15 March 2018. The on which the area changed (for example, due to remeasurereport is cross checked internally and an external authoment, acquisition or divestment) and an average area for rised public accountant has undertaken a limited assurance the year as a whole is then calculated. We have also engagement of the report. updated the report to include a new type of media, biogas. No significant changes have been made regarding the The contact for the Sustainability Report is information provided in the 2017 Annual Report. In the Kajsa Marsk Rives, Sustainability Strategist, 2018 Annual Report, however, Specialfastigheter is reporttelephone +46 10 788 62 12. 52 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y A N D G O V E R N A N C E : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Specialfastigheter’s governance of sustainability initiatives Specialfastigheter’s Board is ultimately responsible for To support the management and the operations with sus­sustainability governance. In the management group, the tainability issues, we have an environmental strategist and an CEO bears overall responsibility, but each head of departenergy strategist, and since 2018, a sustainability strategist. ment is responsible for integrating sustainability in the dayto-day operations. All of the organisation’s managers and The table shows Specialfastigheter’s sustainability goveremployees are responsible for compliance with applicable nance. The state’s ownership policy, our sustainability policy, policies and guidelines. The CEO is responsible for ensurour business plan and our management system provide ing the requisite resources are in place for implementing overall governance and are therefore not specified below. the ­sustainability agenda the company has committed to. Material Targets and sustainability areas Guidelines and instructions Follow-up Responsibility outcomes 2018 Economic Financial targets Interim reports/year-end CEO Target: Adjusted return performance Financial policy report Deputy CEO/CFO on equity, 8% Insider policy Annual Report Outcome: 13.0% Market plan Security Overall security policy Management review CEO Target: No form of Information security policy Ongoing security follow-ups Management group ­corruption or the giving Security protection agreements Ongoing risk analyses Head of Security or acceptance of bribes Guidelines on physical protection Incident reporting Projects and DevelOutcome: 0 cases Guidelines on information about Audits opment Director incident reporting Guidelines for insider and infiltration threats ISO 27001 Customer satisfaction Management plan per property CSI CEO Target: CSI 67 (2018) Market plan Customer dialogues Business Director Outcome: 65 Property Management Director Business area ­managers Work environment Guidelines on physical, organisaOrganisational analysis CEO Target: Workshops tional and social work environment Follow-up of benefit of Managers ­focusing on a sense of Guidelines on managing substance ­occupational health services HR Director coherence (SOC) were abuse problems Measuring absence due to Head of Security held for all units Instructions, action plan for bullying ­illness Work Environment Outcome: 100% Equal treatment plan Incident reporting system Committee Swedish Work Environment Act Internal controls Equal Treatment Swedish Working Hours Act Risk analysis of human rights Committee Swedish Annual Leave Act Self-assessments and audits Head of Purchasing Purchasing policy of suppliers Supplier code of conduct Purchasing agreements Anti-corruption Code of Conduct Whistle-blower system CEO Target: No form of Purchasing policy Internal controls Managers ­corruption or the giving Supplier code of conduct Self-assessments and audits Head of Purchasing or acceptance of bribes Security policy of suppliers Outcome: 0 cases Delegation arrangements Purchasing agreements Emissions Strategic energy and environmental Interim reports/year-end Projects and DevelTarget: Reduce CO2 emistargets report opment Director sions from purchased Purchasing policy Annual Report Head of Purchasing energy by 52% (compared Supplier code of conduct Media monitoring with the base year, 2012) Purchasing agreements Self-assessments and Outcome: Reduction of audits of suppliers 55% Energy Strategic energy and environmental Interim reports/year-end Projects and DevelTarget: Energy targets report opment Director ­consumption max Financial targets Annual Report Head of Purchasing 196.1 kWh per sq m Financial policy Media monitoring Outcome: 201.7 kWh Purchasing policy Self-assessments and per sq m Supplier code of conduct audits of suppliers Purchasing agreements Material Environmental programme template Audits Projects and DevelTarget: Proportion of for construction projects End documentation in opment Director material with good enviPurchasing policy the SundaHus database Property Manageronmental classifications Supplier code of conduct Self-assessments and audits ment Director in production should Purchasing agreements of suppliers Head of Purchasing increase to 80% Outcome: 84.3% Equal treatment Code of Conduct Measurement of key perforManagers Target: Increase the numEqual treatment plan mance indicators for diversity HR Director ber of employees with forSwedish Discrimination Act and equal opportunities Equal Treatment eign backgrounds to 12% Purchasing policy Salary survey Committee Outcome: 10% Supplier code of conduct Organisational analysis Head of Purchasing Purchasing agreements Survey of the company’s ­participation in workshops, “Växthuset” tool Self-assessments and audits of suppliers SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 53 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y A N D G O V E R N A N C E : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y GRI Content Index GRI Global GRI Global ­C ontent Compact ­C ontent Compact Index Disclosure Page principle Index Disclosure Page principle GENERAL DISCLOSURES Energy GRI 102: General disclosures GRI 103: Management approach Organisational profile 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 102-1 Name of the organisation Inside Boundary 21, 56 cover 103-2 The management approach and its components 30, 31, 53 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2, 3 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30, 53 102-3 Location of headquarters 2 GRI 302: Energy 102-4 Location of operations Inside 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 30, 31, 57 8 cover, 14 CRE-1 The use of energy in buildings 30, 57 102-5 Ownership and legal form 63 Emissions 102-6 Markets served 14 GRI 103: Management approach 102-7 Scale of the organisation 2, 14, 33 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 33, 55 Boundary 21, 56 102-9 Supply chain 27 103-2 The management approach and its 10, 11, 31, 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and ­components 53 its supply chain 52 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 10, 11, 31, 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 30-31 7 53 102-12 External initiatives 55 GRI 305: Emissions 102-13 Membership of associations 55 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 30, 31, 57 Strategy 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 30, 31, 57 8 102-14 Statement from the senior decision-maker 4-5 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 31, 57 Ethics and integrity CRE-3 Greenhouse gas emissions from buildings 30 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of Supplier environmental assessments behaviour 1 GRI 103: Management approach Governance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 102-18 Governance 63-69 Boundary 21, 56 Stakeholder engagement 103-2 The management approach and its components 27, 28, 53 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 20 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28, 53 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 55 3 GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessments 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 20 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 20 environmental criteria 59 8, 9 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 20 Occupational health and safety Reporting practice GRI 103: Management approach 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its ­financial statements 64, 107 Boundary 21, 56 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 21, 56 103-2 The management approach and its components 53, 57, 58 102-47 List of material topics 54 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 53 102-48 Restatements of information 52 GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 102-49 Change in reporting 52 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupa102-50 Reporting period 52 tional diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 102-51 Date of most recent report 52 and number of work-related fatalities 57, 58 1 102-52 Reporting cycle 52 Diversity and equal opportunity 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding GRI 103: Management approach the report 52 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with Boundary 21, 56, 32 the GRI Standards 52 103-2 The management approach and its components 32, 53 102-55 GRI content index 54 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 53 102-56 External assurance 60 GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity MATERIAL TOPICS (GRI TOPICS) 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 33, 58, 59 1, 6 Economic performance Supplier social assessment GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 21, 56 Boundary 21, 56 103-2 The management approach and its components 10, 11, 53 103-2 The management approach and its components 27, 28, 53 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 10, 11, 53 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28, 53 GRI 201: Economic performance GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using ­distributed 56 social criteria 59 1–6 Anti-corruption Security (company-specific area, not GRI) GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 21, 56 Boundary 21, 56 103-2 The management approach and its components 10, 11, 53 103-2 The management approach and its components 53 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 10, 11, 53 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 53 GRI 205: Anti-corruption Security (company-specific topic) 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Qualitative description 25, 26 actions taken 25 10 Customer satisfaction (company-specific topic, not GRI) Material GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 21, 23, 56 Boundary 21, 56 103-2 The management approach and its components 53 103-2 The management approach and its 10, 11, 31, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 53 ­components 53 Customer satisfaction (company-specific topic, not GRI) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31, 53 Customer satisfaction index (CSI) 38, 53 GRI 301: Material Share of A and B classed material registered in the SundaHus database (own indicator) 31, 53 7, 8 54 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y A N D G O V E R N A N C E : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y GRI – general disclosures and material sustainability areas GRI information that cannot be found in the other parts GRI 102-13 Membership of associations of the Annual Report is published here. Organisation Type of participation ASIS International Sweden (American GRI 102-8 Information on employees Society for Industrial Security) Member and other workers BIM Alliance Member Gender distribution of temporary employees and Swedish Construction Clients Forum Member ­p ermanent employees Swedish Centre for Innovation and Quality in the Built Environment Member Total number of employees 2016 2017 2018 Collaborative forum Member of steering and Women 39 (29.8%) 42 (29.2%) 37 (25.7%) management groups and various project groups (BIM, Men 92 (70.2%) 102 (70.8%) 107 (74.3%) HUT, Rules and agreements) Total 131 144 144 SGBC (Swedish Green Building Council) Member Smart Built Environment Member Total number of temporary SNOS (Säkerhet för näringsliv och employees 2016 2017 ­samhälle) Member Women 0 3 0 Stockholm Chamber of Commerce Member, the CEO is a city Men 0 1 1 councillor Total 0 4 1 SWERMA (Swedish Risk Management Association) Member All figures pertain to 31 December in the year concerned. TUC The Head of Purchasing, IT and Quality is a member of All employees are full time employees. A certain proporthe management group for tion of the organisation’s work is carried out by external strategic purchasing consultants, contractors or their subcontractors. These Development of public sector property individuals are not covered by the summary. We are not activities (UFOS) Member able to report this separately as most of the external human resources work intermittently and only a few have consultancy assignments with fixed working hours. The invoicing GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements system does not allow the retrieval of cost data specified All employees are covered by collective-bargaining by consulting hours. No significant seasonal variations in ­agreements. Specialfastigheter belongs to the Almega the number of employees occur. employers’ association and applies the civil servants’ union agreement for the property sector. GRI 102-12 External initiatives Initiative Fossil Free Sweden Member Roadmap for fossil-free competitiveness ­initiative: Construction and civil engineering sector Member The chapel at Hinseberg correctional BELOK Member facility, Frövi GreenChain Member NMC (The Swedish Association for ­Sustainable Business) Member NSD (the Confederation of Swedish ­Enterprise’s security delegation) Member Håll nollan Member SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 55 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y A N D G O V E R N A N C E : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI topic Topic boundary Limitations Direct economic value Directly affects Specialfastigheter’s business and development opportunities in generated and distributed the short and long term. Directly affects our stakeholders through the value we create for them, for example, in the form of owner dividends and tax to the state. Materials Direct impact through the choice of material in property management. Indirect We report the share of regisimpact on contractors’ use of materials through the material requirements we tered materials that meet set for our contractors. classes A and B in the SundaHus database. Energy Direct impact through energy use at offices and by property management serWe report our tenants’ vice vehicles. Indirect impact on technical installations in our properties and energy use in our property the choice of fuel through the material requirements we set for our contractors. holdings as the energy used Indirect impact through our tenants’ energy use. Indirect impact through conin our properties is considertractors’ energy use for new builds, redevelopments and extensions and able. through our suppliers’ energy use in the manufacture of materials. Emissions Direct impact through emissions from energy sources under our control, We do not report indirect including service vehicles. Indirect impact through emissions from purchased emissions from contractors’ energy (electricity, steam, heating and cooling), which occurs at the producer. energy use for new builds, Indirect emissions from our business travel. redevelopments and extensions and from suppliers’ emissions in the manufacture of materials, nor do we report emissions from our employees’ commutes, since these figures are not obtainable at present. Occupational health and Direct impact on the physical, organisational and social work environment We report work-related accisafety internally at Specialfastigheter. Indirect impact on the work environment at dents and serious near accisuppliers and contractors by setting and following up on requirements for their dents in projects with a budwork environments. get exceeding SEK 5 million. Equality and diversity Direct impact by promoting increased diversity at Specialfastigheter and in the property sector generally. Supplier social a ­ ssessment Indirect impact on working conditions and human rights at suppliers and We primarily assess our ­contractors by setting and following up on requirements in terms of working ­contracted suppliers. conditions and human rights. Supplier environmental Indirect impact on environmental efforts at suppliers and contractors by We primarily assess our assessment ­setting and following up on environmental requirements. ­contracted suppliers. Anti-corruption Direct impact in the procurement and purchase, and through internal courses as well as from contact with customers and suppliers. Indirect impact on anti-corruption efforts at suppliers and contractors by setting and following up on anti-corruption requirements. Non-GRI topics Company-specific topics Security Direct impact through our operational management that applies a security focus, including personal security, operational reliability, physical security and information security. Customer satisfaction Direct impact, since our behaviour toward and our deliveries to customers are reflected in how satisfied our customers are. GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed It is important for Specialfastigheter to create value for its opment of our employees. Employee initiatives through owner and other stakeholders. We do this by strengthening daily dialogue and collaboration with our customers are our economic, environmental and social competitiveness invaluable in creating the right product for the customer’s as a property management company. Our responsibility to operation. Direct expenses that create value include salathe owner is to generate a financial return. Good profitability ries, training, taxes and fees as well as payments to suppliand a strong financial position enables long-term action ers for goods and services. Variable costs include expenses and makes planning for sustainable construction and susfor absence due to illness and the taxes generated by staff tainable property management possible. It also provides and others. us with the ability to continue investing in the skills develEconomic value generated Stakeholders 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Rental income Tenants 1,872 1,867 1,912 2,028 2,138 Financial income Finance market 0 4 19 64 40 Property sales Customers, property market 3 -1 4 29 1 Distribution of economic value Operating expenses Suppliers 352 399 416 431 449 Salaries and benefits to employees Employees 96 101 109 116 128 Payments to financiers Finance market 282 230 98 182 150 Payments to the public sector (dividend) Owner 3,000 446 497 560 555 Payments to the public sector (taxes) Society 423 329 501 487 443 Unrealised changes in value Property market -643 -322 -865 -832 -1,404 Unrealised changes in value Finance market -26 -45 38 18 -10 Remaining in Group -1,609 732 1,141 1,159 1,869 56 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y A N D G O V E R N A N C E : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Reportable quantities of refrigerants are reported to the Energy purchased for our properties such as electricity, supervisory authority. Discharges are reported when disdistrict heating and how large a proportion is not renewcharges occur, which was not the case during 2018. The able; biofuel, electric heating, bio oil, oil, gas and cooling. number of kilos of refrigerants increased slightly, partly due The total amount of energy purchased for our properties to property acquisitions and partly due to clearer reporting during the year was 760,154 GJ, compared to 790,045 GJ given the new legislative requirements. the previous year. The total amount of energy purchased in the previous year is adjusted to reflect the 2018 property Refrigerants, kg 2016 2017 2018 holdings. Energy use is followed up monthly at the propHFCs 2,828.46 3,260.62 3,305.97 erty level and by energy type. GRI 305-3 Energy indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions, 2016 2017 2018 tonnes, CO2 eq Electricity 399,248 388,847 403,762 We currently lack the capability to obtain data for rental District heating, renewable 265,580 269,094 281,262 vehicles and for employees’ commutes by vehicle. Pellets 14,754 15,015 12,029 Source emissions factors: Swedish Environmental Bio oil 4,592 4,202 1,900 ­Protection Agency1. Biogas 3,485 7,232 Electric heating 24,793 23,131 22,073 Business travel 2016 2017 2018 Cooling 58,392 56,067 4,980 Air travel 40.2 46.4 45.9 Total renewable energy 767,358 759,840 733,239 Rail travel 0.001 0.001 0.001 Service vehicles 63.6 44.2 32.4 District heating, non-renewable 19,683 17,176 13,253 Company cars and using own Oil 13,121 9,956 13,662 vehicle for work purposes 57.5 61.9 66.2 Gas 6,921 3,072 0 Total (tonnes, CO2 eq) 161.3 152.4 144.4 Total non-renewable energy 39,724 30,204 26,915 Total (GJ) 807,083 790,045 760,154 GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, ­occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions and number of work-related fatalities Here we show emissions made up of direct emissions and We offer all of our employees industrial injury, group life emissions from our own production of heating. We use the and healthcare insurance. We also make use of occupaSwedish Environmental Protection Agency model to calcutional health services where necessary. All of our employlate our total CO2 emissions. Here we show emissions resultees who work in environments with an increased risk of ing from the use of oil, gas, pellets and bio oil use. Source contagious diseases are offered vaccinations. emissions factors: Swedish Environmental Protection Agency1. The CO2 eq used for oil is 267.3g CO2 eq/kWh, for During the year, 19 work environment incidents were gas 226.2g CO2 eq/kWh, for biogas 0 g CO2 eq/kWh, for reported in our incident reporting system. In 2017 and pellets 4.5g CO2 eq/kWh and for RME 8.1g CO2 eq/kWh. 2016, 16 work environment incidents were reported each year. Work environment incidents encompass high-risk 2016 2017 2018 conditions, near-accidents and injuries primarily suffered Non-renewable energy 1,281.8 877.2 1,014.52 by our employees. Some of the incidents pertain to consulRenewable energy 34.0 39.1 19.28 tants and contractors working for Specialfastigheter. Since incident reporting for consultants and contractors is not Total 1,315.8 916.3 1,033.8 universal, we have requested reports for 2018 from our GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 30 largest suppliers covering near-accidents and accidents Here we report emissions made up of indirect emissions that occurred during the year while performing tasks for from purchased electricity and heating, using the market­Specialfastigheter. The statistics are reported in the table based approach. Each year, we update the CO2 equivalents on the following page. Moving forward, we intend to that we use when calculating CO2 emissions. The calculadevelop the reporting of work environment incidents that tion of carbon dioxide emissions resulting from our use of occur at our suppliers to be able to report even more relidistrict heating was based on supplier information regardable figures. ing the fuel mix used in delivering the major proportion of district heating to us during the year. The information is Work-related accidents, near taken from https://www.energiforetagen.se/statistik/fjarr­accidents and injuries 2016 2017 2018 varmestatistik/miljovardering-av-fjarrvarme/. With the help Number of serious near accidents reported 1 0 0 of the district heating providers who delivered district heating to us over the year, CO2 equivalents attributable to disNumber of serious accidents reported 0 0 1 trict heating were calculated as 42.2 g CO2 eq/kWh. District Number of work-related accidents heating CO2 equivalents decreased due to the supplier classified as work-related injuries choosing to produce more heat with renewable fuel. that resulted in absence due to 2016 2017 2018 ­illness 0 1 1 District heating, renewable 4,598.3 4,064.4 3,297.0 Number of work-related accidents classified as work-related illness 1 1 0 District heating, ­non-­renewable 298.7 301.2 155.4 Electricity 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total (tonnes, CO2 eq) 4,897.0 4,365.6 3,452.4 1 https://www.naturvardsverket.se/Stod-i-miljoarbetet/Vagledningar/Luftoch-klimat/Berakna-dina-klimatutslapp/ SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 57 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y A N D G O V E R N A N C E : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Number of work-related injuries in projects, with contractors Specialfastigheter is not split into regions and we do not and subcontractors have access to accident statistics broken down by gender. The risk of work-related injuries and near accidents is subNo work-related fatalities occurred during 2016–2018. stantial in projects where there are many hazardous work We comply with Swedish legislation when recording and tasks including the following risk areas: falling, collapse, reporting accident statistics. Because the number of demolition, detonation, hazardous substances and heavy work-related accidents is so low, we do not find it meaninglifting. We have reported the work-related injuries and near ful to report accident ratios or ratios regarding work-reaccidents at our 30 largest1 contractors and their subconlated illnesses. tractors when performing work for Specialfastigheter in 2018. The statistics are based on figures reported by Absence due to illness, % of total ­contractors with work environment responsibility. working hours 2016 2017 2018 1) Based on spend 1 Jan–30 Sep 2018. Women 2.14% 1.05% 1.88% Men 2.78% 3.44% 1.86% Work-related injuries and near All employees 2.60% 2.73% 1.87% accidents in projects 2016 2017 2018 Number of near accidents reported n/a n/a 49 Absence due to illness only refers to our employees, not Number of accidents reported n/a n/a 36 consultants, contractors or their subcontractors. We do not report their absence due to illness separately as external human resources report any absence to their own employer and not to us. GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Gender and age breakdown, Board, management and employees Average age 2016 2017 2018 Board, including alternates Board, including alternates 54 54 54 Tom Management 50 51 52 Över 50 år Employees 47 47 47 30–50 år The compositions of the Board and executive management 55% 55% 55% Under 30 år are presented in more detail on pages 70–71 and 72. The 45% 45% 45% 83% 83% proportion of employees with a foreign background is 83% Women Men 60% 60% 60% reported on page 32. Over 50 30–50 Under 30 40% 40% 40% Number of people on the Board including alternates 17% 17% 17% and management 2016 2017 2018 2016: Executive management: 5 women, 3 men. Board: 5 women, 6 men. 2017: Executive management: 5 women, 3 men. Board: 5 women, 6 men. 2018: Executive management: 5 women, 3 men. Board: 5 women, 6 men. Management Tom Employees Tom Över 50 år Över 50 år 74% 71% 62.5% 62.5% 62.5% 30–50 år 70% 30–50 år 43% 43% 40% 40% 40% Under 30 år 48% Under 30 år 37.5% 37.5% 37.5% Women Men 30% 29% Women Men 67% 100% 100% 54% 26% 60% 60% 60% Over 50 50% 52% Over 50 36% 33% 35% 30–50 30–50 Under 30 64% 64% 62% Under 30 33% 2% 2% 3% 3% 5% 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Unit Women Men Women Men Women Men CEO 1 0 1 0 1 0 Accounting, Treasury and Financial Control 9 3 10 4 7 4 Purchasing and IT 6 5 8 5 7 4 Support functions1 7 1 8 1 7 3 Business areas 1 5 1 5 1 5 Property management 8 61 6 68 5 68 Projects & Development 7 17 8 19 9 23 Total 39 92 42 102 37 107 1) Includes the units: HR, Communication, Quality & Sustainability and Security. 58 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y A N D G O V E R N A N C E : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y GRI 308-1 and 414-1 Supplier environmental and Part of supply chain social criteria assessments ConProdOur supplier code of conduct contains environmental Supply chain risks Services tracts ucts and social criteria pertaining to the following areas: the RISK environ­ment, information security, working conditions, Environment human rights, work environment and business ethics. • use of environmentally hazardous materials and chemicals 2016 2017 2018 • CO2 emissions Number of supplier code of conduct • energy use on-site audits executed 41 4 5 • waste Percentage of new agreements2, Human rights where suppliers accepted our Code of Conduct and carried out self-­ • discrimination and harassment assessments 3 78% 80% 70% • forced labour in production plants 1) Number of audits solely concerning environmental standards. 2) W  e report the percentage of new contracts rather than the percentage of Working conditions new suppliers since it provides a more complete picture of our auditing of the ­supply chain. • unfair wages 3) T  he percentage should be related to the fact that about 80% of suppliers • unjust and unfavourable with new contracts are subject to full controls. Other agreements are of such working conditions negligible value and risk that checks are unwarranted. • difficulty organising unions Work environment • risk of falling • risk of collapse • risk of demolition • risks linked to detonation • risks linked to hazardous ­substances • heavy lifting • deficient work environment when manufacturing building materials Corruption • giving and receiving bribes Services (specialist expertise, IT, technical consultants, ­administrative ­consultants) Contracts (construction, renovation, land management, building ­materials) Products (energy, office materials, maintenance materials) Minor impact Moderate impact Major impact SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 59 RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE Assurance Report Auditor’s limited assurance report on Specialfastigheter Sverige AB’s (publ) Sustainability Report. To Specialfastigheter Sverige AB (publ), Company Registration Number 556537-5945 Introduction The audit firm applies the International Standard on Q ­ uality We have been engaged by the Board of Specialfastigheter Control (ISQC) 1 and, accordingly, has a comprehensive Sverige AB (publ) to undertake a limited assurance system for quality control comprising documented guideengagement of Specialfastigheter’s Sustainability Report lines and routines for complying with ethical requirements, for 2018. The company has defined the Sustainability professional standards, and applicable laws and regulaReport’s scope to the sections referenced in the GRI index tions. We are independent of Specialfastigheter Sverige on page 54. AB (publ) in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulﬁlled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the requirements. Executive Management for the Sustainability Report Consequently, the procedures performed in a limited assurThe Board and executive management are responsible for ance engagement do not enable us to obtain assurance that the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability we would become aware of all significant matters that might Report in accordance with the applicable criteria described be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. on page 52 in the Sustainability Report comprising the applicable parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Accordingly, the conclusion based on a limited assurance issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), as well as engagement does not have the same degree of certainty the accounting and calculation principles that the company as a reasonable assurance conclusion. has developed and disclosed. This responsibility also includes the internal controls considered necessary for preOur review is based on the criteria defined above and paring a Sustainability Report that does not contain mate­c hosen by the Board and executive management. We conrial misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. sider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. We believe that the evidence we have Responsibilities of the Auditor obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclufor our conclusion below. sion on the Sustainability Report based on the procedures we have performed. Conclusion Based on the limited assurance procedures we have perWe have conducted our limited assurance engagement in formed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Other believe that the Sustainability Report, is not prepared, in all than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. material respects, in accordance with the criteria defined A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiby the Board of Directors and Executive Management. ries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and Stockholm, 18 March 2019 are less extensive than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Control and other generally accepted Ernst & Young AB auditing standards in Sweden. Mikael Ikonen Marianne Förander Authorised Public Accountant Expert Accountant Member of FAR 60 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T Security – a question for the management and Board A security mindset pervades all operations and employees at Special­ fastigheter – encompassing the Board and management and down to individual employees. Information security is a complex area in constant flux. For Specialfastigheter’s Board and management it is crucial to keep updated on the subject. We made a field trip to our customer, the ­Swedish Defence Research Agency (FOI). FOI are experts in assessing information security risks and, vendor. FOI showed how common computer accessories among other tasks, conduct exercises and training courses such as remote controls and USB flash drives can contain in IT security. Tommy Gustafsson and David Lindahl, both hidden functionality that can read data. It was a wake-up of whom are research engineers at FOI, kicked off with situcall to realise how difficult it is to detect hacking and how ational analysis of the ever-advancing IT threat. IT-related long, sometimes several years, an attack can last before crime is rising and many companies have been subjected to detection. phishing attacks, where scammers send fake emails that appear to come from credible senders and that prompt Crucial to not forget security issues recipients to click links or download files. The victims of the The Board and management were given a demonstration of scam can be tempted to provide critical information or find how a mobile phone could be used as a bug by installing a their computer infected by malicious code. In the latter hidden app on the phone. Social engineering can be used case, information on the computer can for example for this, whereby the attacker initially invests time and become encrypted and a ransom demand to unlock the energy in befriending the victim or through the user installdata. In terms of information security, it is often people ing an app. The attacker can then remotely choose to enable who are the weakest link, and therefore the awareness, interception or choose to read all content on the phone. interest and commitment of employees to security issues are key to successful safety work. “Information security is something that affects almost everyone and all businesses today. While IT development Hacking can continue unnoticed for several years has improved society in many ways, we must never forget Increased infiltration of IT environments and computer the security issues intrinsic to this technology. As the Board espionage was another area raised by FOI. They explained of Directors, we bear considerable responsibility for underdifferent methods hackers use to access IT systems, such as standing and verifying that the company manages security zero-day vulnerabilities that entail exploiting vulnerabilities issues in an appropriate and responsible manner,” says in the software that are unknown to the user or software Eva Landén, Chairman of the Board of Specialfastigheter. In terms of information security, it is often ­people who are the weakest link. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 61 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN Message from the Chairman Specialfastigheter is a company wholly owned by the state. This entails a special responsibility. Our owner – the nation’s citizens – have the right to expect that we always act in a manner that inspires confidence and which meets the high standards demanded of a sustainable business operation. The state’s ownership policy forms the basis of the Board’s governance. This means that we comply with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. The accelerating climate threat is something that everyone, individuals and society as a whole, must take responsibility for. Therefore, Specialfastigheter has adopted a new, science-based emissions target to reduce CO2 emissions from purchased energy by 75% by 2030 (base year 2012). This is a tough but necessary target in line with the Paris climate agreement and the Swedish parliament’s decision that by 2045, Sweden is to have no net emissions of greenhouse gases. Specialfastigheter’s project volume has increased dramatiEva Landén, cally over the last few years. To ensure the continued high Chairman of the Board quality of projects, the company has worked actively with strategies for supplying the projects with resources. This entails developing deeper, strategic partnerships with contractors and also recruiting more employees to project operations. has also been implemented, with the aim of offering improved system support for planning, follow-up, analysis Possessing the right competence is key to the company’s and reporting. success. Leadership courses have been conducted and a joint employeeship training program has been developed The security challenges in our operating environment are together with two other property companies. Efforts to manifold, and include the increasing IT threat in conjuncbecome a more inclusive workplace have continued but we tion with increased digitisation. The Board monitors secuhave unfortunately failed to attain our goal of increasing rity issues that pertain to the company’s operations and, ethnic diversity. Specialfastigheter’s first place ranking on during the year, visited the Swedish Defence Research the Institute of Human Resource Indicators’ measurement Agency (FOI), the Swedish Armed Forces Headquarters of the Attractive Employer Index indicates a strong and the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration. employer brand entailing favourable possibilities for attracting and retaining competence, which is important For 2018, the annual evaluation of the Board showed that for the future and a good indicator of a functioning corpothe Board’s work functioned well. Together we represent rate culture. various perspectives and differing expertise, which is imperative for a well-functioning Board. Continuous improvement efforts are necessary in the company. At year end, a new unit was established, Quality & Sustainability, which focuses on developing the organisaEva Landén, Chairman of the Board tion’s operations. IT support for operational management 62 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R E P O R T Corporate Governance Report Corporate governance at Specialfastigheter Articles of Association Specialfastigheter Sverige AB is characterized by the Because the state owns 100% of the company, there is no ­company’s ability – from a sustainable social perspective – regulation governing shareholding per shareholder conto create well-functioning principles and processes that tained in the Articles of Association. The Articles of Associenable the efficient and controlled management, leaderation lack specific regulations on the appointment and disship and development of operations. Specialfastigheter’s missal of Board members or on changes to the Articles of corporate governance report forms part of the statutory Association. The Articles of Association are approved at annual report. general meetings of shareholders and are available in their entirety on the company’s external website. State ownership Specialfastigheter Sverige AB is a Swedish limited liability General meeting of shareholders company wholly owned by the Swedish state. The owner Specialfastigheter's highest decision-making body is the governs Specialfastigheter through the General Meeting of general meeting of shareholders. The Annual General shareholders and the Board of Directors in accordance with Meeting (AGM), which is held within four months of the end the Swedish Companies Act, the Articles of Association of the financial year, considers the progress of the company and the instructions in the form of the state’s ownership and passes resolutions on a number of central issues, such policy and other guidelines adopted by the government as the election of Board members and auditors, adoption (www.regeringen.se). of the company’s balance sheets and income statements, the distribution of profits and discharge from liability of the Corporate governance members of the Board and the CEO. The AGM also decides Specialfastigheter’s corporate governance is based on on financial targets and changes to the Articles of AssociaSwedish legislation and regulations, and the state’s ownertion, and approves the Sustainability Report. The general ship policy stipulates that state-owned companies must act meeting has not authorised the Board to decide on in an exemplary manner in the field of sustainable enterwhether the company shall issue new shares or acquire prise and otherwise act in a manner that inspires public its own shares. confidence. Integrating a sustainability approach into operations is a natural part of the long-term business stratThe Board is responsible for convening the general meetegy and business development. Sustainability activities are ing of shareholders. The Board proposes guidelines to the reported in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Annual General Meeting (AGM) for the remuneration of option. During the year, we significantly raised our CO2 senior executives for approval, and reports on whether emission target, gained environmental certification pursuguidelines decided upon previously have been adhered to ant to ISO 14001 and continued to develop our work and the reasons for any deviations. Specialfastigheter calls approach in terms of supplier audits following up our Code an AGM no earlier than six weeks and no later than four of Conduct. Our risk management enables us to identify weeks before the meeting. The company provides infor­ threats and opportunities and, based on this, the compamation on its website regarding the time and place for the ny’s overarching strategy areas and goals are established. AGM in conjunction with the interim report for the third We apply the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, (the quarter, which is normally at the end of October. Code) (www.corporategovernanceboard.se). In accordance with the Comply or Explain principle of the Code, the govThe 2018 AGM was held on 17 April. The AGM was open ernment has justified deviations in certain matters. and the general public was invited to attend together with other specially invited persons such as members of the Based on this, Specialfastigheter deviates from the Code Swedish parliament, customers and other stakeholders as follows: who were given the opportunity to pose questions and • T he owner’s guidelines mean that the Code rules conreceive answers. The owner was represented by Departcerning the preparation of decisions on the nomination ment Secretary Gustaf Hygrell from the Government of Board members and auditors are replaced by a special Offices of Sweden. The 2019 AGM will be held on 12 April. process for state-owned companies. Documents prior to, and minutes from our AGMs are avail• T he independence of the members of the Board in relaable on Specialfastigheter’s external website. tion to the state as a major shareholder is only reported in relevant listed companies. Board composition and working method • According to the Code, the CEO may be a member of the The Board is responsible for ensuring that companies in Board but not its Chairman. The government considers it which the state participates are managed in an exemplary important to separate the Board’s and the CEO’s roles. fashion within the framework provided by legislation, the Accordingly, the CEO may not be a member of the Board. company’s Articles of Association, the state’s ownership • Specialfastigheter has no internal audit function indepenpolicy and any other owner instructions. dent from management as described under rule 7.3 of the Code. When audit requirements are identified by the Board nomination process Board, these are procured externally from independent For wholly state-owned companies, the following princiauditors. The principal reason for these deviations from ples replace the rules of the Code regarding the preparathe Code is that Specialfastigheter has only one owner, tion of decisions on the appointment of Board members while the Code is mainly aimed at listed companies with and auditors: dispersed ownership. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 63 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R E P O R T Corporate governance and reporting Appoints Reports to Shareholder Swedish state 100% Articles of Association General meeting of shareholders External auditor Remuneration Committee Board of Directors Audit and Finance Committee Accounting, Treasury Intern audit and Financial Control and internal control CEO Security Quality & Sustainability HR Management Strategic IT Communication Strategic Sourcing Business areas Property management Projects & Development • Uniform and common principles for a structured Board Newly elected Board members are introduced to the nomination process are applied. The aim is to ensure an ­company’s business focus, market, policies and systems effective supply of skills and expertise to the companies’ for internal control and risk management. During 2018, boards. Special­f astigheter’s Board consisted of seven members • T he nomination process is coordinated by the unit for elected by the general meeting and two full members and company analysis and corporate governance at the Ministwo alternates appointed by the employee organisations. try of Enterprise and Innovation. Åsa Wirén and Erik Tranaeus were elected as new members • A working group analyses needs for skills and expertise of the Board at the last general meeting. Eva Landén was on the basis of the company’s operations, situation and elected Chairman of the Board. future challenges as well as the composition of the Boards concerned. Any recruiting needs are then deterIndependence requirement mined and recruitment process begins. The state’s ownership policy states that nominations to the • Members are selected from a broad recruitment base Board must be published in accordance with Code’s guidewith the aim of making best use of the skills and expertise lines, with the exception of reporting independence in of men and women alike, as well as people with different relation to major shareholders. The reason why the combackgrounds and experience. pany must report Board member independence is primarily to protect minority shareholders in companies with disA more detailed description of the nomination process can persed ownership. Wholly state-owned companies thus be found in the state’s ownership policy. Once the process lack such reasons for reporting independence. is completed, nominations are published in accordance with the Code. The work of the Board The Board is responsible for managing the company within Board composition the confines of the law and in accordance with the owner’s The owner’s point of departure when nominating each of long-term interests. Corporate governance is conducted the Board members is the Board’s skills requirement based from a social perspective and safeguards the company’s on the relevant issues for the company. Board members value-creating abilities in the long term. The Board bears must continuously acquire knowledge about the company the ultimate responsibility for the organisation and adminthat is necessary for the assignment. According to the Artiistration of the company. The most important policy docucles of Association, Specialfastigheter’s Board may comments are: prise no fewer than three and not more than ten members • A rticles of association elected by the general meeting. The employee organisa• Minutes from general meetings tions have the right to appoint a total of two full members • T he state’s ownership policy and other guidelines and two alternate members. Board members are elected • Rules of procedure for the Board, instructions for the allofor one year at a time. cation of work between the Board and the CEO, instructions for financial reporting and policies adopted by the Board. During 2018, the Board held one statutory meeting and eight scheduled Board meetings. 64 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R E P O R T Board member attendance at Board meetings in 2018 risks and, together with company management, the prepais presented in the table on page 65. ration of financing matters, finance strategy and policies for adoption by the Board. The Committee is obliged to preThe work of the Board takes place in accordance with the pare minutes of its meetings and make the minutes availrules of procedure adopted annually at the statutory meetable to the Board. ing of the new Board following the AGM. The rules of procedure govern the delegation arrangements within the During 2018, the Committee held five scheduled meetings. company as well as the procedure for Board meetings, Committee member attendance is shown in the table reporting instructions and the allocation of work between “Board composition and attendance during 2018.” the Board, its Chairman, the CEO and Board committees. The work of the Board focuses on strategic issues, such as Remuneration Committee the focus of operations, material policies, market, finance The Board appointed a Remuneration Committee that and economics, major investments, risks, personnel and includes the Chairman of the Board and a minimum of an leadership, internal control and efficiency, and sustainable additional two members specially appointed by the Board. development in regard to financial, environmental and The CEO is present at Committee meetings as the recorder societal responsibility. During the year, the Board adopted and the company’s HR Director usually participates. The policies in respect of finance, sustainability, information Remuneration Committee’s principal task according to the security, purchasing, communications, quality, security and adopted rules of procedure, is to prepare matters for the insiders. Other important policy documents adopted by Board regarding remuneration, remuneration principles the Board are the business plan including the budget. The and other terms of employment for the CEO and other Board appoints the CEO and approves any significant posimembers of company management, monitor and evaluate tions the CEO may occupy outside the company. When the the application of guidelines for remuneration of senior company is faced with especially important decisions, the executives as resolved by the AGM and applicable succesBoard, acting through its Chairman, must coordinate its sion planning, remuneration structures and levels on an view with representatives for the owner and present it in overall level in the company. The committee must follow up writing prior to a Board decision. and evaluate the application of these guidelines. The meetings must be minuted and the minutes provided to the Audit and Finance Committee Board. The Committee held five scheduled meetings The Audit and Finance Committee includes at least three during 2018. Committee member attendance is shown in members appointed by the Board of which one is the Comthe table Board composition and attendance during 2018. mittee’s Chairman. The CEO and Deputy CEO/CFO also participate in the Committee, along with other company Remuneration of senior executives representatives when deemed necessary. The principal Salaries and other benefits to personnel in company manassignments according to the adopted rules of procedure agement positions must be reasonable and competitive. include supervising the company’s financial reporting, preRemuneration must follow, not lead, current market trends. paring quarterly reports for adoption by the Board, superThis is achieved through comparisons with other relevant vising the efficiency of the company’s internal controls and companies. Remuneration must be characterised by modrisk management with regard to financial reporting, supereration, prudence, be well balanced and contribute to vising the company’s work with capital structure and other good ethics and corporate culture, and reflect the responfinancing issues including the management of financial sibility the work entails. The company has no variable Board composition and attendance in 2018 Board and committee Board Remuneration Audit and Finance Elected, year fees, SEK thousand meetings Committee Committee Bo Lundgren, Chairman1 2013 65 3/3 1/1 Eva Landén, Chairman2 2014 273 10/10 5/5 5/5 Jan Berg 2009 154 10/10 5/5 Carin Götblad 2013 134 9/10 4/5 Mikael Lundström 2013 134 9/10 4/5 Ulrika Nordström3 2015 0/3 Erik Tranaeus 4 2018 9/10 4/5 5/5 Maj-Charlotte Wallin 2016 154 9/10 5/5 Åsa Wirén5 2018 116 7/7 3/3 Masoomeh Antonsson 6 2013 10/10 Roger Törngren7 2011 10/10 Tomas Edström 8 2013 8/10 Erik Ydreborg9 2016 9/10 1) Chairman of the Board until the AGM 5) Elected at the 2018 AGM 2) C  hairman of the Board from the AGM 6) Employee representative Chairman of the Audit and Finance Committee until the AGM 7) Employee representative Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from the AGM 8) Alternate employee representative 3) Paternity leave until the 2018 AGM 9) Alternate employee representative 4) C  o-opted during Ulrika Nordström’s maternity leave Board member following the AGM SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 65 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R E P O R T s­ alaries or any forms of incentive programmes. The CEO The most important policy guidelines that must be has a defined-contribution pension plan. Pension terms approved by the CEO include the company’s strategies, for other senior executives follow an ITP (supplementary operational goals, information security, risk management, pension) plan; employees engaged after 2013 have a delegation arrangements, continuity planning, law lists defined-contribution pension plan. (information concerning the most important changes in legislation that affect the work environment, the environFor information regarding salaries and remuneration, refer ment and construction), Code of Conduct and Supplier to Note 7, Consolidated Financial Statements. Code of Conduct. During 2018, the company adhered to the employment Auditors condition guidelines for senior executives adopted by the Auditors are elected by the owner at the AGM. The Board general meeting of shareholders. The Board proposes that presents proposals for the election of auditors to the AGM the company continues to follow these guidelines during based on a recommendation from the Board’s Audit and 2019. Finance Committee. The proposals for the appointment of auditors are drafted in accordance with the rules contained Remuneration of the Board in the EU Audit Regulation and Directive and are published Information regarding remuneration of Board members in accordance with Code’s guidelines. approved by the 2018 AGM is available in the annual report, Note 7, Consolidated Financial Statements. Ernst & Young AB were elected as auditors at the 2018 AGM with Mikael Ikonen as auditor in charge. The election The Board’s evaluation of its own work took place for the period up until the close of the 2019 The work of the Board is subject to annual evaluation. AGM. Work undertaken in 2018 was evaluated by means of an online questionnaire. The evaluation also includes a meaPresentation of auditor; refer to page 71. surement of how effectively internal controls are perceived to function in the company. The results of the evaluation The auditors elected by the AGM perform an annual review will be compiled, discussed and reported to Committees, of the internal control. The auditors reported to the Board the Board and the owner. twice and to the Audit and Finance Committee on four occasions in 2018. In addition to the regular audit, Ernst CEO & Young AB conducts annual examinations at our offices. The CEO must ensure that the Board receives reports concerning the progress of Specialfastigheter’s operations in The review of Specialfastigheter’s 2018 Sustainability respect of such matters as the company’s earnings trend, Report was conducted by Ernst & Young AB. The report financial position and liquidity, information on the status of was assured by Authorised Public Accountant Mikael major projects, the efficiency of internal controls and Ikonen and Marianne Förander, Expert Member of FAR. important events. Reports must be structured in such a way Moreover, the Group’s Q2 interim report is subject to that the Board is able to make well-founded assessments. review by the company’s auditor. An instruction regarding the allocation of work between the Board and CEO, and which clarifies the distribution of For information regarding auditors’ fees, refer to Note 5, responsibilities and reporting, is approved annually. Consolidated Financial Statements. The CEO does not serve as a Board member. Lund’s new district court was completed in 2018 and in December was awarded the municipality’s Building of the Year accolade. 66 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R E P O R T Agenda items during the year During 2018, the issues addressed by the Board included the following: February March April •A  uditors’ report on internal control • Decision on the 2017 Annual Report and • Adoption of the interim accounts and and the annual accounts ­Sustainability Report interim report • Decision on annual accounts for • Preparation of rules of procedure for the Board • Final audit of the 2017 Sustainability 2017 including proposed dividend and its committees, and CEO’s instruction Report •D  ecision to refrain from a Group • Preparation of company-wide policies, supplier • Follow-up of investment projects contribution and a shareholder code of conduct and the Code of Conduct • Statutory Board meeting and adopcontribution • Adoption of guidelines for remuneration of tion of the Board’s rules of procedure •D  ecision on investments senior executives including the CEO’s instruction and • I nternal control plan 2018 • Decision on the notice regarding the 2018 instructions for financial reporting, AGM for the 2017 financial year rules of procedure for the Remunera•F  ollow-up of investment projects tion Committee, rules of procedure for •A mendment of the 2018–2022 • Board’s statement regarding the proposed the Audit and Finance Committee and ­business plan dividend approval of delegation arrangements. • Decision on investments and sales and transfer • Adoption of company-wide policies, of land the Supplier Code of Conduct and the Code of Conduct • Decision on sales January February March • E xtra Board meeting, decision on April mandate for conciliation negotiations November December December regarding Kronobergsbadet •A  doption of the 2019–2023 business plan and the 2019 budget June •P  reliminary capital structure and dividend • Business planning 2019–2023 for 2019 May • Decision on investments and •A  uditors’ report dispute resolution •P  roposals for election of external auditors • Change in the CEO’s location from Linköping to Stockholm June •D  ecision on investments and sales October •R  eview of risks and risk management •E valuation of the Board, the CEO and ­internal control September August July July • Decision on the need for independent • Adoption of the interim accounts and internal audit interim report • Whistle-blowing • Decision on investments •F  ield trip to the Hall correctional facility, • Auditors’ Q2 report September Södertälje • Follow-up of the 2018–2022 business plan • Reporting of personnel issues October • Follow-up of the internal control plan for 2018 • Discussion regarding forthcoming business plan • Adoption of the annual plans for committee and Board meetings for 2019–2023 in 2019 •F  ollow-up of investment projects • Decision on sales •A  doption of the interim accounts and interim report • End reporting of projects •P  reliminary capital structure and dividend •D  ecision on investments and sales SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 67 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R E P O R T Description of internal control and risk management regarding financial reporting Control environRisk assessment Control Information and ment activities communication Monitoring and development This description has been prepared in accordance with the Our management system forms an important part of our Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Code, and is therecontrol environment and aims to ensure we work in line fore limited to how internal control over financial reporting with our assignment and our business model. Leading is organised. The Board’s statement regarding internal operations with the aid of a management system entails governance and control is based on the framework docua systematic focus on customers (external and internal), ment COSO (The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations a process-oriented approach and driving constant of the Treadway Commission). Internal control is underimprovement efforts. Our system controls our working taken not just through regulations and instructions but primethod through clear processes and policy documents marily by staff at every level of the organisation. The interthat are linked to each process. Specialfastigheter’s nal control system for financial reporting seeks to provide ­management system is certified for information security reasonable assurance that the company’s external reportaccording to the ISO/IEC 27001:2013 standard. A certifi­ ing is complete and correct. The aim of the internal control cation renewal audit was conducted in May with only is to limit the risks of irregularities occurring that would minor deviations, observations and improvement pro­ affect the view or assessment of the company’s financial posals noted. results and position, ability to meet set business objectives and/or the owner’s expectations of the company. It is Every year, a number of internal operational audits of the therefore important that internal control over financial management system take place. These are not indepenreporting is adapted to the company’s risk assessment. dent internal audits according to the Code, but audits that The Board considers Specialfastigheter to have well-­ comply with ISO standards. Specialfastigheter has trained structured accounting and financial management and internal auditors among its employees, who audit our pro­internal controls. cesses and policies to check how effectively these function and are complied with. The internal auditors also contribControl environment ute to the dissemination of information about our manageThe basis for internal control over financial reporting is the ment system and they form an important part of the learncontrol environment comprising the organisation, its culing organization and efforts for constant improvements. ture, and decision paths, powers and responsibilities docuThe internal audit aims to ensure compliance with legislamented and communicated in policy documents such as tion, regulations, internal rules and best practices. The company policies, guidelines and instructions. SpecialfasDeputy CEO/CFO, head of finance and controllers provide tigheter’s internal controls are aimed at identifying, measupport for internal controls in business planning, financial suring and minimising risks in the operation. The controls calculations, analyses and follow-ups. The company’s IT comprise both preventive and controlling components. manager provides IT support and access and supervises IT system access, security and authorisations. The comRules of procedure between the Board and CEO provide pany has a whistle-blower function to enable attention a clear allocation of responsibilities to ensure good internal to be drawn anonymously to irregularities. controls. Responsibility for maintaining an effective control environment and the day-to-day internal control work and Risk assessment risk management is delegated to the CEO through the Assessments regarding the risk of errors in the financial rules of procedure. The allocation of responsibility and reporting are made by the Board, management, the units ­delegation within the company are further clarified in our and the external auditors. A risk analysis seeks to identify delegation arrangements. Company-wide policies are processes where the risk of substantial errors in financial approved by the Board and updated at least once a year. reporting is greatest. Specialfastigheter’s risks are Internal guidelines and instructions are decided by the described on pages 47–51. Our risk analysis tool helps us CEO, or the individual the CEO has delegated these systematically identify, analyse, evaluate and follow-up ­p owers to, and are updated on an ongoing basis. risks at every level on an ongoing basis. The risk analyses are reviewed and analysed in turn, and management During the year, the Audit and Finance Committee assesses risks from a company perspective. ­followed up and supervised the financial reporting and ­efficiency of the company’s internal controls and risk ­management. 68 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R E P O R T Control activities Monitoring and development Activities that are drawn up based on the risk analysis aim Monitoring takes place on an ongoing basis at several levto manage significant risks identified to eliminate or limit els within the company. The budget is approved annually the occurrence or effects of said risks. The Board and by the Board, which receives financial reports and reconcili­management are informed about compliance with policy ations from company management on a quarterly basis at documents and processes, and the effectiveness of the a minimum in connection with interim reports. The com­ control structures. The management system contains the pany’s external auditors report their observations from processes that show how Specialfastigheter should proreviews and their assessment of internal controls to the ceed and the controls that must be performed. Special­ Audit and Finance Committee and the Board at the schedfastigheter’s documented allocation of responsibilities, uled autumn meeting, the final audit and as necessary. This decision-making and delegation arrangements permeate takes place in the presence of company management or all of our processes. IT controls that support processes not, as the case may be. In the business plan and account and influence internal controls are created in our computer closing processes, management regularly carries out systems. There are also well-functioning internal reporting ­reconciliations and follow-ups of operations. In order to procedures. ensure uniform financial reporting, there is an approved report plan. In order to ensure financial reporting regarding the com­ pany’s income and expenses follow internal guidelines and Follow-ups of completed investment projects are preinstructions, analyses and crosschecks are carried out by sented to the Board on an ongoing basis during the year. the internal auditors at various levels in the organisation, The company’s external auditors continually report the for example, in respect of deviations from approved plans results of reviews performed, actions to be taken and the and previous outcomes. During the year, we improved status of the latter to company management. Activities and ­controls in our purchasing process. Control activities are action plans stemming from risk management are followed also implemented in the processes specified in the internal up on an ongoing basis. When necessary, Specialfastig­ control plan, with the objective of developing the proheter engages external consultants to scrutinise and cesses and preventing, detecting and correcting any errors follow­up areas for the purpose of discovering opportu­ or deviations. nities for improvement, any discrepancies and/or irregu­ larities. The results of audits, follow-ups and risk analyses Information and communication ­c arried out are reported to the CEO and company The company’s policy documents in the form of internal ­management. guidelines and instructions regarding financial reporting, are updated on an ongoing basis by process owners and Internal audit management and made available and known to employees Specialfastigheter has no internal audit function indepenvia our internal information and communications channels. dent from management as described under rule 7.3 of the Specialfastigheter’s management system and intranet conCode. When audit requirements are identified by the Board, tain information that enables rapid communication with all these are procured externally from independent auditors. employees to inform them of new rules and guidelines The Board considers the follow-up reported by the CEO, regarding financial reporting. All of our staff bear responsiinternal controls and internal audits in the management sysbility for keeping up-to-date with rules and regulations and tem in accordance with this document combined with the for complying with our guidelines. The Board regularly review by the external auditors, to be sufficient to ensure receives reports and financial information from the CEO that internal control over financial reporting is effective, and and external auditors. Specialfastigheter complies with the does not contain any significant errors. The internal busiguidelines for external reporting described in the state’s ness audit described in this report concerns only the audit ownership policy. Reporting according to GRI Standards of the company’s management system based on the helps us clearly communicate our sustainability. requirements of the standards the company adheres to. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 69 BOARD OF DIREC TORS Board of Directors Eva Landén Jan Berg Carin Götblad Chairman of the Board Own consultancy Regional Police Commissioner CEO of Corem Property Group AB Elected 2009 Elected 2013 Elected 2014 Other board assignments Other board assignments Other board assignments Board member of Agenta Investment Board member of the Beridna Högvakten Board member of Klövern AB ­Management AB Previous experience Previous experience Previous experience Police Commissioner, Stockholm County; Authorised Public Accountant, PwC, Head of Credit, Venantius AB, Police Commissioner, Gotland County and CFO Bonnier Cityfastigheter, Project Manager, Securum AB Varmland; General Counsel, SiS; Chief clerk, CFO Corem Property Group AB Education district court; legal counsel, Swedish Agency Education Graduate in Engineering, CTH for Youth and Civil Society, Swedish PsychoM.Sc. Business and Economics, Uppsala logical Association; National Board of Health Born and Welfare coordinator against violence in University. 1953 close relationships Born 1965 Education National Police Board Chief of Police programme, bachelor of laws, FBI, Preschool teacher programme Born 1956 Mikael Lundström Erik Tranaeus Maj-Charlotte Wallin CEO Svefa AB Investment Director, Government Offices of Own business Elected 2013 Sweden Elected 2016 Other board assignments Elected 2018 Other board assignments Board member of Elof Hansson Holding AB, Other board assignments Board member of the Swedish Heart-Lung AB Göta kanalbolag. Chairman of Värderings­ Board member of Orio AB and SOS Alarm AB Foundation and the Fourth Swedish National data AB Previous experience Pension Fund Previous experience Positions in investment banking at Deutsche Previous experience CEO, Akademiska Hus AB, Bank, Citigroup and Danske Bank. CEO of AFA Försäkring, Deputy CEO Alecta Deputy CEO, Jones Lang LaSalle AB, Education pensionsförsäkring, CEO Jones Lang LaSalle Head of Market Area, Skandia Fastigheter M.Sc. Business and Economics, SSE AMS AB, CEO Nordbanken Fastigheter AB, Head of Administration, NCC Fastig­ AB, Adm. Manager Bredenberg & Co AB, heter AB Born ­Controller Nordbanken Finans AB 1975 Education Education Graduate in engineering, KTH Royal Institute M.Sc. Business and Economics, SSE of Technology Born Born 1953 1961 70 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T BOARD OF DIREC TORS Employee Representative Employee Representative Åsa Wirén Masoomeh Antonsson Roger Törngren CFO Bonnier Group Employee Representative Employee Representative Elected 2018 Appointed 2013 Appointed 2011 Other board assignments Other board assignments Other board assignments Board member of Actic Group AB, N Å None None Future AB and Aspia AB Previous experience Previous experience Previous experience Consultant, Ibitec; Consultant, Invid; Property Management Engineer, SpecialCFO of SkiStar AB, Partner and Authorised ­Consultant, Qurius fastigheter, Service Technician, Vasakronan, Public Accountant at KPMG Education Project programmer, control systems, TASAB Education Systems analyst, Orebro University Education M.Sc. Business and Economics, Uppsala Born Control systems/operations technology, University. 1975 Qualified property management Born Born 1968 1965 Employee Representative Employee Representative Auditor Tomas Edström Erik Ydreborg Mikael Ikonen Alternate member for Employee Alternate member for Employee Auditor in Charge, ­Representative ­Representative Ernst & Young AB Appointed 2013 Appointed 2016 Other significant audit Other board assignments Other board assignments ­assignments Chairman, Central Sweden Volleyball None Hembla AB, Corem Property Group ­A ssociation, Manomet Rock AB Previous experience AB, Hemsö AB, Slättö Förvaltning, Previous experience Industrial floor installer, building mainteRikshem AB Head of Operations, AB Tierpsbyggen, nance technician, service technician Born Asset Manager, Sundsvall’s municipality Education 1963 Education High School Engineer, four-year electrical Mechanical engineer power studies Born Born 1964 1967 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 71 MANAGEMENT Management Åsa Hedenberg Torbjörn Blücher Christina Burlin Göran Cumlin CEO Business Director Sweden Human Resources Director Projects and Development Previous experience Previous experience: Previous experience Director CEO, Huge Fastigheter AB; CEO, Head of Property Unit, Swedish Personnel Director, Swedish Previous experience Uppsala hem AB; Market Area Fortifications Agency; Property Maritime Administration; Group Property Manager, Sollentuna­ Manager AP Fastigheter; Head Manager, Malmstaden AB (subPersonnel Director, Ostgota hem; Technical Manager, of Development Properties, sidiary of Tornet Group); Property Correspondenten; Personnel ­Stockholm Student Housing SEB Asset Management; PropManager, Prevoluta AB Director, SAAB Civil Aircraft (SSSB); Regional Manager, erty Manager, Hantverksoch Education Education SWECO Project Management Industri­byggen; Property ManTechnical structural engineer Bachelor of Arts Study Board assignments ager, Skanska Fastigheter AB programme in personnel manVice Chairman, SSSB Born Board assignments 1966 agement Education Board member of Bonava AB, Born Graduate in engineering, KTH Envac AB Employed since 2005 1962 Royal Institute of Technology Education Employed since Born Graduate in engineering, 2012 1963 ­Surveyor, Royal Institute of ­Technology Employed since 2015 Born 1961 Employed since 2014 Kristina Ferenius Hanna Janson Henrik Nyström Åsa Welander Deputy CEO/CFO Communication Director Head of Purchasing and IT Property Management Director Previous experience Previous experience Previous experience Previous experience Head of Finance, Huge Fastig­ Communications Manager Head of Purchasing, Partnertech District Manager, Fastighets AB heter AB; CFO Enaco AB; Business ­Akademiska Hus AB region AB; Strategic Purchasing, Forvaltaren; Head of Leasing, Controller Coor Service ManageStockholm; Pro tem Communi­Ericsson; Strategic Purchasing, Bostader Fastighets AB For­ ment Sverige AB; CFO Skanska cations Director Akademiska SAAB Aircraft valtaren; Property Manager, Guest Relocation AB; Head of HusAB; Consultant, JKL AB Education ByggVesta AB Accounts, Swedish Enforcement Gothenburg and Stockholm Economics (upper secondary Education Authority in Stockholm Education school) Law studies, Stockholm Education M.Sc. Business and Economics, Born ­University Master’s degree in economics, SSE 1963 Born Stockholm University Born 1973 Employed since Born 1975 2007 Employed since 1968 Employed since 2015 Employed since 2015 2015 72 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T Contents Consolidated income statement 74 Note 1 Parent Company accounting policies 103 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 74 Note 2 Other income 104 Consolidated balance sheet 76 Note 3 Operating expenses 104 Consolidated changes in equity 78 Note 4 Administration 104 Consolidated cash-flow statement 80 Note 5 Auditors’ fees 104 Consolidated five-year summary 81 Note 6 Gain/loss on property sales 104 Note 7 Employees, payroll expenses Note 1 Group accounting policies 82 and Board fees 104 Note 2 Other income 86 Note 8 Net financial items 104 Note 3 Property expenses 86 Note 9 Appropriations 104 Note 4 Administration 86 Note 10 Taxes 104 Note 5 Auditors’ fees 86 Note 11 Appropriation of profits and dividend 105 Note 6 Financial income and expenses 86 Note 12 Buildings, building fixtures and fittings, land, land improvements, in ground fixNote 7 Employees, payroll expenses tures and fittings 105 and Board fees 87 Note 13 Construction in progress 106 Note 8 Realised gain/loss on property sales 88 Note 14 Plant and equipment 106 Note 9 Investment properties 89 Note 15 Financial assets 106 Note 10 Taxes 90 Note 16 Current investments 108 Note 11 Other property, plant and equipment 90 Note 17 Current receivables 108 Note 12 Financial investments 90 Note 18 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 108 Note 13 Other receivables 91 Note 19 Cash and cash equivalents 108 Note 14 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 91 Note 20 Untaxed reserves 108 Note 15 Cash and cash equivalents 91 Note 21 Interest-bearing liabilities 108 Note 16 Interest-bearing liabilities 91 Note 22 Other liabilities 108 Note 17 Other liabilities 92 Note 23 Accrued expenses and deferred income 108 Note 18 Accrued expenses and deferred income 92 Note 24 Related parties 108 Note 19 Financial risks and financial policy 93 Note 25 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 108 Note 20 Related parties 98 Note 26 Events after the balance-sheet date 108 Note 21 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 98 Note 22 Events after the balance-sheet date 98 Declaration by the Board 109 Auditor’s report 110 Parent Company – Income statement 99 Property holdings 114 Parent Company – Statement of Definitions Inside cover comprehensive income 99 Reporting calendar Inside cover Parent Company – Balance sheet 100 Annual General Meeting Inside cover Parent Company – Changes in equity 101 Addresses Back cover Parent Company – Cash-flow statement 102 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 73 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Consolidated income statement, SEK million Note Full-year 2018 Full-year 2017 Rental income 1,956 1,846 Other income 2 182 182 Income from property management 2,138 2,028 Property expenses 3 -564 -533 Net operating income 1,574 1,495 Administration 4, 5 -54 -55 Financial income 6 40 64 Financial expenses 6 -150 -182 Profit from property management 7 1,410 1,322 Realised gain on property sales 8 1 29 Change in value of investment properties, unrealised 9 1,404 832 Change in value of financial instruments, unrealised 6 10 -18 EBT 2,825 2,165 Tax 10 -402 -446 Net profit for the year 2,423 1,719 Of which attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder 2,423 1,719  Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, SEK million Full-year 2018 Full-year 2017 Net profit for the year 2,423 1,719 Total other comprehensive income for the year, net after tax Total comprehensive income for the year 2,423 1,719 Of which attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder 2,423 1,719 74 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Comments to the income statement Income from property management totalled Profit from property management, SEK 1,410 million (1,322) SEK 2,138 million (2,028). The increase in profit from property management was mainly due to Rental income increased to SEK 1,956 million (1,846) as a result of new higher rental income of SEK 110 million. At the same time, property leases and acquisitions. Other income stayed the same at SEK 182 expenses rose SEK 31 million. ­million (182), and where income attributable to modifications for ­customers and media was unchanged year-on-year. Changes in value, SEK 1,414 million (814) Value changes in investment properties totalled SEK 1,404 million Property expenses, SEK 564 million (expense: 533) (832). Financial instruments increased in value by SEK 10 million Our property expenses increased SEK 27 million due to higher costs (decrease: 18). for clearing snow, media and maintenance. The figures for 2017 also included damages of SEK 10 million. Tax expense, SEK 402 million (expense: 446) Tax comprised tax paid of SEK 145 million (expense: 157) and a Net operating income, SEK 1,574 million (1,495) deferred tax expense of SEK 257 million (expense: 289). In the second Altogether, the above resulted in a year-on-year increase in net quarter, we recalculated the deferred tax liability using a tax rate of ­operating income, where the increase in rental income was the single 20.6% instead of 22%, since corporation tax is being lowered to 21.4% largest reason behind the increase in net operating income. from 2019 and then to 20.6% from 2021. Our assessment is that we will be able to realise this liability at the new tax rate. The entire deferred Surplus ratio, 73.6% (73.7) tax liability for 2018 has now been restated at 20.6%, which entails a The surplus ratio shows the proportion of our revenues that remains positive effect in the second quarter of this year of SEK 190 million. after property expenses. Our figures were slightly below our minimum target surplus ratio of 75% due to the increase in revenue from modifiNet profit, SEK 2,423 million (1,719) cations for customers relative to our total income and the lower Net profit for the year increased primarily due to higher rental income, ­margins on this revenue. The surplus ratio excluding modifications higher unrealised value changes in investment properties and finanfor ­customers was 76.7% (77.0). cial instruments, and due to a lower tax expense. Net financial expense SEK 110 million (expense: 118) Net financial items for the period were lower, primarily due to lower interest rates when renewing loans and derivatives, and from leveraging the low interest-rate levels for new borrowings. This item includes value changes for currency derivatives of SEK 35 million (negative: 45). These derivatives are linked to existing currency loans. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 75 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Consolidated balance sheet, SEK million Note 2018 2017 ASSETS Non-current assets Investment properties 9 27,288 25,002 Other property, plant and equipment 11 6 6 Derivatives 12, 19 32 54 Other financial investments 12 990 1,114 Other non-current receivables 13 6 13 Total non-current assets 28,322 26,189 Current assets Trade receivables 153 144 Derivatives 12 23 3 Tax assets 1 Other receivables 13 23 12 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 14 24 29 Cash and cash equivalents 15 12 465 Total current assets 236 653 Total assets 28,558 26,842 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 200 200 Other contributed capital 616 616 Retained earnings, including net profit for the year 10,113 8,250 Total equity 10,929 9,066 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Green bonds 16, 19 1,244 1,244 Other non-current interest-bearing liabilities 16, 19 7,266 8,220 Derivatives 100 120 Deferred tax liabilities 10 3,247 2,990 Total non-current liabilities 11,857 12,574 Current liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities 16, 19 4,891 4,317 Trade payables 169 148 Tax liability 28 Derivatives 0 27 Other liabilities 17 111 107 Accrued expenses and deferred income 18 601 575 Total current liabilities 5,772 5,202 Total liabilities 17,629 17,776 Total equity and liabilities 28,558 26,842 76 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Comments to the balance sheet Investments, SEK 824 million (728) Changes in the value of investment properties, Group investments in property projects totalled SEK 824 million SEK million 2018 2017 for the period. Opening balance, market value, 31 December 25,002 22,999 + Investments incl. capitalised interest expenses 824 728 Acquisitions, SEK 58 million (670) + Acquisitions 58 670 We acquired the Värnamo Läkaren 2 and 4 properties in February and the Södertälje Kolpenäs 1:9 property in May. – Sales -227 + Unrealised change in value 1,404 832 Disposals, SEK 0 million (227) Closing balance, market value, 31 December 27,288 25,002 One minor disposal was carried out during the year. Market valuation, SEK 27,288 million (25,002) Unrealised changes in value 1,404 832 The estimated values of Specialfastigheter’s investment properties of which, change in cost of capital and yield 1,033 959 are determined by means of an internal valuation based on actual data of which, new and renegotiated leases 204 56 in respect of rents and operating expenses. Information concerning of which, change in the remaining term -371 -272 cost of capital, required yield and current market rents has been crossof which, other 538 89 checked with external appraisers. With regard to reliable rental income, the estimated cost of capital over the contract period was Other financial investments, SEK 990 million (1,114) mainly between 5.00% (5.00) and 5.25% (5.25). The required yield Other financial investments of SEK 990 million (1,114) comprised ranges mostly from 4.65% (5.25) to 9.70% (9.70) depending on property ­covered bonds of SEK 926 million (1,040) and cash deposits pursuant location. Market values were mainly influenced by property-specific to CSAs of SEK 64 million (74). events such as newly signed leases, investments and lowered yield requirements. At 31 December 2018, the market value was SEK 27,288 Interest-bearing liabilities, SEK 13,401 million (13,781) million. The unrealised changes in value recognised for the period Interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 13,401 million. amounted to SEK 1,404 million (832). SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 77 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Consolidated changes in equity, SEK million Attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder Other Share contributed Retained Total 2018 capital ­c apital ­earnings equity Opening balance, 1 January 2018 200 616 8,250 9,066 Comprehensive income Net profit for the year 2,423 2,423 Other comprehensive income Total 200 616 10,673 11,489 Transactions with the shareholder Dividend -560 -560 Total transactions with the shareholder -560 -560 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 200 616 10,113 10,929 Other Share contributed Retained Total 2017 capital ­c apital earnings equity Opening balance, 1 January 2017 200 616 7,028 7,844 Comprehensive income Net profit for the year 1,719 1,719 Other comprehensive income Total 200 616 8,747 9,563 Transactions with the shareholder Dividend -497 -497 Total transactions with the shareholder -497 -497 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 200 616 8,250 9,066 78 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Equity Capital management Share capital The Board’s financial objective for the Group is to maintain a sound The share capital is divided into 2,000,000 shares with a quotient value capital structure and financial stability, to thereby retain the capital of SEK 100 and with one (1) vote per share, which applies to both the market’s confidence and form the basis for continued development of opening and closing number of shares in the above reporting periods. business operations. The target equity/assets ratio is 25–35% and strategic planning includes adaptation to meet this target. The Board Appropriation of profits aims to preserve a balance between high returns and the advantages The Board proposes that the 2018 Annual General Meeting of Specialoffered by a high level of equity. The Group’s profitability target is for fastigheter Sverige AB resolve in favour of paying a dividend of SEK net profit, after including changes in value and associated deferred 555 million, or around SEK 277.50 per share, to the owner. The protax, to correspond to 8% of average equity. Profitability is a variable posed dividend constitutes 62.2% of the company’s equity and 5.0% target whose level is adjusted depending on the composition of the of the Group’s equity and is in line with financial dividend target stipuproperty portfolio. The adjusted return on equity for 2018 was 13.0% lations. Refer also to Note 11 for the Parent Company. (12.8). From 2016, we have changed the calculation of Return on equity and Adjusted return on equity to now include net profit for the period The company’s holdings of financial instruments were measured at fair in average equity. We have also restated these key performance indivalue in accordance with Chapter 4 Section 14a of the Annual cators retroactively. Over the last five-year period, SpecialfasAccounts Act. This entailed a increase in equity of SEK 45 million tigheter’s adjusted return on equity averaged 12.5%, which well excluding deferred tax, which represented approximately 5.0% of the exceeds the Group’s target of 8.0%. Specialfastigheter’s dividend polParent Company’s equity excluding deferred tax. The proposed diviicy is to distribute 50% of net profit for the year after adding changes in dend to the shareholder reduces the Parent Company’s equity/assets value and associated deferred tax. The annual resolution on the diviratio from 11.9% to 9.1%, and the Group’s equity/assets ratio from dend must also take into account the Group’s future investment needs 38.3% to 37.0%. Group operations are run with stable, healthy profitand financial circumstances. Over the last five years, the dividend has ability, and income is hedged in the long term through long lease averaged 7.0% (7.3) of equity. The Group will pay an extraordinary diviagreements. In the Board’s assessment, after distribution of the prodend when the capital structure and financial needs of the business so posed dividend, the company will continue to have adequate financial allow. No change took place in the Group’s capital management capacity to meet the requirements placed on the Group’s and the Parduring the year. Neither the Parent Company nor any of its subsidiarent Company’s equity by the nature, scope, investment requirements ies is subject to external capital requirements. and risks of the business. The proposal is therefore justifiable given the consolidation needs, liquidity and other circumstances of the Group and Parent Company. This means, inter alia, that the proposal does not hinder the company and its subsidiaries from meeting their obligations in the short and long terms. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 79 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Consolidated cash-flow statement, SEK million Full-year 2018 Full-year 2017 Operating activities Net operating income 1,574 1,495 Central administration -54 -55 Net financial expense -110 -118 Reversal, change in prices -3 6 Reversal of depreciation 3 3 Income tax paid -175 -152 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,235 1,179 Change in working capital Change in receivables -8 115 Change in other current liabilities 51 16 Total change in working capital 43 131 Cash flow from operating activities 1,278 1,310 Investing activities Acquisition of investment properties -58 -670 Investment in investment properties -824 -709 Disposal of investment properties 1 235 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment -2 0 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 0 0 Cash flow from investing activities -883 -1,144 Financing activities Investment, covered bonds 116 -148 Borrowings 16,782 17,514 Repayments of borrowings -17,186 -16,574 Dividend paid to Parent Company’s shareholder -560 -497 Cash flow from financing activities -848 295 Cash flow for the year -453 461 Opening cash and cash equivalents 465 4 Closing cash and cash equivalents 12 465 Interest Interest received 4 17 Interest paid 100 108 Cash flow Group cash flow from operating activities before investments totalled SEK 1,278 million (1,310) during the period. Net investments in non-current assets amounted to a cash outflow of SEK 883 million (outflow: 1,144), which generated a positive cash flow after investments of SEK 395 million (166). A cash outflow of SEK 560 million (outflow: 497) was used for dividends, and investments in covered bonds amounted to an inflow of SEK 116 million (outflow: 148). Borrowings after repayments totalled an outflow of SEK 404 million (inflow: 940). The item, Investment, covered bonds, pertained solely to the investment of cash and cash equivalents and is part of long-term investments, where the company has chosen to retain liquidity instead of repaying borrowings. 80 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Consolidated five-year summary The financial progress of the Group in summary. For definitions of key performance indicators, see page 117. Property related 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Income from property management, SEK million 1,872 1,867 1,912 2,028 2,138 Occupancy rate, % 98.3 98.7 98.6 99.0 99.0 Investments including property acquisitions, SEK million 371 419 1,288 1,398 882 Market value, investment properties, SEK million 20,271 20,919 22,999 25,002 27,288 Floor space, sq m, thousand 1,066 1,058 1,088 1,079 1,094 Yield, % 7.3 6.8 6.5 6.2 6.0 Total assets, SEK million 20,571 22,012 24,372 26,842 28,558 Equity, SEK million 8,475 6,652 7,844 9,066 10,929 Property management related Rental income, SEK/sq m 1,600 1,618 1,644 1,700 1,793 Property operations, SEK/sq m1 283 288 271 300 315 Maintenance expenses, SEK/sq m1 and 2 198 207 265 266 268 Net operating income, SEK/sq m 1,347 1,322 1,324 1,377 1,443 Administrative expenses, SEK/sq m 56 62 57 50 49 Finance related EBT, SEK million 1,782 1,474 2,100 2,165 2,825 Net profit for the year, SEK million 1,390 1,178 1,638 1,719 2,423 Cash flow before investments, SEK million 1,119 844 1,317 1,310 1,278 Surplus ratio, % 77.6 75.0 73.7 73.7 73.6 Interest coverage ratio, cash-flow based3 and 5 5.3 6.6 8.7 8.5 10.2 Return on equity, % 4 17.3 15.6 22.6 20.3 24.2 Adjusted return on equity, % 4 and 5 10.8 11.8 13.7 12.8 13.0 Return on total capital, %3 10.4 8.1 10.1 9.3 10.8 Loan-to-value ratio, % 44.4 57.8 55.9 53.3 49.1 Equity/assets ratio, % 41.2 30.2 32.2 33.8 38.3 Dividend, SEK million 3,000 6 446 497 560 555 1) For the 2014-2016 period, the cost of property managers was included in maintenance expenses. This item was moved to Property operations in 2017. We have restated the years from 2014-2016, so that the cost is included in Property operations for all years, thus enabling a fair comparison. 2) Of which capitalised: SEK 154/sq m for 2014, SEK 139/sq m for 2015, SEK 177/sq m for 2016, SEK 195/sq m for 2017 and SEK 185/sq m for 2018. 3) From 2017, we have changed the calculation of the Interest coverage ratio and Return on total capital. We have also restated these key performance indicators retroactively. 4) From 2016, we have changed the calculation of Return on equity and Adjusted return on equity to now include net profit for the period in average equity. We have also restated these key performance indicators retroactively. 5) These key performance indicators have been restated pursuant to a new policy from 2018 pertaining to currency derivatives. 6) Which comprised a dividend of SEK 929 million and a repayment of share capital of SEK 2,071 million. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 81 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 Group accounting policies The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accorAccounting policies applied dance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) The accounting policies specified below, with exceptions described in published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) more detail, have been consistently applied to all periods presented and the interpretations of the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC), in the consolidated financial statements. The Group’s accounting polias adopted by the EU. Moreover, the Swedish Financial Reporting cies have been consistently applied in the reporting and consolidation Board’s recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary Accounting Rules of the Parent Company and subsidiaries. for Corporate Groups, has been applied. Changes in accounting policies The Group’s eight limited companies are registered in Linköping New standards and interpretations that entered force in 2018 have not (Sweden). The Parent Company is called Specialfastigheter Sverige had any impact on the financial statements other than certain suppleAB (556537-5945). Specialfastigheter has a joint head office with mentary disclosures. offices located at the following visiting addresses: Borggården, SE-581 07 Linköping and Alströmergatan 14, SE-112 93 Stockholm. IFRS 9 Financial instruments The Group’s subsidiaries own and manage real property, manage Since the majority of Specialfastigheter’s customers are from the pub­construction projects, own and manage movable property and ­ lic sector, with extremely strong payment capacity and minimal credit pursue related business activities. Refer also to Note 15 for the risk, the standard does not have any material impact on its financial ­Parent Company. statements. From a historical perspective, the company has also had extremely limited credit losses. Valuation principles applied in the preparation of the Parent Company’s and the Group’s financial statements The application of IFRS 9 has had no impact on the carrying amounts Assets and liabilities are recognised at cost, other than investment for the Group’s assets and liabilities. The policy for provisions for properties and derivatives, which are measured at fair value. expected credit losses (ECLs) is applied for assets measured at amortised cost. The effect of applying ECLs has no material significance for Non-current assets held for sale are recognised at the lower of the the Group. For this reason, no further provision was made on the tran­c arrying amount and the fair value less selling expenses. sition, and accordingly, the carrying amounts for assets recognised at amortised cost have not been affected. Functional currency and presentation currency The Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish kronor (SEK), IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers which is also the presentation currency of the Parent Company and the Specialfastigheter’s leases only comprise rental payments, which are Group. This means that the financial statements are presented in SEK. not encompassed by IFRS 15 and instead come under IAS 17, and from Specialfastigheter Sverige AB only operates on the Swedish market. 2019, IFRS 16. Remuneration for the company’s undertakings pursuant All sums, unless otherwise stated, are rounded to the nearest million to leases, such as supplying premises with heating, cooling, snow kronor. clearance and garbage collection, for example, are included in the rent. Tenants cannot influence the choice of supplier or frequency, or Estimations and assessments in the financial statements have any other impact on the supplier, in the properties owned by the Preparing the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires company. Moreover, some of these undertakings fall under a general the management to make estimations and assessments which influresponsibility for the property. Accordingly, the introduction of the ence the application of accounting policies and the recognised standard has no material impact on the financial statements. amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual outcomes may differ from these estimations and assessments. Amendments to the IFRS and interpretations not yet adopted (IFRIC) have not been applied in advance. The estimations and assessments are reviewed regularly. Changes to Standards To be applied from the financial year starting: estimates are recognised in the period in which the change occurs if IFRS 16 Leases  1 January 2019 the change has only affected this period, or in the period in which the change is made and future periods if the change impacts both the ­current and future periods. IFRS 16 replaces IAS 17. Specialfastigheter is the lessee for leasehold agreements, property leases, service vehicles and company cars, Assessments made by the company management in applying the IFRS which are defined as lease contracts under IFRS 16, however, the comthat have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates pany has a limited number. Specialfastigheter’s assessment is that the made, which may result in material adjustments in subsequent years’ new standard will entail increased disclosure requirements but, otherfinancial statements, are described in more detail in notes 9, 16 and 19 wise, will have extremely limited impact on the financial statements. to the consolidated financial statements. As a result of the transition to IFRS 16, the costs for ground rents will be recognised in full as financial expenses, which differs from the current An assessment must be made of each acquisition to classify whether it policy whereby these are recognised as an operating expense. is a business combination or an asset acquisition. A business combinaSpecial­fastigheter will start to apply IFRS 16 from 1 January 2019, tion comprises resources and assets that can result in production. On but will not apply the standard retroactively. the acquisition of a company, the method of accounting to be used for the acquisition is assessed using criteria including the following: the Classifications, etc. presence of employees, the company’s assets and the complexity of Non-current assets and non-current liabilities in the Parent Company internal processes. Moreover, the assessment also takes into considand the Group consist essentially of the amounts expected to be eration the number of operations and the existence of agreements recovered or paid after more than twelve months from the balance­with various degrees of complexity. Acquisitions with high fulfilment sheet date. Current assets and current liabilities in the Parent Comof these criteria are classified as business combinations and acquisipany and the Group consist essentially of the amounts expected to be tions with low fulfilment are classified as asset acquisitions. recovered or paid within twelve months of the balance-sheet date. When acquisitions of subsidiaries entail the acquisition of non-busiConsolidation principles ness combination assets, the cost of these assets and liabilities is alloSubsidiaries cated according to their relative fair values at the acquisition date. An investor has controlling influence over the investment object when However, if the assessment resulted in classification as a business the investor is exposed to or is entitled to variable returns from its combination, this would have entailed a higher value for the initial holding in the investment object, and when it can influence these property value recognised and a higher deferred tax liability and, returns through exercising its controlling influence over the investin all likelihood, a higher goodwill amount. ment object. 82 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Subsidiaries are reported in accordance with the acquisition method. Interest income and interest expenses include accrued amounts for Under this method, an acquisition is regarded as a transaction transaction expenses and differences between the initial carrying whereby the Group indirectly acquires the subsidiary’s assets and amount of the receivable or liability and the amount settled on maturity. assumes its liabilities and contingent liabilities. The cost to the Group is determined through an acquisition analysis at the time of the acquiBorrowing costs are charged against earnings in the period to which sition. In this analysis, the cost of the business combination is estabthey relate except to the extent that they are included in the cost of an lished, as are the fair values on the acquisition date of acquired identiasset. An asset for which interest can be included in the cost is, by fiable assets as well as assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities. necessity, an asset that takes significant time to complete for its The cost of the subsidiary’s shares consist of the fair values at the intended use or sale. acquisition date for the assets acquired, assumed or acquired liabilities, and transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition. Taxes Transaction costs are expensed in the Group. Consolidations of subIncome taxes comprise current tax and deferred tax. Current tax is tax sidiaries’ financial statements are entered in the consolidated financial to be paid or received for the current year, with the application of the statements from the date of the acquisition until the date when contax rates that are adopted or established in practice as of the baltrolling influence ceases. ance-sheet date, which also includes adjustment of current tax attributable to previous periods. Income tax is recognised in profit or loss Transactions eliminated on consolidation except when the underlying transaction is recognised directly in Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, income or expenses, and unreequity and where the associated tax effect is recognised in equity. alised gains or losses arising from intra-Group transactions are elimiDeferred tax is calculated using the balance-sheet method based on nated in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. temporary differences between the carrying amounts and fiscal values of assets and liabilities. The IFRS 3 rule on the classification of Income acquisitions as business combinations or asset acquisitions is based Revenue recognition on making a separate assessment for each individual transaction. On The Group’s recognised income pertains mainly to rental income. the acquisition of a business, the method of accounting to be used for Advance invoices generate rental income and car-parking income, the acquisition is assessed using the following criteria: the presence which are therefore allocated to periods so that only the rent for the of employees and the complexity of internal processes. Moreover, the respective period is recognised as income. Revenue is usually recassessment also takes into consideration the number of operations ognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, apart from and the existence of agreements with various degrees of complexity. in exceptional cases where a different method better reflects how Acquisitions with high fulfilment of these criteria are classified as busifinancial benefits accrue to the Group. Interest income is recognised ness combinations and acquisitions with low fulfilment are classified as as revenue spread over the term by the application of the effective-­ asset acquisitions. Temporary differences in assets and liabilities that, interest method. Dividend income is recognised when the right to at the transaction date, do not affect recognised or taxable profit are receive payment has been established. not recognised for asset acquisitions. All companies acquired in 2018 have been classified as asset acquisitions. Those properties that are The proportion of our rental income that is attributable to the state is acquired as company transactions are assessed as clear asset acquisi99.5% (99.3), where the Swedish Prison and Probation Service accounts tions. Furthermore, temporary differences attributable to participafor the major portion. tions in subsidiaries that are not expected to be reversed in the foreseeable future are not taken into account. When acquisitions of Income from property sales subsidiaries entail the acquisition of non-business combination Income from property sales is normally recognised on the contract assets, the cost of these assets and liabilities is allocated according date unless the risks and benefits were transferred to the purchaser to their relative fair values at the acquisition date. The valuation of on an earlier occasion. Control of the asset may have been transferred deferred tax is based on how the carrying amounts of assets or lia­ prior to the occupancy date and, if so, the property sale is recognised bilities are expected to be realised or settled. as income at this earlier date. Agreements between the parties with respect to the risks, benefits and involvement in day-to-day adminisDeferred tax is calculated in accordance with the tax rates and tax tration are taken into account when estimating the timing of revenue rules that were adopted or established in practice as of the balance­recognition. Moreover, any circumstances that may affect the outsheet date. Deferred tax assets concerning deductible temporary come of the transaction and which are beyond the control of the seller ­differences are only recognised to the extent that it is likely that these and/or purchaser are also taken into consideration. will be used. The value of deferred tax assets is reduced when it is no longer considered likely that they can be used. Operating expenses and financial income and expenses Operating leases Other disclosures pertaining to deferred tax are available in Note 10 Expenses in respect of operating leases are recognised in profit or to the consolidated financial statements. loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Benefits obtained in connection with the signing of a lease are recognised in profit or loss Investment properties as a decrease in lease charges on a straight-line basis over the period Investment properties are properties held with the objective of generof the lease. Variable charges are expensed in the periods in which ating rental income and/or value growth. Investment properties are they arise. initially recognised at cost, which includes all expenses directly attributable to the acquisition. Investment properties are recognised on the Financial income and expenses balance sheet at fair value. For further information, see Note 10 to the Financial income and expenses comprise interest income from bank consolidated financial statements. funds, investments, receivables, interest expense on loans, translation of currency loans and unrealised and realised gains and losses on Property, plant and equipment derivatives used in financial operations. Property, plant and equipment are recognised in the consolidated financial statements at cost less accumulated depreciation. Cost Interest income on receivables and interest expenses on liabilities are includes the purchase price and expenses directly attributable to an calculated using the effective-interest method. Effective interest is asset in order to bring it to the location and condition necessary for it the rate of interest which makes the current value of all estimated to be utilised in line with the aim of the acquisition. future inflows and outflows during the expected fixed-interest period equal to the carrying amount of the asset or liability. Interest income The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is removed from purchased covered bonds is recognised in the period during from the balance sheet on the asset’s disposal or sale, or when no which interest is paid. future economic benefits are expected from the use, disposal or sale of the asset. Profit or loss that arises on the sale or disposal of an asset comprises the difference between the sale price and the carrying amount of the asset less direct selling expenses. Profit and loss are recognised under other operating income/expense. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 83 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Leased assets payments of the principal and interest on the principal outstanding. Leases are classified in the consolidated financial statements as either The assets are encompassed by an loss allowance for expected credit financial or operating leases. A financial lease exists when the ecolosses. nomic risks and benefits associated with ownership have substantially been transferred to the lessee; otherwise it is classified as an operatFVTPL is applied to debt instruments that are not measured at amoring lease. Specialfastigheter Sverige AB has classified all lease agreetised cost. Financial instruments in this category are initially measured ments as operating leases. Charges for operating leases are expensed at fair value with changes in value recognised in profit or loss. over the term of the leases based on their utilization, which may differ from what has de facto been paid in lease charges during the year. The Group’s debt instruments are classified at amortised cost, with the exception of covered bonds, which are classified at FVTPL. Depreciation principles Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over an asset’s Equity instruments: classified at FVTPL with the exception of those ­estimated useful life. that are not held for trading, since an irrevocable choice can be made to measure these at FVTOCI with no consequent reclassification to Estimated useful lives, plant and equipment profit or loss. The Group classifies equity instruments at FVTPL. The depreciation methods applied and the assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed at the end of each year. Derivatives: classified at FVTPL. The Group does not apply hedge accounting. Impairment losses The carrying amounts of Group assets are reviewed at each balance­Fair value is established as described in Note 19. sheet date to assess whether any indication exists of an impairment loss. IAS 36 is applied for testing the need for impairment for assets Classification and valuation of financial liabilities other than financial assets (which are tested in accordance with IAS Financial liabilities are classified at amortised cost, with the exception 39), assets held for sale, disposal groups recognised in accordance of derivatives. Financial liabilities classified at amortised cost are meawith IFRS 5, investment properties recognised at fair value in accorsured initially at fair value including transaction costs. Following initial dance with IAS 40 and deferred tax assets. For assets excepted under recognition, these are measured at amortised cost using the effecthe above, carrying amounts are tested in accordance with the stantive-interest method. dard concerned. Derivatives are classified at FVTPL. The Group does not apply hedge Reversal of impairments accounting. An impairment is reversed if there is both an indication that the impairment loss no longer exists and if a change has taken place in the Fair value is established as described in Note 19. assumptions on which the calculation of the recoverable amount was based. However, impairment of goodwill is never reversed. A reversal Other financial liabilities is only made to the extent that the recognised value of the asset after Loan financing reversal does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been All loan financing is initially recognised at cost, net after transaction recognised, less amortisation or depreciation where applicable, had expenses. Borrowing is then recognised at amortised cost and any no impairment been made. difference between the amount received and the repayment amount is recognised in net financial items over the loan term by application of Impairment testing of property, plant and equipment the effective-interest method. Borrowing in foreign currency is transWhen an impairment loss is indicated, the asset’s recoverable amount lated to SEK at the balance-sheet date exchange rate and the effects is calculated in accordance with IAS 36 (see below). If an essentially recognised in net financial items. independent cash flow cannot be established for an individual asset, assets are grouped at the lowest level possible for identification of an The Group applies IAS 23 Borrowing Costs. IAS 23 means that the essentially independent cash flow (a cash-generating unit) for the Group capitalises interest expenses attributable to investment propassessment of any impairment need. An impairment loss is recognised erties under construction. Capitalised interest expenses impact net when the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit (CGU) financial items positively and changes in market value negatively by exceeds the recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in a corresponding amount. Interest expenses are capitalised monthly profit or loss. Impairment of assets attributable to a CGU is allocated at an interest rate equivalent to the average six-month Stibor plus in the first instance to goodwill. Proportional impairments are then a ­surcharge. made of other assets included in the CGU. Impairment of financial assets The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less selling The Group’s financial assets, with the exception of those classified at expenses and value in use. When calculating value in use, future cash FVTPL or equity instruments at FVTOCI, are subject to impairment for flows are discounted by a factor that takes into account the risk-free expected credit losses (ECLs). Under IFRS 9, the impairment of ECLs interest rate and the risk associated with the specific asset. adopts a forward-looking approach and a loss allowance is for exposures to credit risk, normally on initial recognition. ECLs reflect the Financial instruments present value of all shortfalls in cash flow attributable to default, either Debt instruments: the classification of financial assets that comprise over the next 12 months (12 month ECL) or for the entire remaining life debt instruments is based on the Group’s business model for managof the financial instrument (lifetime ECL), depending on the type of ing the asset and the character and nature of the asset’s contractual asset and any impairment of the credit following initial recognition. cash flows. The ECL reflects an objective, probability-based outcome that takes into consideration a number of scenarios based on reasonable and The instrument is classified at: verifiable projections. • amortised cost • fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI), or The simplified approach is applied for trade receivables, contract • fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) assets and lease receivables. A loss allowance is recognised under the simplified approach for the remaining term of the receivable or asset. Financial assets classified at amortised cost are measured initially at fair value plus transaction costs. Trade receivables and lease receivFor other items encompassed by ECLs, a three-stage impairment ables are measured initially at the invoiced amount. Following initial model is applied. Initially, and at each balance-sheet date, a loss recognition, the assets are measured using the effective-interest allowance is recognised for the forthcoming 12 months, or alternamethod. Assets classified at amortised cost are held under the busitively for a shorter time period depending on the remaining duration ness model to collect contractual cash flows that solely encompass (Stage 1). If there has been a significant increase in credit risk compared with initial recognition, a loss allowance is recognised for the 84 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S remaining term of the asset (Stage 2). For any assets assessed as credit Exchange rates are hedged with the aid of currency derivatives impaired, a loss allowance continues to be made for ECLs for the (­currency swaps combined with interest-rate swaps). Derivatives are remaining term (Stage 3). For credit-impaired assets and receivables, measured at fair value at the balance-sheet date’s exchange rate and the calculation of interest income is based on the asset’s carrying interest rate, and meet the currency effects from the translation of the amount, net of the loss allowance, as opposed to the gross amount loans at the balance-sheet date’s exchange rate. used in the earlier stages. Closing-date market prices and generally accepted calculation methThe measurement of ECLs is based on and written down pursuant to ods are used to determine the fair value of interest-rate and currency a rating-based method through external credit ratings. ECLs are meaderivatives, which means that fair value is established according to sured as the product of the probability of default, loss given default levels 1 and 2. Currency translation to Swedish kronor is conducted at and the exposure at default. For credit-impaired assets and receivlisted exchange rates on the closing date. Interest-rate swaps are ables, individual assessments take into consideration historical, curmeasured by discounting future cash flows to their present value. rent and forward-looking data. The measurement of ECLs takes into When financing in foreign currency, all future payment flows are consideration any collateral posted or other credit enhancements in hedged so that no currency risk remains. the form of guarantees. Derivative instruments are used to hedge forecast electricity The financial assets are recognised in the balance sheet at amortised expenses and the derivatives are recognised at fair value in profit or cost, that is the net of the gross value and the loss allowance. Any loss. The fair value of electricity derivatives is based on balance-sheet changes in the loss allowance are recognised in profit or loss. date market values, according to Level 1, as provided by electricity suppliers that purchase electricity derivatives from Nord Pool. Cash and cash equivalents ­Electricity derivatives are raised to hedge electricity prices. SpecialCash and cash equivalents consist of cash and immediately accessible fastigheter passes on the major part of electricity expenses by invoicbalances at banks and equivalent institutions, and short-term investing tenants. ments of liquidity with tenors of less than three months from the acquisition date. Cash and cash equivalents are encompassed by Remuneration to employees the loss allowance requirement for expected credit losses. Pension plans All personnel are employed in the Parent Company. The pension plans Comparative year under IAS 39 principally comprise retirement pensions, disability pensions and famFinancial instruments are recognised in accordance with IAS 39 for the ily pensions in the form of alternative ITPs (Supplementary Pensions comparative year 2017. IAS 39 had different classification categories for Salaried Employees). Retirement pension commitments for salathan IFRS 9. Under IAS 39, the classification categories still entailed ried employees are secured through insurance with Alecta. According corresponding recognition at amortised cost and fair value in profit to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, UFR 10, or loss or other comprehensive income. this comprises a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. Since the company has not had access to information which would have made it posMoreover, IAS 39 applied another method for expected credit loss sible to report the pension plan as a defined-benefit plan, it has also provisions, which entailed making a provision in the event of a conbeen reported as a defined-contribution plan. Commitments regardfirmed credit loss, unlike the method under IFRS 9, where a provision ing contributions to defined-contribution plans are recognised as is made for ECLs. Otherwise, there are no differences in the standards expenses in profit or loss as they arise. for the Group. The transition from IAS 39 to IFRS 9 had no material impact for the Group. Short-term employee benefits Short-term employee benefits are calculated on an undiscounted IFRS 9 Parent Company basis and recognised as an expense when the related services are The Parent Company applies the exception of not measuring financial received. guarantee commitments that benefit subsidiaries or associated companies pursuant to the rules under IFRS 9 and instead applies the meaContingent liabilities surement policies under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and A contingent liability is recognised when there is a possible obligation Contingent Assets. that arises from past events and whose existence is confirmed only by the occurrence of one or more uncertain future events or when there Derivatives is an obligation that is not recognised as a liability or provision The Group’s derivative instruments were acquired to hedge the interest­ because it is not likely that an outflow of resources will be required. rate and currency risks to which the Group is exposed. Derivatives are initially recognised at cost on the transaction date, which means that Cash-flow statement transaction expenses are charged against earnings for the period. The cash-flow statement was prepared using the indirect method. After the initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value and The recognised cash flow includes only those transactions that entail changes in value are recognised as described below. Hedge accountinflows and outflows. Balances at banks are classified as cash and cash ing is not applied by the Group. equivalents. Derivatives measured at fair value Rounding Interest-rate derivatives comprise a financial asset or liability meaAmounts in this annual report are expressed in SEK million without sured at fair value with changes in value recognised in profit or loss. decimal places. Where amounts are less than SEK 1 million and Using interest-rate derivatives may give rise to changes in value due rounded down, this is represented by a zero (0). In cases where to changes in the market interest rate and the time factor. Interest-rate the outcome is actually zero, this is represented by a dash. derivatives are initially recognised at cost in the balance sheet, and are subsequently measured at fair value together with changes in value in profit or loss. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 85 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 2 Other income Note 6 Financial income and expenses 2018 2017 SEK million % Invoiced energy and fuel expenses 76 72 Composition of net Invoiced services 100 103 financial items 2018 2017 2018 2017 Compensation received 5 7 Interest expense, loans -97 -99 -0.87 -0.86 Other 1 0 Exchange-rate changes on foreign loans -35 45 -0.31 0.39 Total 182 182 Change in value, currency derivatives 35 -45 0.31 -0.39 Refer to Note 1, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Net interest income, derivatives -5 -9 -0.05 -0.08 Exchange rate changes on investments 2 -12 0.02 -0.10 Note 3 Property expenses Other interest income and expenses 3 17 0.03 0.15 2018 2017 Other financial expenses -15 -16 -0.14 -0.15 Energy, fuel and water 151 143 Capitalised interest expense, projects 2 1 0.02 0.01 Property operations 281 272 Recognised net financial Property tax 41 41 items -110 -118 -0.99 -1.03 Maintenance 91 77 Change in value of Total 564 533 ­financial derivatives 10 -18 0.09 -0.15 Total net financial items -100 -136 -0.90 -1.18 During the year SEK 2 million (1) in interest was capitalised in respect of investments in buildings under construction. Interest equivalent to Note 4 Administration six months’ Stibor plus a surcharge was used when capitalising. 2018 2017 Payroll expenses 45 42 Net financial items recognised according to classification category Depreciation of plant and equipment 2 3 Financial income 2018 2017 Other expenses (Inspections, consultants’ fees, other) 7 10 Financial assets measured at FVTPL Total 54 55 Interest income, covered bonds 3 17 Net gains, derivatives 35 Refer to Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, to see the Net losses, derivatives total payroll expenses. Unallocated administrative expenses are Total recognised in profit or loss (net reported in this note. financial items) 38 17 Financial assets measured at amortised cost Note 5 Auditors’ fees, SEK thousand Interest income, tax account 0 0 Interest income, other 0 2018 2017 Other financial income 0 Ernst & Young Total interest income using Audit assignment 600 571 ­effective-interest method 0 0 Audit activities other than the audit assignment 56 72 Tax advice 122 44 Exchange-rate changes on foreign loans 0 45 Other services 45 Exchange rate changes on investments 2 2 Total 778 732 Total financial income 40 64 The audit assignment refers to the examination of the annual report, Financial expenses the accounting records and the administration by the Board and CEO. This also includes a fee for audit advice provided in connection with Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL the audit assignment. Audit activities refers to the examination of the Interest expense, interest-rate administration or of financial information arising from statutes, the ­derivatives -5 -9 Articles of Association, regulations or agreements that result in a Change in value, currency derivatives -45 report or other document also intended to form the basis for an Total recognised in profit or loss assessment by persons other than the principal as well as advice or (net financial items) -5 -54 other assistance brought about by observations during the review The table continues on the next page. assignment. Other services include advice that is not attributable to any of the above types of service and which do not concern taxes. The auditors Ernst & Young AB were elected at the 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 AGMs. 86 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued Note 6 Financial income and expenses Financial expenses, Cont. 2018 2017 Change in value of financial Financial liabilities measured ­derivatives recognised by category at amortised cost and classification 2018 2017 Interest expenses, bonds -112 -112 Changes in value on financial assets Interest expense, commercial paper 14 13 Derivatives measured at fair value 12 8 Interest expense, whole loan repos 1 0 Changes in value on financial liabilities Interest expense, non-current loans Derivatives measured at fair value -2 -26 Other financial expenses -13 -16 Total change in value of financial ­derivatives 10 -18 Total interest expense with the ­effective-interest method -110 -115 Exchange-rate changes on foreign loans -35 Exchange rate changes on investments 0 -13 ECLs on financial assets Total financial expenses -150 -182 Total recognised net financial items -110 -118 Note 7 Employees, payroll expenses and Board fees, SEK thousand Parent Company total Pension expenses 2018 2017 2018 2017 Number of employees 144 144 Chairman of the Board Of whom women 25.69% 29.17% Other Board members Of whom men 74.31% 70.83% Total The subsidiaries have no employees Senior executives Parent Company including the Board and senior executives 2018 2017 2018 2017 Salaries and other remuneration Salaries and other remuneration 84,458 76,724 Chief Executive Officer 2,446 2,354 Social security expenses1 43,975 39,145 Other senior executives 7,710 7,409 Total 10,156 9,763 1) Of which, pension expenses 14,018 12,148 Board of Directors Pension expenses 2018 2017 Chief Executive Officer 743 723 Salaries and other remuneration Other senior executives 2,405 2,305 Chairman of the Board 273 258 Total 3,148 3,028 Other Board members 757 720 Total 1,030 978 Specification of remuneration to Board members 1 2018 2017 Salaries and other Other Salaries and other Other ­remuneration benefits ­remuneration benefits Eva Landén2 273 160 Bo Lundgren3 65 258 Jan Berg 154 150 Carin Götblad 134 130 Mikael Lundström 134 130 Ulrika Nordström3 Erik Tranaeus 4 Maj-Charlotte Wallin 154 150 Åsa Wiren5 116 Total 1,030 978 1) The 2018 AGM resolved that annual Board fees would be payable in an amount of SEK 260,000 to the Chairman of the Board and SEK 125,000 each to other Board members. In addition to the ordinary Board fees, a fee of SEK 30,000 per year was paid to each member of the Audit and Finance Committee and SEK 10,000 per year to each member of the Remuneration Committee. A fee of SEK 40,000 per year was paid to the Chairman of the Audit and Finance Committee and SEK 10,000 per year to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Fees are only paid to members elected by the AGM, not employees of Specialfastigheter or the Government Offices of Sweden. No remuneration over and above that decided by the AGM has been paid to the Chairman of the Board or any Board member. Board fees have been paid as salary, but in two cases were invoiced in Q1 2018 within the framework of the operations conducted in the Board members’ companies. 2) E lected to the Board at the 2018 AGM. 3) Stepped down in conjunction with the 2018 AGM. 4) Co-opted Board member for Ulrika Nordström from June 2017 until the 2018 AGM. Elected to the Board at the 2018 AGM. 5) Elected to the Board at the 2018 AGM. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 87 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 7 Employees, payroll expenses and Board fees, SEK thousand Specification of remuneration to senior executives6 Salaries and other Other Pension remuneration benefits7 expenses8 Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 CEO, Åsa Hedenberg 2,446 2,354 48 49 743 723 3,237 3,126 Business Director Sweden, Torbjörn Blücher 1,187 1,184 61 59 377 357 1,625 1,600 Deputy CEO/CFO, Kristina Ferenius 1,470 1,299 63 59 450 428 1,983 1,786 Projects and Development Director, Göran Cumlin 1,231 1,193 59 46 383 382 1,673 1,621 Director of Operations Support, Henrik Nyström 936 908 35 35 318 293 1,289 1,236 Property Management Director, Åsa Welander 1,061 1,039 48 52 281 277 1,390 1,368 HR Director, Christina Burlin 1,039 1,017 2 0 382 363 1,423 1,380 Communication Director, Hanna Janson 786 769 1 0 214 205 1,001 974 Total 10,156 9,763 317 300 3,148 3,028 13,621 13,091 6) There are no individual management contracts or terms relating to severance payments for any senior executives other than the CEO. Notice periods mainly follow collective agreements. There are some individual contracts with mutual 3or 6-month notice periods. Pensions follow an ITP plan with a retirement age of 65. 7) C  ompany car, subsidised meals and other benefits such as healthcare insurance. 8) A ny voluntary salary sacrifice arrangement is included in the total. Total for the Parent Company including the Board and senior executives The Board, including alternates, comprises 11 (11) members; of whom five (five) would have enabled it to recognise this plan as a defined-benefit plan. Accordare women and six (six) are men. Seven members are elected at the AGM and four ingly, the ITP pension plan secured via insurance with Alecta was recognised as members are appointed by employee organisations. The executive management a defined-contribution plan. Fees for the year for pension insurance policies team, which includes the CEO, is made up of eight (eight) individuals; of whom ­provided by Alecta were approximately SEK 5 million (5). Alecta’s surplus may be five are women and three are men. No variable remuneration or agreements on distributed to the policy owners and/or the insured. At year-end 2018, Alecta’s financial instruments apply for senior executives. Retirement pension and family surpluses in the form of the collective consolidation level was 142% (154). The colpension commitments for salaried employees in Sweden are secured through lective consolidation level is the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage insurance with Alecta. According to a statement from the Swedish Financial of its insurance commitments calculated according to Alecta’s actuarial commitReporting Board, UFR 10, this comprises a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. ments, which do not correspond with IAS 19. For the 2018 financial year, the company did not have access to information that Sick leave, % of total working hours 2018 2017 Long-term sick Long-term sick Sick leave/ leave/Total sick Sick leave/ leave/Total sick Reg. hours, % leave, % Reg. hours, % leave, % Women 1.88 26.90 1.05 0.00 Men 1.86 20.74 3.44 59.92 Employees under 30 * * * * Employees aged 30-49 1.63 17.46 2.52 39.19 Employees over 49 2.10 28.50 3.03 66.69 All employees 1.87 22.47 2.73 53.06 *) No data is provided as the group is less than 10 people. Note 8 Realised gain/loss on property sales 2018 2017 Proceeds, properties sold 3 112 Fair value, properties sold -2 -82 Selling expenses 0 -1 Total 1 29 88 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 9 Investment properties Investment properties are recognised using the fair-value method (IAS 40) Acquisition (+)/Disposals (–) Properties owned Total 2018 properties for the full year 2018 Opening fair value 25,002 25,002 Investments regarding post-acquisition expenditure 822 822 Capitalised interest expenses 2 2 Acquisitions (+) 58 58 Divestments (–) Unrealised changes in value 1,404 1,404 Closing fair value 58 27,230 27,288 Acquisition (+)/Disposals (–) Properties owned Total 2017 properties for the full year 2017 Opening fair value 22,999 22,999 Investments regarding post-acquisition expenditure 727 727 Capitalised interest expenses 1 1 Acquisitions (+) 670 670 Divestments (–) -227 -227 Unrealised changes in value 832 832 Closing fair value 443 24,559 25,002 Tax assessment value 2018 2017 Fiscal residual values 2018 2017 Buildings 3,152 3,077 Buildings 7,784 7,745 Land 1,010 1,007 Land 1,536 1,480 Total 4,162 4,084 Total 9,320 9,225 Investment properties Valuation method Investment properties are properties held with the objective of generThe estimated values of Specialfastigheter’s investment properties are ating rental income and/or value growth. Investment properties are determined by means of an internal valuation based on actual data in initially recognised at cost, which includes all expenses directly attribrespect of rents and operating expenses. In order to assure the quality utable to the acquisition. Investment properties are recognised on the of the internal evaluation, it is cross-checked against an external evalubalance sheet at fair value. Fair value is based principally on valuations ation of 50 (48) objects, equivalent to 90% (87) of the total value. carried out by company personnel. Valuations are cross-checked against valuations carried out by independent, external appraisers External valuations take place according to a rolling schedule. The with recognised qualifications and appropriate skills for valuing prop­difference between the external and internal evaluations amounts erties of the types and locations in question. External valuations take to less than 3% (3). Specialfastigheter applies a value below that place every six months according to a rolling schedule. obtained from the external valuations. The market’s required yield is used principally when calculating residual values, that is the property’s Fair value is based on the market value, which is the estimated amount estimated market value at the end of the calculation period. that would be obtained in a transaction at the valuation date between knowledgeable, independent parties who have an interest in the The calculations are performed on a nominal basis using inflation of transaction being carried out after customary marketing in which both 2.0% (2.0) for the first year and 2.0% (2.0) per year for the remaining parties are assumed to have acted with insight, common sense and years in the calculation. The valuation properties generally have relawithout coercion. Both unrealised and realised changes in value are tively long rental agreements with tenants who are considered to be recognised in profit or loss. Rental income and income from property reliable payers. Therefore, it is appropriate to use a differentiated cost sales are recognised in line with the principles described in the Reveof capital for net operating income and residual value in connection nue recognition section; see Note 1 to the consolidated financial with the calculation of yield value. With regard to reliable rental statements. income, the estimated cost of capital over the contract period was mainly between 5.00% and 5.25%. The cost of capital in 2017 was Subsequent expenditures – Investment properties between 5.00% and 5.25%. The required yield ranges mostly from ­recognised using the fair-value method 4.65% to 9.70% depending on property location. The required yield Subsequent expenditures that entail a future financial advantage for in 2017 was between 5.25% and 9.70%. The average yield was 5.78% the company, that is, which are value enhancing and can be calculated (6.51). We note continued substantial market interest in our type of in a reliable manner, are capitalised as assets. Other expenditures, properties, known as public sector properties. repairs and maintenance are expensed during the period in which they arise. The operations and maintenance expense levels used in the cash-flow statements are derived from normalised values based on current Under IFRS 13, valuations of property holdings are categorised maintenance plans. Current rental terms have been used as the basis according to one of three levels. There are different degrees of uncerin the cash-flow statements. The values take into account the best and tainty in the valuation depending on the level used. Specialfastigheter maximum use of the properties. uses Level 3, where the degree of uncertainty is greatest as there is insufficient transaction/market data to allow using another level. Estimated market rents have been applied in the cash-flow statements from the moment when the current rental period expires. We Level 1 Prices quoted in active markets obtained current market yield requirements and costs of capital from Level 2 Observable data other than data in Level 1 an external appraiser for use as supporting data in valuation calculaLevel 3 Unobservable data tions. The appraiser has carried out various investigations and analyses regarding the property category concerned. This included examining various property transactions completed. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 89 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 9 Investment properties continued, Note 10 Taxes Rental income for the year totalled SEK 1,956 million (1,846). Future Recognised in the balance sheet 2018 2017 rents attributable to non-terminable operational leases mature as shown below. Deferred tax liability -3,247 -2,990 Current tax liability 1 -28 Maturity Profile, SEK million 2018 2017 Total -3,246 -3,018 Within 1 year Properties 44 56 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Housing 3 3 Investment properties -2,933 -2,681 Between 1 and 5 years Financial assets 10 21 Properties 535 457 Tax allocation reserve -243 -244 Beyond 5 years Accelerated depreciation -81 -86 Properties 1,534 1,495 Total -3,247 -2,990 Total 2,116 2,011 Deferred tax has been calculated with a tax rate of 20.6% in 2018 due to a ­reduction in corporation tax for 2019 and 2021. No deferred tax has been ­recognised in equity. Annualised earnings Sensitivity analysis, Percentage impact, SEK million variable point change 2018 2017 Rental income +/-1% 17.0 16.1 Note 11 Other property plant and equipment Property operations and utilities excl. ­electricity +/-1% 4.0 3.9 Plant and equipment 2018 2017 Maintenance expenses1 +/-1% 2.9 2.9 Opening cost 25 25 Interest +/-1% 48.6 45.6 Purchases 2 0 Market rates, Sales and disposals 0 0 derivative instruments2 +/-1% 23.2 24.9 Closing accumulated cost 27 25 Price change, purOpening depreciation 19 16 chased covered bond3 +/-1% 24.2 30.4 Sales and disposals 0 0 Cost of capital4 +0.25% -354 -314 Depreciation for the year 2 3 Cost of capital4 -0.25% 250 324 Closing accumulated depreciation 21 19 Yield 4 +0.25% -850 -584 Closing residual value according to plan 6 6 Yield 4 -0.25% 832 643 Each variable in the above table has been tested individually. 1) Includes capitalised maintenance expenses according to IFRS. 2) Impact on earnings relates to the change in value of derivative instruments. Note 12 Financial investments 3) The impact on earnings relates to momentary changes in deposited covered bonds as of 31 December 2018 with a nominal value of SEK 900 million. Derivatives 2018 2017 4) Impact on earnings relates to change in value of investment properties. Non-current investments Interest-rate and currency derivatives measured at FVTPL 20 49 Note 10 Taxes Electricity derivatives measured at FVTPL 12 5 Total 32 54 Recognised in profit or loss 2018 2017 Current tax 145 157 Current investments Deferred tax expense 257 289 Interest-rate and currency derivatives Total recognised consolidated tax measured at FVTPL 6 0 expense 402 446 Electricity derivatives measured at FVTPL 17 3 Reconciliation of effective tax Total 23 3 Recognised EBT 2,825 2,165 Swedish income tax rate, 22% 621 476 Other financial investments Tax-exempt income 0 Non-current investments Non-deductible expenses 1 CSA deposits 64 74 Adjusted sale proceeds -32 Covered bonds 926 1,040 Standard interest tax allocation reserve 1 1 Other shares and participations 0 0 Accumulated deferred tax, restated Total 990 1,114 with an income tax rate of 20.6% -220 Total 402 446 The Group has entered into Credit Support Annexes to ISDA agreements in order to manage exposures to counter-party risks in derivative contracts. These agreements are mutual and mean that the parties jointly undertake to provide collateral in the form of cash and cash equivalents for the underlying value of derivative contracts outstanding. As of 31 December 2018, the Group had lodged collateral totalling SEK 64 million (74). One deposit of SEK 20 million regarding Nomura, one deposit of SEK 33 million for Nordea and one deposit of SEK 11 million for SEB. ­Collateral was lodged in the form of seven (eight) covered bonds. As of 31 December 2018, the collateral amounted to SEK 926 million (1,040). 90 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 13 Other receivables Note 14 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Non-current receivables 2018 2017 2018 2017 Value-added tax for adjustment 6 13 Prepaid energy expenses 3 4 Total 6 13 Other interim receivables 21 25 Total 24 29 Current receivables Opening suspended VAT 22 12 Other receivables 1 0 Total 23 12 Note 15 Cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 Bank balances 12 465 Total 12 465 Note 16 Interest-bearing liabilities 2018 2017 Funding is distributed as follows Category – Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Non-current liabilities Loans 8,510 9,464 Carrying Nominal Fair 2018 amount amount value Current liabilities Overdraft facility Loans 4,891 4,317 CSA deposits Total 13,401 13,781 Commercial paper 3,041 3,040 3,043 Of the Group’s and the Parent Company’s non-current loan liabilities, Fixed-interest bonds 7,399 7,405 7,697 SEK 2,589 million (2,442) matures more than five years after the Floating-rate bonds 2,329 2,320 2,321 balance­-sheet date. Inflation-linked bonds 189 190 189 Foreign currency bonds are translated to the balance-sheet date Foreign currency bonds 443 456 444 SEK exchange rate. The fair value of derivatives corresponds to the Total 13,401 13,411 13,694 translated amounts of the bonds, thus largely neutralizing the foreign exchange effects. The market value of foreign currency bonds is translated to the balance-sheet date exchange rate and recognised in the Carrying Nominal Fair tables in SEK. Fair value is measured by discounting future cash flows 2017 amount amount value at the market interest rate on the balance-sheet date for the respecOverdraft facility tive maturity pursuant to level 2, IFRS 13. The fair value of foreign curCSA deposits rency bonds is measured by discounting future cash flows at listed Commercial paper 2,867 2,865 2,868 market interest rates and exchange rates for the respective maturity Fixed-interest bonds 7,647 7,655 7,914 at the balance-sheet date. Floating-rate bonds 2,674 2,670 2,671 Inflation-linked bonds 184 190 184 Foreign currency bonds 409 456 418 Total 13,781 13,836 14,055 Maturity profile Carrying Nominal Fair value Carrying Nominal Fair 2018 amount amount 2017 amount amount value 2018 2018 4,317 4,315 4,323 2019 4,891 4,890 4,905 2019 1,851 1,850 1,885 2020 1,120 1,120 1,136 2020 1,120 1,120 1,146 2021 1,700 1,700 1,746 2021 1,700 1,700 1,763 2022 2,351 2,350 2,378 2022 2,351 2,350 2,375 2023 750 756 744 2023 409 456 418 2024 976 980 1,043 2024 975 980 1,043 2025 500 500 524 2025 500 500 521 2026 374 375 400 2026 374 375 397 2027 2027 2028 2028 2029 2029 2030 and beyond 739 740 818 2030 and beyond 184 190 184 Total 13,401 13,411 13,694 Total 13,781 13,836 14,055 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 91 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 16 Interest-bearing liabilities Group financing in foreign currency at the balance-sheet date 2018 Currency Nominal Interest % Interest in SEK Nominal amount in SEK Carrying amount in SEK USD 25,000,000 2.56 0.34 227,790,000 221,675,000 USD 25,000,000 2.59 0.37 227,790,000 221,675,000 2017 Currency Nominal Interest % Interest in SEK Nominal amount in SEK Carrying amount in SEK USD 25,000,000 2.56 -0.03 227,790,000 204,395,000 USD 25,000,000 2.59 0.00 227,790,000 204,395,000 Significant contractual conditions The Group’s loan agreements include an ownership clause which ­entitles lenders to call in a loan early if the state’s ownership level Note 17 Other liabilities falls below 100%. Other liabilities 2018 2017 Hedge accounting Customer advances 0 0 Hedge accounting is not applied by the Group. VAT 109 104 Currency distribution Other liabilities 2 3 When funding in foreign currency, all future payment flows are Total 111 107 hedged so that currency risks are eliminated. All interest payments and future repayments are hedged through currency swaps. The table “Group financing in foreign currency at the balance-sheet date” shows foreign currency at the balance-sheet date by original Note 18  ccrued expenses and deferred A currency and after taking currency swaps into account. Foreign curincome rency loans are translated at the closing-date exchange rate and the exchange-rate change is reported in net financial items. 2018 2017 Deferred rental income 525 496 The Group has entered into Credit Support Annexes to ISDA agreements in order to manage exposures to counter-party risks in derivaAccrued energy expenses 14 16 tive contracts. These agreements are mutual and mean that the parAccrued interest expenses 37 40 ties jointly undertake to provide collateral in the form of cash and cash Accrued social-security expenses 2 equivalents for the underlying value of derivative contracts outstandAccrued holiday pay 9 8 ing. The Group has not received any collateral as of 31 December 2018 Accrued payroll tax 3 3 but has provided collateral in three cases. Refer to Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. Other items 11 12 Total 601 575 92 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 19 Financial risks and financial policy The Group and Parent Company are exposed to various types of finanOn the balance-sheet date, unutilised guaranteed loan commitments, cial risk through their business operations. The term financial risks and cash and cash equivalents amounted to SEK 5,562 million (5,215) means fluctuations in the company’s performance and cash flow due covering the refinancing risk for the next 18 months’ (17) maturity. to the effect of interest-rate, financing, credit, currency and electricity price risk. All Group financial risks are brought into the Parent ComNo special undertakings are included in loan commitments other than pany and managed from there. The Group’s financial risks comprise ownership clauses and disclosure commitments. Three loan committhe financial operations of the Parent Company. The Group’s financial ments totalling SEK 2,500 million increase the margin on loans drawn policy for managing financial risk has been adopted by the Board and from the facility if the company’s rating falls below AA-. The maturity comprises a framework of guidelines and rules in the form of risk manof financial liabilities has been spread over time to limit refinancing dates and limits for financial operations. The policy is designed to risk. As of 31 December 2018, loan-to-maturity was 3.8 years (3.4), and ensure that the owner’s required return on equity is achieved in the taking unutilised guaranteed loan commitments into consideration, safest way possible. The overall objective of treasury operations is to loan-to-maturity was 4.8 (4.3) years. provide cost-effective funding and to minimise the adverse effects of market fluctuations on the Group’s earnings. During the year, we decreased investments in covered bonds by SEK 100 million to a total nominal amount of SEK 900 million (1,000) with a Financial operations medium-term maturity; these investments are used as collateral for The Parent Company’s financial department manages the Group’s raising whole loan repos. financial transactions and risks centrally. The company’s Finance ­Manager deals with operational activities. The company’s nominal gross financial liability totalled SEK 13,411 million (13,836) at year end. Further reductions of the refinancing risk are Rating achieved by diversifying funding sources; refer to the “Credit faciliThe credit rating institute Standard & Poor’s (S&P) has rated the comties” table. Borrowing is conducted in the Swedish and international pany’s long-term funding with an AA+/Stable outlook and retained credit markets through bond and commercial paper programmes and A-1+ for short-term funding. S&P raised the rating from AA to AA+ in in the Swedish and international banking markets. Specialfastigheter 2005 given the continued long-term ownership aims of the Swedish conducts borrowing against the balance sheet without pledging government and the company’s long-term ability to achieve the ownproperties. The company’s loan contracts have included an ownership er’s return requirement. S&P confirmed the AA+ rating on 19 Decemclause ever since 1999, which strengthens lenders’ positions. The ber 2018. When S&P assesses Specialfastigheter’s stand-alone creditclause means that lenders are entitled to call a loan in early if state worthiness – the company’s ability to stand-alone without Swedish ownership falls below 100%. state ownership – we receive an AAcredit rating. The “Liquidity risk” table on page 95 shows agreed undiscounted Interest-rate risk cash flows, which include all financial liabilities including interest payInterest-rate risk refers to the risk of negative effects on interest ments. Where the future variable interest rate is unknown, it has been expenses for existing and future financing due to interest-rate estimated with the aid of implicit forward interest rates. Rental income changes. Specialfastigheter’s interest-rate exposure is governed by is used to meet the future commitments presented in the table. Credit limiting the proportion maturing within 12 months to a maximum of risk is assessed as negligible for rental income. 70% of the net loan portfolio. The average fixed-interest period should be within a range of 1–5 years. On the closing date, the average Credit risks and counterparty risks in financial operations fixed-interest period was 3.2 years (3.2). The fixed-interest period Financial credit risk refers primarily to counterparty risks in connection shows how quickly a change in interest rates will impact in the form with receivables from banks and other counterparties. The risk arises of increased borrowing expenses. The objective of interest-rate risk in derivatives trading or the investment of cash and cash equivalents. management is to achieve low interest expenses over time while Specialfastigheter’s policy to reduce credit risk is that the investment adapting the interest-rate profile to underlying business possibilities. of cash and cash equivalents and entering into of derivative contracts At 31 December 2018, the portfolio’s average interest rate for loans may only be carried out with a limited number of counterparties and and derivatives was 0.85% (0.82). Inflation-linked bonds were issued within approved limits. Cash and cash equivalents are used in practice for SEK 190 million (190) to protect inflation-linked items in the income to repay loans. Derivative counterparties are banks with high credit statement, such as rental income and, operating and maintenance ratings. expenses. The company’s counterparty risk in derivative contracts totalled SEK The company’s financial policy permits the use of derivatives. The 55 million (57) as of 31 December 2018; this corresponds to the compamain derivatives used are interest-rate swaps. The risk exposure of the ny’s total receivables from unrealised derivatives with positive values. total portfolio is governed by limits for fixed-interest periods. This leads to the limitation of the total risk effect of the derivatives portfoCSA deposits are in the form of cash deposits. lio. The company conducts derivative transactions to cost effectively manage the whole financial portfolio’s allocation of interest-rate The credit risk in daily business operations is limited by advance exposure over time. The derivatives portfolio has created a redistribuinvoicing of rents, long leases and by tenants having a strong connection of interest-rate exposure from shorter to longer terms; refer to the tion to the Swedish state. “Fixed-interest maturity structure and loan-to-maturity.” The volume for loan-to-maturity includes loans and investments in covered bonds. Receivables mainly comprise lease receivables for which the Group The fixed-interest volume includes loans, derivatives and investments has chosen to apply the simplified approach for ECL recognition. This in covered bonds. The loan liability is calculated as a net liability, after entails making ECL provisions for the remaining lifetimes, which are taking into account any positive balances and investments. expected to be less than one year for all receivables. The Group applies a rating-based method for calculating ECLs based on probaFinancing risk bility of default, expected loss and exposure at default. The Group Financing risk refers to the risk that existing financing cannot be defines default as when receivables are 90 days or more past-due, or replaced or only at exceptionally high cost. The risk to Specialfasif other factors indicate that a suspension of payments applies. The tigheter also includes not being able to secure financing, for example Group has essentially one counterparty, namely the Swedish state. in connection with a major acquisition. To limit financing risk, SpecialAt present, the counterparty’s credit rating is AAA, which means that fastigheter strives to raise credits with long maturities and even matuthe risk of credit losses is deemed negligible. Therefore, the Group rity profiles for commercial paper and bonds issued. To further reduce has not made any provision for ECLs. financing risk, there are also guaranteed loan commitments and overdrafts totalling SEK 5,550 million (4,750). SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 93 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 19 Financial risks and financial policy The Parent Company applies the general approach for ECL provisions The following table shows the Group’s borrowing and hedging in on intra-Group receivables. The Parent Company applies a rating­­foreign currency. based method for calculating ECLs based on probability of default, expected loss and exposure at default. At the balance-sheet date, Nominal amounts (SEK) per business day the Group had a credit rating of AA+ from Standard & Poor’s. The risk 2018 nature of subsidiaries’ operations and types of properties are compaOriginal currency Loan Derivatives Total rable to that of the Parent Company and, accordingly, the subsidiaries are assumed to have comparable credit ratings. The Parent Company USD 456.0 -456.0 0 defines default as when receivables are 90 days or more past-due, or if other factors indicate that a suspension of payments applies.At the bal2017 ance-sheet date, no material increase in credit risk is assessed as applyOriginal currency Loan Derivatives Total ing for any intra-Group receivables. Based on the Parent Company’s assessments using the above approach and taking into consideration USD 456.0 -456.0 0 other known information and forward-looking factors, ECLs are not Electricity price risk expected to be material and therefore no provision has been made. Electricity price risk refers to the risk of fluctuations in the future price of electricity adversely affecting the company’s operating expenses. Financial items that have matured for payment at the As a consequence of this, the company has established an electricity year end, SEK million price policy with a long-term price-hedging strategy; refer to the 2018 2017 “Hedged portion of future electricity consumption” table. To limit the Financial assets 91 79 electricity price risk for estimated electricity consumption, the comFinancial liabilities 2 3 pany buys price-hedging contracts in the form of electricity futures. These are managed through day-to-day analysis of the electricity An impairment of SEK 0 million (0) was carried out on the balance­­market and the company’s own portfolio. Price hedging is done in sub sheet date. SEK 1 million (1) of trade receivables were unpaid at 31 Janitems to reduce the risk of undertaking large price hedges in expenuary 2019. Trade payables of SEK 1 million (2) were unpaid in January. sive circumstances. In this way the hedged portion increases as the consumption date approaches. By the time a budgeted price is to be Credit rating, financial assets, SEK million given for the coming year, a large portion has been price-hedged. Simplified General 2018 approach approach Specialfastigheter passes on most of the electricity cost to its tenants, which means the price risk to the company is negligible. Trade Credit rating receivables Stage 1 Total Derivatives No credit rating/trade Specialfastigheter uses derivative instruments to manage interreceivables 2 2 est-rate risk and to thereby achieve the desired fixed-rate structure AAA 151 and to manage currency risk and to hedge loans in foreign currencies. AA 1 152 A 11 11 Over time, changes in value may arise in the derivatives portfolio owing to changes in market interest rates and exchange rates. These BBB unrealised changes in value are recognised in profit or loss. Electricity Total 153 12 165 derivatives are measured at fair value and recognised in profit or loss. The electricity consumption expense is recognised on an ongoing Currency risk basis in profit or loss. Financial interest-rate derivatives are measured Foreign currency borrowing outside the Swedish market takes place if at fair value according to the closing interest rate as of the balance­it is advantageous from an overall cost or diversification perspective. sheet date. Foreign currency exposures must be hedged if they exceed a value equivalent to SEK 5 million. Foreign currency hedging refers to the use Financial instruments measured at fair value of financial derivatives or matching between assets and liabilities. The fair value of financial instruments can be determined in various Since the Group’s activities are exclusively denominated in Swedish ways. krona, all currency risks in connection with financing in foreign currencies have been eliminated through currency derivatives. Because c­ urrency Level 1 Fair value determined by prices quoted in an active market exposure also occurs when financial electricity derivatives are taken for the same instrument. up, they are hedged by means of currency derivatives. The effects of Level 2 Fair value determined either by directly or indirectly the unrealised change in value are reported under “Change in value observable market data not included in Level 1. of financial instruments, unrealised” in the income statement, while Level 3 Fair value determined based on data that is not observforeign currency loans are translated at the balance-sheet date able in the market. exchange rate and reported in net financial items. The table on page 95 describes how fair value was determined for the company’s financial instruments. 94 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 19 Financial risks and financial policy Financial instruments – Measured at fair value Prices quoted in Measurement based Measurement based on an active market on observable data ­information other than 2018 (Level 1) (Level 2) observable data (Level 3) Total Interest-rate swaps -50 -50 Currency swaps -23 -23 Electricity futures 28 28 Net 28 -73 -45 Prices quoted in Measurement based Measurement based on an active market on observable data ­information other than 2017 (Level 1) (Level 2) observable data (Level 3) Total Interest-rate swaps -40 -40 Currency swaps -56 -56 Electricity futures 6 6 Net 6 -96 -90 Credit facilities Loan limit Utilised 2018 2017 2018 2017 CSA deposits -64 -74 Group overdraft 800 1,000 -12 -465 Guaranteed loan commitments 4,750 3,750 Commercial paper 5,000 4,000 3,040 2,865 MTN programme 13,000 13,000 9,725 10,325 Private Placements 956 956 646 646 Whole loan repos 900 1,000 Investments -900 -1,000 -900 -1,000 Total 24,506 22,706 12,435 12,297 Liquidity risk 2018 Loan Derivatives, inflow Derivatives, outflow Derivatives, total Trade payables Less than 3 months -1,663 0 -4 -4 -169 Between 3 and 12 months -3,359 28 -16 12 Between 1 and 3 years -5,458 56 -59 -3 Between 3 and 5 years -2,368 24 -28 -4 Total -12,848 108 -107 1 -169 2017 Loan Derivatives, inflow Derivatives, outflow Derivatives, total Trade payables Less than 3 months -2,280 2 -7 -5 -148 Between 3 and 12 months -2,156 27 -17 10 Between 1 and 3 years -4,967 66 -62 4 Between 3 and 5 years -3,919 43 -50 -7 Total -13,322 138 -136 2 -148 Exposure to counterparty risks distributed across different rating categories Institute with long rating, 2018 Asset Liability Securities received/paid Net exposure AA20 -57 33 -4 A+ 6 -19 11 -2 A -23 20 -3 BBB+ Electricity derivatives 29 -1 28 Total 55 -100 64 19 Institute with long rating, 2017 Asset Liability Securities received/paid Net exposure AA22 -57 33 -2 A+ 18 -23 -5 A 9 -65 41 -15 BBB+ Electricity derivatives 8 -2 6 Total 57 -147 74 -16 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 95 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 19 Financial risks and financial policy Hedged portion of future electricity consumption 2018 2017 Year GWh Min. limit Max. limit Proportion Year GWh Min. limit Max. limit Proportion 2019 102 70% 100% 78% 2018 102 70% 100% 79% 2020 102 40% 100% 45% 2019 102 40% 100% 60% 2021 102 20% 100% 45% 2020 102 20% 100% 30% 2022 102 0% 100% 20% 2021 102 0% 100% 25% Maturity profile for electricity derivatives 2018 2017 Year GWh Market value Year GWh Market value 2019 79 16 2018 80 2 2020 46 7 2019 61 2 2021 46 5 2020 31 1 2022 20 0 2021 26 1 2023 0 2022 0 0 Total 191 28 Total 198 6 Derivative portfolio’s market value 2018 2017 Nominal value Positive value Negative value Nominal value Positive value Negative value Currency swaps 456 0 23 456 9 65 Interest-rate swaps 1,797 26 76 3,104 40 80 Electricity futures 29 1 8 2 Total 2,253 55 100 3,560 57 147 Sensitivity analysis Change Pre-tax change in profit or loss Change in equity after tax Change in net financial items if market rate Earnings decrease SEK 49 million (46) Equity decreases SEK 39 million (36) increases 1%, annual expense change Change in value of financial derivatives if Earnings increase SEK 23 million (25) Equity increases SEK 18 million (19) ­market rate increases 1% Currency risk is hedged by currency swaps, No change No change which removes the effect of exchange-rate changes Electricity price risk – electricity futures reduce No change No change price volatility. The majority of electricity expenses are then passed on to the tenants. Fixed-interest maturity structure and loan-to-maturity Fixed-interest Loan-to-maturity 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 5,5141 4,2431 2019 5,7131 5982 4,8281 1,1762 2020 3992 3942 7992 8072 2021 1,696 2 1,695 2 1,390 2 1,3892 2022 1,8462 1,8462 2,1452 2,1462 2023 1862 153 6482 409 2024 846 845 976 975 2025 500 500 500 500 2026 374 374 374 374 2027 2028 2029 2030 and beyond 839 284 739 184 Total 12,399 12,203 12,399 12,203 1) Includes CSA deposits given and received. 2) Includes investments in covered bonds. 96 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 19 Financial risks and financial policy Carrying amount per category 2018 2017 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Financial assets measured at FVTPL Interest-rate derivatives 26 26 40 40 Currency derivatives 9 9 Electricity derivatives 29 29 8 8 Covered bonds 926 926 1,040 1,040 Shares and participations 0 0 0 0 Financial assets measured at amortised cost Trade receivables 153 1531 144 1441 CSA deposits 64 641 74 741 Accrued interest income Cash and cash equivalents 12 12 465 465 Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL Interest-rate derivatives 76 76 80 80 Currency derivatives 23 23 65 65 Electricity derivatives 1 1 2 2 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Commercial paper 3,041 3,0432 2,867 2,8682 Fixed-interest bonds 7,399 7,697 2 7,647 7,9142 Floating-rate bonds 2,329 2,321 2 2,674 2,6712 Inflation-linked bonds 189 1892 184 1842 Foreign currency bonds 443 4442 409 4182 Trade payables 169 169 1 148 1481 CSA deposits Accrued interest expenses 37 371 40 401 1) Fair value is measured by discounting future cash flows at the market interest rate on the balance-sheet date for the respective maturity. The fair value of bonds in foreign currency is measured by discounting future cash flows at the balance-sheet date exchange rate for the respective maturity. At the balance-sheet date there were no material differences between carrying amounts and fair values for trade receivables and trade payables. 2) Market quotations and generally accepted Level 2 calculation methods are used to determine fair value on the closing date. The Group’s maximum credit risk comprises the net amounts in the above table. The Group has not received any pledged collateral for the net financial assets. The financial assets encompassed by an ECL provision pursuant to the general approach consist of cash and cash equivalents, CSA deposits and accrued interest income. Specialfastigheter applies a rating-based approach in combination with other known information and forward-looking factors to assess ECLs. The Group defines default as when receivables are 90 days or more past-due, or if other factors indicate that a suspension of payments applies. In those instances where amounts are not assessed as negligible, an ECL provision is recognised even for these financial instruments. Financial assets and liabilities that are offset or covered by a general netting arrangement Amounts covered by a general or similar netting agreement1 Net amount in Financial Financial collateral, 2018 Gross amount Offset amount ­balance sheet ­instruments received/paid Net amount Derivative assets 55 55 -55 0 Derivative liabilities -100 -100 55 64 19 Total -45 -45 64 19 Amounts covered by a general or similar netting agreement1 Net amount in Financial Financial collateral, 2017 Gross amount Offset amount ­balance sheet ­instruments received/paid Net amount Derivative assets 57 57 -57 Derivative liabilities -147 -147 57 74 -16 Total -90 -90 74 -16 1) These financial assets and liabilities are only offset in the case of insolvency or upon suspension of payments by either party. These also include arrangements where the Group has no intention of divesting the instruments concurrently. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 97 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 19 Financial risks and financial policy Summary of liabilities attributable to financing activities Cash flow items Non-cash items Closing Cash flow from Effect of Closing balance financing Accounting changed Change in Price ­balance 2017 ­activities effects exchange rate fair value change 2018 Interest-bearing liabilities 13,781 -404 -10 35 -1 13,401 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 107 4 111 Interest-rate and cross-currency swaps, fair value hedges 145 0 -35 -11 99 Electricity futures, fair value hedges 2 -1 1 Total liabilities attributable to financing activities 14,035 -400 -10 0 -12 -1 13,612 Cash flow items Non-cash items Closing Cash flow from Effect of Closing balance financing Accounting changed Change in Price ­balance 2016 ­activities effects exchange rate fair value change 2017 Interest-bearing liabilities 12,861 940 22 -45 3 13,781 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 120 -13 107 Interest-rate and cross-currency swaps, fair value hedges 114 45 -14 145 Electricity futures, fair value hedges 3 -1 2 Total liabilities attributable to financing activities 13,098 927 22 -15 3 14,035 Note 20 Related parties Related-party transactions Parent Company Consolidated IFRS Annual Accounts Act 2018 2017 2018 2017 Intra-Group income 7 5 Intra-Group expenses Current intra-Group receivables 5 3 Non-current intra-Group receivables 596 394 Short-term intra-Group liability during winding-up proceedings -259 Transactions with the shareholder Parent Company Consolidated IFRS Annual Accounts Act 2018 2017 2018 2017 Dividend 560 497 No ECLs on financial assets exist within the Group. Note 21 P  ledged assets and contingent There are no dealings with the owner, the Swedish State, other than ­liabilities those stipulated by law. The Parent Company, Specialfastigheter Sverige AB, company registration number 556537-5945, has a close 2018 2017 relationship with its subsidiaries; refer to Note 15 for the Parent Pledged assets None None ­Company. For more information on salaries and other remuneration, Contingent liabilities None None expenses and commitments with respect to pensions and similar ­benefits of the Board, CEO and other senior executives, as well as ­contracts concerning severance payments, see Note 7 to the con­ solidated financial statements. Note 22 Events after the balance-sheet date No significant events have taken place after the end of the period. 98 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Parent Company income statement, SEK million Note Full-year 2018 Full-year 2017 Rental income 1,857 1,768 Other income 2 172 181 Net sales 2,029 1,949 Operating expenses 3 -531 -518 Depreciation of investment properties -672 -609 Gross profit 826 822 Central administration 4, 5 -61 -55 Gain/loss on property sales 6 1 86 Operating profit 7 766 853 Profit/loss from financial investments Other interest income and similar profit/loss items 8 58 74 Interest expense and similar profit/loss items 8 -152 -208 Profit/loss after financial items 672 719 Appropriations 9 -59 -100 Tax on profit for the year 10 -87 -137 Net profit for the year 11 526 482 Of which attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder 526 482 Parent Company – Statement of comprehensive income, SEK million Full-year 2018 Full-year 2017 Net profit for the year 526 482 Total other comprehensive income for the year, net after tax Total comprehensive income for the year 526 482 Of which attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder 526 482 Since the Parent Company’s and the Consolidated income statements and balance sheets largely correspond, we have issued no separate comments for the Parent Company. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 99 PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Parent Company – Balance sheet, SEK million Note 2018 2017 ASSETS Non-current assets Investment properties 12, 13 15,198 15,000 Plant and equipment 14 6 6 Financial assets 15 2,316 2,267 Total non-current assets 17,520 17,273 Current assets Trade receivables 146 144 Tax assets 5 Current investments 16 23 3 Current receivables 17 27 15 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 18 23 28 Cash and bank balances 19 12 465 Total current assets 236 655 Total assets 17,756 17,928 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Restricted equity Share capital (2,000,000 shares) 200 200 Statutory reserve 42 42 Total restricted equity 242 242 Non-restricted equity Retained earnings 124 202 Net profit for the year 526 482 Total non-restricted equity 650 684 Total equity 892 926 Untaxed reserves 20 1,539 1,480 Liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities Green bonds 21 1,244 1,244 Other loan liabilities 21 12,416 12,537 Non-interest-bearing liabilities Tax liability 10 24 Other liabilities 22 371 396 Deferred tax liabilities 10 724 775 Accrued expenses and deferred income 23 570 546 Total liabilities 15,325 15,522 Total equity and liabilities 17,756 17,928 100 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Parent Company – Changes in equity, SEK million Attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Total equity Share Statutory Retained 2018 capital reserve earnings Opening balance, 1 January 2018 200 42 684 926 Comprehensive income Net profit for the year 526 526 Other comprehensive income Total 200 42 1,210 1,452 Transactions with the shareholder Dividend -560 -560 Total transactions with the shareholder -560 -560 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 200 42 650 892 Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Total equity Share Statutory Retained 2017 capital reserve earnings Opening balance, 1 January 2017 200 42 699 941 Comprehensive income Net profit for the year 482 482 Other comprehensive income Total 200 42 1,181 1,423 Transactions with the shareholder Dividend -497 -497 Total transactions with the shareholder -497 -497 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 200 42 684 926 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 101 PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Parent Company – Cash-flow statement, SEK million Full-year 2018 Full-year 2017 Operating activities Gross profit 826 822 Central administration -61 -55 Net financial expense -94 -134 Reversal, change in value of financial investments -45 63 Reversal, change in prices 32 -39 Reversal of depreciation 674 612 Income tax paid -166 -149 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,166 1,120 Change in working capital Change in receivables -2 121 Change in other current liabilities 46 -5 Total change in working capital 44 116 Cash flow from operating activities 1,210 1,236 Investing activities Acquisition of investment properties -58 0 Investment in investment properties -1,015 -1,166 Disposal of investment properties 1 86 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment -2 0 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 0 0 Cash flow from investing activities -1,074 -1,080 Financing activities Investment, covered bonds 116 -148 Borrowings 17,041 17,514 Repayments of borrowings -17,186 -16,564 Dividend paid to Parent Company’s shareholder -560 -497 Cash flow from financing activities -589 305 Cash flow for the year -453 461 Opening cash and cash equivalents 465 4 Closing cash and cash equivalents 12 465 Interest Interest received 9 19 Interest paid 100 108 102 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 Parent Company accounting policies The Parent Company applies the same accounting policies as the The following depreciation rates were used: Group, except in the cases specified below. The deviations between Building fixtures and fittings 10% per year the Parent Company’s and the Group’s policies arise from limitations Buildings 2–7% per year in the Parent Company’s ability to apply IFRS as a result of provisions In ground fixtures and fittings 5% per year in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Pension ObligaLand improvements  5% per year tions Vesting Act, and in certain cases for tax reasons. Buildings Parent Company accounting policies Buildings in the Parent Company are recognised at cost less accumuThe Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts in accordance lated depreciation. Cost consists of the acquisition cost, land registrawith the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and Recommendation RFR 2 of tion costs and value enhancing improvements. Only expenses that the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, Accounting for Legal Entities. generate lasting value enhancement to a property are capitalised. Statements issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board applicaInterest expenses are also capitalised during the production period in ble to listed companies are also applied. RFR 2 means that the Parent the case of major new builds, extensions and redevelopments. Company must apply all EU-approved IFRSs and interpretations insofar as this is possible under the provisions of the Annual Accounts Act, In conjunction with the review of the economic useful life as described the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and with due considerin the Depreciation section above, the company is having all properation to the relationship between accounting and taxation. ties valued using the model described in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. If the value of a property thus estimated falls Changes in accounting policies ­significantly below the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recNew standards and interpretations that entered force in 2018 have not ognised for the property. No impairments were recognised in 2018. had any impact on the financial statements. At 31 December 2018, the Parent Company’s property holdings were valued at SEK 25,651 million. Classification and structure The Parent Company’s income statement and balance sheet follow Plant and equipment the structure of the Annual Accounts Act. The principal difference in Plant and equipment in the Parent Company are reported at cost less comparison with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements applied in accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses in the same way the layout of the Group’s financial statements is the presentation of as for the Group, but with the addition of possible positive revaluations. operating profit, financial income and expenses, non-current assets, equity and the occurrence of provisions as separate headings in the Leased assets balance sheet. For further information, see Note1 to the consolidated financial ­s tatements. Subsidiaries Participations in subsidiaries are recognised in the Parent Company in Taxes accordance with the cost method. Acquisition-related expenses for Untaxed reserves including deferred tax liabilities are recognised in subsidiaries are included in the cost of the shares in the subsidiary. the Parent Company. However, in the consolidated financial stateDividends received are recognised as income. ments untaxed reserves are divided into deferred tax liabilities and equity. Depreciation Earnings in the income statement have been charged with depreciaGroup contributions and shareholder contributions tion according to plan. In the case of plant and equipment, the differfor legal entities ence between fiscal and planned depreciation is reported as an The recipient recognises shareholder’s contributions directly in equity appropriation, and accumulated accelerated depreciation as untaxed and the donor capitalises contributions in shares and participations, reserves. A review of economic lives of buildings was carried out to the extent that impairment is not required. A Group contribution during the year. Since the maximum fiscal rate falls short of planned received by the Parent Company from a subsidiary is recognised depreciation, a deferred tax asset arises. The company includes the applying the same principles as customary dividends from subsidiardeferred tax asset in its total recognised deferred tax liability. ies and are recognised as financial income. Group contributions paid by the Parent Company to subsidiaries are recognised as an increase Planned depreciation is based on an asset’s cost and estimated in the carrying amount of the participations in the subsidiary. No ­economic life. Group contributions were paid during 2018. Financial risk management For further information, see notes 6, 12, 16 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 103 PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 2 Other income Note 8 Net financial items 2018 2017 2018 2017 Invoiced energy and fuel expenses 67 67 Interest income, subsidiaries 5 2 Invoiced services 93 102 Interest income, covered bonds 3 17 Invoiced services within the Group 7 5 Other interest income 1 0 Compensation received 5 7 Investment gains 2 47 Other 0 0 Changes in value on revaluation Total 172 181 of financial derivatives 47 8 Financial income 58 74 Interest expenses, bonds 111 112 Other interest expenses -9 -4 Note 3 Operating expenses Investment losses 34 13 Other financial expenses 16 17 2018 2017 Capitalisation of interest, projects Energy, fuel and water 142 139 in progress -2 -1 Property operations 262 265 Changes in value on revaluation of financial derivatives 2 71 Property tax 40 39 Financial expenses 152 208 Maintenance 87 75 Net financial expense 94 134 Total 531 518 Note 4 Administration Note 9 Appropriations 2018 2017 2018 2017 Difference between book depreciation Payroll expenses 52 42 and depreciation according to plan: Depreciation of plant and equipment 2 3 Plant and equipment 0 -27 Other expenses (Inspections, Provision to tax allocation reserve 209 227 ­consultants’ fees, other) 7 10 Reversal from tax allocation reserve -150 -100 Total 61 55 Total 59 100 Note 5 Auditors’ fees Note 10 Taxes Refer to Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. Recognised in profit or loss 2018 2017 Current tax expense 138 149 Deferred tax expense -51 -12 Note 6 Gain/loss on property sales Total recognised tax 87 137 2018 2017 Reconciliation of effective tax Proceeds, properties sold 3 112 Recognised EBT 613 619 Book value, properties sold -2 -25 Selling expenses 0 -1 Swedish income tax rate, 22% 135 136 Total 1 86 Tax-exempt income 0 0 Non-deductible expenses 0 0 Adjusted sale proceeds 0 0 Standard interest tax allocation reserve 1 1 Note 7 E  mployees, payroll expenses Accumulated deferred tax, restated with an income tax rate of 20.6% -49 and Board fees 87 137 Refer to Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. Recognised in the balance sheet Liabilities Deferred tax liability -724 -775 Current tax asset/liability 5 -24 Total -719 -799 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Financial assets 10 21 Capitalised maintenance expenses -163 -141 Property depreciation, revaluation -571 -655 Total -724 -775 Deferred tax has been calculated with a tax rate of 20.6% in 2018 due to a reduction in corporation tax for 2019 and 2021. No deferred tax has been ­recognised in equity. 104 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 11 Appropriation of profits and dividend Land 2018 2017 Opening cost 1,371 1,388 The dividend paid to the shareholder in May 2018 totalled SEK Purchases 57 560,000,000 (SEK 497,000,000) and comprised an ordinary dividend, Sales and disposals 0 -17 as defined in the dividend policy. The dividend per share was SEK 280 Closing accumulated cost 1,428 1,371 (248.50). Regarding the dividend for this year, the Board proposes that Closing residual value according to plan 1,428 1,371 a dividend of SEK 277.50 per share be paid to the shareholder. A resolution will be taken by the shareholder regarding the dividend at the Tax assessment value, properties in Sweden 977 974 AGM. The dividend has not been taken up as a liability in the annual accounts. The dividend is estimated to total SEK 555,000,000. Land improvements Opening cost 292 267 Non-restricted equity, Parent Company: Projects completed 63 27 Retained earnings 124,196,816 Sales and disposals -2 Net profit for the year 525,669,863 Closing accumulated cost 355 292 Total 649,866,679 The Board and CEO propose that earnings be appropriated Opening depreciation 139 127 as follows: Sales and disposals -2 Depreciation for the year 16 14 Dividend payable to the shareholder 555,000,000 Closing accumulated depreciation 155 139 To be carried forward 94,866,679 Closing residual value according to plan 200 153 Total 649,866,679 In ground fixtures and fittings Opening cost 353 312 Projects completed 46 42 Sales and disposals -1 Note 12 B  uildings, building fixtures and Closing accumulated cost 399 353 ­fittings, land, land improvements, in ground fixtures and fittings Opening depreciation 151 134 Sales and disposals 0 Buildings 2018 2017 Depreciation for the year 19 17 Opening cost 12,617 12,460 Closing accumulated depreciation 170 151 Purchases 4 Closing residual value according to plan 229 202 Projects completed 477 108 Capitalised maintenance expenses 191 131 Total Sales and disposals -1 -82 Opening cost 15,514 15,293 Closing accumulated cost 13,288 12,617 Purchases 61 Projects completed 865 193 Opening depreciation 4,663 4,363 Capitalised maintenance expenses 191 131 Sales and disposals -1 -76 Sales and disposals -1 -103 Depreciation for the year 410 376 Closing accumulated cost 16,630 15,514 Closing accumulated depreciation 5,072 4,663 Opening revaluations 4,274 4,274 Opening depreciation 5,592 5,193 Revaluations for the year Sales and disposals -1 -79 Closing accumulated revaluations 4,274 4,274 Depreciation for the year 540 478 Closing accumulated depreciation 6,131 5,592 Opening depreciation on revalued amounts 467 335 Depreciation for the year on revalued Opening revaluations 4,274 4,274 amounts 132 132 Revaluations for the year Closing accumulated depreciation Closing accumulated revaluations 4,274 4,274 on revalued amounts 599 467 Opening depreciation on revalued amounts 467 335 Opening impairment charges 94 94 Depreciation for the year on revalued Impairment charges for the year amounts 132 132 Closing accumulated impairment charges 94 94 Closing accumulated depreciation Closing residual value according to plan 11,797 11,667 on revalued amounts 599 467 Tax assessment value, properties in Sweden 3,000 2,925 Opening impairment charges 94 94 Impairment charges for the year Building fixtures and fittings Closing accumulated impairment charges 94 94 Opening cost 881 866 Closing residual value according to plan 14,080 13,635 Projects completed 279 16 Sales and disposals -1 Tax assessment value, properties in Sweden 3,977 3,899 Closing accumulated cost 1,160 881 Opening depreciation 639 569 Sales and disposals -1 Depreciation for the year 95 71 Closing accumulated depreciation 734 639 Closing residual value according to plan 426 242 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 105 PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 13 Construction in progress Note 14 Plant and equipment 2018 2017 2018 2017 Opening balance 1,365 959 Opening cost 25 25 Accrued expenses for the year 809 730 Purchases 2 0 Capitalised maintenance expenses -191 -131 Sales and disposals 0 0 Projects completed -865 -193 Closing accumulated cost 27 25 Closing balance 1,118 1,365 Opening depreciation 19 16 Sales and disposals 0 0 Depreciation for the year 2 3 Closing accumulated depreciation 21 19 Closing residual value according to plan 6 6 Note 15 Financial assets 2018 2017 Shares in subsidiaries 692 692 Other shares 0 0 Receivables from subsidiaries 596 394 Derivatives measured at FVTPL 32 54 CSA deposits 64 74 Covered bonds 926 1,040 Value-added tax for adjustment 6 13 Total 2,316 2,267 Shares in subsidiaries 2018 Carrying amount, Subsidiary Equity Voting rights No. of shares SEK thousand Specialfastigheter Lejonet 11 AB 100% 100% 500 294,402 Specialfastigheter F-öarna 6 AB 100% 100% 1,000 281,609 Specialfastigheter Gärdet AB 100% 100% 50,000 116,131 Nordrike Fastighets AB (in winding-up process) 100% 100% 500 50 Västrike Fastighets AB (dormant company) 100% 100% 500 50 Carrying amount of shares in subsidiaries 2018 692,242 Shares in subsidiaries 2017 Carrying amount, Subsidiary Equity Voting rights No. of shares SEK thousand Specialfastigheter Lejonet 11 AB 100% 100% 500 294,402 Specialfastigheter F-öarna 6 AB 100% 100% 1,000 281,609 Specialfastigheter Gärdet AB 100% 100% 50,000 116,131 Nordrike Fastighets AB 100% 100% 500 50 Västrike Fastighets AB 100% 100% 500 50 Carrying amount of shares in subsidiaries 2017 692,242 106 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 15 Financial assets Shares, indirectly owned subsidiaries 2018 Carrying amount, Equity Voting rights No. of shares SEK thousand Owned by Västrike Fastighets AB Västrike 2 Fastighets AB (dormant company) 100% 100% 500 50 Säkerhetsfastigheter Sverige AB (dormant company) 100% 100% 500 50 Carrying amount of shares in subsidiaries 2018 100 Shares, indirectly owned subsidiaries 2017 Carrying amount, Equity Voting rights No. of shares SEK thousand Owned by Västrike Fastighets AB Västrike 2 Fastighets AB (dormant company) 100% 100% 500 50 Säkerhetsfastigheter Sverige AB (dormant company) 100% 100% 500 50 Carrying amount of shares in subsidiaries 2017 100 Information on company registration numbers and registered offices, 2018 Subsidiary Co. Reg. No. Registered office Specialfastigheter Lejonet AB 559077-3015 Linköping Specialfastigheter F-öarna 6 AB 556661-1447 Linköping Specialfastigheter Gärdet AB 556910-1370 Linköping Nordrike Fastighets AB (in winding-up process) 556832-2290 Linköping Västrike Fastighets AB (dormant company) 556963-5187 Linköping Indirectly owned subsidiaries Co. Reg. No. Registered office Nordrike 2 Fastighets AB 556938-3929 Linköping Västrike 2 Fastighets AB (dormant company) 556963-5179 Linköping Säkerhetsfastigheter Sverige AB (dormant company) 556963-5161 Linköping SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 107 PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 16 Current investments Note 22 Other liabilities 2018 2017 2018 2017 Derivatives measured at FVTPL 23 3 Customer advances 0 0 Total 23 3 Trade payables 164 147 Derivatives measured at FVTPL 100 147 VAT 104 99 Other liabilities 3 3 Note 17 Current receivables Total non-interest-bearing liabilities 371 396 2018 2017 Receivables from subsidiaries 5 3 Opening suspended VAT 22 12 Note 23 A  ccrued expenses and deferred Other receivables 0 0 income Total 27 15 2018 2017 Deferred rental income 496 469 Accrued energy expenses 13 14 Note 18 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Accrued interest expenses 37 40 Accrued social-security expenses 2 2018 2017 Accrued holiday pay 9 8 Prepaid energy expenses 3 3 Accrued payroll tax 3 3 Other interim receivables 20 25 Other items 10 12 Total 23 28 Total 570 546 Note 19 Cash and cash equivalents Note 24 Related parties 2018 2017 Refer to Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. Bank balances 12 465 Total 12 465 Note 25 P  ledged assets and contingent ­liabilities Note 20 Untaxed reserves 2018 2017 2018 2017 Pledged assets None None Accumulated difference between reported depreciations and Contingent liabilities None None ­depreciations according to plan 391 391 Tax allocation reserve 1,148 1,089 Total 1,539 1,480 Note 26 Events after the balance-sheet date No significant events have taken place after the end of the period. Note 21 Interest-bearing liabilities Refer to Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. 108 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T D E C L A R AT I O N B Y T H E B O A R D Declaration by the Board The consolidated financial statements and annual accounts The Administration Report for the Group and the Parent Com­ have been prepared in accordance with the international pany presents a true and fair overview of the activities, finan­ accounting standards referred to in Regulation (EC) No cial position and results of the Group and the Parent Company 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of and describes material risks and uncertainties faced by the 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting Parent Company and the companies contained in the Group. standards and good accounting practice and present a true and fair view of the position and results of the Group and the Parent Company. Stockholm, 18 March 2019 Eva Landén Åsa Hedenberg Chairman CEO Jan Berg Carin Götblad Mikael Lundström Erik Tranaeus Maj-Charlotte Wallin Åsa Wirén Masoomeh Antonsson Roger Törngren Employee Representative Employee Representative Our Auditor’s Report was submitted on 18 March 2019 Ernst & Young AB Mikael Ikonen Authorised Public Accountant, Ernst & Young AB SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 109 AUDITOR ’S REPORT Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Special­ Key audit matters fastigheter Sverige AB (publ), corporate identity number Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our 556537-5945 professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the cur­ Report on the annual accounts and consolidated rent period. These matters were addressed in the context of accounts our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual Opinions accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter accounts of Specialfastigheter Sverige AB (publ) except for the below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter corporate governance statement on pages 62-69 and the stat­ is provided in that context. utory sustainability report on pages 52-60 for the 2018 finan­ cial year. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s the company are included on pages 6-109 in this document. responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements sec­ tion of our report, including in relation to these matters. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in Accordingly, our audit included the performance of proce­ accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, dures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of in all material respects, the financial position of the parent material misstatement of the financial statements. The results company as of 31 December 2018 and its financial perfor­ of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed mance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts opinion on the accompanying financial statements. have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial Valuation of investment properties position of the group as of 31 December 2018 and its financial Description of key audit matter performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accor­ •A  t 31 December 2018, the fair value of Specialfastigheter’s dance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), properties amounted to SEK 27,288 million and the change as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opin­ in value to SEK 2,286 million. Unrealised changes in value ions do not cover the corporate governance statement on amounted to SEK 1,404 million and realised changes in value pages 62-69 and the statutory sustainability report on pages totalled SEK 882 million. A description of the appraisal of the 52-60. The statutory administration report is consistent with property holdings has been provided in Note 9. the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated •E  ach quarter, Specialfastigheter conducts an internal valua­ accounts. tion of its entire property holdings and, moreover, in Q2 and Q4, control validations are performed by external appraisers We therefore recommend that the general meeting of share­ of a number of properties. This means that in 2018, 90% of holders adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the market value, corresponding to 50 objects, were valued the parent company and the group. by external appraisers. •T  he valuations are based on the return using cash-flow Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consol­ approach, which entails forecasting future cash flows. The idated accounts are consistent with the content of the addi­ required yield is assessed based on each property’s unique tional report that has been submitted to the parent company's risks and on market transactions completed for objects of audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation a similar nature, since few directly comparable transactions (537/2014) Article 11. occur. Changes in unobservable input data applied in the appraisals are analysed at each balance-sheet date by the Basis for opinions company management against internally available informa­ We conducted our audit in accordance with International tion, completed or planned transactions as well as informa­ Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing tion from the external appraisers. Given the numerous standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those stan­ assumptions and judgments that occur in connection with dards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibility appraisals; we believe that this area should be considered a sections. We are independent of the parent company and the key audit matter. group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibili­ How our audit addressed this key audit matter ties in accordance with these requirements. This includes that, • We have evaluated and examined the management’s proce­ based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited dures for valuing properties through measures, including services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article evaluating the appraisal method and appraisal input data. 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where We have also carried out comparisons against known market applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies data. With support from our valuation specialists, we have within the EU. examined the company’s internal valuation model. We have also examined, with our valuation specialists’ support, the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffi­ reasonableness of assumptions in terms of required yield, cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. vacancy rate, rental income and operating expenses. We have assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures pro­ vided in the annual accounts. 110 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T AUDITOR ’S REPORT Income taxes Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Description of key audit matter the Chief Executive Officer • The tax expense in the income statement amounted to The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are SEK 402 million. In addition, Specialfastigheter reported a responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and deferred tax liability of SEK 3,247 million. Note 10 contains consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presentation a description of the tax calculation. in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning • The calculation and reporting of current and deferred tax are the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as complex processes and, to a high degree, are comprised of adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Chief judgements and assumptions. These judgements and Executive Officer are also responsible for such internal control assumptions include, inter alia, decision data for fiscal as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of depreciation, directly deductible redevelopment expendi­ annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from ture, sales of properties separately or as companies as well material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. as changes in the value of properties and derivatives. Given the numerous assumptions and judgments that occur in con­ In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, nection with the calculation of taxes, we believe that this The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are area should be considered a key audit matter. responsible for the assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, How our audit addressed this key audit matter as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the • Our audit evaluated and examined the management’s pro­ going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis cedure for calculating current and deferred tax as well as of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors examined the calculations against verification data. With and the Chief Executive Officer intend to liquidate the com­ support from our tax specialists, we have assessed the appli­ pany, to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but cation in terms of the applicable tax legislation. to do so. • We have assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures provided in the annual accounts. Among other tasks, the Audit Committee shall, without preju­ dice to the Board of Directors’ responsibilities and tasks in Other information than the annual accounts and the general, oversee the company’s financial reporting process. ­consolidated accounts This document also contains other information than the annual Auditor’s responsibility accounts and the consolidated accounts and can be found on Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about pages 1-5, 52-60 and 114-118. The Board of Directors and the whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as Chief Executive Officer are responsible for this other information. a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes Our opinion on the annual accounts and the consolidated our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assur­ financial statements does not include this information and we ance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accor­ do not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding dance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards this other information. in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and con­ considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they solidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the informa­ could reasonably be expected to influence the economic tion identified above and consider whether the information is decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consoli­ and consolidated accounts. dated accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise whether the information otherwise appears to be materially ­professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism misstated. throughout the audit. We also: • I dentify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the If we, based on the work performed concerning this informa­ annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to tion, conclude that there is a material misstatement of this fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures respon­ other information, we are required to report that fact. We have sive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient nothing to report in this regard. and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepre­ sentations, or the override of internal control. •O  btain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the pur­ pose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 111 AUDITOR ’S REPORT • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used Report on other legal and regulatory requirements and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related Opinions disclosures made by the Board of Directors and the Chief In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consoli­ Executive Officer. dated accounts, we have also audited the administration of • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of Spe­ and the Chief Executive Officer’s use of the going concern cialfastigheter Sverige AB (publ) for the 2018 financial year and basis of accounting in preparing the annual accounts and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. consolidated accounts. We also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as to whether any material We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal cast significant doubt on the company’s and the group’s abil­ in the statutory administration report and that the members ity to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer be material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw atten­ discharged from liability for the financial year. tion in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such disclo­ Basis for opinions sures are inadequate, to modify our opinion about the We conducted the audit in accordance with generally annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Our conclu­ accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities sions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or con­ Responsibility section. We are independent of the parent ditions may cause a company and a group to cease to con­ company and the group in accordance with professional ethics tinue as a going concern. for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the disclosures, and whether the annual accounts and con­ We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffi­ solidated accounts represent the underlying transactions cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the financial information of the entities or business activities the Chief Executive Officer within the group to express an opinion on the consolidated The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for accounts. We are responsible for the direction, supervision appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal and performance of the group audit. We remain solely of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the divi­ responsible for our opinions. dend is justifiable considering the requirements which the company's and the group’s type of operations, size and risks We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other mat­ place on the size of the parent company's and the group’s ters, the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position inform of significant audit findings during our audit, including in general. any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identified. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement organisation and the administration of the company’s affairs. that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements This includes among other things continuous assessment of regarding independence, and to communicate with them all the company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring relationships and other matters that may reasonably be that the company's organisation is designed so that the thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, accounting, management of assets and the company’s finan­ related safeguards. cial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Chief Executive Officer shall manage the ongoing admin­ From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, istration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and we determine those matters that were of most significance in instructions and among other matters take measures that are the audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, necessary to fulfil the company’s accounting in accordance including the most important assessed risks for material with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring ­misstatement, and are therefore the key audit matters. manner. We describe these matters in the auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter. 112 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T AUDITOR ’S REPORT Auditor’s responsibility Our examination of the corporate governance statement was Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain 16 The auditor´s examination of the corporate governance audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assur­ statement. This means that our examination of the corporate ance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the governance statement is different and substantially less in Chief Executive Officer in any material respect: scope than an audit conducted in accordance with Interna­ • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission tional Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing which can give rise to liability to the company, or standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has • in any other way has acted in contravention of the provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. ­Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. A Corporate Governance Report has been prepared. Disclo­ sures in accordance with Chapter 6 Section 6 the second para­ Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropria­ graph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act and Chapter 7 tions of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion Section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with gener­ The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability ally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect report actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the com­ The Board of Directors is responsible for the statutory sustain­ pany, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s ability report on pages 52-60, and that it is prepared in accor­ profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. dance with the Annual Accounts Act. As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted Our examination was conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judg­ auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the ment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination audit. The examination of the administration and the pro­ of the statutory sustainability report is different and substan­ posed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is based tially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional audit proce­ International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted dures performed are based on our professional judgment with auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. the examination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material for the operations and where deviations and vio­ A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. lations would have particular importance for the company’s situation. We examine and test decisions undertaken, support Ernst & Young, Jakobsbergsgatan 24, 111 44 Stockholm, was for decisions, actions taken and other circumstances that are appointed auditor of Specialfastigheter Sverige AB by the relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. general meeting of the shareholders on the 17 April 2018 As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed and has been the company’s auditor since the 19 April 2012. appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection Stockholm, 18 March 2019 of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether Ernst & Young AB the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance Mikael Ikonen ­statement Authorised Public Accountant The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the corporate governance statement on pages 62–69 in accor­ dance with the Annual Accounts Act. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 113 PROPERT Y HOLDINGS Property holdings Specialfastigheter owns and manages a total of 99 (96) properties divided among three business areas. The buildings are spread geographically across the country. Number of Land area, Owned floor buildings sq m space, sq m Prison and Probation Service business area 512 8,422,273 407,147 Defence and Judicial System business area 29 523,825 417,364 Institutional Care and Other Special Operations business area 602 8,269,351 269,335 Total: 1,143 17,215,449 1,093,846 Prison and Probation Service business area Number of Land area, Owned floor Property designation Location Municipality ­buildings sq m space, sq m Asptuna LINDHOV 15:19, 15:3 Norsborg BOTKYRKA 18 125,582 4,828 Beateberg KASSETTEN 1, VÄSTRA SKOGÅS 1:5 Trångsund HUDDINGE 4 26,584 3,754 Borås PROVAREN 2 Borås BORÅS 7 55,720 5,558 Brinkeberg RESTAD 3:13 Vänersborg VÄNERSBORG 3 48,049 7,412 Fosie FORNLÄMNINGEN 1 Malmö MALMÖ 3 33,109 7,661 Färingsö SVARTSJÖ 1:59 Svartsjö EKERÖ 8 47,559 4,722 Gruvberget GRUVBERGET 1:4-29, 1:3134, 1:36-40, 2:1, 3:1, 5:2 Åmotsbruk BOLLNÄS 32 106,054 4,511 Gävle KÄLLÖ 46:1 Gävle GÄVLE 5 40,113 7,850 Hall HALL 4:15 Södertälje SÖDERTÄLJE 18 588,803 29,732 Halldalen HALL 4:14, 4:3, 4:5 Södertälje SÖDERTÄLJE 36 635,882 8,496 Halmstad EKETÅNGA 4:5 Halmstad HALMSTAD 5 42,579 5,457 Haparanda BOJAN 2 Haparanda HAPARANDA 5 21,631 3,075 Helsingborg KAVALLERISTEN 10 Helsingborg HELSINGBORG 8 31,077 4,645 Hinseberg HINSEBERG 1:8 Frövi LINDESBERG 20 372,932 11,530 Huddinge ROTORN 3 Huddinge HUDDINGE 1 8,016 8,970 Hällby TUMBO-BERGA 1:3, 1:5 Kvicksund ESKILSTUNA 20 258,596 8,975 Högsbo HÖGSBO 31:1 Västra Frölunda GOTHENBURG 7 35,588 7,445 Kalmar RAVELINEN 1 Kalmar KALMAR 3 4,857 2,993 Karlskoga SURPUSSEN 1 Karlskoga KARLSKOGA 8 79,485 5,811 Kristianstad VÄ 147:3 Kristianstad KRISTIANSTAD 6 43,019 6,961 Kumla LÖVSÅNGAREN 1, 2 Kumla KUMLA 32 520,310 51,215 Ljustadalen FILLA 8:5 Sundsbruk SUNDSVALL 4 37,555 1,371 Luleå PORSÖN 1:401 Luleå LULEÅ 4 27,085 3,944 Mariefred GRIPSHOLM 4:4 Mariefred STRÄNGNÄS 18 150,080 8,604 Norrtälje SKOGEN 1 Norrtälje NORRTÄLJE 16 191,228 18,581 Nya Saltvik SALTVIK 2:64 Härnösand HÄRNÖSAND 10 295,597 23,911 Nyköping MODELLEN 1 Nyköping NYKÖPING 3 23,144 6,464 Rödjan MARIEHOLM 1:8 Mariestad MARIESTAD 20 323,753 5,436 114 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T PROPERT Y HOLDINGS Number of Land area, Owned floor Property designation Location Municipality ­buildings sq m space, sq m Sagsjön, Lindome ANNESTORP 4:74 Lindome MÖLNDAL 9 60,000 3,639 Skenäs SKENÄS 1:19 Vikbolandet NORRKÖPING 18 1,637,649 7,350 Skogome SKOGOME 2:2 Hisings Backa GOTHENBURG 14 275,307 12,868 Skänninge ÖSTANÅ 6 Skänninge MJÖLBY 14 146,508 16,353 Storboda ROSERSBERG 2:7 Rosersberg SIGTUNA 6 88,466 6,536 Svartsjö SVARTSJÖ 1:60 Svartsjö EKERÖ 9 47,688 4,721 Svartsjö Bostäder SVARTSJÖ 1:60 Svartsjö EKERÖ 7 7,000 909 Sörbyn SÖRBYN 9:2 Hörnefors UMEÅ 22 861,265 8,770 Tidaholm RAMSTORP 4:10 Tidaholm TIDAHOLM 17 277,255 15,315 Tillberga HUBBO-SÖRBY 9:48 Västerås VÄSTERÅS 8 64,251 13,502 Tygelsjö PILE 1:7, 1:10 Tygelsjö MALMÖ 18 120,662 10,489 Täby RÖNNINGE 3:4 Täby TÄBY 3 25,288 3,978 Umeå, Ersboda TEGLET 1 Umeå UMEÅ 4 38,034 3,902 Ystad TERMOSTATEN 1 Ystad YSTAD 7 59,550 8,198 Åby FUNBO-ÅBY 9:1 Uppsala UPPSALA 25 134,363 5,026 Österåker PRÄSTGÅRDEN 1:11 Åkersberga ÖSTERÅKER 7 405,000 15,679 Total, Prison and Probation Service 512 8,422,273 407,147 Defence and Judicial System business area Number of Land area, Owned floor Property designation Location Municipality ­buildings sq m space, sq m FOI ARMERINGEN 1 Umeå UMEÅ 4 290,535 13,575 Formgivaren FORMGIVAREN 1 Stockholm SOLNA 1 9,169 34,967 Försv N Undreg BERGNÄSET 3:53 Luleå LULEÅ 4 22,000 3,949 Kista FÄRÖARNA 6 Kista STOCKHOLM 1 6,559 24,658 Kolpenäs KOLPENÄS 1:9 Södertälje SÖDERTÄLJE 0 4,028 0 Kristallen KRISTALLEN 2 Lund LUND 1 2,647 10,423 Kronoberg KRONOBERG 18 Stockholm STOCKHOLM 7 42,358 163,000 Lejonet LEJONET 11 Luleå LULEÅ 2 10,596 21,800 Rådhuset FRUKTKORGEN1 Stockholm STOCKHOLM 1 13,595 22,765 Tegeludden TEGELUDDEN 8 Stockholm STOCKHOLM 1 3,504 14,812 Tre Vapen TRE VAPEN 4 Stockholm STOCKHOLM 3 94,224 66,458 Öb Högkvarteret KAVALLERISTEN 3 Stockholm STOCKHOLM 4 24,610 40,958 Total, Defence and Judicial System 29 523,825 417,364 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 115 PROPERT Y HOLDINGS Institutional Care and Other Special Operations business area Number of Land area, Owned floor Property designation Location Municipality ­buildings sq m space, sq m Bergsmansgården BROTORP 1:7 Fjugesta LEKEBERG 7 21,400 3,452 Björkbacken BERGSJÖN 21:1 Gothenburg GOTHENBURG 5 18,680 2,906 Brättegården BRÄTTE 1:2 Vänersborg VÄNERSBORG 17 98,300 4,549 Bärby FUNBO-BROBY 1:3 Uppsala UPPSALA 21 191,907 7,872 Ekebylund EKEBY 5:4 Rosersberg SIGTUNA 12 12,180 2,289 Eknäs EKNÄS 2:2 Enköping ENKÖPING 11 65,870 4,938 Fagared FAGERED 3:1 Lindome MÖLNDAL 15 378,805 7,029 Flygvapenmuseum MALMEN 2:8 Linköping LINKÖPING 5 71,853 17,296 Folåsa FÅLÅSA 12:1 Vikingstad LINKÖPING 18 153,604 5,689 Fortunagården LÄKAREN 2 Värnamo VÄRNAMO 5 19,043 1,901 Granhult GRANHULT 2:4 Ramsberg LINDESBERG 9 37,222 2,161 Gudhem GUDHEM 12:3, HOLMÄNGEN 7:1 Gudhem FALKÖPING 18 217,084 11,066 Hessleby HÄSSLEBY 2:2 Mariannelund EKSJÖ 15 500,060 7,189 Hornö HORNÖ 1:1, 1:8 Enköping ENKÖPING 18 398,223 4,056 Håga HALL 4:4, 4:7, 4:8, 4:10, 4:12, 4:13, TYSSLINGE 1:30, 1:31 Södertälje SÖDERTÄLJE 9 174,795 5,586 Hässleholm FRIDHEM 9 Hässleholm HÄSSLEHOLM 2 16,116 1,305 Johannisberg GRYTNÄS 2:1, GRYTNÄS 2:11 Kalix KALIX 9 130,922 5,253 Karlsvik BOSJÖKLOSTER 1:716 Höör HÖÖR 13 96,879 3,606 Klarälvsgården ORRETORP 2:2 Deje FORSHAGA 6 243,800 2,590 Ljungaskog LJUNGASKOG 15:28 Örkelljunga ÖRKELLJUNGA 12 281,202 4,808 Ljungbacken GRÄSKÄRR 1:1, OLIDAN 3:17, OLIDAN 4:9 Uddevalla UDDEVALLA 25 276,152 7,001 Lunden KLOSTERGÅRDEN 2:10 Lund LUND 1 26,391 4,621 Långanäs LÅNGANÄS 1:1 Eksjö EKSJÖ 30 434,995 8,946 Lövsta LÖVSTA 1:33, 1:67 Vagnhärad TROSA 37 500,628 9,247 Mosslegården LÄKAREN 4 Värnamo VÄRNAMO 6 18,002 2,144 Nereby NEREBY 1:1 Härestad KUNGÄLV 19 162,660 3,601 Perstorp UGGLAN 1 Perstorp PERSTORP 4 4,264 1,000 Rebecka TROXHAMMAR 8:2 Skå EKERÖ 23 220,995 6,457 Renforsen DEGERFORS 38:9, SLAKTAREN 1 Vindeln VINDELN 7 34,098 3,183 Revinge REVINGE 1:14 Lund LUND 22 472,000 17,912 Rpk Gothenburg BACKA 866:772 Hisings Backa GOTHENBURG 1 25,417 4,462 Runnagården KRUSBÄRSBUSKEN 10 Örebro ÖREBRO 13 77,522 4,198 Ryds Brunn RYD 1:143 Ryd TINGSRYD 7 21,620 4,852 Råby STORA RÅBY 32:6, 32:21, 32:23 Lund LUND 4 0 3,770 Rällsögården DAMMEN 1:11-15, 1:37, 3:1, 3:2, LJUSNARSRÄLLSÖN 1:1-4 Kopparberg BERG 19 1,297,250 6,602 Sandoskolan SANDÖ 1:4, 1:5, 2:5 Sandöverken KRAMFORS 38 433,348 30,830 Stigby STIGBY 1:9, 7:3 Visingsö JÖNKÖPING 18 78,146 7,215 Sundbo SUNDBO 7:106, 7:107, 7:109, 7:63 Fagersta FAGERSTA 30 385,423 9,630 Vemyra VEMYRA 3:1, 3:2 Sollefteå SOLLEFTEÅ 12 173,400 4,293 Åstorp BULTEN 2 Åstorp ÅSTORP 2 17,939 5,007 Älvgården YTTERNORA 2:6, 2:7 Hedemora HEDEMORA 20 75,600 6,995 Östfora ÖSTFORA 1:30 Järlåsa UPPSALA 21 290,915 5,149 Öxnevalla BRÄNNARED 2:3 Öxnevalla LAND 16 114,641 6,681 Total, Institutional Care and Other Special Operations 602 8,269,351 269,335 116 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 018 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T Definitions Adjusted return on equity, % Occupancy rate, % Net profit/loss, after including changes in value and associated Total floor space of let premises in relation to total lettable floor space. deferred tax, in relation to average equity. Operating net financial items, SEK million Carbon dioxide, CO2 Interest expense less interest income for the year. Fossil fuels are the largest source of emissions of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide, which contributes to climate changes. Profit from property management, SEK million Profit from property management is a specific earnings metric Equity, SEK million commonly used in the property sector to facilitate comparability Recognised equity. in the sector. It is calculated as the sum of net operating income, administrative expenses and net financial items. Equity/assets ratio, % Adjusted equity on the balance-sheet date as a percentage Rent per sq m, SEK of total assets. Annual rent divided by the lettable floor space in square metres at the end of the year. Floor space, sq m Estimated lettable floor space in square metres. Return on equity, % Net profit for the year in relation to average equity. Green appendices Specialfastigheter’s green appendices (also known as green leases) Return on total capital, % are a standardised template developed by the Swedish Property Net profit for the year plus financial expenses in relation to average Federation for reducing the environmental impact from premises. total assets. The agreement sets out the landlord’s responsibilities, the tenant’s responsibilities and shared responsibilities, and details the measures Secure facilities agreed by the landlord and tenant to reduce environmental impact Properties that have been adapted for operations with security through information and collaboration in terms of energy and indoor requirements in terms of operational, personal, information or environment, material selection and waste management. physical security. Green bonds Surplus ratio, % Bonds intended to finance environmentally sustainable projects. Net operating income divided by income from property Our framework is based on the Green Bond Principles. management. Greenhouse gases Whistle-blowing Greenhouse gases is an umbrella term for many different gases This is the term and the function that we use to enable anyone to that increase the greenhouse effect. anonymously state their suspicions regarding cases of corruption or other improprieties. Interest coverage ratio, cash-flow based Profit/loss before tax after adding financial expenses, changes in Yield, % value and gains/losses from property sales, divided by financial Net operating income divided by the average market value expenses excluding changes in value of financial derivatives. of investment properties. Loan-to-value ratio, % Interest-bearing net loan liabilities in relation to the closing value of investment properties. Specialfastigheter has selected the above key performance indicators based on established practices in the real estate sector and our own Net operating income, SEK million governance. Income from property management less property expenses. Reporting calendar Annual General Meeting Interim report January–March 2019 12 April 2019, 11 a.m., 12 April 2019 Alströmergatan 14, Stockholm, Sweden Interim Report January–June 2019 10 July 2019 Interim Report January–September 2019 16 October 2019 Production: Specialfastigheter in collaboration with Intellecta Corporate AB Photo: Specialfastigheter’s image bank Specialfastigheter Sverige AB (publ) Company registration number: 556537-5945 Head Office, Linköping Gothenburg Sundsvall info@specialfastigheter.se Box 632, SE 581 07 Linköping Street address: Box 37, 851 02 Sundsvall www.specialfastigheter.se Street address: Aminogatan 34 Street address: Sjögatan 15 www.linkedin.com/company/ Borggården, Linköping SE 431 53 Mölndal SE 852 34 Sundsvall specialfastigheter-sverige-ab Telephone: +46 10-788 62 00 Telephone: +46 10-788 62 00 Telephone: +46 10-788 62 00 Head Office, Stockholm Lund Örebro Box 12675, SE 112 93 Stockholm Box 4017, SE 227 21 Lund Street address: Street address: Street address: Nygatan 31 Alströmergatan 14, Stockholm Traktorvägen 6, Lund SE 702 11 Örebro Telephone: +46 10-788 62 00 Telephone: +46 10-788 62 00 Telephone: +46 10-788 62 00
