UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS TABLE OF CONTENTS 4 AART architects 4 Redefining architecture 6 Powerful catalyst 9 Global Compact 9 Transparency 10 Documenting the impact of architecture 16 People, planet and profit 17 Pioneering sustainable projects AARHUS KØBENHAVN OSLO Mariane Thomsens Gade 1 Njalsgade 17a Bryggegata 7 DK 8000 Aarhus C DK 2300 Kbh. S NO 0250 Oslo +45 8730 3286 +45 8730 3286 +47 2310 3900 aart@aart.dk aart@aart.dk aart@aart.dk AART ARCHITECTS AART architects is an award-winning architectural firm with Scandinavian roots and international reach. From our offices in Aarhus, Copenhagen and Oslo we provide highly specialized advice on architecture of every conceivable scale, from buildings and public spaces to entire master plans – always based on close dialogue with developers, users and business associates. REDEFINING ARCHITECTURE We want to redefine the perception of architecture. Nothing less. And yes, it is a wild, but also significant, vision. Because architecture is too important to be reduced to a form-giving element, as is the case in the public debate – in and outside Scandinavia. Architecture as a value-creating element is absent, and this is precisely what we will break with. With the ambitious aim of opening the eyes of the world to the catalyzing powers of architecture to develop organizations and societies – socially and economically. We call it redefining architecture. 4 5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT UN GLOBAL COMPACT POWERFUL CATALYST Cities and buildings are powerful catalysts. This is where the key to changing and improving the most fundamental environment of our lives lies – how we live, play, learn and work. Therefore, we work with architecture, not to beautify the world, but to fulfill the visions that we meet every day in our dialogue with clients and in the debate that characterizes society on a local and global scale. Our desire to create is, therefore, never without the will to follow up. As the first architecture firm in Scandinavia, we have thus established a dedicated documentation team, where we re-visit our completed buildings and public spaces and document how they have contributed to developing organizations and societies – socially and economically. Because this enables us to not only convey the effect of our work, but also to create buildings and public spaces on an informed foundation of evidence and experience. For us, architecture is about more than designing buildings and public spaces. It is just as much about documenting the effect of the opportunities we create with the architecture. Torben Skovbjerg Larsen Partner and CEO of AART architects 6 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT UN GLOBAL COMPACT GLOBAL COMPACT In our desire to convey the catalyzing powers of architecture, we have joined the UN Global Compact, which is the largest voluntary corporate social responsibility initiative in the world. As a member, we are proud to commit our strategies and operations with the UN principles in the areas of human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. By doing this and promoting the principles within our sphere of influence, we take part in improving the quality of life and the health of the environment. In our 2018 Communication on Progress report, we express our continuing commitment to supporting advances in the building industry in ways that benefit everyday life, the economy and the environment. The purpose of this report is thus to give our stakeholders and the wider community an insight into how we promote and have implemented corporate social responsibility in our core business. Torben Skovbjerg Larsen Partner / CEO TRANSPARENCY We joined the UN Global Compact in 2008 to be part of the partnership between the UN with the objective of promoting transparency and social commitment in the global business community. This is our sixth Communication on Progress report in which we commit ourselves to all four areas of the Global Compact: Human Rights, Labour Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Our 2018 Communication on Progress report is uploaded to the website of the UN Global Compact. It will also be available on our own website, just like it will be a natural part of how we present our company. We attach great importance to communicate our sustainable ambitions to all our stakeholders – employees, developers, business associates and the wider building industry. 8 9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT UN GLOBAL COMPACT DOCUMENTING THE IMPACT OF ARCHITECTURE We make a virtue of re-visiting our completed buildings. We do this in collaboration with anthropologists and socio-economists, among others from the Danish Alexandra Institute and Musholm The Culture Yard Korsør / Denmark Elsinore / Denmark Copenhagen Economics, who over the years have helped us documenting our work. With projects such as Musholm, we have strengthened the quality of life for people with disabilities. The Culture Yard revitalised the image of Helsingør and Pakhusene tranformed the shared economy into architecture. Common to all these projects is how we have created opportunities with added value – both 05 socially and economically. 04 Story telling 03 Insight matching We unify our insights into a productive narrative 02 Qualitative insights We study and compare our insigths 01 Quantitative insights We gather qualitative insights from the users We gather quantitative insights Vision meeting from various sources Togther with the Danish Alexandra Institute and subsided by the Danish We identify the essential Agency for Science and Higher goal of the project Education, we have developed a method for documenting the impact of our projects. Based on this methodical foundation, we revisit of completed projects. 10 11 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT UN GLOBAL COMPACT “There is substance in the community here in Pakhusene. CASE: PAKHUSENE You get to know a lot of people. It's great to be a part of a small business. You get a lot of new inspiration.” Studies show that up to 29 percent of an organization's area can be shared with other organizations. In Aarhus, Denmark, this corresponds to 600,000 square metres, with Henrik Horup Andersen Branch manager at BankNordik annual operating costs of around DKK 300 million. In other words, many organizations spend a lot of resources on operating dead square metres rather than developing the lived life – and they have a lot to gain from sharing rather than owning. Pakhusene (The Warehouses) in the new port district of Aarhus and is based on the idea of transforming the shared economy into the future development of office buildings. As a community-creating building, Pakhusene provides organizations with Start-up the opportunity to utilize their square metres much more efficiently than in a traditional Business office building. By sharing facilities such as meeting rooms, canteens, auditoriums and changing rooms, not only are the square metres optimized. As an organization, you also In fact, a small company gets access to 270 percent get access to a larger area and far more facilities than you actually pay for. more square metres, while a large company gets access to 30 percent more – and there are common Big Medium facilities such as a fitness centre, saunas, harbour bath and street football. The harbour bath and street Business Business football court are also publicly accessible and they have made Pakhusene a popular destination for the harbour district’s residents and visitors. Common Area Tenants part own area 30% rented area 30% available area “One of the things I appreciate when working in Pakhusene are the many shared facilities. This means that there is 270% life out here 24/7, and that creates a good energy around the house.” Berit Grotkjær Jensen Head of Competence at MOE Start-up Medium Big Big Business Business Business Business 1/4 1/2 1 2 floor floor floor floors 12 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT UN GLOBAL COMPACT “I buy food in MIB (the deli in Pakhusene) and participate in the communal eating events in the canteen once a month. In addition, I love to spend time in the fitness centre. It costs a little bit more than in the city centre, but the way you are met and the atmosphere there is – I'm telling you it's worth the money. And yes, I also participate in the winter bath club.” Local resident at Aarhus Ø In line with the shared economy, however, you must sacrifice the right to have independent control over the many shared facilities. But, as studies show, the alternative in a traditional office building is that the facilities will be left empty or be poorly utilized up to half the working day. And what you lose as an organization you gain in relationships. In Pakhusene, new networks have been created across organizations. It has created synergy between small startups and more established companies. This synergy effect is supported by studies showing that the closer organizations co-exist, the higher is their productivity – in fact, up to 8 percent higher. 7528 sq m Area disposal for rent “A good argument for 773 sq m Common facilities choosing Pakhusene E.g. roof terrace, canteen, meeting rooms, conference was its combination of room and sauna tenants. To us, many of the tenants were obvious 2000 sq m business partners – and Common area the synergies with the E.g. stairs and elevators other tenants have already been productive.” 10072 sq m Jesper Hedegaard Partner in Interlex Lawyers Total area 14 15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT UN GLOBAL COMPACT PEOPLE, PLANET AND PROFIT PLANET We believe that buildings and public spaces should have a positive impact on the environPrinciple 7 Businesses should support a precaument. The environment is the field where we as tionary approach to environmental We support all four areas of the UN Global Compact: Human architects can make the greatest difference, since challenges. Rights, Labour Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption. However, the energy consumption of buildings is responsiwe have interpreted these four areas and combined them into the ble for 40 percent of global energy consumption. Principle 8 triple bottom line: People, Planet and Profit. Therefore, we support the UN universal principles Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental concerning the environment. responsibility. The first (People) includes Human Rights and Labour Rights and focuses on our socially responsible approach to developing buildings Principle 9 and public spaces. The second (Planet) includes Environment and Businesses should encourage the focuses on our environmentally approach, while the third (Profit) development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. includes Anti-Corruption and focuses on our aim to lead the development of a more transparent and economically sustainable building industry. PEOPLE We believe that buildings and public spaces Our winning proposal for the new Aarhsus University Campus should empower people to live healthier, smarter Principle 1 shows how adaptive reuse can reduce the material Businesses should support and respect consumption in architetcure. and more connected lives. Therefore, we support the protection of internationally prothe UN universal principles concerning human claimed human rights. and labour rights. Principle 2 PROFIT Businesses should make sure that We believe that investments and enterprises they are not complicit in human rights Principle 10 abuses. should be powerful forces for good. Therefore, Businesses should work against corwe support the UN Convention Against Corruption in all its forms, including extorPrinciple 3 ruption and its universal principle concerning tion and bribery. Businesses should uphold the freeanti-corruption, just like an open and respectful dom of association and the effective relationship to developers, business associates rec-ognition of the right to collective bargaining. and the wider community is at the heart of everything we do. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our design for the holiday centre Musholm received the 2016 IAUD We provide architectural advice on how businesses can be financially Award, acknowledging the world's most socially inclusive places. successful while creating social impact. 16 17 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT UN GLOBAL COMPACT PIONEERING SUSTAINABLE PROJECTS DGNB DIAMOND DGNB GOLD In 2018, Skolen på Duevej (The School at In 2018, Pakhusene (The Warehouses) was Duevej) was honoured as the first DGNB honoured as the first DGNB Gold certified certified school building in Denmark, and, building in the new port district in Aarhus, besides achieving DGNB Gold, it has also Denmark. They were honored for their achieved DGNB Diamond – a standard community-creating aspects, providing focusing exclusively on architectural companies with the opportunity to share beauty and functionality. facilities in brand new ways. FACTS FACTS LOCATION Frederiksberg / Denmark LOCATION Aarhus / Denmark SIZE 1,150 m² SIZE 35,000 m² STATUS 2016 / Completed STATUS 2016 / First phase completed DEVELOPER Frederiksberg Municipality DEVELOPER Kilden & Hindby / Domis / PFA ARCHITECTS AART architects ARCHITECTS AART architects AWARDS DGNB Certification AWARD DGNB Gold Certification 20 21 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT UN GLOBAL COMPACT PHOTO CREDITS Jens Markus Lindhe Kirstine Mengel Kontraframe Lars Johannesen Submarine Thomas Mølvig We want to open the eyes of the world to the catalyzing powers of architecture to develop organizations and societies – socially and economically.
