P.O. Box 74653, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971 4 425 0700, Fax: +971 4 425 0701 E-mail: info@glomacs.ae www.glomacs.com 16 April 2019 H.E. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that GLOMACS FZ-LLC supports the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to implement those principles. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. GLOMACS FZ-LLC will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. This includes: • A statement signed by the chief executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. This is separate from our initial letter of commitment to join the Global Compact. • A description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken (or plans to undertake) to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human rights, labour, environment, anticorruption). • A measurement of outcomes (i.e., the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met, or other qualitative or quantitative measurements of results). Sincerely yours, Mr. Mohammed Khair Badea Qassim Said Managing Director P.O. Box 74653, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971 4 425 0700, Fax: +971 4 425 0701 E-mail: info@glomacs.ae www.glomacs.com Published on: 15 April 2018 Time Period: November 2017 to November 2018 Differentiation Level: GC Active Format: Stand Alone Document Self-Assessment  Includes a clear statement for continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles  Report of relevant policies and actions related to Human Rights  Report of relevant policies and actions related to Labour  Report of relevant policies and actions related to Environment  Report of relevant policies and actions related to Anti-Corruption  Includes a measurement of outcomes P.O. Box 74653, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971 4 425 0700, Fax: +971 4 425 0701 E-mail: info@glomacs.ae www.glomacs.com Executive Summary Glomacs has a passion for excellence and operates under the highest business and ethical standards. We are proud to have earned recognition as an ISO 9011:2015 and ISO 2990:2010 Certified Training and Consultancy Company. Working in this progressive business atmosphere has enable Glomacs to observe the 10 principles of the UN Global impact. Glomacs ensure that the principles of the UN Global Impact are maintained either through determined support, or directly through the Company’s procedure The following report highlights the many ways in which we apply this, focusing on four main areas, namely human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Defined in this report are the policies and goals that we work towards, the ways in which we carry out said policies, and the techniques in which we measure our outcome. Mission and Vision GLOMACS’ vision is to promote and enhance competency through practical seminars and events that reflect the latest thinking. Whereas, our mission is to contribute to the region’s advancement and transformation to a knowledgebased society through the provision of training seminars of the highest caliber, which directly address the current needs and demands of both individuals and industry. We take pride in our ability to respond quickly to market needs and provide you with quality learning courses that are dynamic, leading edge and up to date. Our vision and mission are based on a set of values to which all GLOMACS Associates adhere: • Know our customers and strive to surpass their expectations • Keep customer satisfaction as the only viable measure of success • Be the innovators in our business, presenting new ideas in topic and format to our customers • Lead the development of training and consultancy in the Middle East through technology transfer • Bring vital expertise of the highest quality to develop the region’s skills and knowledge base • Support our vibrant economy by creating links in the wider knowledge economy • Maintain a work environment that enhances entrepreneurial spirit, work ethics and teamwork within GLOMACS P.O. Box 74653, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971 4 425 0700, Fax: +971 4 425 0701 E-mail: info@glomacs.ae www.glomacs.com About the Company GLOMACS Training and Consultancy was established in 2003 and has been operating regionally and internationally since its inception. To date, we have successfully delivered training courses throughout the Middle East as well as North America, Asia, Europe and Africa, and continue to grow each year, building on our success and in-depth knowledge of the needs of our clients. Inspired by world-class training and professional development, the founders of GLOMACS are passionate about delivering training courses that of the highest educational and professional standards. GLOMACS is proudly recognised as an ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 29990:2010 Certified Training and Consultancy Company. GLOMACS training courses have been designed to provide business professionals the skills they need to develop their competency, improve their performance, and drive business success. Our talented team of international instructors have exceptional credentials that are complemented by practical, real-world experience. By bringing together academic knowledge and industry experience, we ensure that our clients’ needs are at the forefront of each and every one of one of our training courses and seminars. Our specialist teams continuously track and monitor the latest business and industry trends and emerging best practices to ensure that all our course content is relevant, practical and useful. P.O. Box 74653, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971 4 425 0700, Fax: +971 4 425 0701 E-mail: info@glomacs.ae www.glomacs.com Human Rights Principles • Principle 1 : Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2 : Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Commitment Glomacs commitment to protecting human rights spans how we treat employees, our expectations of our suppliers and how we make sustainable impact within the region, within the communities where we live and operate. The commitment, respect and protection of human rights are at the heart of our corporate shared values & principles. Our commitment is protected by our code of business conduct and is well established within our human resource manual and our business policies, including those that address data privacy and the procurement and sales of good and services. Complaints of harassments, discrimination or retaliation are enforced by our business code of conduct and hence, handled and thoroughly. They will be handled confidentially as law and policy permit Implementation • Glomacs has implemented the following measures to ensure that Human Rights are in no way being abused and violated: • Human Resource Department’s email has been active in dealing with employees’ complaints and/or issues with regards to unfair treatment • Evaluation forms are provided to our clients who are attending our courses. With this, we can assure that the participants are treated fairly and equally • Annual seminar with the topic of Human Rights for the entire company • Strict implementation of the Anti-Harassment and Anti-Bullying policies • A weekly staff meeting has been set to discuss all company related issues Gender Equality as a Human Right Gender equality is an important focus for us. We believe that increasing the opportunities for women to succeed economically is one of the most powerful ways to promote human rights , economy resilience and society stability. Health and Safety within our Operations Ensuring health & safety of our employees and other business stakeholders represents an important aspect of our commitment to human rights. We have developed internal policies and standards for safety and security systems that are used on a regional level. Besides, in light of our continued growth within our region, we are concentrating on standardizing our supply chain and operations processes. This involves, among other initiatives, strengthening our monitoring and measuring to promote the early identification of risks to eventually eliminate them and have a risk free work environment. P.O. Box 74653, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971 4 425 0700, Fax: +971 4 425 0701 E-mail: info@glomacs.ae www.glomacs.com Labour Principles • Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour • Principle 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Commitment Glomacs ongoing commitment to maintaining labour standards including freedom of association; elimination of forced labour, compulsory and child labor; and elimination of discrimination is embedded in how we build relationships with our employees and other stakeholders. It reflects our core values especially respect for the individual integrity. Our commitment is also expressed clearly in our code of business ethics within our main human resource manual to emphasize diversity, sense of belonging, teamwork and respect. We are committed to providing equal opportunities in employment in accordance with equal pay, sex and race discrimination and disability discrimination. It is the Company’s policy that all employees and applicants will receive fair employment opportunities and that there will be no discrimination between individuals on the grounds of race, religion, color, nationality, ethnic or national origin, gender, marital status, responsibility for dependents, working hours, disability or age. Glomacs also complies with local labour laws applicable to its relationship with its employees across the whole MENA region. Lastly, we support the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Women’s Empowerment Principles, which help the private sector promotes gender equality within the workplace, marketplace and the surrounding community. Implementation Glomacs has implemented the following measures to ensure that the respective Labour Principles are adhered to: • Human Resource Department’s email has been active in dealing with employees’ complaints and/or issues with regards to any violation of the U.A.E. Labour Law • All Glomacs employees are provided with basic medical insurance • Employees are entitled to an annual return flight ticket to their respective home countries • Glomacs practices equal compensation irrespective of gender, color, ethnic or national origin, age, marital status, disability, family circumstances, socio-economic background, and so forth • A weekly staff meeting has been set to discuss all company related issues P.O. Box 74653, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971 4 425 0700, Fax: +971 4 425 0701 E-mail: info@glomacs.ae www.glomacs.com Promoting High Labour Standards Our Human Capital and the skills, abilities and knowledge they possess are at the core of our business. Our goal is to have the right caliber, in the right places to support the needs of our clients and drive our future growth. Enforcing Fair Labor Standards within our Supply Chain Just as Glomacs holds its entire organization accountable to high standards of labour standards, we demand the same of our partners. Within our supply chain, we are committed to eliminating discrimination in our choice of vendors and other service providers. We expect our partners to comply with our labour standards which incorporate our core values and the UNGGs 10 principles; including human rights and eliminating forced labor, child labor and discrimination in the workplace. P.O. Box 74653, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971 4 425 0700, Fax: +971 4 425 0701 E-mail: info@glomacs.ae www.glomacs.com Environment • Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8 : undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9 : encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Commitment At Glomacs, our efforts to ensure sustainable growth covers our entire regional operations, form how we conduct our business to the product and services we provide our clients, to how we engage with our employees. It is at the heart of our Corporate Social responsibility strategy, which comprises four main areas: efficient operations working responsibly & sustainably; and providing insights to all stakeholders to advance sustainability. Glomacs is committed to operating a safe and healthy work environment. Each employee is responsible for compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations for the country in which they work. To further ensure a healthy and safe work environment, Glomacs will not tolerate the presence of any types of weapons, drugs, alcohol or any other such items that might create an unsafe workplace environment. Besides, we will implement new software, technologies and database to reduce the use of papers. Environmental policies are engrained in our Code of Conduct an in our core business values. These inform our Environmental Responsibility Policy, which we established in 2016, would be reviewed annually. Responsibility and accountability for our environmental strategy stats with our CEO and cascades down to all our business functions and operations throughout the entire MENA regain operations and to their respective managers, teams and other stakeholders. Implementation Glomacs has implemented the following measures to ensure that the environment will be preserved and to prevent any incidents: • A guide on how to “Reduce, Reuse and Recycle” has been posted throughout the office • Employees are required to turn off all office equipment after office hours • A third-party recycling company has been collecting all paper waste • Office equipment are regularly checked to maintain their efficiency and lower their power consumption • Tablets/E-Books being used on our training courses instead of the traditional paper-based course materials • Disposable cups have been replaced by ceramic reusable mugs to eliminate plastic waste • Biodegradable paper bags and cloth bags are being used instead of plastic bags • The office lighting has been changed to eco-friendly and power saving LED lights P.O. Box 74653, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971 4 425 0700, Fax: +971 4 425 0701 E-mail: info@glomacs.ae www.glomacs.com • Notices are posted at the lavatory about minimal use of water to avoid unnecessary wastage • A/Cs are kept at a constant temperature setting for optimal cooling and power usage Energy Management At Glomacs, we proactively manage energy usage and hence to reduce our use of office electricity. We have practice of turning off all equipment during out of office hours due to which electricity and water bill has been reduced by 25%. Providing Insights to Advance Sustainability We will strive and do our level best to contribute at all times to the overall environmental agenda, helping to gain insight into issues and working with other local & global businesses and organizations on solutions that will help make the world a better place. P.O. Box 74653, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971 4 425 0700, Fax: +971 4 425 0701 E-mail: info@glomacs.ae www.glomacs.com Anti-Corruption • Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Commitment Glomacs is committed to maintaining the highest ethical standards and to complying with all anticorruption laws where we operate across the whole MENA region. To this aim and as reflected in our internal policies, we have zero tolerance for bribery or any other activity that violates the anti-corruption laws in any place we do business. We believe that bribery and corruption damage our company’s reputation and undermines its relationship with its suppliers & customers, business partners and also competitors. It may lead to criminal prosecution of or regulatory action against a company of its employees, resulting in the imposition of criminal or civil penalties, including fines and imprisonment, and could damage a company’s business. Hence and therefore, Glomacs strictly prohibits any form of bribery and corruption. We believe that operating ethically and in compliance with all the local laws is not only the responsible thing to do, but is a key component to success and promote a healthy workplace. It’s very critical to us to act responsibly and play a role model with our industry for others to follow. We aim at helping our clients meet their own business and performance objectives through the adoption of high business and ethics standards. Implementation Glomacs has implemented the following measures to ensure that Anti-Corruption principles will be followed and strictly implemented: • Management’s email has been active as a channel for reporting concerns regarding corruption and malpractice. Employees, clients and partners are encouraged to report any concerns to the given email address. • All employees have been briefed with an anti-corruption guide as well as the anti-corruption law of the U.A.E. • Internal and external auditing are regularly conducted to ensure that all transactions are legitimate and legal P.O. Box 74653, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971 4 425 0700, Fax: +971 4 425 0701 E-mail: info@glomacs.ae www.glomacs.com Empowering our Business and Employees Our ethics and anti-corruption policy is very well articulated within our employee manual. All employees are requested to understand and comply with, when they perform their daily tasks and during interactions with one another or with external stakeholders. We at Glomacs, believe in our people and we rely on them to live our core values and principles every day, in very interaction with each other, with our customers and our other internal and external stakeholders. Monitoring, Measuring, Reporting and Response Monitoring business practices and implementation are integral to our business and to our target of zero tolerance policy. We continuously encourage reporting of possible violations or any good faith claim about Glomacs financial matters, accounting performs, internal accounting controls, corruption or fraud, or other serious matters where the vital interest of the company or the moral or physical integrity of our people are at stake.
