H GF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Communication on Progress HGF's basic beliefs We believe that people and organisations flourish when they evolve together as a team. The employees that chose to work for HGF and the customers and supplier who want to do business with our company all subscribe to this basic belief. It has developed a very creative business environment in which we all like to be challenged, continuously improve, solve problems, have an influence and feel like we betong. In this tontext there has been no need for our corporate management to try to convince our organisation to adopt the principler of corporate social responsibility. It comes natural. It is however important for us to subscribe to a program that can help us in our sustainability efforts. We can, and should, improve in all areas related to human rights, labour relations, environment and anticorruption. For this reason, HGF supports the UN Global Compactand its 10 principler. This communication on progress confirms our continued support and ongoing commitment to the initiative. Human Rights HGF supports and respects the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights and accepts its responsibility to respect the rights of employees and society to the extent they are affected by the Group's activities. We have included this commitment in our company Code of Conduct in which we alro specify our policies regarding these issues. The Code of Conduct is a mandatory policy document for all HGF employees. We have developed a Sustainable Procurement Policy that has been sent out to all suppliers and that we require them to comply with. We assess all companies that wish to become a supplier to HGF and a minimum requirement is that they commit to the 10 principler of the UN Global Compact and that they have no involvement with conflict minerals. Measurement of outcome: no reported cases of violations of human rights, neither within HGF nor in any of our suppliers. Labour At HGF we understand that a healthy, safe and motivating workplace is key to our company's rutters. Our code of conduct is therefore very clear on the basic requirements we have for all HGF group companies: The HGF Group strives to be a respected employer -for current as weil as for potential employees. The companies in the HGF Group skall provide a good physical and social work environment. The companies in the HGF Group skall alro strive to be an attractive employer with respect to the personal and professional development of its employees. The relationship with and among the employees skall be based on mutual respect and dignity, as weil as reasonable influence in areas that affect the individual's work situation. All employees of the HGF Group skall work in accordance with the Group's values. • The terms of employment, including financial compensation and working-kours, offered to the Group's employees skall, as a minimum, comply with the minimum requirements according to national legislation or the standard of the industry. • HGF does not accept forted labour, slave labour or other forms of involuntary work in the Group's workplaces. Nor does the Group allow the use of metkods that limit the free movement of its employees. • HGF does not hire persons below the age of 15, and where lotal legislation irrposes a higher age limit, no persons below suck age may be hired. • HGF provides all of the Group's employees equal opportunities regardless of rate, skin colour, sex, age, nationality, religion, ethnicity or other distinctive characteristics. The Group permits neither discrimination nor harassment. • HGF recognizes the right of employees to form or become members of unions in accordance with the laws and principfes of each respective country. • The work environment offered by HGFshall be safe and sound. Each Group company is responsible for ensuring that all work is conducted in suck a way that infuries and illness are prevented. alritten health and safety instructions skall apply to the Group's workplaces. At HGF we have developed extensive procedurer to ensure a good work place for every employee. This includes the definition of responsibilitiesfnr health and safety with union participation, training needs for health and safety, risk assessments for any new component or chemical, regular workplace checks to monitor health and safety, procedurer to investigate and implement preventive actions for accidents and Hear-misses, procedurer for cases of discrimination and/or harassment, procedurer for the continuous improvement of the workplace, and procedurer for rehabilitation of employees. We have developed a Sustainable Procurement Policy that has been sent out to all suppliers and that we require them to comply with. We assess all companies that wish to become a supplier to HGF and a minimum requirement is that they commit to the 10 principler of the UN Global Compact. In HGF we have had a clear strategy to increase diversity in our team and in all our Bites. And at the time of this report the percentage of women in our three Management Teams (the Group Management Team, the Swedish factory Management Team and the Latvian factory Management Team) has increased to 44%: 10 men and 8 women, which is very rare in a manufacturing company. There have been no public investigations and/or legal cases related the labour situation in any of HGF's Bites during the part year. Total sick-leave is down from 11.9% in 2015, to 6.8% in 2016, to 6.2% in 2017 and now 6,5% in 2018. Environment According to our environmental policy, HGF shall minimise its impact on the environment through dedication to preventive actions and continuous improvement, but alro by making sure everyone is properly trained and that the mandate to take action is clearly delegated. We have been IS014001 certified for many years and this ureans that we have clearly defined our areas of environmental impact and that we have established our environmental goals, or action areas if you wish. There are: 1. Reduce our use of energy. A fot of work has been done to insulate hot oil piper and heated presser in production. The indicator of energy use divided by turnover shows a downward trend and improved with 2% in 2017 compared to 2016 and improved an additional 1% in 2018 compared to 2017. 2. Reduce the use of dangerous chemicals continuous work is done by our Materials Department to reduce the use of dangerous chemicals. During the part year we substituted deolink vinyl with another silane that will not generate metoxietanol. We continuously work to substitute vulcanisation chemicals that produce nitrosamines. 3. Minimise transports, both interna) and externa) The work we do with our production system, which is based on tean production principfes, continuously challenges our logistics systems. At this point we unfortunately have no appropriate indicator to analyre the amount of transports within the HGF group. 4. Minimise our waste volume We have implemented a quality system to continuously reduce our scrap rate and we reduced it from 5% to around 1,6% over the last 10 years. Last year we held a training session for all employees on waste recycling. Overall waste volume per thousand SEK turnover showed no improvement in 2018 compared to 2017 (23,1 and 22,9 respectively), but has decreased 37% since 2010. Our Sustainable Procurement Policy, which has been sent out to all suppliers stater: • The supplier skall identify relevant environmental legal and other requirements and ensure continued compliance with the requirements. • It is encouraged that the supplier implement and maintain an environmental management system such as ISO 14001 or comparable system. • The supplier should look to minimise the use of energy and natural resources and maximise the use of renewable energy sources. We assess all companies that wish to become a supplier to HGF and a minimum requirement is that they commit to the 10 principler of the UN Global Compact, but they must alro show that they have an environmental management system. Anti-corruption HGF's code of conduct is very clear when it comes to corruption: HGF alms to be perceived as a trustworthy, long-term and reliable collaboration partner and will act professionally, honestly and ethically torrett. The Group does not tolerate corruption, bribes and unfair practices that may limit tompetition. All sales activities and marketing of HGF's products and services skall be conducted in compliance with relevant laws and regulations in each respective country. • HGF skall not offer or make undue payments or give other compensation to any person or any organization for the purpose of inducing such person or organization to act in breach of prescribed obligations in order to engage HGF or to retain assignments for the Group. • HGF skall not directly or indirectly -request or accept any form of undue payment or other compensation given for the purpose of inducing the Group to act in breach of HGF's prescribed obligations. • For the purpose of avoiding conflicts of interest, employees of the HGF Group may only give or accept gifts or services that are in compliance with general business practice, do not breach applicable law, do not represent any major financial gain and cannot reasonably be regarded as constituting bribes. 2017 we developed and implemented a whistle-blower policy to make it easier for any employee to safely report suspected cases of corruption. Earller this year, it was translated to all group languages and made more easily available on the intranet. So far no cases have been reported and we have no reported public legal cases regarding corruption neither against the company nor any of our employees.
