SINCE 1937 Living Free INTEGRATED REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 For over 80 years, Jubilee Insurance has built valuable relationships based on trust. We have earned this trust through total commitment to serving our customers, acting with passion and integrity to deliver on our motto: Live Free! At Jubilee Insurance Living Free is our mantra; it is our raison d’être. Through investment in technology, we allow our valued customers to access our services from their devices, at their convenience. Through market-led product development and value-added services, we give our clients new opportunities to save, retire, access quality health providers and to improve their wellness and happiness. Through our commitment to genuine client service and speedy claims settlement, we deliver peace of mind, and hope. We all have the right to wealth, health and happiness. We all Live Free! TABLE OF CONTENTS Financial Highlights 4 Group Information 5 Notice of the Annual General Meeting 8 Chairman’s Statement 9 Board of Directors 14 Corporate Governance Statement 20 Director’s Remuneration 26 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Journey 27 Principal Shareholders and Share Distribution 29 Report of the Directors 32 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 34 Independent Auditor’s Report 35 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 40 Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income 40 Company Statement of Profit or Loss 41 Company Statement of Other Comprehensive Income 41 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 42 Company Statement of Financial Position 43 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 44 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 45 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 46 Company Statement of Cash Flows 47 Notes to the Financial Statements 48 Supplementary Information 120 Achievements 121 Corporate Social Responsibility 124 Advertisements 132 Notes 135 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 1 2 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 Living free is... having peace of mind Trust is the cornerstone of our business. Some 80 years since its foundation, Jubilee Insurance has emerged as a market-leader offering quality insurance products for our diverse markets and for settling claims promptly without a fuss. We have the financial strength, corporate vision, passion and integrity to build on our success and ensure all our customers enjoy excellent value and receive the care and support they need. Knowing their funds and policies are in safe hands means our clients can enjoy complete peace of mind. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 3 FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Gross Written Premiums and Deposit Earnings per Share (KShs per Share) Administration Contributions (KShs Billion) 54.26 34.75 52.52 33.81 33.94 45.49 29.73 38.38 30.16 29.47 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Gross Written Premiums and Deposit Administration Earnings per share dropped by 3% to KShs 52.72 from Contributions increased to KShs 34.75 billion in KShs 54.26 due to higher tax expense. 2018. The core Individual Life portfolio grew by 19% as capacity building in distribution networks gained traction, including the launch of Bancassurance in Uganda where sales increased significantly. Profit Before Tax (KShs Billion) Total Assets (KShs Billion) 114.17 5.41 104.97 5.16 4.56 90.57 4.14 82.38 3.95 74.51 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Profit before tax grew by 5% to KShs 5.41 billion in Total assets grew by 9% to KShs 114.18 billion mainly 2018 attributed to higher insurance underwriting results as a result of increased funds generated by growth in as well as investment income. long-term funds. 4 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 GROUP INFORMATION 2018 2017 Capital and reserves KShs’ 000 KShs’ 000 Authorised Capital 450,000 450,000 Issued Capital 362,365 362,365 Paid-up Capital 362,365 362,365 Retained Earnings 21,649,197 20,092,764 Registered Office Jubilee Insurance House Wabera Street P O Box 30376-00100 GPO Nairobi, Kenya Telephone: 3281000 E-mail: jic@jubileekenya.com; Website: www.jubileeinsurance.com Subsidiaries The Jubilee Insurance Company of Kenya Limited (100%) The Jubilee Insurance Company of Uganda Limited (65%) Jubilee Life Insurance Company of Uganda Limited (65%) The Jubilee Insurance Company of Tanzania Limited (51%) Jubilee Life Insurance Corporation of Tanzania Limited (51%) The Jubilee Insurance Company of Burundi S.A. (70%) Jubilee Life Insurance Company of Burundi S.A (70%) Jubilee Insurance (Mauritius) Limited (80%) Jubilee Financial Services Limited (100%) Jubilee Investments Company Limited (Uganda) (100%) Jubilee Investments Tanzania Limited (100%) Jubilee Investments Burundi S.U. (100%) Jubilee Center Burundi S.P.R.L. (80%) Associates PDM (Holdings) Limited (37.1%) IPS Cable Systems Limited (33.3%) FCL Holdings Limited (30.0%) IPS Power Investment Limited (27.0%) Bujagali Holding Power Company Limited (25.0%) Auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers CPA PwC Tower Waiyaki Way/Chiromo Road Westlands P. O. Box 43963 -00100 Nairobi Corporate Lawyers Daly & Inamdar Advocates ABC Towers, 6th Floor ABC Place, Waiyaki Way P.O. Box 40034 00100 Nairobi Share Registrar Jubilee Holdings Limited Principal Bankers Diamond Trust Bank Kenya Limited Barclays Bank of Kenya Limited Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited Citibank N.A. Diamond Trust Bank Uganda Limited Diamond Trust Bank Tanzania Limited Diamond Trust Bank Burundi Limited Habib Bank Limited Barclays Bank Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 5 Associate Companies Jubilee Insurance, Mombasa Branch Bujagali Holdings Power Company Limited PDM (Holdings) Limited (Nation Center) It is an investment company which through its subsidiary, has invested PDM (Holdings) Limited is an East African real estate company that in the equity of Bujagali Energy Limited, an electricity generation has pioneered innovative developments in Kenya for more than company in Uganda. The 250MW Bujagali Hydro Power Plant 50 years, shaping the direction of real estate trends in the country contributes up to 49% of Uganda’s effective energy capacity. The by pursuing a philosophy of developing properties that serve an project is Africa’s largest privately financed hydropower project economic purpose and also uplift the quality of life for the community. and currently the largest Clean Development Mechanism project registered in a Least Developed Country. The project was awarded PDM’s landmark developments in Kenya include the IPS Building, Africa Deal of the Year 2007’ by EuroMoney Project Finance which was the first high rise building in Nairobi, Nation Centre Magazine in London. and the award winning Courtyard along General Mathenge Drive, Westlands. IPS Cable Systems Limited (Seacom) IPS Power Investment Limited (Tsavo Power Company Ltd) This is an investment company which has invested in the $650 million, 15,000 km Seacom submarine fiber optic cable project. This is an investment vehicle company which, through its subsidiary, This project, which links South Africa, Mozambique, Madagascar, has invested in the equity of Tsavo Power Company which was Kenya and Tanzania with other international broadband cables, will established to own and operate the 74.5MW Kipevu II thermal power provide low cost and high quality broadband capacity. project located in Mombasa, generating power for the Kenyan grid. FCL Holdings Limited (Farmer’s Choice Limited) Industrial Promotion Services (Kenya) Limited FCL Holdings Limited is an investment vehicle company which has The principal activity of this company is that of project development invested in the equity of Farmers Choice Limited, a company whose within the private sector. It currently has investments in the main objective is the sale of fresh and processed meat products. manufacturing and infrastructure sectors. 6 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 Associate Companies Bujagali Holdings Power Company Limited Industrial Promotion Services (Kenya) Limited FCL Holdings Limited (Farmers Choice Limited) IPS Cable Systems Limited (Seacom) PDM (Holdings) Limited (Nation Center) IPS Power Investment Limited (Tsavo Power) Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 7 NOTICE OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT THE 81ST ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF THE SHAREHOLDERS WILL BE HELD AT THE NAIROBI SERENA, KENYATTA AVENUE, ON 25 JUNE 2019 AT 11:00A.M. TO CONDUCT THE FOLLOWING BUSINESS: 1. To consider and, if thought fit, to adopt the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December, 2018 together with the reports of the Chairman, Directors and Auditor thereon. 2. To confirm the payment of the interim dividend of KShs 1.00 per share made on 5 October 2018 and approve the payment of a final dividend of KShs. 8.00 per share to be paid on or about 25 July 2019 to Shareholders registered as at 25 June 2019. 3. To re-elect the following Directors: a. The following Directors retire by rotation in accordance with Article 86 of the Company’s Articles of Association and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election: (i) Mr. Juma Kisaame (ii) Mr. Shabir Abji (iii) Mr. Nizar Juma b. Mr. Ashif Kassam retires in accordance with Article 90 of the Company’s Articles of Association, (this being his first Annual General Meeting since his appointment) and being eligible, offers himself for re-election. 4. In Accordance with the provisions of Section 769 of the Companies Act 2015, the following Directors being members of the Board Audit & Compliance Committee be confirmed to continue to serve as members of the said Committee: a. Mr. Zul Abdul b. Mr. Juma Kisaame c. Mr. John Metcalf d. Mr. Ashif Kassam 5. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 and authorize the Board to set the Directors’ remuneration. 6. To note that the independent auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers, will continue in office in accordance with Sec. 721 and to authorise the Directors to set their remuneration. By Order of the Board Margaret Muhuni-Kipchumba Company Secretary 29 April 2019 Notes: 1. A member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint a proxy to attend and vote on his/her behalf and such proxy need not be a member of the Company. 2. The proxy form can be downloaded from the Company’s website www.jubileeinsurance.com or obtained from the Company Secretary at the registered office of the Company at Jubilee Insurance House, 5th Floor, Wabera Street, Nairobi. To be valid, the proxy form should be returned to the Company by delivery or by post to P.O. Box 30376 00100, Nairobi to arrive no later than 48 hours before the meeting. 8 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, I am pleased to present Jubilee Holdings Limited’s (“JHL”/”Jubilee”) 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements. During the year, Jubilee maintained its focus on building sustainable underwriting profitability and reinforced initiatives implemented to improve risk selection and pricing as price competition continues to place pressure on underwriting margins across regional markets. This, coupled with further investment in systems and control enhancements, has allowed Jubilee to improve the quality of its insurance portfolio across the region. Despite a difficult year for the insurance sector, I am pleased to state that Jubilee has maintained its position as the largest composite insurer in East Africa for the tenth consecutive year and retained the No.1 position in the short-term business in Kenya, and overall No.1 position in Uganda and in Tanzania. Jubilee has maintained its preeminence of the medical insurance sector in East Africa both in terms of turnover and underwriting results. EAST AFRICA’S ECONOMY The East African regional economy has demonstrated continued and sustained economic growth, assisted by commodity prices, infrastructure development and the prospect of significant oil production. Kenya’s GDP growth is estimated at 6% in the first three quarters of 2018 compared to 4.7% in the corresponding period in 2017. The improved performance is attributed to the recovery in agriculture, construction, electricity, and manufacturing sectors. Headline inflation averaged 4.7% in 2018 compared to 8.0% in 2017; however, despite the drop in the yield curve, private sector credit growth remained muted, growing by a marginal 2.4% in 2018 (5.0% growth in 2017). On the regional front, Tanzania’s GDP is estimated to have grown by 6.7% in the first three quarters of 2018 compared to 6.2% in the corresponding period in 2017. The Bank of Tanzania attributes this to substantial improvement in infrastructure construction, information and communication, manufacturing, and mining sectors. Further, there was recovery in private sector credit growth which stood at 4.9% in December 2018 reflective of accommodative monetary policy and credit risk measures instituted. In Uganda, GDP growth improved in 2018 and is estimated at 5.8%. The rebound was largely driven by growth in information and communication services, agriculture production, construction sector, and strength in the industrial and services sectors. Mauritius is estimated to have grown at 3.9%, and Burundi estimated to have marginal growth of 1.4%. INSURANCE INDUSTRY This was a challenging year for the insurance industry as highlighted by the large losses reported by many of our peers. Several external factors, such as the drop in the yield curve and the decline in the stock markets resulted in lower investment income, and a slowdown in real estate and reduced spending on major infrastructure projects negatively impacted the overall growth and performance of the industry. This was compounded by the continued lack of pricing and risk management discipline in the industry, with several peers facing a solvency crisis as their Capital Adequacy Ratios fell well below the legal minimum requirement. Preliminary data shows that the insurance industry in Kenya grew by only 2% in non-life business and 5% in life business. Uganda recorded much stronger growth of 10% for non-life business and 33% in life business, while Tanzania grew by 4% in non-life business and 15% in life business. Whilst the regional market continues to have great growth potential, particularly Uganda and Tanzania, both of which markets have insurance penetration of less than 1%, the insurance Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 9 9 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) industry continues to face numerous challenges including a highly In the period under review, Jubilee introduced two innovative fragmented distribution system, high levels of risk, unprecedented offerings, the “Maisha Fiti” and the “JubiAgent”. Maisha Fiti incidence of fraud, scarcity of qualified human resources and is a comprehensive wellness program that encompasses Mums increasing competition in already crowded markets. These challenges club, Seniors Wellness club and includes a Loyalty program. The are partly mitigated as insurance regulators work with the industry program aims at combating the rising lifestyle diseases through to introduce regulations that allow greater clarity in areas such a encouraging and incentivizing healthy living and disease prevention credit control, reinsurance, bancassurance and capital adequacy through adoption of healthy lifestyles. The JubiAgent is a mobile supervision. Laws enforcing premium payment before cover have app that allows our agents to transact with the company including been passed in Uganda and Tanzania that are already easing credit requesting payment of commissions within 24 hours of the payment control challenges, and a similar law is expected to be passed in of premiums. Since its launch, JubiAgent has enrolled almost 1,000 Kenya. Bancassurance, already well established in Kenya, was agents with 92% as active users. launched in Uganda in 2018 and is awaiting regulatory approval in Tanzania. This will provide significant growth opportunities for retail A major challenge to the affordability of health care in the region products and services. is the very high use of costly branded medications where an equally effective generic is available. We continue to educate both Minimum capital requirements are expected to increase as Risk medical practitioners and members to substantially increase the use Based Capital (RBC) supervision, introduced in Kenya in 2015, is of affordable, high quality and equally effective generic drugs as being considered in other jurisdictions in the region. Jubilee is well opposed to branded versions which unnecessarily consumes a very positioned to meet the requirements of increasingly strict solvency large portion of their medical budget. In many developed countries, regimes across East Africa, which will be positive for both the industry generic drugs represent over 80% of the cost of drugs dispensed and the policyholder protection. Whilst the RBC requirements in whereas in Kenya, where the ratio should be considerably higher, Kenya were relaxed in 2016 to accommodate weaker companies, the ratio is estimated to be amazingly at best at around 50%. the Regulator has indicated a commitment to the development of the risk based framework and reviewing the reserving methodologies SHORT TERM INSURANCE GENERAL to lead to a higher level of stability and consumer protection in the industry. All the Group’s insurance subsidiaries across the region General insurance premiums grew marginally in 2018 to reach are well capitalized and the Kenyan company continues to be fully KShs 10.8 billion (2017 – 10.7 billion), largely due to intense compliant with the Risk Based Capital framework. competition and undercutting of prices in Kenya but also throughout the region. Against this challenging background, Jubilee was FINANCIAL RESULTS able to achieve improved insurance results and can report a 14% increase in underwriting profit at KShs 609 million (2017 – KShs Reflecting on these external factors, industry conditions and economic 534 million), with positive contributions from all lines of business. In environment, JHL delivered excellent results with overall Gross Marine insurance, cover continues to be obtained outside of Kenya, Written Premium, including Deposit Administration contributions, despite the Government’s well-meaning intention to have all marine increasing marginally to KShs 34.75 billion, whilst pre-tax profit cover issued locally due to lack of enforcement of the regulations. increased 4% to KShs 5.41 billion (2017 – KShs. 5.16 billion), In addition, fraud continues to be a major cost for this business, supported by continued strong contribution from insurance results at particularly in motor, and we continue to develop and implement KShs. 2.83 billion (2017 – KShs. 2.7 billion). enhanced procedures to identify and minimize fraud. The Group’s total assets increased by 9% from KShs 105 billion to LONG TERM INSURANCE LIFE AND PENSION KShs 114 billion. Total shareholders’ equity and reserves increased 11% from KShs 23.6 billion to KShs 26.2 billion. On the investment Life insurance business Gross Written Premium and Deposit front, the NSE 20 declined by 24% in 2018, resulting in significant Administration inflows registered a growth of 2% to KShs 14 billion fair value losses, and the lower yields on Government bonds across (2017 – KShs 13.7 billion). Jubilee’s core Individual Life portfolio the region resulted in subdued growth in investment income. Against grew by 19% as capacity building in distribution networks gained this backdrop, Jubilee’s overall investment portfolio performed traction, including the launch of bancassurance in Uganda where satisfactorily as a result of our strategy to hold a broadly diversified the sales increased significantly. The Corporate Group Life portfolio and conservative portfolio of investments. Our core investment went through a re-structuring exercise, and the focus will once again holdings includes quoted securities, government bonds, real estate, turn to growth in 2019. unquoted securities and projects that generate US dollar returns. DIVIDEND SHORT TERM INSURANCE MEDICAL I am pleased to report that the Jubilee Holdings Board has Medical insurance business premiums increased 4% to KShs 9.94 recommended a cash dividend of 180% for the year 2018 (2017: billion (2017 – KShs 9.6 billion). Growth was constrained in the 180%), on the share capital of KShs 362.4 million. An interim Kenyan company due to intense price competition, which was dividend of 20% (KShs 1.00 per share) was paid on 5th October countered by a focus on service and efficiency which allowed the 2018, and the Board is seeking approval for a final cash dividend company to sustain underwriting margins whilst the industry of KShs 8.00 per share. overall continued to make losses. Underwriting results also improved in Uganda and the Tanzania portfolio moved into profit after Jubilee share price closed 2018 at KShs 405, declining less than the investments in systems and improvements in risk pricing and claims drop on the overall market during the year. Since listing in 1984, controls. This, together with a continuation of the initiatives started in JHL has always declared dividends and has never declared a lower 2017 to reduce costs and improve efficiency, resulted in continued dividend than the previous year. strong underwriting profit of KShs 753 million (2017 – KShs 878 million). 10 10 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) SPLIT OF COMPOSITE COMPANY IN KENYA opportunities whilst protecting profitability. Key strategic initiatives for 2019 include completion of enhanced IT infrastructure and During the year, the Boards of JHL and Jubilee Insurance Kenya systems, increased presence in the emerging digital economy, approved the split of the Kenya subsidiary into three separate deployment of new and more inclusive medical insurance products, companies specializing in Medical, General and Life businesses holistic operational and process reengineering, product innovation respectively. The Insurance Regulatory Authority in Kenya has and continued development of agency and bancassurance networks encouraged the short-term and long-term companies to operate to drive our top line. as separate entities to minimize the risk of comingling funds and to protect the long-term policyholder funds. Whilst Jubilee has BOARD OF DIRECTORS operated these businesses as separate divisions for several years, we found that the composite splits in 2015 in both Uganda and The Directors who held office in 2018 and to the date of this report Tanzania enabled more rapid and focused growth of the Life are listed on page 14 to 15 of this report. As we continue to expand companies. Two new companies were incorporated in December our horizons, the Board continues to reflect your Company’s regional 2018 for the general business and the health business respectively, and growth related outlook, while drawing from the Company’s and an application was filed with the IRA in early 2019 to transfer Vision, Mission and Values which continue to steer your Company. these businesses to the new companies with the existing company For the first time in Jubilee’s 82 year history, the Directors of all continuing with the Life business. The intended effective date of the our companies met for a very successful 3 day Board Retreat where split is 1 January 2019. we discussed the potential and future of the insurance industry in the region, deliberated on disruption, innovation, convergence CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY of insurance and technology, and digitalization, and agreed on a strategy for the next 5 to 10 years. At the retreat, the Directors Jubilee insurance is committed to delivering social, economic, and renewed their commitment to increasing the affordability and environmental benefits to all our stakeholders. Towards this end, accessibility of insurance to many more people throughout the in 2018, Jubilee continued with 80th Anniversary projects namely region to improve their quality of life. the Live Free Painting, School Renovation, Ear Operations, and Eye project. The Live Free Painting project nurtures and encourages APPRECIATION children to express their creativity through artwork. Our CSR activities are further outlined on pages 27 to 28 of this Integrated The contributions of Jubilee’s various stakeholders have ensured that Report. continued strong performance is achieved. These are none other than our business partners, intermediaries and customers. I would Going into the future, Jubilee Insurance will remain a proactive and like to thank you for your continued support and loyalty, which has a responsible corporate citizen committed to improving the lives of been instrumental in reinforcing Jubilee’s position as the invincible our local communities. market leader in Kenya and in East Africa. MARKET PRESENCE AND RECOGNITION I also thank all our staff across the region who continue to show dedication and provide superior service to our customers. I would Jubilee was very pleased to be recognized by the business community also like to acknowledge with appreciation my colleagues in the and insurance industry for the excellence of our business practices Board and those on the Boards of the rest of the subsidiaries for their by winning several awards. During the year 2018, Jubilee scooped diligence, guidance and support that has ensured that we achieve 29 awards in total. Our major awards are listed on page 121 of this excellent results during the year. It is this dedicated and loyal support Integrated Report. that has enabled the company to become the largest insurance Group in East Africa, whose sustained growth over the decades OUTLOOK and reputation as the most trusted insurer in the region has been built on our solid values and unyielding ethical practices, a strong Economic prospects for 2019 remain strong with improved and growing balance sheet and a commitment to fair settlement of visibility in the timing of investments in the oil sector and major claims. We are indeed very proud of these accomplishments and infrastructure projects but offset by the growing levels of public debt strive to continue to build on this solid foundation. and the potential drought conditions. Whilst the regional economy is expected to continue to grow at the recent pace of around 5% 6%, in the medium to long term there remains uncertainty due to growing concerns around the rapid rate of borrowing by the Nizar Juma national governments, increasing annual debt service burden, and Chairman the crowding out of private sector borrowing resulting in reduced availability of credit to SMEs which is the driving force of economic 29 April 2019 growth and employment in both the formal and informal sectors, both important growth areas for the insurance industry. We continue to be optimistic as we focus on our strategic goals to ensure that Jubilee continues to perform strongly in 2019 and generate sustainable and stable returns for our shareholders. We will continue to focus on appropriate risk selection and best management practices so as to balance our entrepreneurial approach to business Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 11 11 12 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 Living free is... being valued In order to stay ahead of our competition, Jubilee Insurance invests heavily in research and development gathering market intelligence in order to understand the evolving needs of our valued customers, identifying new markets and creating innovative products. From added-value services such as our popular Maisha Fiti wellness programme to bespoke savings plans for education or traditional weddings, Jubilee Insurance is always on the forefront of product development. Recent niche products added to our portfolio include: Msafiri, Maisha Fiti, J-Inue, Safari Vocha and Kwanjula. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 13 board of directors Julius Kipng’etich Margaret Kipchumba Nizar Juma Zul Abdul Juma Kisaame REGIONAL COMPANY CHAIRMAN CEO SECRETARY KEY Board Audit and Compliance Committee Board Finance Committee Board Property Committee 14 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 board of directors Sultan Allana Ashif Kassam Lutaf Kassam John Metcalf Jane Mwangi Shabir Abji Board Nominating and Human Resource Committee Board IT Committee Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 15 board of directors (continued) Mr. Nizar Juma (75) Non-Executive Chairman Mr. Juma is a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Jubilee Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries having been first appointed to the Board in 2004. He is also the regional Chairman of the Industrial Promotion Services group of companies and is a Chairman and Director in various other private entities in the industrial and commercial sectors. Mr. Juma holds a BSc. (Econ) Joint Hons in Economics, Law & Accountancy from the University of Wales – Cardiff. He is a recipient of a number of national awards including the Award of the Silver Star of Kenya by H.E. The President of Kenya for outstanding service to the nation (1982) and was awarded The Life Time Achievement Award in the 2011 Insurance Industry Awards. Mr. Sultan Ali Allana (59) Non-Executive Director Mr. Sultan Ali Allana is a Director of the Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development (AKFED) and has the oversight responsibilities for AKFED’s investments in Banking, Insurance and Aviation. Mr. Allana is a career banking professional with over 33 years of experience in retail, corporate and investment banking. Mr. Allana joined the Board in 2006. Mr. Lutaf Kassam (65) Non-Executive Director Mr. Kassam was appointed to the Board in 2006 and chairs the Board Finance Committee and is a member of the Board Property Committee. Mr. Kassam, a member of the AKFED Executive Committee, is responsible for AKFED’s global portfolio on Industry and Infrastructure. He is also a Director on the Board of Kenya Association of Manufacturers, the East African Business Council (EABC), an advisory Board Member of the Sustainable Energy for All (SE4ALL) initiative under The UN Secretary-General and the World Bank Group, past First Vice Chairman of the Nairobi Stock Exchange (NSE) and a member of the National Economic and Social Council (NESC) in Kenya. Mr. John Metcalf (59) Non-Executive Director Mr. Metcalf was appointed to the Board in 2006. He has extensive international experience in the insurance industry and is currently the Head of Insurance for the Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development. He is a Director on the Boards of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries. Before joining the Company, he was the Executive Chairman of the Allianz Group Insurance subsidiaries in Egypt. Mr. Metcalf is a Fellow of the Chartered Insurance Institute and holds a BA (Hons) in Banking Insurance & Finance from Sheffield Hallam University. Mr. Metcalf is a member of the Board Finance Committee, Board Audit & Compliance Committee, Board Nominating & HR committee and Board IT Committee. Mrs. Jane Mwangi (55) Non-Executive & Independent Director Mrs. Mwangi joined the Board in 2014 and chairs the Board Nominating & Remuneration Committee. She is the Managing Partner at Robson Harris & Co. Advocates and has previously worked at the Central Bank of Kenya, Deposit Protection Fund Board and the United Nations, Department of Oversight Services (OIOS). She is an Advocate of the High Court of Kenya with over 20 years’ experience, a Notary Public, a Commissioner for Oaths and a member of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators. She is an accredited Governance Auditor and a Certified Public Secretary. She holds a Master Degree in Business Law from the University of Nairobi and University of Hull, UK. Mr. Juma Kisaame (56) Non-Executive Director Mr. Kisaame was appointed to the Board in 2016 and is a member of the Board Audit & Compliance Committee and the Board IT Committee. He is the former Managing Director of DFCU Bank Uganda and has over 20 years’ experience in the financial sector. Mr. Kisaame holds a Bachelors of Commerce degree majoring in Accounting from Makerere University and is an Alumni of the Advanced Management program at INSEAD, France. He has been a Director of Uganda Revenue Authority and Chairman of Uganda Investment Authority. Mr. Shabir Abji (60) Non-Executive & Independent Director Mr. Abji joined the Board in 2013 and chairs the Board IT Committee and is also a member of the Board Finance Committee. Mr. Abji is a businessman and assisted in the running of the family business, and in 1984 set up the company operations in Uganda. As the Group Director, he was instrumental in setting up Uganda Oxygen, Twiga Chemical Industries Uganda, Service and Computer Industries Uganda (Formerly NCR) and American Communication and Technologies. Mr Abji has served as the Chairman of Aga Khan Health Services, Tanzania, a Councilor of the Confederation of Tanzania Industries and currently is the Chairman of Dar es Salaam Tourism Executive Board. He is also the Chairman of the Tanzania Asian Development Association (in formation) and has been involved in fund raising activities for various causes and is a member of the FAO sponsored Telefood Committee. Mr. Zul Abdul (67) Non-Executive & Independent Director Mr. Abdul joined the Board in 2014. He is the CEO, Trans-Orbit Kenya Limited. He has previously held key leadership voluntary positions having served as the President of Aga Khan National Council in Kenya, the Chairman of Aga Khan Education Services, Chairman of the Jubilee Fund Limited, director of Anfield Holdings Ltd, a Property Development company and Executive Director of Wiggins Teape Ltd, an international company manufacturing and trading in paper. Mr. Abdul is the Chairman of the Board Audit & Compliance Committee and is a member the Board Property Committee and Board Nominating & Human Resources Committee. 16 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 board of directors (continued) Mr. Ashif Kassam (50) Non-Executive & Independent Director Mr. Kassam was appointed to the Board on 28th March 2019 and a member of the Board Audit & Compliance Committee. He is a Fellow Member of the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK) and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, UK (ACCA). He is a practising Member of the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Uganda and a Member of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators UK. He is also a Member of the National Board of Accountants & Auditors, Tanzania. He is a recipient of the Order of the Grand Warrior (O.G.W.) as well as ACCA Achievement Award in recognition of his contribution to the development of the accountancy profession both locally and globally. He has extensive experience in audit & assurance, tax, transaction & risk advisory and management consulting and is currently the Executive Chairman of RSM Eastern Africa LLP. He also serves on the Boards of JHL’s subsidiaries, The Jubilee Insurance Company of Kenya Limited and Jubilee Financial Services Limited. Mr. Kassam is a Board Member of the Entrepreneurs Organisation Kenya and is the Accelerator Chair, a program that supports the development and growth of early stage entrepreneurs. Mrs. Margaret Kipchumba (45) Company Secretary Mrs. Kipchumba was appointed Company Secretary of Jubilee Holdings Limited in 2014. She also serves in the same capacity in the insurance and fund management subsidiaries in Kenya and has oversight responsibility for the company secretarial function in the regional subsidiaries. Mrs. Kipchumba is an Advocate of the High Court of Kenya, a Certified Public Secretary and an accredited Governance Auditor. She is a Member of the Law Society of Kenya, the Institute of Certified Public Secretaries of Kenya and the Institute of Directors, Kenya. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 17 18 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 Living free is... the freedom of expression At Jubilee Insurance, we believe that everyone should have access to economic opportunities, medical care, education and creative disciplines. We are proud of our dedicated CSR Team who, working alongside our local partners, has helped to build a strong future for the communities we serve. Jubilee Insurance is the founder and sponsor of the The Live Free Painting Project, which nurtures and encourages children to express their creativity through artwork. The project has so far awarded 33 students in East Africa with full secondary school education scholarships and ongoing career mentorship. In 2018, the students went through training in ‘abstract thinking’ in art and received exposure to the works of art at the GoDown Art Center in Nairobi. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Company views the application of good corporate governance practices as fundamentally key to achieving a healthy and sustainable return on investment for its shareholders while fulfilling its social mandate to improve the quality of life for all stakeholders. The Directors therefore remain committed to maintaining the highest standards of good corporate governance in all jurisdictions the Company operates in for the benefit of all stakeholders. The Company has adopted the Capital Markets Authority Code of Corporate Governance Practices for Issuers of Securities to the Public, 2015 (“Code”). The Code sets out the principles and makes specific recommendations on structures and processes which companies should implement in making good corporate governance an integral part of their business dealings and culture. In keeping with the Code, a governance audit for the financial year ended 31 December 2018 was undertaken by an independent accredited governance auditor to assess the level of application of good governance practices in the Company. The reporting template for disclosing the extent to which the Company has implemented the Code is available on the Company’s website www.jubileeinsurance.com. This is the second year of reporting on the Code and the Board is happy to note that the Company has made progressive steps towards full application of the Code and this forms part of the efforts to constantly improve governance practices. Based on the overall performance of the Company, the Governance Auditor’s opinion is that the Board has established, implemented and overseen an effective governance framework structure and the control environment is consistent with the legal and regulatory requirements, internal policies and good governance practices in the interest of shareholders and stakeholders. BOARD OF DIRECTORS Composition of the Board The Company is led by an effective Board that provides strategic direction, oversight over management and ensures that Management is creating value for all stakeholders. The Board currently comprises of nine (9) Directors all of whom are non-executive. Four (4) out of the nine (9) Directors are independent. In determining the independence status of the Directors, the Company has applied the criteria set out in the Code. The Board, through the Nominating and Human Resources Committee, carries out an annual assessment on each Director’s independence status to ensure that the Board maintains a healthy ratio of independent Directors which at the very least should meet the minimum requirement prescribed by the Code one third. All the independent Directors have served for a tenure less than 9 years. Each Director’s profile is given on page 16 of this Annual Report and highlights, amongst others, the Directors’ qualifications, age, their independence status and other key board memberships. Notwithstanding a Director’s non-executive and/or independence status on the Board, all Directors recognize that they are collectively responsible to the shareholders and stakeholders for the viable long-term sustainability of the Company. Whilst the Articles of Association allow for the appointment of alternate directors on the Board there are currently no alternate or shadow directors on the Board. Changes in Board membership All appointments to and resignations from the Board are carried out in accordance with the Articles of Associations and are disclosed to the shareholders and to the public as prescribed by the Capital Markets Authority regulations and the Code. On 5th July 2018, Mr. Moez Jamal resigned as a Director due to increased professional commitments and a public announcement was issued. On the same day, the Board upon the recommendation of the Board Nominating and Human Resource Committee (BNHRC) appointed Mr. Ashif Kassam as a non-executive independent Director and issued a public announcement on the same. In accordance with the Articles of Association, Mr. Ashif Kassam retires at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and being eligible offers himself for re-election by shareholders. Also, in accordance with the Articles of Association, at least one third of the Directors retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting and are eligible to seek re-election. In determining the Directors retiring by rotation, consideration is given to those who have been in office longest since their last election. The Directors retiring by rotation are listed in the Notice of the AGM on page 8. Induction of New Board Members Newly appointed Directors undergo a comprehensive, formal and tailor made induction programme to ensure their effective contribution on the Board and committees. The induction amongst others, covers the nature of the Group’s business, Group organizational structure, Board and Committee mandates, financial performance review over the previous financial periods as well as the role, duties and responsibilities expected of the Directors. The Directors receive an induction pack which comprises the Memorandum and Articles of Association, Board Charter and Directors’ Code of Ethics, Committees Terms of Reference and minutes from previous Board meetings. The induction process is coordinated by the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive Officer and the Group Company Secretary. Board Charter The Board has put in place a Board Charter that defines the governance parameters within which the Board exists and sets out specific responsibilities to be discharged by the Board and Directors collectively, as well as certain roles and duties incumbent upon Directors as individuals. Each Director is called upon to subscribe to the Charter and in doing so, acknowledges the Company’s values and commits to upholding them. The Charter was last reviewed in March 2019 is available on the Company’s website at www.jubileeinsurance.com. 20 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED) Role of the Board The Board’s primary responsibility is that of fostering the long-term business of the Company consistent with its fiduciary responsibility to the shareholders. The responsibilities of the Board are articulated in the Board Charter while the conduct of Board members is governed by the Directors’ Code of Ethics and Conduct. Both documents are available on the Company’s website, www.jubileeinsurance.com. The responsibilities imposed by these documents are in addition to those imposed by legislation and regulations applicable to the Company. During the year under review the Board met four (4) times to monitor business performance against the business plan and budget. In the year under review, the Directors held a strategy retreat which was attended by all Group directors to agree the Group strategy in 2019 going forward as well as the 2019 budgets. The record of attendance at the Board meetings is set out below: Name April May August November Nizar Juma √ √ √ √ Sultan Allana A A √ √ Lutaf Kassam √ A √ √ Juma Kisaame √ √ √ √ John Metcalf √ √ √ √ Shabir Abji A √ √ √ Jane Mwangi A √ √ √ Moez Jamal √ A n/a n/a Zul Abdul √ √ √ √ Key: √ Present A Absent with apologies n/a resigned on 5th July 2018 Senior management including the Group Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Officer and any other officers as may be required, attend Board Meetings by invitation to ensure informed decision-making by the Board of Directors. The Company Secretary attends all the meetings of the Board to primarily advise on legal regulatory and governance issues and ensure accurate documentation of Board decisions. In addition, the Board invites independent professionals to attend meetings and provide advice as may be necessary. SEPARATION OF THE ROLE OF THE CHAIRMAN AND GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The Board Charter stipulates a clear separation of the role and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO). The Chairman is an non-executive Director and his primary role is to direct the Board’s business and act as its facilitator and guide, ensuring the Board is effective in its task of setting and implementing the Company’s direction and strategy. The GCEO is responsible for the day-to-day leadership of the Company’s business affairs and ensures the execution of strategy as set by the Board. The separation of the roles is to promote accountability and facilitate division of responsibilities as well as to ensure a balance of power and authority such that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision making. BOARD COMMITTEES In order to effectively carry out its governance responsibilities, the Board has established five standing committees as listed below and delegated specific mandates to them. These committees operate under clearly articulated terms of reference which clarify their responsibilities and scope of authority. The committees have unrestricted access to any information within the Company and have unfettered access to the Company Secretary and independent professionals to enable them effectively discharge their functions. All committees report to the Board at each Board meeting highlighting matters discussed at their respective meetings and recommended actions for Board approval in appropriate cases. Notwithstanding the delegated authority to these committees, the Board remains fully responsible for the areas overseen by the committees and activities of the committees. The mandates of the committees and their membership are summarized as follows: Board Audit & Compliance Committee (BACC): The mandate of the BACC is broadly speaking to assist the Board in the following five (5) areas where the key responsibilities include financial reporting and compliance with applicable financial reporting standards, oversight of Internal Audit function and their review of financial and operational controls, liaising with external auditors including receiving and reviewing their reports and letters, monitor compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and review risk management issues within the Group. The Members of the BACC are Mr. Zul Abdul (Chairman), Mr. Juma Kisaame, Mr. John Metcalf and Mr. Ashif Kassam. Their profiles are highlighted on page 16 and 17. Board Nominating and Human Resource Committee: This committee reviews all new nominees to the Board and is mandated to assess the performance and effectiveness of Directors. The Committee also reviews and approves the HR strategy in the Company. The members of this committee are Mrs. Jane Mwangi (Chairperson), Mr. Nizar Juma, Mr. John Metcalf and Mr. Zul Abdul. Their profiles are highlighted on page 16 and 17. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 21 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED) Board Finance Committee: This committee reviews and makes recommendations on the financial and investment business of the Company The committee also provides guidelines and limits for investment of the Company’s funds. The members of this committee are Mr. Lutaf Kassam (Chairman); Mr. John Metcalf and Mr. Shabir Abji. Their profiles are highlighted on page 16 and 17. Board Information Technology Committee: This committee is responsible for IT governance, overseeing and monitoring the IT strategy and roadmap formulation, IT investment proposals, review IT investments such as new systems recommendations from a technical and operational perspective. The members are Mr. Shabir Abji (Chairman); Mr. John Metcalf and Mr. Juma Kisaame. Their profiles are highlighted on page 16 and 17. Board Property Committee: The committee deals with the Company’s property portfolio and makes recommendations to the Board. The members are Mr. Nizar Juma (Chairman); Mr. Lutaf Kassam and Mr. Zul Abdul. Their profiles are highlighted on page 16 and 17. REMUNERATION POLICIES Directors: The particulars of the Directors’ remuneration are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 26. Senior Management: The Board Nominating & Human Resources Committee is mandated to review and determine the Company’s policy on remuneration and advise on the specific remuneration packages of senior managers so as to ensure that they are fairly rewarded for their individual contributions to the Company’s overall performance. All employees in the Company are eligible for an annual bonus which is determined by the overall performance of the Company and the individual’s performance against a pre agreed Balanced Scorecard. The Company does not have any share options schemes for employees. CONFLICT OF INTEREST The Group ensures that the governance framework not only monitors compliance with legislation and regulations but also monitors the ethical climate within the organization. Towards this end, all employees’ upon joining the Company and on an annual basis are required to sign up to the Code of Conduct and Ethics which aims to encourage honest and ethical business conduct. The Board has also adopted a Directors’ Code of Ethics and Conduct. One of the key principles underlying ethical business conduct is the avoidance and disclosure of conflict of interest. Conflict of interest refers to a situation where an employee’s or Director’s private interest or that of a family member or associated institution interferes or appears to interfere with the interests of the Company as a whole. Directors are under statutory obligation to avoid a situation in which the Director has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may conflict with the interests of the Company. Where the conflict is inevitable, an employee is required to notify the Group Chief Executive Officer while a Director is required to notify the Chairman of the Board as promptly as practicable and absent himself/herself from any discussion or decision by the Board that relates to the matter giving rise to the conflict. Disclosure on related party transactions: The Company’s disclosure on related party transactions is given in note 35 on page 91and 92 of this Integrated Report. INSIDER TRADING POLICY The Capital Markets Authority Act has prescribed certain regulations that expressly prohibit the use of unpublished insider information. Insider information is generally information that: • relates to the Company and the Company’s securities; • has not been made public; • if it were made public, is likely to have a material effect on the price of the securities. The Company has also adopted an Insider Trading Policy with the objective of promoting transparency and accountability by Directors, employees and members of their families including spouses, children, parents and siblings (collectively referred to as “Insiders”). The Company’s Insider Trading Policy prohibits Insiders from trading in the securities of the Company at any time they are in possession of Insider Information. The policy also prescribes a Trading Window during which Insiders can trade in the securities of the Company subject to notifying the Group Company Secretary. This trading window opens twenty-four (24) hours after the release of any material or price sensitive information (including the interim and final financial results) and closes fourteen (14) calendar days later. 22 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED) FRAUD AWARENESS AND WHISTLE BLOWING POLICY The Company has a zero tolerance approach to fraud and corruption and has put in place both proactive and reactive measures to address both. Employees are continuously sensitized on fraud awareness and their role in identifying, preventing and reporting fraudulent, corrupt and unethical business conduct. To encourage employee partnership in the fight against fraud and corruption, the Company has adopted a Whistle Blowing Policy that aims to have an effective internal mechanism that enables employees to freely, voluntarily, in good faith and without fear of victimization come forward and share any information they may have regarding any financial misconduct, misuse of Company resources, unethical or dishonest behavior by co-workers (at all levels), service providers, suppliers or other stakeholders dealing with the Company. This policy is available on the Company’s Website at www.jubileeinsurance.com. Towards this end and to facilitate reporting, the Company has signed up for an external and internationally accredited whistle blowing facility which enables employees and other external stakeholders to make reports via multiple reporting channels including telephone (toll-free or call back facility), email and web. This facility guarantees anonymity and enhances the Company’s compliance with legislation on the protection of whistle blowers. All reports are forwarded directly from the reporting center to the Group Chairman and Chairman of the Board Audit & Compliance Committee for appropriate direction on action to be taken. All reported fraud is investigated, the concerned individual, given an opportunity to be heard and appropriate action taken. ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND STAKEHOLDERS The Company values its relationship with all shareholders and ensures timely communication with them through the channels prescribed by law and listing regulations. The Company holds an Annual General Meeting (AGM) in every year and invites all shareholders to attend either in person or by proxy. At the AGM, the shareholders are invited to comment or ask questions on the any issues tabled before the meeting and thereafter are given an opportunity to vote on the agenda items presented. All resolutions passed at every AGM are published within ten (10) days of the meeting and uploaded on the Company’s website. Any decisions of the Board that require to be notified to the public such as approval of final and interim financial results, Board appointments and resignations and other corporate actions are issued through public announcements at the same time to all shareholders within the prescribed timelines of twenty four (24) hours from when the decision is made. The Company is keen to ensure that there are open channels of communication not only with shareholders but all stakeholders including employees, policy holders, insurance intermediaries, service providers and the public in general. Towards this end, the Company has put in place various communication channels including monthly townhall meetings for employees to interact with management and raise any issues that may be of concern or proposals on employee welfare, periodic breakfast meetings with intermediaries on multilateral business support and service issues and most recently the Company has launched a Live Twitter chat that enables the general public to engage with senior management led by the Group CEO on the Company’s products, services any related issues. Dispute Resolution: Disputes are an inevitable part of life. In a business setting, disputes might arise from engagements with clients, service providers employees and other stakeholders. The Company strives to mitigate the occurrence of disputes by ensuring all contractual engagements are documented and that the obligations and rights of the Company and its contracting partners are clearly articulated. All Company contracts are vetted by the Legal department and contain dispute resolution mechanisms which include escalation of disputes to identified senior individuals in the Company, mitigation or arbitration. As a last resort, where disputes cannot be amicably resolved, disputes are referred to the Courts of Law or relevant Tribunals, as may be appropriate, for resolution. Internally, any dispute relating to disciplinary action contemplated against an employee follows strict adherence to employment law with regard to giving the employee a chance to be heard. An employee who is aggrieved by a decision of the Company has, in the first instance, recourse to lodge an appeal against such decision with the Group Chief Executive Officer. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 23 24 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 Living free is... building and securing your family’s future At Jubilee Insurance, we help families plan for their future. Through the Jubilee Insurance Career Life education plan, investing an affordable amount each month will ensure that parents can comfortably cover the costs of their child’s education. Our new J-Inue family cover means health insurance is now accessible to low and middle income families without the need for a medical check-up. We want every family to be safe, secure and to Live Free! Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 25 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT The Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is in line with the Companies Act, 2015 and the Code of Corporate Governance Practices for Issuers of Securities to the Public 2015, issued by the Capital Markets Authority. Director Remuneration Policy The Board has established a policy to ensure that the remuneration of Directors is formal, transparent and approved by Shareholders in a General Meeting. The Board has mandated the Board Nominating & Human Resource Committee (BNHRC) to, inter alia, review the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors and recommend changes from time to time. In considering the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors, the BNHRC considers amongst others, the business strategy and long-term objectives of the Company. During the year under review, all Directors served on a Non-Executive basis. In recognition of their service to the Company, the NonExecutive Directors are paid fees and sitting allowances for attending Board and Committee meetings. Both the fees and sitting allowances are paid on a quarterly basis. The Non-Executive Directors are not covered by the Company’s incentive programs nor do they receive performance-based remuneration. No pension contributions are payable on their fees and no Director is entitled to any compensation at the end of their tenure as a member of the Board. The Company reimburses travel and accommodation expenses related to attendance at Board and Committee meetings. During the year under review, no loans were advanced to the Directors. The aggregate amount of emoluments received by the Directors during the year under review was KShs 3,420,000 (2017: KShs 3,745,000) and is shown on page 68 under note 11 (iii). The fees and sitting allowance paid to the each Director for the year ended 31 December 2018 together with the comparative figures for 2017 are given in the following table. Sitting Expense Year ended 31 December 2018 Directors’ Allowance Bonuses allowances Total Fees KShs. 000 KShs. 000 KShs. 000 KShs. 000 KShs. 000 Mr. Nizar Juma* Mr. Sultan Allana* Mr. Lutaf Kassam*** 540,000 120,000 660,000 Mr. Juma Kisaame 540,000 180,000 720,000 Mr. John Metcalf* Mr. Shabir Abji 540,000 100,000 640,000 Mrs. Jane Mwangi 360,000 120,000 480,000 Mr. Moez Jamal** 180,000 40,000 220,000 Mr. Zul Abdul 540,000 160,000 700,000 2,700,000 720,000 3,420,000 * Waived ** Mr. Moez Jamal retired from the Board on 5 July 2018 *** Fees paid to his employer Directors’ Sitting Expense Year ended 31 December 2017 Fees Allowance Bonuses allowances Total KShs. 000 KShs. 000 KShs. 000 KShs. 000 KShs. 000 Mr. Nizar Juma* Mr. Sultan Allana* Mr. Lutaf Kassam *** 540,000 120,000 660,000 Mr. Juma Kisaame 540,000 140,000 680,000 Mr. John Metcalf* Mr. Shabir Abji 540,000 180,000 720,000 Mrs. Jane Mwangi 360,000 120,000 480,000 Mr. Moez Jamal 360,000 160,000 520,000 Mr. Zul Abdul 585,000 100,000 685,000 2,925,000 820,000 3,745,000 * Waived *** Fees paid to his employer By Order of the Board Jane Mwangi Chairperson of the BHRC 26 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY JOURNEY At the core of Jubilee Holdings, is our belief of doing business in a manner that delivers economic, social, and environmental benefits to all stakeholders. JHL engages in sustainable business practices and aligns its Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR) with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that pledge to Leave No-one Behind and community transformation through the mantra the “Society We Want”. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 500 A TREE PLANTING EXERCISE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE KENYA ORGANISATION TREE SEEDLINGS OF ENVIRONMENTAL WITH ANOTHER EDUCATION (KOEE) 2,000 SEEDLINGS DISTRIBUTED ANNUAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION AMONG THE 19 OF JUBILEE CENTRE DECLINED BY 5% IN 2018 784,163kWh PARTICIPATING SCHOOLS ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT TOTAL STAFF COUNT YOUTH EMPLOYMENT 76% 1,209 BELOW 40 YEARS 50.3% ARE WOMEN CUTTING EDGE INNOVATIONS OVER JubiCare App users increased 6,700 164% in 2018 INTERMEDIARIES: AGENTS, SUPPLIERS, LAWYERS, DOCTORS, GARAGES, ASSESSORS, Dial*643# to get Msafiri SURVEYORS Policy, enroll in the Jubilee 68% Insurance Mum’s Club and access the JubiCare App NUMBER OF LIVES INSURED ARE OVER 967 Agents enrolled on the BEING LONG Commission on Demand in 2018 1.9Million TERM CLIENTS Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 27 SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY JOURNEY (Continued) SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Jubilee Insurance remains a proactive and responsible corporate citizen committed to improving the lives of our local communities and participates in several CSR initiatives guided by our pillars. LIVE FREE PAINTING COMPETITION EDUCATION The Live Free Painting project nurtures and encourages children to express their creativity through artwork. So far it has awarded 33 students with full Secondary school education scholarships who also continue to receive mentorship. In addition to the above, 7 public schools in Tanzania have been renovated under the School Renovation project. CANCER AWARENESS AND SUPPORT During the Cancer Awareness month, Jubilee staff in Kenya and Uganda engaged in the Cancer awareness campaign to carry out sensitization, screening, provide support and educate the affected/survivors. BEYOND ZERO CAMPAIGN Jubilee Insurance through the “Maisha Fiti” wellness program donated Kshs. 3M for mobilization of medical resources and provision of GPA covers for the over 27,000 participants, officials and volunteers during the Marathon. The initiative is in line with our core business agenda to increase access to and uptake of health insurance. HEALTH EAR CAMPS “BREAKING THE SILENCE” In collaboration with Operation Ear drop, we facilitated ear surgery camps in Nanyuki, Machakos, Kisumu and Nairobi counties. A total of 122 beneficiaries have undergone ear surgery since 2017. EYE PROJECT “FREEDOM TO FOCUS” In partnership with Kenya Society for the Blind, the Eye project has since its inception in 2017 provided eye treatment to more than 1,500 beneficiaries and provided spectacles to more than 250 public primary pupils. MAASAI WILDERNESS CONSERVATION TRUST (MWCT) Over the next 5 years KShs. 15 million will be committed to the Maasai Wilderness Conservation Trust in Kajiado to support their efforts in conservation of Tsavo West, offering university bursaries to bright SOCIAL ACTION needy students from the community and providing health services to the community. KIDS OF AFRICA MARATHON UGANDA Our Uganda Team joined the Kids of Africa, in a fun run by sponsoring the marathon to the tune of Ugsh. 10 million. The funds will go towards the construction of modern sanitation facilities for the kids in public schools in Bugiri Village, Kisubi Ward, Katabi Town Council and Wakiso District. 28 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS AND SHARE DISTRIBUTION Directors’ interest in the shares of the company as at 31 December 2018 Name Number of shares held % Shareholding Mr Nizar Juma 9,446 0.01% Distribution of Shareholders as at 31 December 2018 Number of shares Number of shareholders Number of shares held % Shareholding Less than 500 shares 1,842 265,842 0.37% 500 5,000 shares 3,172 6,428,287 8.87% 5,001 10,000 shares 742 5,120,517 7.07% 10,001 100,000 shares 560 14,021,059 19.35% 100,001 1,000,000 shares 36 7,501,340 10.35% Over 1,000,000 shares 5 39,135,905 54.00% Total 6,357 72,472,950 100.00% List of 10 largest shareholders as at 31 December 2018 Names Number of shares held % Shareholding 1 Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development 27,528,739 37.98% 2 Pyrus Investments Limited 7,483,980 10.33% 3 Freight Forwarders Limited 1,513,409 2.09% 4 United Housing Estates Limited 1,314,947 1.81% 5 Adam’s Brown and Company Limited 1,294,830 1.79% 6 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Limited A/c KE18972 904,754 1.25% 7 Investments & Mortgages Nominees Limited A/c 002983 800,000 1.10% 8 Gulshan Noorali Sayani 362,507 0.50% 9 Co-op Bank Custody A/c 23000 260,300 0.36% 10 Gulzar Shamshudeen Somji 250,151 0.35% TOTAL 41,713,617 57.56% Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 29 30 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 Living free is... finding time for you At Jubilee Insurance we understand that our customers’ needs continuously evolve. We have therefore invested heavily in technology to ensure our clients can now manage their policies wherever they are using state-of-the-art mobile apps and shortcode services. This includes the ability to locate health providers and book appointments, replace lost medical cards, view policy coverage and utilization and request preauthorization. By spending less time on paperwork, you have more time for you. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 31 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors submit their report together with the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 which disclose the state of affairs of Jubilee Holdings Limited (the “Company”) and its subsidiary companies (together the “Group”). COUNTRY OF INCORPORATION The Company is incorporated in the Republic of Kenya under the Companies Act and is domiciled in Kenya. The Company is also registered as a foreign company in the Republic of Uganda and in the United Republic of Tanzania. DIRECTORATE The directors who held office during the year and to the date of this report are as below; Nizar N Juma (Chairman) Sultan A Allana * Juma Kisaame*** Lutaf R Kassam John J Metcalf **** Shabir Abji** Jane S Mwangi Moez Jamal **** (resigned 5th July 2018) Zul Abdul Ashif Kassam (appointed 28th March 2019) * Pakistani ** Tanzanian ***Ugandan **** British PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The Company is an investments holding company. The Company, through its subsidiaries, provides a wide range of property, liability, health and life insurance, and retirement products, and related services to customers in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi and Mauritius. It also owns investment companies in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and Burundi. DIVIDEND An interim dividend of KShs 1.00 per share amounting to KShs 72.473 million (2017: KShs 72.473 million) was paid on 5 October 2018. The Directors recommend a final dividend of KShs 8.00 per share amounting to KShs 579.784 million (2017: KShs 579.784 million. The total dividend for the year represents 180% of the issued share capital as at 31 December 2018 (2017: 180%). BUSINESS REVIEW The following is the summary of the results for the year ended 31 December 2018 2018 2017 Profit analysis KShs’000 KShs’000 Group profit before income tax 5,410,008 5,160,970 Income tax expense (1,233,057) (930,660) Group profit after income tax 4,176,951 4,230,310 Non-controlling interest (370,501) (298,168) Profit attributable to equityholders of the company 3,806,450 3,932,142 Additional details of the business overview are captured in the Chairman’s Statement on pages 9 to 11. Risk Management The Group has developed an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework to realize opportunities, while reducing threats to an acceptable level through the implementation of adequate controls. Through the ERM process decision makers, better understand business situations and how the likely outcomes may affect the Group as a whole, enabling them options that are aligned with the Group’s risk appetite or options that can be aligned through implementation of effective controls. Each entity within the Group has risk champions whose mandate is to spearhead the implementation of risk management and reporting on risks. There also exist structures for reporting the risk so that the Group’s Board is given assurance that risks are being defined and managed at acceptable levels. 32 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS (CONTINUED) STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE TO THE COMPANY’S AUDITORS With respect to each director at the time this report was approved: • there is, so far as each director is aware, no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and • each director had taken all steps that ought to have been taken as a director so as to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information. Terms of Appointment of Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers continue in office in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and Section 721 of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. The directors monitor the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the auditor. This responsibility includes the approval of the audit engagement contract and the associated fees on behalf of the shareholders. By order of the Board Nizar Juma Chairman 29 April 2019 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 33 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES The Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and Company as at the end of the financial year and of its profit or loss for that year. It also requires the directors to ensure the Company and Group keep proper accounting records that: a) show and explain the transactions of the Group and Company; b) disclose, with reasonable accuracy, the financial position of the Group and Company; and c) enable the directors to ensure that every financial statement required to be prepared complies with the requirements of the Companies Act, 2015. The directors accept responsibility for the preparation and presentation of these financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner required by the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. They also accept responsibility for: • Designing, implementing and maintaining internal control as they determine necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error; • selecting suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; and • Making judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances Having made an assessment of the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, the directors are not aware of any material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast doubt upon the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The directors acknowledge that the independent audit of the financial statements does not relieve them of their responsibility. Approved by the Board of Directors on 29 April 2019 and signed on its behalf by: Nizar Juma Zul Abdul Chairman Director 34 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF JUBILEE HOLDINGS LIMITED Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Jubilee Holdings Limited (the Company) and its subsidiaries (together, the Group) set out on pages 40 to 119, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2018 and the consolidated statement of profit or loss, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, together with the Company statement of financial position at 31 December 2018, statement of profit or loss and statement of other comprehensive income, the statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the Company for the year then ended, and the notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements of Jubilee Holdings Limited give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and Company at 31 December 2018 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the company in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Code) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Kenya, and we have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the IESBA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Valuation of insurance contract liabilities Our testing approach included amongst others, the following procedures with the assistance of our actuarial specialists; Valuation of policyholder liabilities as disclosed in note 26 to the financial statements is made up of outstanding claims, incurred but • Assessing the competency, capabilities and objectivity of the not reported (“IBNR”) in the short term business and policy holder Group’s Statutory Actuary and verifying their qualifications. liabilities under the long-term business. • Evaluating and testing the controls around the claim reserving Significant reserving assumptions as disclosed in Notes 3 and 26 of and settlement. are made in the determination of the liabilities. • Evaluating the controls performed by management to ensure In the short-term business, for outstanding claims not settled at the the accuracy and completeness of the policyholder data. reporting date, the liability is estimated using the best available information from loss event and insured value. • Validating the accuracy of the data used by the Statutory actuary by tracing the policyholder valuation input data, such The IBNR provision is determined annually by the Group’s consulting as premiums, claims and expense data used in the valuation actuaries who provide an estimate for the valuation based on model to back information contained in the administration and analysis of historical claims development factors with the assumption accounting systems. that future claims development will follow a similar pattern to past claims development experience. PricewaterhouseCoopers CPA. PwC Tower, Waiyaki Way/Chiromo Road, Westlands P O Box 43963 00100 Nairobi, Kenya T: +254 (20)285 5000 F: +254 (20)285 5001 www.pwc.com/ke Partners: E Kerich B Kimacia M Mugasa A Murage F Muriu P Ngahu R Njoroge S O Norbert’s B Okundi K Saiti Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 35 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF JUBILEE HOLDINGS LIMITED (CONTINUED) Key audit matters (continued) Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Valuation of insurance contract liabilities (continued) In the case of the long-term business, the Group’s valuation of • On a sample basis, tracing the policyholder information used liabilities involves the selection of appropriate assumptions to in the valuation model back to information contained in the valuation of the liability key assumptions include mortality, morbidity, administration and accounting systems. lapses and interest rates. • Evaluating the ongoing validity of the assumptions by The valuation of insurance contract liabilities was considered a key performing an actual versus expected analysis on prior year’s audit matter as a change in the assumptions used in the valuation reserves. would have a material impact on the value of the liabilities. • Considering the methodology and assumptions used by the appointed actuary to compute the policy holder liabilities and assessing the valuation methods used against generally accepted actuarial practice and entity-specific historical information • Checking that the policyholder liabilities reported in the financial statements were consistent with the results of the independent actuarial valuation. Other information The other information comprises the Integrated Report which we obtained prior to the date of the date of this auditor’s report but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed on the other information, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements The directors are responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. 36 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF JUBILEE HOLDINGS LIMITED (CONTINUED) Auditors’ responsibility for the audit of the financial statements (continued) As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the directors. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the Group’s financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the Group’s financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Report on other matters prescribed by the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 Report of the directors In our opinion the information given in the directors’ report on pages 32 to 33 is consistent with the financial statements. Directors’ remuneration report In our opinion the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report on page 26 has been properly prepared in accordance with the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. Certified Public Accountants Nairobi 30 April 2019 CPA Bernice Kimacia, Practising certificate No. 1457 Signing partner responsible for the independent audit Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 37 38 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 Living free is... feeling great Customers today want an efficient one-stopshop for their insurance needs, to be rewarded for their loyalty and to enjoy value-added services. Jubilee Insurance’s continued success and growth will be inspired by a holistic approach to business development. The new business and efficiencies enjoyed by the company through this strategy can then be passed on to our loyal clients through lower premiums and innovative benefits such as free enrolment into our Maisha Fiti wellness programme, which includes both a Mums’ Club and Senior’s Club. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 39 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 2018 2017 Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Gross Written Premium 26,898,470 26,940,991 Gross earned premium revenue 6 26,706,654 28,328,848 Reinsurance ceded 6 (9,385,170) (9,134,984) Net insurance premium revenue 17,321,484 19,193,864 Investment and other income 7 8,720,734 7,575,360 Net fair value (loss)/gain on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 8 (374,945) 2,700,471 Commission income 9 2,344,571 1,803,453 Total income less reinsurance 28,011,844 31,273,148 Claims and policy holders benefits expense 10 (20,693,302) (25,127,276) Claims recoverable from re-insurers 10 4,763,392 5,473,380 Net insurance benefits and claims (15,929,910) (19,653,896) Operating and other expenses 11 (i) (4,682,646) (4,240,091) Commission expense 9 (3,328,793) (3,400,893) Total expenses and commissions (8,011,439) (7,640,984) Result of operating activities 4,070,495 3,978,268 Share of associates profit 15 (i) 1,339,513 1,182,702 Group profit before income tax 5,410,008 5,160,970 Income tax expense 16 (i) (1,233,057) (930,660) Profit for the year 4,176,951 4,230,310 Attributable to: Equityholders of the company 3,806,450 3,932,142 Non-controlling interest 15 (iii) 370,501 298,168 Total 4,176,951 4,230,310 Earnings Per Share (KShs) Basic and diluted 12 52.52 54.26 The notes on pages 48 to 119 are an integral part of these financial statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 2018 2017 Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Profit for the year 4,176,951 4,230,310 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Net fair value (loss)/gain on financial assets 8(ii) (344,374) 292,898 Deferred tax on other comprehensive income 16 76,425 (87,589) Loss on valuation of Retirement Benefits (34) 186 Items that are or/may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Net translation loss 31 (c) & 15 (iii) (493,426) (468) Associate share of other comprehensive income 15 (i) 195,071 47,219 Total other comprehensive income, net of tax (566,338) 252,246 Total comprehensive income for the year 3,610,613 4,482,556 Attributable to: Equityholders of the Company 3,336,160 4,172,850 Non-controlling interest 15 (iii) 274,453 309,706 Total comprehensive income for the year 3,610,613 4,482,556 The notes on pages 48 to 119 are an integral part of these financial statements. 40 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 COMPANY STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 2018 2017 Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Income Investment and other income 7 1,280,871 916,600 Total income 1,280,871 916,600 Expenses Operating and other expenses 11 (i) (47,309) 1,255 Total expenses (47,309) 1,255 Finance costs 72 (2,849) Profit before income tax 1,233,634 915,006 Income tax expense 16 (i) (14,075) (3,687) Profit for the year 1,219,559 911,319 The notes on pages 48 to 119 are an integral part of these financial statements. COMPANY STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 2018 2017 Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Profit for the year 1,219,559 911,319 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Net fair value gains on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 8(ii) 6,804 35,014 Deferred tax on other comprehensive income 16 (iii) (1,752) (10,504) Total other comprehensive income, net of tax 5,052 24,510 Total comprehensive income for the year 1,224,611 935,829 The notes on pages 48 to 119 are an integral part of these financial statements. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 41 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 2018 2017 Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 ASSETS Property and equipment 13 (i) 318,021 281,187 Intangible assets 13 (ii) 148,560 158,341 Investment properties 14 6,394,015 6,270,940 Investment in associates 15 (i) 9,995,813 9,579,327 Deferred tax asset 16 (iii) 218,099 191,273 Unquoted equity investments at fair value through profit or loss 17 4,344,211 3,157,632 Unquoted equity investments at fair value through other comprehensive income 17 194,613 200,371 Government securities at armortised cost 18 44,975,816 47,195,222 Government securities at fair value through profit or loss 18 10,264,809 Commercial bonds at amortised cost 19 (i) 802,939 904,007 Commercial bonds at fair value through profit or loss 19 (ii) 38,460 Mortgage loans 20 (i) 66,101 109,098 Loans on life insurance policies 20 (ii) 931,713 788,958 Quoted equity investments at fair value through profit or loss 21 4,945,579 6,853,603 Quoted equity investments at fair value through other comprehensive income 21 1,617,728 1,276,692 Receivables arising out of direct insurance arrangements 22 4,052,902 4,204,795 Receivables arising out of reinsurance arrangements 22 3,193,166 3,071,800 Reinsurers’ share of insurance contract liabilities 23 (i) 6,004,434 7,250,563 Deferred acquisition costs 23 (ii) 186,290 147,132 Other receivables 24 1,396,233 1,080,642 Current income tax asset 16 (ii) 174,269 142,478 Deposits with financial institutions 25 (i) 11,315,417 10,585,597 Cash and bank balances 25 (ii) 2,588,451 1,517,872 Total assets 114,167,639 104,967,530 LIABILITIES Deferred tax liability 16 (iii) 89,841 199,550 Insurance contract liabilities 26 25,539,077 24,983,504 Payable under deposit administration contracts 27 47,739,002 42,214,336 Unearned premium revenue 28 7,625,596 7,571,212 Dividends payable 33 (ii) 431,293 369,176 Other payables 29 2,539,644 1,995,468 Current income tax liability 16 (ii) 104,455 70,983 Creditors arising out of direct insurance arrangements 201,501 325,730 Creditors arising out of reinsurance arrangements 1,825,863 2,006,921 Total liabilities 86,096,272 79,736,880 EQUITY Share capital 30 362,365 362,365 Reserves 31 4,172,826 3,096,997 Retained earnings 32 21,649,197 20,092,764 Equity attributable to owners of the company 26,184,388 23,552,126 Non-controlling interest 15 (iii) 1,886,979 1,678,524 Total equity 28,071,367 25,230,650 Total liabilities and equity 114,167,639 104,967,530 The financial statements on pages 40 to 119 were approved by the Board of Directors on 29 April 2019 and signed on its behalf by: Nizar N Juma Zul Abdul Chairman Director The notes on pages 48 to 119 are an integral part of these financial statements. 42 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 2018 2017 Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 ASSETS Property and equipment 13 (i) 13,731 17,281 Investment in associates 15 (i) 838,251 838,251 Investment in subsidiaries 15 (ii) 1,874,573 1,874,573 Unquoted equity investments at fair value through other comprehensive income 17 69,299 65,630 Quoted equity investments at fair value through other comprehensive income 21 23,405 20,270 Current income tax asset 16 (ii) 7,661 Due from related parties 35 97,184 105,587 Other receivables 24 134,517 109,916 Deposits with financial institutions 25 (i) 919,427 250,098 Cash and bank balances 25 (i) 89,292 22,898 Total assets 4,059,679 3,312,165 LIABILITIES Deferred tax liability 16 (iii) 7,617 6,034 Current income tax liability 16 (ii) 616 Due to related parties 35 267,335 158,805 Dividends payable 33 (ii) 431,294 369,176 Other payables 29 21,806 12,985 Borrowings from related parties 35 623,807 630,315 Total liabilities 1,352,475 1,177,315 EQUITY Share capital 30 362,365 362,365 Reserves 31 106,409 101,357 Retained earnings 32 2,238,430 1,671,128 Total equity 2,707,204 2,134,850 Total liabilities and equity 4,059,679 3,312,165 The financial statements on pages 40 to 119 were approved by the Board of Directors on 29 April 2019 and signed on its behalf by: Nizar N Juma Zul Abdul Chairman Director The notes on pages 48 to 119 are an integral part of these financial statement Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 43 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 Reserves Equity NonFair Value General Translation Contingency Statutory Retained Attributable to Controlling Share Capital Reserves Reserves Reserves Reserves Reserve Earnings Owners Interest Total Equity KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Year ended 31 December 2017 Note At start of year 329,423 104,458 70,000 (554,086) 964,042 2,185,073 16,846,972 19,945,882 1,475,787 21,421,669 Profit for the year 3,932,142 3,932,142 298,168 4,230,310 Other comprehensive income Net translation loss 31 (c) & 15 (iii) 7,266 7,266 (7,734) (468) Other comprehensive income 233,293 149 233,442 19,272 252,714 Total comprehensive income for the year 233,293 7,266 3,932,291 4,172,850 309,706 4,482,556 Transfers Transfer to contingency reserves 31 (d) 86,951 (86,951) Total transfers 86,951 (86,951) Transactions with owners: Bonus issue 32,942 (32,942) Dividends: Final for 2016 paid 33 (ii) (494,133) (494,133) (494,133) Paid to Non Controlling Interest 15 (iii) (106,969) (106,969) Interim for 2017 paid 33 (i) (72,473) (72,473) (72,473) Total transactions with owners 32,942 (599,548) (566,606) (106,969) (673,575) At end of year 362,365 337,751 70,000 (546,820) 1,050,993 2,185,073 20,092,764 23,552,126 1,678,524 25,230,650 Year ended 31 December 2018 At start of year 362,365 337,751 70,000 (546,820) 1,050,993 2,185,073 20,092,764 23,552,126 1,678,524 25,230,650 IFRS 9 initial adoption 35,765 (87,406) (51,641) (51,641) Profit for the year 3,806,450 3,806,450 370,501 4,176,951 Other comprehensive income Net translation loss 31 (c) & 15 (iii) (396,904) (396,904) (96,522) (493,426) Other comprehensive income (92,955) 19,569 (73,386) 474 (72,912) Total comprehensive income for the year (92,955) (396,904) 3,826,019 3,336,160 274,453 3,610,613 Transfers Transfer to retained earnings on reclassification 32 (29,829) 29,829 Transfer to contingency reserves 31 (d) 182,284 (182,284) Transfer to Statutory reserves 1,377,468 (1,377,468) Total transfers (29,829) 182,284 1,377,468 (1,529,923) Transactions with owners: Dividends: Final for 2017 paid 33 (ii) (579,784) (579,784) (579,784) Paid to non-controlling interest 15 (iii) (65,998) (65,998) Interim for 2018 paid 33 (i) (72,473) (72,473) (72,473) Total transactions with owners (652,257) (652,257) (65,998) (718,255) At end of year 362,365 214,967 70,000 (943,724) 1,233,277 3,598,306 21,649,197 26,184,388 1,886,979 28,071,367 The notes on pages 48 to 119 are an integral part of these financial statements. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 44 COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 Reserves Share Fair Value General Retained Capital Reserves Reserves Earnings Total Equity KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Year ended 31 December 2017 Note At start of year 329,423 6,847 70,000 1,359,357 1,765,627 Profit for the year 911,319 911,319 Other comprehensive Income 31 (i) 24,510 24,510 Total comprehensive income for the year 24,510 911,319 935,829 Transactions with owners: Bonus issue 32,942 (32,942) Dividends: Final for 2016 paid 33 (ii) (494,133) (494,133) Interim for 2017 paid 33 (i) & (ii) (72,473) (72,473) Total transactions with owners 32,942 (599,548) (566,606) At end of year 362,365 31,357 70,000 1,671,128 2,134,850 Year ended 31 December 2018 At start of year 362,365 31,357 70,000 1,671,128 2,134,850 Profit for the year 1,219,559 1,219,559 Other comprehensive Income 31 (a) 5,052 5,052 Total comprehensive income for the year 5,052 1,219,559 1,224,611 Transactions with owners: Dividends: Final for 2017 paid 33 (ii) (579,784) (579,784) Interim for 2018 paid 33 (i) & (ii) (72,473) (72,473) Total transactions with owners (652,257) (652,257) At end of year 362,365 36,409 70,000 2,238,430 2,707,204 The notes on pages 48 to 119 are an integral part of these financial statement. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 45 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 2018 2017 Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Cash flow from operating activities Cash generated from operations 25 (iii) 3,315,610 5,056,388 Income tax paid 16 (ii) (1,305,646) (1,041,320) Net cash inflow from operating activities 2,009,964 4,015,068 Cash flow from investing activities Rent, interest and dividend received 8,069,615 6,884,867 Dividends received from associates 15 (i) 421,805 338,091 Proceeds from sale of quoted shares 178,545 113,438 Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment 151 412 Proceeds from part redemptions of shares in associate 15 (i) 581,211 580,554 Purchase of property and equipment and intangible assets 13 (200,632) (203,956) Net additions of investment properties 14 (19,546) (28,341) Purchase of quoted equity investments 21 (182,973) (106,810) Purchase of unquoted equity investments 17 (305,790) Mortgage loans advanced 20 (i) (26,672) (83,175) Mortgage loans repaid 20 (i) 68,540 52,731 Loans on life insurance policies advanced 20 (ii) (231,139) (218,670) Loans on life insurance policies repaid 20 (ii) 86,169 146,003 Net purchase of government securities 18 (7,401,200) (4,980,609) Net proceeds of commercial bonds 19 60,389 519,671 Net cash inflow from investing activities 1,098,473 3,014,206 Cash flow from financing activities Dividends paid (652,257) (566,606) Net cash outflow from financing activities (652,257) (566,606) Increase in cash and cash equivalents 2,456,180 6,462,668 Cash and cash equivalents at start of the year 25 (ii) 14,796,784 8,326,849 Exchange (loss)/gain on translation of cash and cash equivalents 31 (c) (64,995) 7,267 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 25 (ii) 17,187,969 14,796,784 The notes on pages 48 to 119 are an integral part of these financial statements. 46 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 2018 2017 Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Cash flow from operating activities Profit before income tax 1,233,634 915,006 Adjustments for: Depreciation 13 (i) 3,620 6,146 Write off of unquoted shares 17 128 Investment income 7 (1,280,943) (916,600) Operating loss before changes to receivables and payables (43,689) 4,680 Change in receivables (16,197) (75,845) Change in payables 172,960 (1,618) Cash generated from operations 113,074 (72,783) Income tax paid 16 (5,968) (1,585) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 107,106 (74,368) Cash flow from investing activities Rent, interest and dividend received 7 1,108,401 13,450 Dividends received from associates 7 172,470 108,705 Dividends received from subsidary 7 798,100 Purchase of property and equipment and intangible assets 13 (i) (70) (597) Purchase of quoted equity investments 21 (11,541) Additional investment in subsidiary 15 (ii) (23,683) Net cash inflow from investing activities 1,280,801 884,434 Cash flow from financing activities Dividends paid (652,256) (566,606) Net cash outflow from financing activities (652,256) (566,606) Increase in cash and cash equivalents 735,651 243,460 Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 272,996 33,189 Exchange gain/(loss) on translation of cash and cash equivalents 7 72 (3,653) Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 1,008,719 272,996 The notes on pages 48 to 119 are an integral part of these financial statements. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 47 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. GENERAL INFORMATION Jubilee Holdings Limited is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in Kenya. The address of its registered office is: Jubilee Insurance House, Wabera Street, Nairobi, Kenya. The Company has a primary listing on the Nairobi Securities Exchange and is cross-listed on the Uganda Securities Exchange and Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange. The Company through its subsidiaries and associates (together forming the Group) underwrites Life and non-life insurance risks, such as those associated with death, disability, health, property and liability. The Group also issues a diversified portfolio of investment contracts to provide its customers with asset management solutions for their savings and retirement needs. All these products are offered to both domestic and foreign markets. It has operations in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi and Mauritius and employs over 1,209 (2017: 1,017) people through its subsidiaries. The insurance business of the Group is organized into three main divisions, short-term (general) business and long-term (life) business and investment. Long-term business relates to the underwriting of life risks relating to insured persons, the issue of investment contracts and the administration of pension funds. Short-term business relates to underwriting of property, health and liability insurance business. With a view to diversifying the Group’s income base, the Group has invested in associate companies whose operational activities have been extended to include property development and management, power generation and international fibre optic broadband cable connectivity. Within these financial statements and the notes to the financial statements the words “consolidated” and “Group” have been used interchangeably to mean the Company and its subsidiaries. For purposes of the Kenya Companies Act, 2015 reporting purposes, the balance sheet is represented by statement of financial position while the profit and loss account is represented by the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income. 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out in Note 38. These policies have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise stated. 3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Group makes estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year. Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Set out below are the areas are the areas that are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions: a) Insurance contract liabilities (i) Short-term business Management applies judgment in the estimation of short-term insurance contract liabilities. The Group uses historical experience to estimate the ultimate cost of claims and the provision for incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims. This involves the analysis of historical claims development factors and the selection of estimated development factors based on this historical pattern. The selected development factors are then applied to claims data for each accident year that is not fully developed to produce an estimated ultimate claims cost for each accident year. The nature of claims is generally high frequency with short reporting periods. The Group estimates claims using projected ultimate loss ratios based on notified claims. (ii) Long-term business The determination of the liabilities under long term insurance contracts is dependent on estimates made by the Group. Assumptions used to compute the liabilities include mortality, persistency and investment returns. The assumptions used also include margin for adverse deviation, for key variables, when considered appropriate. The Group uses standard mortality tables that reflect historical mortality experience. The main source of uncertainty is that future mortality may end up being significantly worse than in the past for the age groups in which the Group has significant exposure to mortality risk. However, continuing improvements in medical care and social conditions could result in improvements in longevity in excess of those allowed for in the estimates used to determine the liability for contracts where the Group is exposed to longevity risk. For contracts without fixed terms, it is assumed that the Group will be able to increase mortality risk charges in future years in line with emerging mortality experience. Estimates are also made as to future investment income arising from the assets backing long-term insurance contracts. These estimates are based on current market returns as well as expectations about future economic and financial developments. 48 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) b) Income tax The Group is subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made. c) Valuation of unquoted equity investments The Group estimates the value of unquoted equity investments using techniques that include the use of observable inputs. Changes in these estimates could result in material changes in the fair value of the investment. See further disclosures in Note 17. d) Receivables Critical estimates are made in determining the recoverable amount of impaired receivables. The process is set out in Note 38.10. The carrying amount of the receivables are shown on Note 22. e) Valuation of investment property Investment property comprises leasehold land and buildings and is measured at fair value. Fair value is based on valuations performed every year by an independent valuation expert. In performing the valuation, the valuer obtains the market value of similar properties and compares with the carrying value of the investment property. Given that the valuer uses actual sales data obtained from the market in performing the valuation, any changes in the market interest rates or rental income would not result in any significant change in the carrying value of investment property. 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK This section summarises the way the Group manages key risks: (i) Insurance risk The Group uses underwriting guidelines and standards to carefully select risks and maximize underwriting returns. The risk under any one insurance contract is the possibility that the insured event occurs and the uncertainty of the amount of the resulting claim. By the very nature of an insurance contract, this risk is random and therefore unpredictable. Experience shows that the larger the portfolio of similar insurance contracts, the smaller the relative variability about the expected outcome will be. In addition, a more diversified portfolio is less likely to be affected across the board by a change in any subset of the portfolio. The Group has developed its insurance underwriting strategy to diversify the type of insurance risks accepted and within each of these categories to achieve a sufficiently large population of risks to reduce the variability of the expected outcome. With assistance from the Group’s actuarial experts, pricing of insurance contracts is regularly reviewed in line with experience. Factors that aggravate insurance risk include lack of risk diversification in terms of type and amount of risk, geographical location and type of industry covered. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 49 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (i) Insurance risk (continued) The following tables illustrate the Group’s concentration of insurance risk. The tables disclose the range of individual insured risk (sums assured) for the principle classes of business underwritten by the Group. Insurance Risk GROUP Year ended 31 December 2018 Maximum insured loss Class of business KShs 0 m KShs 15m KShs 250m KShs Short-term business KShs 15m KShs 250m KShs 1000m 1000m + Total KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Gross 71,696,952 11,605,039 1,369,349 872,082 85,543,422 Motor Net 42,465,336 10,937,456 878,000 5,809 54,286,601 Gross 22,896,028 103,979,788 99,350,968 486,541,293 712,768,077 Fire Net 13,017,000 86,460,079 34,936,155 23,240,354 157,653,588 Gross 3,043,729 33,603,792 9,161,000 2,361,717 48,170,238 Personal accident Net 2,331,968 28,836,545 8,912,540 1,050,617 41,131,670 Gross 29,515,769 148,500,123 54,967,937 98,257,015 331,240,844 Medical Net 19,700,965 82,643,464 51,250,385 67,948,000 221,542,814 Gross 53,148,699 122,547,452 80,708,163 534,012,426 790,416,740 Other Net 21,442,771 82,075,989 46,609,253 190,155,167 340,283,180 Long-term business Gross 28,986,090 3,564,142 38,747 32,588,979 Ordinary life Net 26,581,430 2,952,434 29,533,864 Gross 1,105,642,601 648,891,719 51,397,414 10,960,710 1,816,892,444 Group life Net 652,297,190 226,352,786 22,050,868 6,777,373 907,478,217 Gross 3,813,877 1,361,790 5,175,667 Annuity Net 3,813,877 1,516,377 5,330,254 Gross 1,318,743,745 1,074,053,845 296,993,578 1,133,005,243 3,822,796,411 Total Net 781,650,537 521,775,130 164,637,201 289,177,320 1,757,240,188 Year ended 31 December 2017 Maximum insured loss Class of business KShs 0 m KShs 15m KShs 250m KShs Short-term business KShs 15m KShs 250m KShs 1000m 1000m + Total KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Gross 66,949,365 11,409,947 2,454,553 878,395 81,692,260 Motor Net 36,714,015 10,499,199 1,919,796 6,015 49,139,025 Gross 24,489,849 107,377,330 100,477,110 319,973,471 552,317,760 Fire Net 14,270,286 98,707,603 93,918,378 184,462,539 391,358,806 Gross 2,942,644 47,266,130 9,792,976 421,822 60,423,572 Personal accident Net 2,209,775 42,481,769 9,724,714 39,011 54,455,269 Gross 29,213,302 160,713,719 57,939,804 117,985,923 365,852,748 Medical Net 19,179,127 83,089,712 49,776,535 63,539,553 215,584,927 Gross 70,227,395 259,551,292 111,365,676 786,908,087 1,228,052,450 Other Net 39,424,273 146,084,670 61,103,209 198,488,745 445,100,897 Long-term business Gross 27,611,250 3,584,443 40,120 31,235,813 Ordinary life Net 26,702,685 3,192,949 (441) 29,895,193 Gross 1,740,534,690 1,088,530,292 55,660,712 11,390,704 2,896,116,398 Group life Net 919,286,187 344,030,985 24,040,666 7,053,888 1,294,411,726 Gross 6,136,108 2,512,028 8,648,136 Annuity Net 6,136,108 2,512,028 8,648,136 Gross 1,968,104,603 1,680,945,181 337,730,951 1,237,558,402 5,224,339,137 Total Net 1,063,922,456 730,598,915 240,482,857 453,589,751 2,488,593,979 50 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets, financial liabilities (investment contracts and borrowings), reinsurance assets and insurance liabilities. In particular the key financial risk is that the proceeds from its financial assets are not sufficient to fund the obligations arising from its insurance and investment contracts. These risks arise from open positions in interest rate, currency and equity products, all of which are exposed to general and specific market movements. The risks that the Group primarily faces due to the nature of its investments and liabilities are interest rate risk and equity price risk. The Group manages these positions within an asset liability management (ALM) framework that has been developed to achieve long-term investment returns in excess of its obligations under insurance and investment contracts. The principal technique of the Group’s ALM is to match assets to the liabilities arising from insurance and investment contracts by reference to the type of benefits payable to contract holders. For each distinct category of liabilities, a separate portfolio of assets is maintained. The Group has exposure to the following risks arising from financial instruments: (a) Market risk Market risk will apply to quoted equity investments valued through profit or loss as well as those through equity, balances and investments carried in currencies other than reporting currency and investments in associates and investments that are translated to the Group reporting currency. (i) Foreign exchange risk The Group operates regionally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US Dollar, Uganda shilling and Tanzania Shilling. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognized assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations. The Group manages foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognized assets and liabilities by maintaining Dollar currency deposits. The Group had the following significant foreign currency (all amounts expressed in Kenya Shillings thousands): Uganda Tanzania Mauritius Burundi Exchange Risk Total US Dollar Shillings Shillings Rupees Francs As at 31 December 2018: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 ASSETS Receivables arising out of reinsurance arrangements 28,809 853,408 300,053 87,697 1,269,967 Deferred acquisition costs 9,114 38,177 15,906 (2,096) 61,101 Deposit with financial institutions 2,087 929,208 64,222 614,879 1,610,396 Cash and bank balances 3,459 138,070 114,780 193,901 450,210 Total assets 2,087 41,382 1,958,863 494,961 894,381 3,391,674 LIABILITIES Provision for unearned premium 39,022 1,366,316 1,206 180,618 1,587,162 Insurance contract liabilities 30,112 1,361,038 2,546 125,332 1,519,028 Deferred acquisition costs (67,224) 76,417 184,622 193,815 Creditors arising out of reinsurance arrangements Total liabilities 69,134 2,660,130 80,169 490,572 3,300,005 Net position 2,087 (27,752) (701,267) 414,792 403,809 91,669 Uganda Tanzania Mauritius Burundi Total US Dollar Shillings Shillings Rupees Francs As at 31 December 2017: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 ASSETS Receivables arising out of reinsurance arrangements 403,988 245,969 64,844 714,801 Deferred acquisition costs 39,733 59,621 99,354 Deposit with financial institutions 392,436 936,808 72,160 599,388 2,000,792 Cash and bank balances 4,707 54,884 148,445 82,807 290,843 Total assets 392,436 4,707 1,435,413 526,195 747,039 3,105,790 LIABILITIES Provision for unearned premium 18,274 1,422,004 430,083 175,938 2,046,299 Insurance contract liabilities 32,717 1,328,026 203,815 163,063 1,727,621 Deferred acquisition costs 5,710 2,162 7,872 Creditors arising out of reinsurance arrangements (173,528) 91,044 205,733 123,249 Total liabilities 345,013 170,444 34,918 195,089 3,905,041 Net position 392,436 (340,306) 1,264,969 491,277 551,950 (799,251) Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 51 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (a) Market Risk (continued) (i) Foreign exchange risk (continued) At 31 December 2018, if the Shilling had weakened/strengthened by 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held constant, the post-tax profit for the year would have been KShs 209 thousand (2017: KShs 39 million) higher/lower, mainly as a result of US dollar receivables and bank balances in the Kenyan entity. Company Uganda Tanzania Mauritius Burundi Exchange Risk US Dollar Shillings Shillings Rupees Francs Total As at 31 December 2018: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 ASSETS Due from related parties 46,400 11,463 860 60,620 119,343 Deposit with financial institutions 2,087 2,087 Cash and bank balances 3,459 3,459 Total assets 2,087 49,859 11,463 860 60,620 124,889 LIABILITIES Due to related parties 768,231 22,595 790,826 Total liabilities 768,231 22,595 790,826 Net position 2,087 (718,372) (11,132) 860 60,620 (665,937) Uganda Tanzania Mauritius Burundi US Dollar Shillings Shillings Rupees Francs Total As at 31 December 2017: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 ASSETS Due from related parties 860 75,520 76,380 Deposit with financial institutions 2,395 2,395 Cash and bank balances 4,707 1 4,708 Total assets 2,395 4,707 861 75,520 83,483 LIABILITIES Due to related parties 768,231 20,889 789,120 Total liabilities 768,231 20,889 789,120 Net position 2,395 (763,524) (20,889) 861 75,520 (705,637) At 31 December 2018, if the Shilling had weakened/strengthened by 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held constant, the post-tax profit for the year would have been KShs 21 thousand (2017: KShs 23 thousand) higher/lower, mainly as a result of US dollar receivables and bank balances in the Kenyan entity. The Group’s exposure to the foreign currency risk of its subsidiaries and associates companies (where the entity’s reporting currency is not Kenya Shilling linked) is summarized in the tables below by country and reporting currency: Uganda Tanzania Mauritius Burundi Exchange Risk US Dollar Shillings Shillings Rupees Francs As at 31 December 2018: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Subsidaries Jubilee Uganda 7,763,294 Jubilee Tanzania 1,297,071 Jubilee Mauritius 273,903 Jubilee Burundi 344,968 Associates Bujagali Holdings Power Company Limited 2,321,370 IPS Cable Systems Limited 2,521,406 IPS Power Investment Limited 91,650 Group gross foreign currency exposure 4,934,426 7,763,294 1,297,071 273,903 344,968 Non-controlling interest foreign currency exposure (1,105,292) (626,559) (54,781) (100,347) Net gross foreign currency exposure 4,934,426 6,658,002 670,512 219,122 244,621 Exchange Rates Closing rate at 31 December 2017 101.846 36.460 22.583 2.975 17.602 Average rate during the year 2017 101.299 36.800 22.476 2.979 17.467 52 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (a) Market Risk (continued) (i) Foreign exchange risk (continued) Uganda Tanzania Mauritius Burundi Exchange Risk US Dollar Shillings Shillings Rupees Francs As at 31 December 2017: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Subsidaries Jubilee Uganda 6,682,652 Jubilee Tanzania 1,184,517 Jubilee Mauritius 281,627 Jubilee Burundi 271,537 Associates Bujagali Holdings Power Company Limited 2,264,303 IPS Cable Systems Limited 2,519,322 IPS Power Investment Limited 98,435 Group gross foreign currency exposure 4,882,060 6,682,652 1,184,517 281,627 271,537 Non-controlling interest foreign currency exposure (973,737) (571,086) (56,325) (77,374) Net gross foreign currency exposure 4,882,060 5,708,915 613,431 225,302 194,163 Exchange Rates Closing rate at 31 December 2016 103.232 35.212 21.699 3.076 17.099 Average rate during the year 2016 103.379 35.243 21.473 2.900 16.714 (ii) Price risk The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk because of investments in quoted and unquoted shares classified either as financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income or at fair value through profit or loss. The Group is not exposed to commodity price risk. To manage its price risk arising from investments in equity and debt securities, the Group diversifies its portfolio. Diversification of the portfolio is done in accordance with limits set by the Group. All quoted shares held by the Group are traded on the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE), the Uganda Securities Exchange (USE) and Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE). The following group and company assets were subject to price risk at the end of the year: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Corporate bonds at fair value through profit or loss 38,460 Quoted equity investments at fair value through other comprehensive income 4,945,579 6,853,603 Quoted equity investments at fair value through profit or loss 1,617,728 1,276,692 23,405 20,270 Total exposure 6,601,767 8,130,295 23,405 20,270 Group At 31 December 2018, if the NSE, USE and DSE, indices had increased/decreased by 10% (2017:10%) with all other variables held constant and all the Group’s equity instruments moved according to the historical correlation to the index, the post-tax profit would have been KShs 835 million (2017 KShs 89 million) higher/lower, while post-tax other comprehensive income would have been KShs 346 million (2017: KShs. 479 million). Company At 31 December 2018 the Company did not hold any shares in the Nairobi Securities Exchange. All quoted shares held by the Company are traded on the Uganda Securities Exchange (USE). If the USE indices had increased/decreased by 10% with all other variables held constant, all the companies’ equity instruments moved according to the historical correlation to the index, then equity movement would not have been significant. (b) Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk Fixed interest rate financial instruments expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk. Variable interest rate financial instruments expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. The Group’s fixed interest rate financial instruments are government securities, deposits with financial institutions and corporate bonds. The Group’s variable interest rate financial instruments are call deposits, as the rates may fluctuate based on changes in the market interest rates. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 53 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (b) Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk (continued) The sensitivity analysis for interest rate risk illustrates how changes in the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates at the reporting date. The following assets were subject to cash flow and fair value interest risk at the end of the year: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Corporate bonds at amortised cost 802,939 904,007 Corporate bonds at fair value through profit or loss 38,460 Government securities at amortised cost 44,975,816 47,195,222 Government securities fair value through profit or loss 10,264,809 Deposits with financial institutions 11,315,417 10,585,597 919,427 250,098 Total exposure 67,397,441 58,684,826 919,427 250,098 At 31 December 2018, if the interest rates applicable to the above mentioned financial instruments had increased/decreased by 10% (2017:10%) with all other variables held constant, the change in the post-tax profit would not have been significant as the call deposits are held in the interim and placed in fixed interest rate instruments. (c) Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial loss for the other party by failing to discharge an obligation. Credit risk mainly arises from financial assets. Key areas where the Group is exposed to credit risk are: • receivables arising out of direct insurance arrangements; • receivables arising out of reinsurance arrangements; • reinsurers’ share of insurance liabilities; • corporate bonds; • deposits with banks; • government securities; and • mortgage receivables. The Group structures the levels of credit risk it accepts by dealing with institutions with good credit ratings and placing limits on its exposure to a single counterparty, or groups of counterparties, and to geographical and industry segments. Such risks are subject to annual or more frequent reviews. Limits on the level of credit risk by category and territory are approved quarterly by the Board of Directors. Credit risk on trade receivables is managed by ensuring that credit is extended to customers with an established credit history. The credit history is determined by taking into account the financial position, past experience and other relevant factors. Credit is managed by setting the credit limit and the credit period for each customer. The utilization of the credit limits and the credit period is monitored by management on a monthly basis. Reinsurance is used to manage insurance risk. This does not, however, discharge the Group’s liability as primary insurer. If a reinsurer fails to pay a claim for any reason, the Group remains liable for the payment to the policyholder. The credit worthiness of reinsurers is considered on an annual basis by reviewing their financial strength prior to finalization of any contract. Management information reported to the Group includes details of provisions for impairment on financial assets at amortized cost and subsequent write-offs. Internal audit makes regular reviews to assess the degree of compliance with the Group procedures on credit. Exposures to individual policyholders and groups of policyholders are collected within the ongoing monitoring of the controls associated with regulatory solvency. Where there exists significant exposure to individual policyholders, or homogenous groups of policyholders, a financial analysis equivalent to that conducted for reinsurers is carried out by the Group risk department. 54 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (c) Credit risk (continued) The credit quality of financial assets with the exception of receivables from direct insurance is assessed by reference to external credit ratings if available. Where external credit ratings are not available the counterparty is assessed based on historical information available relating to the counterparty default rates. Local regulations of Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania require require a minimum investment in the local government securities. As per S&P rating the Government of Kenya and the Government of Uganda which has B+ and B respectively. These ratings are considered when investing in Government securities over and above the regulatory requirements. For investments in corporate bonds and deposits with financial institutions, the stability and reputation of the companies and banks is reviewed regularly. The maximum exposure of the Group to credit risk (financial instruments subject to impairment) as at the balance sheet date is as follows: Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total 31 December 2018 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Government Securities at amortised cost 44,975,816 44,975,816 Corporate Bonds at amortized cost 802,939 802,939 Mortgage loans 39,318 28,679 67,997 Loans from Life Insurance policies 931,713 931,713 Receivables arising out of direct insurance arrangements 2,241,441 1,816,743 818,345 4,876,529 Receivables arising out of reinsurance arrangements 1,396,006 1,797,159 132,384 3,325,549 Other Receivables 1,377,227 19,006 1,396,233 Deposits with financial institutions 11,315,417 11,315,417 Cash at Bank 2,588,451 2,588,451 Exposure to Credit Risk 65,688,328 3,613,902 998,414 70,280,644 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total 31 December 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Government Securities at amortized cost 47,195,222 47,195,222 Corporate Bonds at amortized cost 904,007 904,007 Mortgage loans 109,098 109,098 Loans from Life Insurance policies 788,958 788,958 Receivables arising out of direct insurance arrangements 2,447,810 1,756,985 4,204,795 Receivables arising out of reinsurance arrangements 872,614 2,199,186 3,071,800 Other Receivables 1,377,227 19,006 1,396,233 Deposits with financial institutions 11,315,417 11,315,417 Cash at Bank 2,588,451 2,588,451 Exposure to Credit Risk 67,598,804 3,956,171 19,006 71,573,981 No collateral is held for any of the above assets other than for staff mortgage loans and car loans included under other receivables. Properties in relation to staff mortgage loans and motor vehicles in relation to staff car loans are charged to the group as collateral. The surrender value of the life insurance policies and title documents are held as collateral for loans on life policies and mortgage loans respectively. All receivables that are neither past due or impaired are within their approved credit limits, and no receivables have had their terms renegotiated. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 55 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (c) Credit risk (continued) Loss Allowance The loss allowance recognised in the period is impacted by a variety of factors, such as: • Transfers between Stage 1 and Stages 2 or 3 due to financial instruments experiencing significant increases (or decreases) of credit risk or becoming credit impaired in the period, and the consequent ‘step-up’ (or ‘step-down’) between 12 month and Lifetime ECL; • Additional allowance for new financial instruments recognised in the period, as well as releases for financial instruments; • Impact on the measurement of ECL due to changes made to models and assumptions; • Discount unwind with ECL due to passage of time, as ECL is measured on a present value basis; • Foreign exchange retranslations for assets denominated in foreign currencies and other movements; • Financial assets derecognised during the period and write off of allowances related to assets that were written off during the period. The table below explains the changes in the loss allowance between the beginning and the end of the annual period due to these factors: Deposits with Cash and Government financial Bank Corporate Insurance Securities institutions balances bonds receivables Total KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 As at 31 December 2017 675,813 675,813 As at 1 January 2018 1,038 1,067 919 14 48,603 51,641 Increase/(Decreease) 2,610 (6) 524 (7) (42,383) (39,262) As at 31 December 2018 3,648 1,061 1,443 7 682,033 688,192 As at 1 January 2017 662,330 662,330 Additional provision 13,483 13,483 As at 31 December 2017 675,813 675,813 Maximum exposure to credit risk financial instruments not subject to impairment The following table contains an analysis of the maximum credit risk exposure from financial assets not subject to impairment (i.e. FVTPL): Maximum Exposure to credit risk 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Government securities at fair value through profit or loss 10,264,809 Corporate bonds at fair value through profit or loss 38,460 Quoted securities at fair value through profit or loss 4,945,579 6,853,603 Total 15,248,848 6,853,603 56 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (d) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its payment obligations associated with its financial liabilities as they fall due and to replace funds when they are withdraw. The Group is exposed to daily calls on its available cash for claims settlement and other administration expenses. The Group does not maintain cash resources to meet all of these needs as experience shows that a minimum level of reinvestment of maturing funds can be predicted with a high level of certainty. The Board sets limits on the minimum level of bank overdraft facilities that should be in place to cover expenditure at unexpected levels of demand. The table below presents the undiscounted cash flows payable by the Company under financial and other liabilities by remaining contractual maturities at the reporting date except for insurance contract liabilities and deposit administration contracts. Cash flows payable by the Company under insurance contract liabilities and deposit administration contracts are presented based on expected maturities at the reporting date. GROUP Up to 1 1 to 3 3 to 12 Over Discounting Year ended 31 December 2018 month months months 1 year effect Total KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Assets Mortgage loans 16,107 66,490 (16,496) 66,101 Loans on life insurance policies 11,220 21,406 126,427 887,517 (114,857) 931,713 Government securities 120,539 3,125,956 5,943,083 47,699,079 (1,648,031) 55,240,625 Commercial bonds 885,936 (44,537) 841,399 Other receivables 292,301 1,103,932 1,396,233 Insurance and reinsurance receiveables 2,511,659 1,885,803 1,739,621 1,108,985 7,246,068 Deposits with financial institutions and cash and bank balances 1,743,656 9,658,894 2,501,317 13,903,868 Total assets 4,679,375 15,795,992 10,326,555 50,648,007 (1,823,921) 79,626,007 Liabilities Insurance contract liabilities 1,063,666 5,188,285 3,781,085 25,609,766 (10,103,725) 25,539,077 Payable under deposit administration contracts 454,297 1,511,262 11,370,747 54,719,932 (20,317,237) 47,739,002 Creditors arising out of direct insurance arrangements 31,721 52,291 56,633 60,856 201,501 Creditors arising out of reinsurance arrangements 688,956 475,404 426,206 235,296 1,825,863 Dividend and other payables 1,161,980 946,351 728,210 134,396 2,970,937 Total liabilities 3,400,619 8,173,594 16,362,882 80,760,246 (30,420,962) 78,276,380 (Shortfall)/excess of assets over liabilities 1,278,755 7,622,397 (6,036,327) (30,112,239) 28,597,041 1,349,627 Up to 1 1 to 3 3 to 12 Over Discounting Year ended 31 December 2017 month months months 1 year effect Total KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Assets Mortgage loans 26,584 109,740 (27,226) 109,098 Loans on life insurance policies 9,501 18,126 107,056 751,534 (97,259) 788,958 Government securities 102,983 2,670,683 5,077,515 40,752,048 (1,408,007) 47,195,222 Commercial bonds 951,858 (47,851) 904,007 Other receivables 226,232 854,410 1,080,642 Insurance and reinsurance receiveables 2,522,240 1,893,748 1,746,950 1,113,657 7,276,595 Deposits with financial institutions and cash and bank balances 1,517,872 8,408,173 2,177,424 12,103,469 Total assets 4,378,828 13,845,140 9,135,529 43,678,837 (1,580,343) 69,457,991 Liabilities Insurance contract liabilities 1,040,527 5,075,420 3,698,832 25,052,655 (9,883,930) 24,983,504 Payable under deposit administration contracts 401,723 1,336,369 10,054,851 48,387,388 (17,965,995) 42,214,336 Creditors arising out of direct insurance arrangements 51,277 84,530 91,548 98,375 325,730 Creditors arising out of reinsurance arrangements 757,275 522,547 468,470 258,629 2,006,921 Dividend and other payables 924,849 753,225 579,601 106,969 2,364,644 Total liabilities 3,175,651 7,772,091 14,893,302 73,904,016 (27,849,925) 71,895,135 Excess/(shortfall) of assets over liabilities 1,203,177 6,073,049 (5,757,773) (30,225,179) 26,269,582 (2,437,144) Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 57 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (d) Liquidity risk (continued) COMPANY Up to 1 to 3 to Over Year ended 31 December 2018 1 month 3 months 12 months 1 year Total KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Assets Due from related parties 97,184 97,184 Other receivables 134,517 134,517 Deposits with financial institutions and cash and bank balances 991,219 17,500 1,008,719 Total assets 1,088,403 152,017 1,240,420 Liabilities Due to related parties 891,142 891,142 Dividend and other payables 431,294 21,806 453,100 Total liabilities 1,322,436 21,806 1,344,242 Excess/(shortfall) of assets over liabilities (234,033) 130,211 (103,822) Up to 1 to 3 to Over Year ended 31 December 2017 1 month 3 months 12 months 1 year Total KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Assets Due from related parties 105,587 105,587 Other receivables 109,916 109,916 Deposits with financial institutions and cash and bank balances 255,496 17,500 272,996 Total assets 361,083 127,416 488,499 Liabilities Due to related parties 789,120 789,120 Dividend and other payables 369,176 12,985 382,161 Total liabilities 1,158,296 12,985 1,171,281 Excess/(shortfall) of assets over liabilities (797,213) 114,431 (682,782) 58 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (e) Fair value estimation The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the reporting date. A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length basis. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the group is the current bid price. These instruments are included in level 1. Instruments included in level 1 comprise primarily quoted equity investments classified as fair value through profit or loss and fair value through other comprehensive income. The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is determined by using valuation techniques. These valuation techniques maximize the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2. If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their levels in the fair value hierarchy. It does not include fair value information for financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value if the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value. GROUP Carrying Amount Fair value heirarchy Designated at fair value Designated Other through Amortised at fair value financial 31 December 2018 profit or loss cost through OCI liabilities Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Financial assets Equity securities 17 & 21 9,289,790 1,812,341 11,102,131 6,563,307 4,538,824 11,102,131 Mortgage loans 20 (i) 66,101 66,101 Loans on life insurance policies 20 (ii) 931,713 931,713 Government securities 18 10,264,809 44,975,816 55,240,625 10,264,809 10,264,809 Commercial bonds 19 38,460 802,939 841,399 38,460 38,460 Other receivables 24 1,396,233 1,396,233 Insurance and reinsurance receiveables 4 (c) 7,246,068 7,246,068 Deposits with financial institutions and cash and bank balances 25 (i) 13,903,868 13,903,868 13,903,868 13,903,868 19,595,059 69,322,738 1,812,341 90,728,138 30,770,444 4,538,824 35,309,268 Financial liabilities Other payables 29 (2,539,644) (2,539,644) (2,539,644) (2,539,644) Dividend payable 33 (ii) (431,293) (431,293) (431,293) (431,293) (2,970,937) (2,970,937) (2,970,937) (2,970,937) Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 59 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (e) Fair value estimation (continued) GROUP Carrying Amount Fair value heirarchy Designated at fair value Designated Other through Amortised at fair value financial 31 December 2017 profit or loss cost through OCI liabilities Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Financial assets Equity securities 17 & 21 10,011,235 1,477,063 11,488,298 8,130,295 3,358,003 11,488,298 Mortgage loans 20 (i) 109,098 109,098 Loans on life insurance policies 20 (ii) 788,958 788,958 Government securities 18 47,195,222 47,195,222 Commercial bonds 19 904,007 904,007 Other receivables 24 1,080,642 1,080,642 Insurance and reinsurance receiveables 4 (c) 7,276,595 7,276,595 Deposits with financial institutions and cash and bank 25 (i) 12,103,469 12,103,469 balances 10,011,235 69,457,991 1,477,063 80,946,289 8,130,295 3,358,003 11,488,298 Financial liabilities Other payables 29 (1,995,468) (1,995,468) (1,995,468) (1,995,468) Dividend payable 33 (ii) (369,176) (369,176) (369,176) (369,176) (2,364,644) (2,364,644) (2,364,644) (2,364,644) Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 60 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (e) Fair value estimation (continued) COMPANY Carrying Amount Fair value heirarchy Designated at fair value Designated Other through Amortised at fair value financial 31 December 2018 profit or loss cost through OCI liabilities Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Financial assets Equity securities 17 & 21 92,704 92,704 23,405 69,299 92,704 Other receivables 24 134,517 134,517 Deposits with financial institutions and cash and bank balances 25 (i) 1,008,719 1,008,719 1,143,236 92,704 1,235,940 23,405 69,299 92,704 Financial liabilities Other payables 29 (21,806) (21,806) (21,806) (21,806) Dividend payable 33 (ii) (431,294) (431,294) (431,294) (431,294) (453,100) (453,100) (453,100) (453,100) Carrying Amount Fair value heirarchy Designated at fair value Designated Other through Amortised at fair value financial 31 December 2017 profit or loss cost through OCI liabilities Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Financial assets Equity securities 17 & 21 85,900 85,900 20,270 65,630 85,900 Other receivables 24 105,587 105,587 Deposits with financial institutions and cash and bank balances 25 (i) 272,996 272,996 378,583 85,900 464,483 20,270 65,630 85,900 Financial liabilities Other payables 29 (12,985) (12,985) (12,985) (12,985) Dividend payable 33 (ii) (369,176) (369,176) (369,176) (369,176) (382,161) (382,161) (382,161) (382,161) Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 61 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (e) Fair value estimation (continued) The fair value of assets at amortised cost is as follows: Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value 2018 2018 2017 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Mortgage Loans Receivable 66,101 66,101 109,098 109,098 Loans on Life insurance policies 931,713 931,713 788,958 788,958 Corporate bonds at amortized cost 802,939 813,008 904,007 851,687 Government securities at amortized cost 44,975,816 43,176,783 47,195,222 35,396,417 Receivables arising of direct insurance arrangements 4,052,902 4,052,902 4,204,795 4,204,795 Receivables arising of reinsurance arrangements 3,193,166 3,193,166 3,071,800 3,071,800 Deposits with Financial Institutions 11,315,417 11,315,417 10,585,597 10,585,597 Cash and Bank Balances 2,588,451 2,588,451 1,517,872 1,517,872 Total 67,926,505 66,137,541 68,377,349 56,526,224 Specific valuation techniques used to value financial and non-financial instruments include: • Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments. • Other techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments. (f) Capital risk management The Group’s objectives when managing capital, which is a broader concept than the ‘equity’ on the statement of financial position, are to: • Comply with the capital requirements as set out in the regulations of the jurisdictions in which the Group entities operate; • Comply with regulatory solvency requirements as set out in the Insurance Act; • Safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders; and • Provide an adequate return to shareholders by pricing insurance and investment contracts commensurately with the level of risk. The table below summarises the minimum required capital across the Group and the capital held against each of them as at 31 December 2018 and 2017. These figures are an aggregate number, being the sum of the statutory share capital in each country subject to local regulatory requirements, which may differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. 2018 Kenya Uganda Tanzania Burundi Mauritius Total KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Amount of paid up capital 2,500,000 392,706 214,958 92,969 310,465 3,511,098 Regulatory capital requirements 1,000,000 228,947 117,442 92,969 275,561 1,714,919 2017 Kenya Uganda Tanzania Burundi Mauritius Total KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Amount of paid up capital 2,500,000 392,706 214,958 92,969 310,465 3,511,098 Regulatory capital requirements 1,000,000 228,947 117,442 92,969 275,561 1,714,919 The Group has different requirements depending on the country in which it operates. The three main countries are Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania. 62 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (f) Capital risk management (continued) Kenya In Kenya the Insurance Act requires each insurance Company to hold the minimum level of paid up capital as follows; • Composite insurance companies Shs1billion; • Short term insurance business companies KShs 600 million; and • Long term insurance business companies KShs 400 million Under the Risk Based Solvency requirements, solvency is determined based on the volume of business or implied risk of the asset as determined by the regulator. Insurance companies are required to hold capital equal to 100% of the higher of absolute minimum capital, volume of business or risk based capital minimum. During the year the Company held more than the minimum required capital to stand at 154% (2017: 184%) and 111% (2017: 147%) for the short-term and long term business’ respectively. Uganda In Uganda, statutory capital is based on Section 6 of the Insurance Act, 2011. The two insurance companies in Uganda complied with this requirement during the year. The Insurance Act, 2011further requires that 2% of the gross written premium or15% of the net profit, whichever is greater, be transferred to the contingency reserve until it equals the minimum paid up capital or 50% of the current year’s net written premium, whichever is higher. Additional, for short-term company, the Insurance Act, 2011 requires that 5% of the net profit for the year be transferred to the capital reserve. The two Ugandan insurance entities were in compliance with the regulatory requirements. Tanzania In Tanzania, capital requirement is regulated by regulations 27 (2) (a) of the Insurance Regulations and 27 (2) (b) on contingency reserve. General insurance businesses are required to transfer 20% of their net profit to the capital reserve and 3% on the net premium or 20% of net profit, whichever is higher, to the contingency reserve. Long term insurance businesses are required to transfer 1% on premium to the contingency reserve. The two Tanzanian insurance entities were in compliance with the regulatory requirements. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 63 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 5. SEGMENT INFORMATION (i) OPERATING SEGMENTS Management has determined operating segments based on the manner in which the Executive Management team receives reports about business performance and makes strategic decisions. Management classify the business into short-term business and long-term business and investment business. Segment performance is set out in the following tables: GROUP Kshs ‘000 Ordinary, Group 2018: For the year ended 31 December 2018 General Life & Pensions Investments Total Gross earned premium revenue 20,573,123 6,133,531 26,706,654 Outward reinsurance (8,760,232) (624,938) (9,385,170) Net insurance premium revenue 11,812,891 5,508,593 17,321,484 Investment and other income 1,152,474 6,767,991 800,269 8,720,734 Net fair value loss on financial assets 27,058 21,828 (423,831) (374,945) Commission earned 2,291,382 53,189 2,344,571 Total income 15,283,805 12,351,601 376,438 28,011,844 Claims and policy holders benefits payable (11,468,879) (9,224,423) (20,693,302) Claims recoverable from re-insurers 4,182,846 580,546 4,763,392 Net insurance benefits and claims (7,286,033) (8,643,877) (15,929,910) Operating and other expenses (3,196,212) (1,379,337) (107,097) (4,682,646) Commission payable (2,262,764) (1,066,029) (3,328,793) Total expenses and commissions (5,458,976) (2,445,366) (107,097) (8,011,439) Result of operating activities 2,538,796 1,262,358 269,341 4,070,495 Share of result of associates 152,067 260,209 927,237 1,339,513 Group profit before income tax 2,690,863 1,522,567 1,196,578 5,410,008 Income tax expense (757,667) (375,911) (99,479) (1,233,057) Profit for the year 1,933,196 1,146,656 1,097,099 4,176,951 Kshs ‘000 Ordinary, Group 2017: For the year ended 31 December 2017 General Investments Total Life & Pensions Gross earned premium revenue 21,463,397 6,865,451 28,328,848 Less: outward reinsurance (8,479,642) (655,342) (9,134,984) Net insurance premium revenue 12,983,755 6,210,109 19,193,864 Investment and other income 1,405,088 5,919,471 250,801 7,575,360 Net fair value loss on financial assets 294,910 2,405,561 2,700,471 Commission earned 1,747,805 55,648 1,803,453 Total income 16,431,558 14,590,789 250,801 31,273,148 Claims and policy holders benefits payable (13,540,873) (11,586,403) (25,127,276) Claims recoverable from re-insurers 5,139,984 333,396 5,473,380 Net insurance benefits and claims (8,400,889) (11,253,007) (19,653,896) Operating and other expenses (3,042,833) (1,166,880) (30,378) (4,240,091) Commission payable (2,295,610) (1,105,283) (3,400,893) Total expenses and commissions (5,338,443) (2,272,163) (30,378) (7,640,984) Result of operating activities 2,692,226 1,065,619 220,423 3,978,268 Share of result of associates 161,836 170,773 850,093 1,182,702 Group profit before income tax 2,854,062 1,236,392 1,070,516 5,160,970 Income tax expense (587,104) (253,613) (89,943) (930,660) Profit for the year 2,266,958 982,779 980,573 4,230,310 2018: As at 31 December 2018 Short-term Long-term Investments Total Total assets 28,127,161 74,951,191 11,089,287 114,167,639 Total liabilites 17,794,646 67,589,116 712,510 86,096,272 Investment in associates 1,949,419 1,963,905 6,082,489 9,995,813 Additions to non-current assets 89,196 57,856 303 147,354 Depreciation 64,324 39,563 2,161 106,047 Amortisation of intangible assets 36,233 26,026 62,258 2017: As at 31 December 2017 Short-term Long-term Investments Total Total assets 29,873,743 65,676,812 9,416,975 104,967,530 Total liabilites 18,735,936 60,481,515 519,429 79,736,880 Investment in associates 1,789,248 1,861,792 5,928,287 9,579,327 Additions to non-current assets 126,480 76,879 597 203,956 Depreciation 67,201 36,758 6,362 110,321 Amortisation of intangible assets 30,906 3,959 34,865 64 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 5. SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED) (ii) GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENTS The Group’s geographical segments are Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi and Mauritius. Kenya is the home country of the parent Company. The Group has investments in these geographical segments. KShs ‘000 2018: For the year ended 31 December 2018 Kenya Uganda Tanzania Mauritius Burundi Total Total income from short-term 9,138,804 2,514,565 2,450,414 889,614 290,408 15,283,805 Total income from long-term 11,190,140 853,430 278,680 29,351 12,351,601 Total income from investments 689,701 957,138 13 9,723 1,656,575 Share of associates profit 631,217 708,296 1,339,513 Group profit before income tax 2,439,375 2,567,389 297,516 (71) 105,799 5,410,008 Non-current assets 256,827 84,319 95,094 19,758 10,584 466,582 Total assets 93,401,266 12,597,443 5,934,726 1,035,934 1,198,270 114,167,639 Total liabilities 74,548,216 5,579,836 4,422,118 759,018 787,084 86,096,272 2017: For the year ended 31 December 2017 Kenya Uganda Tanzania Mauritius Burundi Total Total income from short-term 10,998,897 2,225,290 2,237,322 790,134 179,915 16,431,558 Total income from long-term 13,657,200 590,820 247,122 95,647 14,590,789 Total income from investments 14,935 224,889 2 10,975 250,801 Share of associates profit 596,667 586,035 1,182,702 Group profit before income tax 2,806,418 2,106,284 131,282 27,189 89,797 5,160,970 Non-current assets 269,732 66,037 75,508 17,636 10,615 439,528 Total assets 83,775,100 13,144,115 5,992,655 982,508 1,073,152 104,967,530 Total liabilities 68,413,594 5,224,700 4,658,612 696,888 743,086 79,736,880 6. GROSS EARNED PREMIUM AND REINSURANCE CEDED Group Gross Earned Premium Short-term Business Premium earned by principal class of business: 2018 2017 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Motor 4,334,399 (421,953) 3,912,446 4,428,089 (592,202) 3,835,887 Fire 2,813,586 (2,273,062) 540,524 2,717,537 (2,182,629) 534,908 Accident 2,993,355 (1,759,125) 1,234,230 3,182,441 (1,802,716) 1,379,725 Medical 9,815,999 (3,938,917) 5,877,082 10,636,543 (3,586,979) 7,049,564 Other 615,785 (367,174) 248,611 545,048 (315,115) 229,933 Total Short-Term 20,573,124 (8,760,231) 11,812,893 21,509,658 (8,479,641) 13,030,017 Long-term Business Premium earned by principal class of business: 2018 2017 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Ordinary life 4,148,826 (18,434) 4,130,392 3,480,978 (13,107) 3,467,871 Group life 1,297,126 (606,505) 690,621 1,558,258 (642,236) 916,022 Pension/annuity 687,578 687,578 1,779,954 1,779,954 Total Long -Term 6,133,530 (624,939) 5,508,591 6,819,190 (655,343) 6,163,847 Total Short-Term and Long Term 26,706,654 (9,385,170) 17,321,484 28,328,848 (9,134,984) 19,193,864 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 65 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 7. INVESTMENT AND OTHER INCOME Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Government securities interest 6,586,677 5,517,275 Bank deposit interest 657,647 688,106 48,318 13,006 Gross rental income from investment properties 585,823 516,085 Management expenses (191,261) (175,020) Net rental income from investment properties 394,562 341,065 Dividends received from equity investments 202,370 243,887 2,146 571 Fair value gain on investment properties (Note 14) 185,067 238,119 Policy loans interest 68,833 76,529 Other income 178,435 46,013 (129) Mortgage loan interest 5,228 6,775 Exchange gain/(loss) 69,854 4,239 73 (3,653) Fee income charged 372,061 413,352 Dividends received from associates 172,470 108,705 Dividends received from subsidairies 1,057,864 798,100 Total 8,720,734 7,575,360 1,280,871 916,600 8. FAIR VALUE MOVEMENTS ON FINANCIAL ASSETS (i) Through profit or loss Group 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Fair value gain/(loss) on quoted equity investments (Note 21) (1,214,788) 2,314,846 Fair value gain on unquoted equity investments (Note 17) 839,843 385,625 Total (374,945) 2,700,471 (ii) Through other comprehensive income Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Fair value (loss)/gain on quoted equity investments (Note 21) (348,043) 195,682 3,135 (3,145) Fair value gain on unquoted equity investments (Note 17) 3,669 97,216 3,669 38,159 Total (344,374) 292,898 6,804 35,014 9. COMMISSION EXPENSE AND INCOME Group Commission expense and income by principal class of business: 2018 2017 Expense Income Net Expense Income Net KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Motor 484,542 (68,266) 416,276 480,347 (117,168) 363,179 Fire 530,833 (573,694) (42,861) 487,458 (480,118) 7,340 Accident 390,026 (458,013) (67,987) 445,096 (400,958) 44,138 Medical 789,665 (1,087,470) (297,805) 808,233 (653,097) 155,136 Other 67,696 (103,940) (36,244) 74,475 (96,464) (21,989) Total Short-term 2,262,762 (2,291,383) (28,621) 2,295,609 (1,747,805) 547,804 Long-term Business Commission expense and income by principal class of business: 2018 2017 Expense Income Net Expense Income Net KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Ordinary life 832,232 (3,496) 828,736 776,409 (2,961) 773,448 Group life 154,804 (49,692) 105,112 240,918 (52,687) 188,231 Annuity 78,995 78,995 87,957 87,957 Total Long-term 1,066,031 (53,188) 1,012,843 1,105,284 (55,648) 1,049,636 Total Short-term and Long-term 3,328,793 (2,344,571) 984,222 3,400,893 (1,803,453) 1,597,440 66 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 10. CLAIMS AND POLICY HOLDER BENEFITS EXPENSE Group Short-term Business Claims payable by principal class of business 2018 2017 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Motor 2,623,892 (204,341) 2,419,551 2,522,015 (304,759) 2,217,256 Fire 837,049 (650,802) 186,247 1,175,958 (1,017,488) 158,470 Accident 820,150 (343,788) 476,362 1,738,409 (1,030,988) 707,421 Medical 7,077,230 (2,938,887) 4,138,343 7,585,981 (2,718,733) 4,867,248 Other 110,559 (45,027) 65,532 213,035 (117,059) 95,976 Total Short-term 11,468,880 (4,182,845) 7,286,035 13,235,398 (5,189,027) 8,046,371 Long-term Business Claims payable by principal class of business 2018 2017 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Ordinary life 1,537,213 (1,710) 1,535,503 1,227,923 (8,677) 1,219,246 Group life 879,764 (578,837) 300,927 976,490 (275,676) 700,814 Annuity 526,107 526,107 758,671 758,671 Total Long-term 2,943,084 (580,547) 2,362,537 2,963,084 (284,353) 2,678,731 2018 2017 Increase/(decrease) in policy holders benefits Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Ordinary life 1,866,426 1,866,426 1,936,247 1,936,247 Group life (39,582) (39,582) (63,266) (63,266) Annuity 4,454,494 4,454,494 7,055,813 7,055,813 Total Long-term 6,281,338 6,281,338 8,928,794 8,928,794 Total Long-term Claims & policy holders benefits 9,224,422 (580,547) 8,643,875 11,891,878 (284,353) 11,607,525 Total Short-term and Long-term 20,693,302 (4,763,392) 15,929,910 25,127,276 (5,473,380) 19,653,896 11. (i) OPERATING EXPENSES The breakdown of operating expenses is given below: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Employee benefits expense (Note 11 (ii)) 2,538,966 2,116,810 176 2,060 Administrative costs 684,495 525,065 15,877 3,280 Premium tax and policy holder compensation fund 269,672 234,599 Impairment charge for doubtful premium receivables 267,036 117,609 Operating lease rentals land and buildings 305,277 194,575 (35,184) Marketing costs 127,902 322,435 Professional fees 149,180 335,266 18,359 9,564 Depreciation and amortisation (Note 13) 188,306 145,186 3,620 6,146 Travelling costs 71,512 103,702 5,790 9,895 Repairs and maintenance expenditure 28,006 54,604 943 222 Communication costs 19,996 58,989 99 487 Auditors’ remuneration 32,298 31,251 2,445 2,275 Total 4,682,646 4,240,091 47,309 (1,255) Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 67 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 11. (ii) EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Salaries and wages 2,086,107 1,734,882 (398) Social security costs 60,619 49,398 Retirement benefit costs defined contribution plan 98,615 94,205 Other benefits 293,625 238,325 176 2,458 Total 2,538,966 2,116,810 176 2,060 * Other benefits include staff training, staff medical cover expenses, club subscriptions, staff relocation and other staff welfare expenses. As at 31 December 2018 a total of 1,209 (2017: 1,017) and 9 (2017:8) staff were employed within the Group and the Company respectively. 11. (iii) KEY MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION AND DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Salaries and other employment benefits 695,840 628,228 Fees for services as directors 6,137 5,550 3,420 3,475 Total 701,977 633,778 3,420 3,475 There were no loans given to Directors in the year ended 31 December 2018 (2017: Nil). 12. EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to Shareholders by the number of shares outstanding at the end of the year. Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Net profit attributable to Shareholders (KShs’000) 3,806,450 3,932,142 1,219,559 911,319 Number of ordinary shares in issue (‘000) 72,473 72,473 72,473 72,473 Earnings per share (KShs)-Basic and diluted 52.52 54.26 16.83 12.57 There were no potentially dilutive shares in issue at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017. Diluted earnings per share are therefore the same as basic earnings per share. 68 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 13. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS (i) PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Group Furniture, fixtures, Computer fittings & office equipment Motor vehicles equipment Total Year ended 31 December 2018 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Cost At start of year 509,340 80,378 469,786 1,059,504 Additions 78,674 9,446 59,234 147,354 Disposals (754) (754) Exchange differences (6,580) (2,714) (5,050) (14,344) At end of year 581,434 86,356 523,970 1,191,760 Accumulated depreciation At start of year 419,538 51,902 306,877 778,317 Charge for the year 51,357 9,497 45,193 106,047 Disposals (603) (603) Exchange differences (4,842) (2,416) (2,764) (10,022) At end of year 466,053 58,380 349,306 873,739 Net book value 115,381 27,976 174,664 318,021 Year ended 31 December 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Cost At start of year 427,413 68,758 391,977 888,148 Additions 82,027 13,788 78,227 174,042 Disposals (2,009) (2,009) Exchange differences (100) (159) (418) (677) At end of year 509,340 80,378 469,786 1,059,504 Accumulated depreciation At start of year 365,573 46,571 258,350 670,494.00 Charge for the year 53,952 7,621 48,748 110,321.00 On disposals (1,856) (1,856.00) Exchange differences 13 (434) (222) (643.00) At end of year 419,538 51,902 306,877 778,317 Net book value 89,802 28,476 162,909 281,187 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 69 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 13. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED) (i) PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED) Company Computer Furniture, fixtures, Total equipment fittings & office equipment KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Year ended 31 December 2018 Cost At start of year 2,686 36,629 39,315 Additions 70 70 At end of year 2,686 36,699 39,385 Accumulated depreciation At start of year 1,806 20,228 22,034 Charge for the year 767 2,853 3,620 At end of year 2,573 23,081 25,654 Net book value 113 13,618 13,731 Year ended 31 December 2017 Cost At start of year 2,350 36,368 38,718 Additions 336 261 597 At end of year 2,686 36,629 39,315 Accumulated depreciation At start of year 978 14,911 15,889 Charge for the year 828 5,317 6,145 At end of year 1,806 20,228 22,034 Net book value 880 16,401 17,281 70 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 13. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED) (ii) INTANGIBLE ASSETS Group Group Total Year ended 31 December 2018 KShs ‘000 Cost At start of year 267,297 Additions 53,278 Exchange differences (1,853) At end of year 318,722 Accumulated amortisation At start of year 108,956 Charge for the year 62,258 Exchange differences (1,052) At end of year 170,162 Net carrying amount 148,560 Year ended 31 December 2017 Cost At start of year 236,645 Additions 29,914 Exchange differences 738 At end of year 267,297 Accumulated amortisation At start of year 73,220 Charge for the year 34,865 Exchange differences 871 At end of year 108,956 Net carrying amount 158,341 Intangible assets relates to computer software. 14. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Group 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 6,270,940 6,011,881 Net additions 19,546 28,341 Fair value gains (Note 7) 185,067 238,119 Exchange differences (81,538) (7,401) At end of year 6,394,015 6,270,940 Investment property comprises a number of commercial properties that are leased to third parties. Investment property for the Group was valued by Redfearn International Limited on the basis of open market value. Investment properties include properties situated within Kenya valued at KShs 4,458 million (2017: KShs 4,378 million) and those outside Kenya valued at KShs 1,936 million (2017: KShs 1,893 million). Refer to Note 37 on operating leases for net operating income in profit or loss from investment properties. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 71 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 14. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (CONTINUED) The investment properties are leased to third parties under operating leases and partly occupied by the Group. No contingent rents are charged. There is neither restriction on the realisability of the investment properties nor are there contractual obligations pegged to the investment properties. All investment properties as at the end of the year are measured at fair value. In arriving at the open market value of the lettable properties, the valuer obtains the realised value of recent property sales of similar properties and compares with the carrying value of the investment property. The investment properties are disclosed at level 2 of the fair value measurement hierarchy. Given that the valuer uses actual sales data in performing the valuation, any changes in the market interest rates or rental income would not result in any significant change in the carrying value of investment property. 15. INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES AND SUBSIDIARIES In determining the Group’s and Company’s significant control over the investments in associates it considered that they have: power over the associates and subsidiaries based on the shareholding; exposure, or rights, to variable returns from their involvement with the associates and subsidiaries; and the ability to use their power over the associates and subsidiaries to affect the amount of the its returns, based on representation with the various entity Boards (i) INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES The Group has invested in thee associate companies whose information is as follows: IPS Power Investment Limited an investment vehicle company, which through its subsidiary has invested in the equity of Tsavo Power Company Limited that generates electricity for sale. Bujagali Holding Power Company Limited an investment vehicle company which through its subsidiary has invested in the equity of Bujagali Energy Limited an electricity generating company in Uganda. PDM (Holding) Limited an investment vehicle company which has invested in the equity of Property Development and Management (K) Limited which conducts property investment, development and management. The Jubilee insurance Company of Kenya owns 37.1% of this Company FCL Holdings Limited an investment vehicle company which has invested in the equity of Farmers Choice Limited with its main objective being sale of fresh and processed meat products. IPS Cable Systems Limited an investment vehicle company which has invested in the 15,000 km Seacom submarine fiber optic cable project. All of the above entities have been accounted for as associates based on the percentage holding the Group has in the companies that gives the Group control through voting rights and representation in the respective Boards. Movement in Net Assets Group Opening Additions/ Dividends Share of Share of Translation Closing Balance (redemptions) received profit OCI gain/(loss) Balance Year 2018 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 IPS Power Investments Ltd 98,435 (66,961) 60,176 91,650 PDML (Holding) Limited 2,407,987 (9,904) 107,197 (24,268) 2,481,012 Bujagali Holding Power Company Limited 2,264,303 (581,211) 708,296 (70,018) 2,321,370 FCL Holding Ltd 2,289,281 (344,940) 416,695 219,339 2,580,375 IPS Cable Systems Ltd 2,519,321 47,149 (45,064) 2,521,406 Total 9,579,327 (581,210) (421,805) 1,339,513 195,071 (115,082) 9,995,813 Opening Additions/ Dividends Share of Share of Translation Closing Balance (redemptions) received profit OCI gain/(loss) Balance Year 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 IPS Power Investments Ltd 198,887 (110,696) 10,244 98,435 PDML (Holding) Limited 2,184,599 (9,985) 158,028 75,345 2,407,987 Bujagali Holding Power Company Limited 2,282,893 (580,554) 586,035 (24,071) 2,264,303 FCL Holding Ltd 2,206,143 (217,410) 328,674 (28,126) 2,289,281 IPS Cable Systems Ltd 2,390,683 99,721 28,917 2,519,321 Total 9,263,205 (580,554) (338,091) 1,182,702 47,219 4,846 9,579,327 Equity accounting has been applied for the associates in these financial statements using results based on audited financial statements as at 31 December 2018. 72 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 15. INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES AND SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED) (i) INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES (CONTINUED) Company Investment at cost 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 FCL Holding Ltd 484,969 484,969 IPS Cable Systems Ltd 353,282 353,282 Total 838,251 838,251 The following table summarizes the information relating to each of the Group’s associate: Group Bujagali IPS Power Farmer’s IPS Cable PDML HoldHolding Investments Choice Systems Total ings Limited Power ComLimited Limited Limited pany Limited KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Country of incorporation Kenya Kenya Uganda Kenya Mauritius Interest held 27% 37% 25% 30% 33% 2018 Non-current assets 1,244,205 8,613,275 9,120,399 4,396,608 8,997,923 32,372,410 Current assets 143,369 1,550,666 265,094 3,666,350 13,295 5,638,773 Non-current liabilities (2,136,321) (1,081,862) (3,218,183) Current liabilities (142,435) (767,342) (100,015) (599,579) (404,161) (2,013,532) Net assets 1,245,139 7,260,278 9,285,478 6,381,517 8,607,057 32,779,469 Revenue 477,830 773,344 (142,598) 10,110,268 194,493 11,413,337 Profit after tax 477,508 388,411 (241,816) 1,163,393 161,115 1,948,612 Other comprehensive income (144,912) 1,012,070 867,158 Cash flows from/(used in) operating (6,998) 407,051 (72,778) 1,458,759 (4,317) 1,781,718 activities Cash flows from/(used in) investing 465,042 (368,487) 1,259,068 (134,365) 194,493 1,415,751 activities Cash flows used in financing activities (403,961) (81,537) (1,048,384) (1,150,000) (398,628) (3,082,510) Net increase/(decrease) in cash 54,083 (42,973) 137,906 174,394 (208,452) 114,959 and cash equivalents 2017 Non-current assets 1,253,897 8,460,760 8,795,563 3,214,626 9,162,746 30,887,592 Current assets 103,169 1,327,876 332,537 3,592,215 226,940 5,582,737 Non-current liabilities (2,159,546) (803,079) (380,394) (3,343,019) Current liabilities (20,331) (582,666) (64,817) (592,358) (409,525) (1,669,697) Net assets 1,336,735 7,046,424 9,063,283 5,411,404 8,599,767 31,457,613 Revenue 485,683 651,619 2,317,606 9,488,422 403,179 13,346,509 Profit after tax 485,353 468,631 2,348,309 997,135 340,528 4,639,956 Other comprehensive income 169,439 169,439 Cash flows (used in)/from operating 138,955 762,719 46,588 948,193 (8,191) 1,888,264 activities Cash flows from/(used in) investing 593,240 (670,995) 91,997 (92,468) 403,178 324,952 activities Cash flows used in financing activities (697,128) 5,389 (1,701,478) (725,000) (821,429) (3,939,646) Net (increase)/decrease in cash 35,067 97,113 (1,562,893) 130,725 (426,442) (1,726,430) and cash equivalents Bujagali Holding Power Company Limited (BHPCL) holds 25% of Bujagali Energy Ltd (BEL) and accounts for its results under the Equity accounting method. BHPCL summary of financial information information shows negative revenue and a loss for the year ended 31 December 2018 as a result of a loss reported in the accounts of BEL in 2018. JHL has reported in 2018 the results of BHPCL as a profit for the year as the share of profit computation includes the impact of a restatement of the financial statements of BHPCL in 2017 and 2018. In 2017, BEL was granted a tax holiday on the tax written down value of its concession assets that increased its deferred tax liability increasing its profit after tax. This impact was not incorporated in the 2017 accounts of JHL and has been adjusted in the 2018 share of profit of associate. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 73 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 15. INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES AND SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED) (i) INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES (CONTINUED) Company Farmer’s IPS Cable SysTotal Choice Limited tems Limited KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Kenya Mauritius 15% 33% 2018 Non-current assets 4,396,608 8,997,923 13,394,531 Current assets 3,666,350 13,295 3,679,645 Non-current liabilities (1,081,862) (1,081,862) Current liabilities (599,579) (404,161) (1,003,740) Net assets 6,381,517 8,607,057 14,988,574 Revenue 10,110,268 194,493 10,304,761 Profit after tax 1,163,393 161,115 1,324,508 Other comprehensive income 1,012,070 1,012,070 Cash flows from/(used in) operating activities 1,458,759 (4,317) 1,454,442 Cash flows (used in)/from investing activities (134,365) 194,493 60,128 Cash flows used in financing activities (1,150,000) (398,628) (1,548,628) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 174,394 (208,452) (34,058) 2017 Non-current assets 3,214,626 9,162,746 12,377,372 Current assets 3,592,215 226,940 3,819,155 Non-current liabilities (803,079) (380,394) (1,183,473) Current liabilities (592,358) (409,525) (1,001,883) Net assets 5,411,404 8,599,767 14,011,171 Revenue 9,488,422 403,179 9,891,601 Profit after tax 997,135 340,528 1,337,663 Other comprehensive income Cash flows from/(used in) operating activities 948,193 (8,191) 940,002 Cash flows (used in)/from investing activities (92,468) 403,178 310,710 Cash flows used in financing activities (725,000) (821,429) (1,546,429) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 130,725 (426,442) (295,717) 74 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 15. INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES AND SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED) (ii) INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES Company Investment at Investment Equity Held Equity Held Cost at Cost 2018 2017 2017 2016 KShs’000 KShs’000 % % Jubilee Insurance Company of Kenya Limited 450,000 450,000 100% 100% Jubilee Insurance Company of Tanzania Limited 36,456 36,456 51% 51% Jubilee Life Insurance Corporation of Tanzania Limited 36,456 36,456 51% 51% Jubilee Insurance Company of Uganda Limited 12,598 12,598 30% 30% Jubilee Life Insurance Company of Uganda Limited 12,598 12,598 30% 30% Jubilee Insurance (Mauritius) Limited 197,467 197,467 70% 70% Jubilee Investment Company Limited (Uganda) 1,103,707 1,103,707 100% 100% Jubilee Investment Company Limited (Tanzania) 23,981 23,981 100% 100% Jubilee Investment Company Limited (Burundi) 1,312 1,312 100% 100% Total 1,874,573 1,874,573 The Jubilee Investments Company Limited (Uganda) owns 35% equity of both The Jubilee Insurance Company of Uganda Limited and Jubilee Life Insurance Company of Uganda Limited, and 10% equity of Jubilee Insurance (Mauritius) Ltd. The Group holds 70% of The Jubilee Insurance Company of Burundi S.A. and Jubilee Life Insurance Company of Burundi S.A., through Jubilee Investments Burundi S.U. (33%), Jubilee Investment Company Limited (Uganda) (33%) and Jubilee Investments Tanzania Limited (4%). The Group holds 80% of Jubilee Center Burundi Limited, a property investment company through its subsidiary Jubilee Investments Burundi Limited. The Group holds 100% of Jubilee Financial Services Ltd, a fund management company, through its subsidiary The Jubilee Insurance Company of Kenya Ltd. (iii) NON CONTROLLING INTEREST (NCI) The following table summarizes the information relating to the Group’s subsidiaries that has NCI: Jubilee Jubilee Jubilee Jubilee Jubilee Year 2018 Insurance Insurance Insurance Insurance Centre Total Uganda Tanzania Mauritius Burundi Burundi KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 NCI percentage 35% 49% 20% 30% 20% Assets 8,886,589 5,823,468 1,037,636 1,072,632 104,175 16,924,500 Liabilities (5,728,612) (4,544,777) (763,737) (759,305) (11,868,860) (72,429) Net assets 3,157,977 1,278,691 273,899 313,327 31,746 5,055,640 Carrying amount of NCI 1,105,293 626,559 54,780 93,998 6,349 1,886,979 Revenue 2,221,879 1,974,502 813,144 183,157 9,723 5,202,405 Profit 665,143 229,625 548 88,077 976,654 (6,739) OCI (100,707) (116,416) (8,271) (6,043) (1,442) (232,879) Total comprehensive income 564,436 113,209 (7,723) 82,034 (8,181) 743,775 Profit allocated to NCI 112,516 111 26,423 (1,348) 370,501 232,799 OCI allocated to NCI (35,250) (57,044) (1,653) (1,813) (288) (96,048) Dividends paid to NCI (65,998) (65,998) Total allocated to NCI 131,551 55,472 (1,542) 24,610 (1,636) 208,455 Cash flows from/(used in) operating activities 1,060,097 367,219 (32,879) 68,543 (6,399) 1,456,581 Cash flows (used in)/from investing activities (797,597) (549,803) (3,071) 43,236 (1,297,608) 9,627 Cash flows used in financing activities (185,186) 12,429 (172,757) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash 77,314 (170,155) (35,950) 111,779 3,228 (13,784) equivalents Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 75 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 15. INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES AND SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED) (iii) NON CONTROLLING INTEREST (NCI) (CONTINUED) Jubilee Jubilee Jubilee Jubilee Jubilee CenYear 2017 Insurance Insurance Insurance Insurance Total tre Burundi Uganda Tanzania Mauritius Burundi KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 NCI percentage 35% 49% 20% 30% 20% Assets 7,932,170 6,008,491 982,508 958,748 127,300 16,009,217 Liabilities (5,150,063) (4,843,010) (700,881) (727,452) (87,373) (11,508,779) Net assets 2,782,107 1,165,481 281,627 231,296 39,927 4,500,438 Carrying amount of NCI 973,738 571,087 56,325 69,389 7,985 1,678,524 Revenue 1,876,845 1,789,178 730,190 139,091 10,975 4,546,279 Profit 578,476 141,857 21,680 67,138 8,576 817,727 OCI 8,391 11,151 30,844 (8,580) (2,289) 39,517 Total comprehensive income 586,867 153,008 52,524 58,558 6,287 857,244 Profit allocated to NCI 202,466 69,510 4,336 20,141 1,715 298,168 OCI allocated to NCI (142,304) 59,017 68,657 26,621 (453) 11,538 Dividends paid to NCI (78,052) (28,917) (106,969) Total allocated to NCI (17,890) 99,610 72,993 46,762 1,262 202,737 Cash flow from/(used in) operating 1,152,940 496,227 (16,122) 26,476 (6,051) 1,653,470 activities Cash flow (used in)/from investing activities (721,894) (433,960) (53,589) (367,072) 10,675 (1,565,840) Cash flow (used in)/from investing activities (223,199) (59,015) (282,214) Net increase/(decrease) in cash 207,847 3,252 (69,711) (340,596) 4,624 (194,584) and cash equivalents Jubilee Insurance Uganda. Jubilee Insurance Tanzania and Jubilee Insurance Burundi include The Jubilee Insurance Company of Uganda Limited and Jubilee Life Insurance Company of Uganda Limited, The Jubilee Insurance Company of Tanzania Limited and Jubilee Life Insurance Corporation of Tanzania Limited, and, The Jubilee Insurance Company of Burundi S.A. and Jubilee Life Insurance Company of Burundi S.A respectively. Movement in the non-controlling interest is as follows: 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 1,678,524 1,475,787 Dividend paid to non-controlling interest (65,998) (106,969) Share of total comprehensive income for the year 274,453 309,706 At end of year 1,886,979 1,678,524 16. INCOME TAX EXPENSE AND DEFERRED INCOME TAX (i) INCOME TAX EXPENSE The tax on the Group’s and Company’s profit before income tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the statutory income tax rate as follows: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Profit before income tax 5,410,008 5,160,976 1,233,634 915,006 Tax calculated at the enacted domestic tax rate 30% 1,921,900 1,801,635 370,090 274,502 Tax calculated at the enacted domestic tax rate 15% (10) 4,078 Effect of : Income not subject to income tax (1,064,196) (1,072,232) (370,881) (288,396) Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 375,363 205,237 14,866 17,581 Prior year over provision (8,058) Income tax charge 1,233,057 930,660 14,075 3,687 Current income tax 1,307,327 954,706 14,245 3,928 Deferred income tax (74,270) (24,046) (170) (241) 1,233,057 930,660 14,075 3,687 76 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 16. INCOME TAX EXPENSE AND DEFERRED INCOME TAX (CONTINUED) (ii) TAX MOVEMENT Movement in the net tax payable/(recoverable) account is as follows: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year (71,495) 15,119 (7,661) (10,004) Taxation charge 1,307,327 954,706 14,246 3,928 Prior year (over)/under provision (8,058) Taxation paid (1,305,646) (1,041,320) (5,969) (1,585) At end of year (69,814) (71,495) 616 (7,661) Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Current income tax asset (174,269) (142,478) (7,661) Current income tax liability 104,455 70,983 616 Total (69,814) (71,495) 616 (7,661) (iii) DEFERRED INCOME TAX Deferred income tax is calculated, in full, on all temporary differences using a principal tax rate of 30% (2017: 30%) in all countries save for Mauritius where rate is 15%. The movement in the deferred income tax account is as follow: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 8,277 (16,498) 6,034 (4,229) Recognised in profit or loss (74,270) (24,046) (170) (241) Recognised in OCI (76,425) 87,589 1,752 10,504 Prior year over provision 14,160 (38,768) At end of year (128,258) 8,277 7,617 6,034 Deferred tax asset (218,099) (191,273) Deferred tax liability 89,841 199,550 7,617 6,034 Net deferred income tax liability/(asset) (128,258) 8,277 7,617 6,034 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities, deferred income tax charge/ (credit) in the profit or loss and to equity is attributable to the following: Group Company KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 1 Jan Charged to Charged 31 Dec 1 Jan Charged to Charged 31 Dec 2018 profit or loss to OCI 2018 2018 profit or loss to OCI 2018 Fair value gains on 122,061 (40,376) 81,685 investment properties Accelerated depreciation (11,351) (68,729) (80,080) Impairment provisions (96,574) (16,494) (113,068) Other deductible (5,859) 51,329 (62,265) (16,795) 6,034 (170) 1,752 7,617 temporary differences Net deferred income 8,277 (74,270) (62,265) (128,258) 6,034 (170) 1,752 7,617 tax liability/(asset) 1 Jan Charged to Charged 31 Dec 1 Jan Charged to Charged 31 Dec 2017 profit or loss to OCI 2017 2017 profit or loss to OCI 2017 Fair value gains on 141,414 (19,431) 78 122,061 investment properties Accelerated depreciation 27,755 (39,046) (60) (11,351) Impairment provisions (124,150) 27,576 (96,574) Other deductible (61,517) (31,913) 87,571 (5,859) (4,229) (241) 10,504 6,034 temporary differences Net deferred income (16,498) (62,814) 87,589 8,277 (4,229) (241) 10,504 6,034 tax liability/(asset) Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 77 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 17. UNQUOTED EQUITY INVESTMENTS Group FV Through FV Through Total FV Through FV Through Total P/L OCI P/L OCI 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 At start of year 3,157,632 200,371 3,358,003 2,805,049 104,875 2,909,924 Additions/transfers 49,529 256,261 305,790 Disposals/Write-off (33,042) (129) (33,171) Reclassification FVTPL-FVTOCI 304,144 (304,144) Fair value gain through other 3,669 3,669 97,216 97,216 comprehensive income Fair value gain through profit and loss 839,843 43,248 883,091 385,625 385,625 Exchange differences (6,937) (4,792) (11,729) (1,591) (1,591) At end of year 4,344,211 194,613 4,538,824 3,157,632 200,371 3,358,003 Valuation of unquoted shares The Group uses valuation techniques for valuing unquoted shares that are not based on observable market data. The Group reviewed several valuation techniques and selected a value that is based on discounted cash flow. Significant unobservable Inter-relationships between unobservable Valuation technique inputs inputs and fair value measurements Expected growth rate of the The estimated fair values would increase/ Discounted cash flows: (decrease) if: earnings of 7% The valuation model considers the present value of net cash flows to be generated by the unquoted Expected earnings and cash flows growth were Discount rate used on the entities. The net cash flows are discounted using the higher /(lower) expected cashflow – 13.34% risk adjusted discount rate. (2017: 14.18%) Risk-adjusted discount rate was lower / (higher) Unquoted shares are valued using values of similar or comparable entities which are publicly listed. Where similar or comparable information is not available, the unquoted shares are valued by taking the average of; (a) Discounted cashflows of the expected future cashflows; and (b) Share of net assets at the end of period. The following table sets out the key assumptions used by management in the value in use calculations: Assumption 2018 2017 Discount rate 13.34% 14.18% Growth rate 7% 7% Management has determined the values assigned to each of the key assumptions used as follows: Assumption Approach used to determine values: Discount rate Based on risk free rate and a specific margin based on the industry. Growth rate This is the projected long term inflation rate in Kenya. Impact of possible changes in key assumptions If the discount rate applied on the cash flow projections had been 1% higher/lower than management’s estimate at 31 December 2018 with all other assumptions unchanged, the impact to profit or loss would have been KShs 321 million and KShs 277 million lower and higher respectively. If the growth rate applied on the cash flow projections had been 1% higher/lower than management’s estimate at 31 December 2018 with all other assumptions unchanged, the impact to profit or loss would have been KShs 299 million and KShs 264 million higher and lower respectively. Company FV Through OCI FV Through OCI 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 At start of year 65,630 27,599 Disposal (128) Fair value gain through other comprehensive income 3,669 38,159 At end of year 69,299 65,630 78 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 18. GOVERNMENT SECURITIES AT AMORTISED COST AND FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS Group Movement FV Through P/L Amortized Amortized cost cost 2018 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 At start of year 47,195,222 39,666,112 Additions 1,125,288 9,813,628 9,434,190 Maturities (384,674) (4,028,673) (1,874,532) Reclassification from amortized cost to fair value through profit or loss 8,879,604 (8,879,604) Fair value gains/(losses) through profit or loss 351,558 Accrued interest 293,033 1,025,459 Exchange differences (122,874) (30,548) Total at the end of the year 10,264,809 45,003,158 47,195,222 Expected Credit Loss (27,340) Net 10,264,809 44,975,818 47,195,222 Maturity Profile Treasury bills maturing within 91 days after the date of acquisition 3,284,101 2,693,315 Treasury bills maturing after 91 days after the date of acquisition 116,188 339,123 Treasury bonds maturing within 1 year 1,653,327 4,591,298 Treasury bonds maturing in 1-5 years 10,435,213 10,842,382 Treasury bonds maturing after 5 years 29,486,987 28,729,104 Total 44,975,816 47,195,222 Treasury bonds of KShs 5.5 billion (2017: KShs 3.7 billion) are held under lien with the Central Bank of Kenya as security deposit in favor of the Insurance Regulatory Authority as required under the provisions of Section 32 of Kenya Insurance Act, an equivalent of KShs 27.4 million (2017: KShs 25.6million) are held under lien with the Bank of Uganda as security deposit in favor of the Insurance Regulatory Authority Uganda as required under the provisions of section 38 (3) of Uganda Insurance Act and an equivalent of KShs 106.3 million (2017: KShs 141.2 million) are held under lien with the Bank of Tanzania as security deposit in favor of the Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority as required under the provisions of Tanzania Insurance Act. In Kenya a further KShs 350 million (2017: KShs 200 million) worth of Treasury Bonds were held under lien with Diamond Trust Bank Limited as security for Bank overdraft facility, Guarantees and Letters of Credit facility for KShs 359 Million (2017: KShs 200 million) 19. COMMERCIAL BONDS AT AMORTISED COST AND FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS Group Movement FV Through P/L Amortized cost Amortized cost 2018 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 At start of year 904,007 1,423,678 Reclassification to fair value through profit or loss 39,185 (39,185) Fair value change on reclassification from amortized cost (725) Additions 11,814 20,609 Maturities (72,892) (540,280) Total 38,460 803,744 904,007 Expected Credit Loss (805) Net 38,460 802,939 904,007 Maturity profile Commercial bonds maturing Within 1 year 13,549 279,792 In 1-5 years 24,911 523,952 904,007 Total 38,460 803,744 904,007 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 79 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 20. LOANS RECEIVABLE (i) Group i) Mortgage loans 2018 2017 Movement KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 109,098 79,869 Loans advanced 21,044 75,974 Accrued interest and penalties 5,628 7,201 Provision for impairment (365) (540) Loan repayments (68,540) (52,731) Exchange differences (764) (675) At end of year 66,101 109,098 Maturity profile Loans maturing Within 1 year 22,336 21,275 In 1-5 years 16,982 19,070 In over 5 years 26,783 68,753 Total 66,101 109,098 (ii) Group ii) Loans on life insurance policies 2018 2017 Movement KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 788,958 716,367 Loans advanced 170,626 167,638 Interest 60,513 51,032 Loan repayments (86,169) (146,003) Exchange differences (2,215) (76) At end of year 931,713 788,958 Maturity profile Loans maturing Within 1 year 48,231 119,902 In 1-5 years 263,868 439,185 In over 5 years 619,614 229,871 Total 931,713 788,958 21. QUOTED EQUITY INVESTMENTS FV Through FV Through FV Through FV Through Total Total P/L OCI P/L OCI 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 At start of year 6,853,603 1,276,691 8,130,294 4,644,331 983,598 5,627,929 Additions 182,973 207,111 9,620 97,190 106,810 Disposals (133,504) (70,916) (204,420) (115,194) (115,194) Reclassification from fair value through profit or loss (766,843) 766,843 to fair value through other comprehensive income Fair value gain/(loss) through (348,043) (348,043) 195,682 195,682 other comprehensive income Fair value loss/(gain) through (1,214,788) (1,214,788) 2,314,846 2,314,846 profit or loss Exchange differences 24,138 (6,847) (6,847) 221 221 At end of year 4,945,579 1,617,728 6,563,307 6,853,603 1,276,691 8,130,294 80 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 21. QUOTED EQUITY INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED) Company FV Through OCI FV Through OCI 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 At start of year 20,270 11,874 Additions 11,541 Fair value gain through other comprehensive income 3,135 (3,145) At end of year 23,405 20,270 22. RECEIVABLES ARISING FROM DIRECT AND RE-INSURANCE ARRANGEMENTS Receivables arising out of direct insurance and re-insurance arrangements are summarized as follows: Direct Insurance Arrangements Reinsurance Arrangements 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Neither past due nor impaired 2,241,441 2,447,810 1,396,006 872,614 Past due but not impaired 1,816,743 1,756,985 1,797,159 2,199,186 Impaired 818,345 675,813 132,384 9,610 Gross 4,876,529 4,880,608 3,325,549 3,081,410 Less: provision for impairment (823,627) (675,813) (132,383) (9,610) Net 4,052,902 4,204,795 3,193,166 3,071,800 Movements for provisions for impairment are as follows: Direct Insurance Arrangements Reinsurance Arrangements 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 675,813 662,330 9,610 9,610 Increase in the year 147,814 117,639 122,773 Write-backs in the year (104,156) At end of year 823,627 675,813 132,383 9,610 Of the total gross impaired receivables, the following amounts have been individually assessed: Direct Insurance Arrangements Reinsurance Arrangements 2018 2017 2018 2017 Individually assessed impaired receivables KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 brokers 511,845 417,146 41,258 2,995 agents 180,243 143,432 insurance companies 12,299 16,476 91,125 6,615 direct clients 119,240 98,759 Total 823,627 675,813 132,383 9,610 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 81 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 23. REINSURERS’ SHARE OF INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES AND DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS (i) Reinsurers’ Share Of Insurance Contract Liabilities 2018 2017 Reinsurers’ share of: KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Unearned premium (Note 28) 3,042,850 3,089,500 Notified claims outstanding and IBNR (Note 36) 2,961,584 4,161,063 Total 6,004,434 7,250,563 Amounts due from reinsurers in respect of claims already paid by the Group on contracts that are reinsured are included in receivables arising out of reinsurance arrangements in the statement of financial position. (ii) Deferred Acquisition Costs 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 147,132 221,842 Net increase/(decrease) 38,353 (80,752) Exchange differences 805 6,042 At end of year 186,290 147,132 24. OTHER RECEIVABLES Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Deposits Office rent and utilities 58,212 96,857 Prepayments 488,634 193,116 Recoverable advances 14,194 7,566 Dividends receivable 55,199 154,083 108,705 Advance medical payment 86,725 Sundry debtors 779,994 542,295 134,517 1,211 Total 1,396,233 1,080,642 134,517 109,916 Sundry debtors includes staff loans, third party fund recoverable and deposits paid on rental offices among others. 82 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 25. (i) DEPOSITS WITH FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Maturity Profile Deposits maturing within 90 days after balance sheet date 8,992,396 8,408,173 919,427 250,098 Deposits maturing between 3 months to 1 year 2,323,021 2,177,424 Total 11,315,417 10,585,597 919,427 250,098 25. (ii) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS The year-end cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Cash and bank balances 2,588,451 1,517,872 89,292 22,898 Short-term deposits with banks 11,315,417 10,585,597 919,427 250,098 Treasury bills maturing within 91 days after the date of acquisition 3,284,101 2,693,315 Total 17,187,969 14,796,784 1,008,719 272,996 25. (iii) OPERATING CASH FLOW Group 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Cash flow from operating activities Profit before income tax 5,410,008 5,160,970 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation 168,305 145,186 Fair value gains/(losses) on financial assets at fair value through profit and loss 374,945 (2,700,471) Fair value gain on investment properties (185,067) (238,119) Net fair value gains on disposal 91,364 1,756 Interest and other income (7,938,735) (6,340,693) Dividend receivable (202,370) (243,887) Fee income (413,352) Rental income (394,562) (341,065) Share of result of associates after income tax (1,339,513) (1,182,702) Operating profit before working capital changes (4,015,625) (6,152,377) Receivables arising out of direct insurance arrangements 151,895 605,959 Receivables arising out of reinsurance arrangements (121,366) (266,009) Reinsurers’ share of insurance contract liabilities 1,246,129 (358,603) Deferred acquisition costs (39,158) 74,708 Other receivables (315,590) 160,422 Insurance contract liabilities 591,381 4,702,443 Payable under deposit administration contracts 5,524,666 6,639,336 Unearned premium reserve 54,384 (1,137,587) Creditors arising out of direct insurance arrangements (124,229) 32,706 Creditors arising out of reinsurance arrangements (181,058) 670,669 Other payables 544,181 84,721 Cash generated from operations 3,315,610 5,056,388 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 83 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 26. INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Short-Term insurance contracts Claims reported and claims handling expenses 4,606,641 5,870,122 Claims incurred but not reported (IBNR) 1,428,307 1,902,151 Total Short-Term 6,034,948 7,772,273 Long-Term insurance contracts Claims reported and claims handling expenses 947,106 1,007,119 Actuarial value of long term liabilities 18,557,023 16,204,112 Total Long-Term 19,504,129 17,211,231 Total Short-Term and Long-Term 25,539,077 24,983,504 Gross claims reported, claims handling expense liabilities and the liability for claims incurred but not reported are net of expected recoveries from salvage and subrogation. The expected recoveries at the end of 2018 and 2017 are not material. The Group uses chain-ladder techniques to estimate the ultimate cost of claims and the IBNR provision. Chain ladder techniques are used as they are an appropriate technique for mature classes of business that have a relatively stable development pattern. This involves the analysis of historical claims development factors and the selection of estimated development factors based on this historical pattern. The selected development factors are then applied to cumulative claims data for each accident year that is not fully developed to produce an estimated ultimate claims cost for each accident year. Movements in insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets are shown in Note 36. Short – Term Insurance contracts The development of insurance liabilities provides a measure of the Group’s ability to estimate the ultimate value of claims. The table below illustrates how the group’s estimate of total claims liability for each accident year has changed at successive year-ends. 2014 Accident year 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total and prior KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Estimate of ultimate claims cost at end of accident year 10,806,567 10,561,258 13,466,501 10,523,172 11,220,203 56,577,701 one year later 8,904,027 10,249,399 12,648,280 8,705,701 40,507,407 two years later 7,697,148 8,830,345 10,570,068 27,097,561 three years later 7,811,372 8,839,178 16,650,550 four years later 7,973,509 7,973,509 Incurred per accident year 7,973,509 8,839,178 10,570,068 8,705,701 11,220,203 47,308,659 Less: cumulative payments to (7,629,413) (8,630,458) (10,284,227) (6,964,418) (7,471,308) (40,979,824) date Total gross claims liability included in the 344,096 208,720 285,841 1,741,283 3,748,895 6,328,835 statement of financial position before IBNR Incurred but not reported (8,872) (5,379) (134,593) (46,045) 401,957 207,068 (IBNR) Total gross claims liability included in the 335,224 203,341 151,248 1,695,238 4,150,852 6,535,903 statement of financial position 84 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 26. INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES (CONTINUED) Long-term insurance contracts The Group determines its liabilities on long term insurance contracts based on assumptions in relation to future deaths, voluntary terminations, investment returns and administration expenses. The cash flows for each individual policy were projected on monthly intervals, till natural expiry of the policies. A margin for risk and uncertainty is added to these assumptions. The liabilities are determined on the advice of the consulting actuary and actuarial valuations carried out on a quarterly basis. Valuation assumptions The latest actuarial valuation for the long-term business was carried out as at 31 December 2018 by Actuarial Partners Consultants. Two valuation methods were applied, the Net Premium Value (NPV) for entities outside Kenya and the Gross Premium Valuation (GPV), for The Jubilee Insurance Company of Kenya Limited long-term fund valuation. The change in valuation method in Kenya from NPV to GPV was in compliance with the directive given by the Kenyan Insurance Regulator, and was effected for in the 2015 valuations and the period thereafter. The Gross Premium Valuation (GPV) is accepted in the actuarial industry as an appropriate method to place a realistic value (with an appropriate allowance for margins) on the liabilities of a life insurance company. This method is based on a discounted cash flow approach taking into account the expected cash flows from existing in-force business. By setting appropriate assumptions this method determines liabilities which are consistent with the value of assets included in the accounts. The more significant valuation assumptions are summarised below per country. The assumptions used for the previous year-end valuation are shown in brackets: Kenya a) Mortality The Company used KE 07-10 as a base table of standard mortality for ordinary life and KE 01-03 for annuity life. Statistical methods are used to adjust the rates reflected in the table based on the Company’s experience for ordinary life and annuity life (2016: KE 07-10 for Ordinary Life and KE 01-03 for Annuity Life). b) Persistency The persistency rates used in the valuation were set according to the experience observed (by the actuary) in the Company’s data. c) Discount Rates As per the valuation guideline, the expected future cash flows shall be discounted using the relevant risk-free interest rate. The risk free interest rate is determined using the Nairobi Securities Exchange yield curve as at December 2018 and has been converted to zero coupon yield which ranged from 10.23% to 15.59%. The discount rate is further adjusted by a risk margin of 10% (2017:15%). Given the higher solvency requirement to apply a 20% risk margin on the discount rate, by Kenyan Insurance Act, the difference between the 10% and 20% risk margin has been offset as an appropriation of retained earnings to statutory reserves in the Statement of Financial Position. The impact of the difference between 10% and 20% risk margin is KShs 1, 377,467,000. d) Expenses, tax and inflation The current level of renewal expenses were taken based on the current expense position of the company. Expense inflation is assumed to be 6.4% p.a. (2017:5.8% p.a.). It has been assumed that the current tax legislation and rates continue unaltered. Uganda The principles on which the valuation was made were determined by the Actuary having regard for the statutory requirements of Uganda Insurance Regulations 2002. For Ordinary Life, the valuation was based on a net premium valuation (NOV) basis. The actuarial reserves were calculated using the ‘full preliminary term’ method with reserves calculated by deducting the present value of the future modified net premiums from the present value of the sums assured, guaranteed cash bonuses and accrued bonuses. The assumptions under the NPV are as follows: – Mortality: 100% KE 2007-10 – Discount rate: 4% p.a The group life plans a reserve equal to the higher of unexpired risks and the unearned portion of the office premium was held on a 1/365th methodology. An additional reserve for Incurred But Not Reported (IBNR) claims was also held. Liability adequacy Test (LAT) A liability adequacy test has been performed by computing the reserve base don a gross premium valuation methodology (GPV) to ensure the adequacy of the statutory reserves under the NPV basis. Under the GPV basis, the cash flows for each individual policy were projected on monthly intervals, till natural expiry of the policies. Expenses, commission, claims and premiums were included in the projection. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 85 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 26. INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES (CONTINUED) Valuation assumptions (Continued) Uganda (Continued) In performing valuation using the GPV methodology, the entity adopted the Best Estimate assumptions which are derives from the Company’s experience as follows: • Mortality and morbidity – The assumptions are derives based on the Company’s experience with partial credibility theory as follows: Type of policy Mortality Table All other assurances 93% KE 2007-2010 for assured lives for males 96% KE 2007-2010 for assured lives for females Total Permanent Disability 10% of the mortality assumptions above. • Management expense – The assumption was calculated based on the Company’s actual management expenses in 2018 as follows: Ordinary Life Expenses Per Policy (UShs) % of Premium Maintenance Expenses 147,672 1.05% • Discount rate – The discount rate for Ordinary Life set at 13.3% was derived based on the current asset mix and expected return for each type of asset. Tanzania The Company determines its liabilities on long term insurance contracts based on the assumptions in relation to future deaths, voluntary terminations, investment returns and administration expenses. The cash flows for each individual policy were projected on monthly intervals, till natural expiry of the policies. A margin of risk and uncertainty is added to these assumptions. The liabilities are determined on the advice of the consulting actuary and actuarial valuations carried out on an annual basis. Set out below are the general principles and details of the methods adopted in the valuation of the policies: a) Except for the polices mentioned below, Actuarial Reserves were calculated using the ‘full preliminary term’ method with reserves calculated by deducting the present value of the future modified net premiums from the present value of the sums assured, guaranteed cash bonuses and accrued bonuses. Group Temporary Assurance, as reserve equal to the unearned portion of the office premium was held on a 1/365th methodology. An additional reserve for Incurred But Not Reported (IBNR) claims was also held. There are some Group Temporary Assurance policies with a policy term greater than one year (up to 5 years). For these plans the entity tested to ensure the basis used is more conservative than the prescribed basis. b) Ordinary Life Business – The modified net premium was taken as the ‘pure’ net premium for an age one year higher than the actual age entry without changing the time when premiums cease or any policy money becomes payable if such time is determined by reference to the actual age entry. Actual premium terms and maturity dates were taken as set out in the policies. Valuation Assumptions The more significant valuation assumptions are summarized below: Financial Assumptions 2018 Rate 2007-2010 10 mortality tables (of neighboring country) 100% Inflation rate 5.1% per annum Return On Investment 4.0% per annum 86 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 26. INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES (CONTINUED) Valuation assumptions (Continued) Tanzania (Continued) Demographic assumptions (i) The Company used mortality tables for a neighboring East African Country as a base table of standard mortality for assured individual life. The average assumed mortality rate is 6.38%. The mortality table is used to estimate among other things the life expectancy for the estimation of when the sum assured are expected to be paid. Statistical methods are used to adjust the rates reflected in the table based on the Company’s experience for Ordinary Group Life. (ii) Entry date was taken as the next birthday date. As an alternative, gross valuation basis was also calculated. The policy liabilities calculated on a net premium basis was higher than that calculated on the gross premium basis and therefore the net premium valuation results were used for Ordinary Life business in line with the group accounting policy. Sensitivity analysis The following table presents the sensitivity of the value of long term insurance liabilities to movements in key assumptions used in the estimation process. For liabilities under insurance contracts with fixed and guaranteed terms, key assumptions are unchanged for the duration of the contract. For long term insurance contracts without fixed terms and with discretionary participation in profits, the liability is set approximately equal to the value of the underlying asset of the contract. Hence, there is no sensitivity analysis for these types of contracts. The following table presents the sensitivity of these contracts to movements in key assumptions used in the estimation of liabilities: Increase in Liability 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Variables: Worsening of mortality +20% 351,128 280,411 Lowering of investment returns p.a. -1% 959,399 829,335 Worsening of expense inflation rate +1% 64,909 56,680 Worsening of lapse rate +5% (34,243) (23,437) We have not included the valuation assumptions nor performed a sensitivity analysis for the non-Kenyan entities as the change within the long-term liabilities would not be material. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 87 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 27. PAYABLE UNDER DEPOSIT ADMINISTRATION CONTRACTS (GROUP) 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 42,214,336 35,988,354 Pension fund deposits received 7,851,910 6,882,633 Surrenders and annuities paid (5,822,062) (4,806,355) Fee income charged (372,061) (413,352) Net benefits accrued 3,903,232 4,580,458 Exchange differences (36,353) (17,402) At end of year 47,739,002 42,214,336 Deposit administration contracts are recorded at amortized cost. 28. UNEARNED PREMIUM REVENUE Group These provisions represent the liability for short-term business contracts where the Group’s obligations are not expired at the year-end. Movements are shown below: 2018 2017 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 At start of year 7,571,212 (3,089,500) 4,481,712 8,708,799 (3,019,300) 5,689,499 Increase in the period (net) 177,552 77,723 255,275 (1,114,822) (113,857) (1,228,679) Exchange differences (123,168) (31,073) (154,241) (22,765) 43,657 20,892 At end of year 7,625,596 (3,042,850) 4,582,746 7,571,212 (3,089,500) 4,481,712 29. OTHER PAYABLES Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Payroll liabilities 15,472 37,333 Value added tax payable 155,582 351,407 Withholding taxes payable 112,697 127,234 Other liabilities 1,504,541 725,495 9,705 1,774 Leave pay accrual 112,231 59,567 8,712 8,615 Accrued expenses 391,247 429,066 3,389 2,596 Premium deposits 140,659 157,872 Rental deposits 107,215 107,494 Total 2,539,644 1,995,468 21,806 12,985 *Other liabilities includes deferred rental income and valuations fees among others. 88 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 30. SHARE CAPITAL The total authorized number of ordinary shares is 90,000,000 (2017: 90,000,000) with a par value of KShs 5 per share. At 31 December 2018 72,472,950 ordinary shares were in issue (2017: 72,472,950 ordinary shares). All issued shares are fully paid. Group and Company Share Capital Share Capital Number of Number of shares shares 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 Authorised 450,000 450,000 90,000 90,000 Issued and fully paid: At start of year 362,365 329,423 72,473 65,885 Bonus issue of shares 32,942 6,588 At end of year 362,365 362,365 72,473 72,473 All shares rank equally with regard to the company residual assets. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. 31. RESERVES The breakdown of reserves is as follows: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Fair value reserves 214,967 337,751 36,409 31,357 General reserves 70,000 70,000 70,000 70,000 Translation reserves (943,724) (546,820) Contingency reserves 1,233,277 1,050,993 Statutory and other reserves 3,598,306 2,185,073 Total 4,172,826 3,096,997 106,409 101,357 The movement in the reserves during the year is given below: a) Fair value reserves Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 337,751 104,458 31,357 6,847 Transfer of reserves on adoption of IFRS 9 6,868 Associate share of other comprehesive income 195,071 47,219 Fair value (loss)/gain through other comprehensive income (294,482) 186,074 5,052 24,510 Translation (loss)/gain (30,241) At end of year 214,967 337,751 36,409 31,357 The fair value reserve relates to unrealized gains or losses on the Group’s equity investments that are carried at fair value through other comprehensive income. It also include the Group’s share of other comprehensive income in associates. The fair value reserve is nondistributable. b) General reserves Group and Company 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start and end of year 70,000 70,000 The general reserves were an appropriation of retained earnings in 1992, and are distributable. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 89 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 31. RESERVES (CONTINUED) c) Translation reserve (Group) 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year (546,820) (554,086) Movement for the year (396,904) 7,266 At end of year (943,724) (546,820) The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations. Contingency reserve (Group) 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 1,050,993 964,042 Transfer from retained earnings 182,284 86,951 At end of year 1,233,277 1,050,993 The contingency reserve is in line with the provisions of the Insurance Act in Tanzania and Uganda which require an annual transfer to the contingency reserve of between 1% 3% of the gross premium. These reserves are non-distributable. d) Statutory and other reserves (Group) 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 2,185,073 2,185,073 Transfer from retained earnings 1,413,233 At end of year 3,598,306 2,185,073 The statutory reserve represents the actuarial surplus of the Kenyan long-term business after distribution of profits to the shareholders, bonuses to policy holders and interest to deposit administration. These reserves are distributable to policyholders and deposit administration holders subject to the requirement of regulation. The Statutory Reserve includes KShs 1,377,467,000 which is an amount set aside for additional provision for insurance contract liabilities required to comply with the requirements of the Insurance Regulatory Authority. 32. RETAINED EARNINGS Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 20,092,764 16,352,839 1,671,128 865,224 Profit for the year 3,806,450 3,932,142 1,219,559 911,319 Other movements (38,008) (106,820) Transfer to contingency reserve (182,284) (86,951) Transfer to statutory reserve (1,377,468) Bonus issue (32,942) (32,942) Dividend paid to non-controlling interest 106,969 Interim dividend (72,473) (72,473) (72,473) (72,473) Dividend Paid (579,784) (579,784) At end of year 21,649,197 20,092,764 2,238,430 1,671,128 90 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 33. DIVIDENDS (i) PROPOSED DIVIDEND Proposed dividend is accounted for as a separate component of equity until ratified at an Annual General Meeting. During the year, an interim dividend of KShs 72.473 million was paid (2017: KShs 72.473 million) or KShs 1.00 per share (2017: KShs 1.00 per share). At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 25 June 2019, a final dividend of KShs 579.784 million (2017: KShs 579.784 million) is to be proposed, which is KShs 8.00 per share (2017: KShs 8.00 per share). The total dividend for the year 2018 is therefore KShs 652.257 million (2017: KShs 652.257million) or KShs 9.00 per share (2017: KShs 9.00 per share). Payment of dividend is subject to withholding tax at the rate of either 0%, 5% or 10%, depending on the percentage shareholding and/or residential status of the respective shareholders. (ii) DIVIDENDS PAYABLE 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 369,176 325,515 Dividends declared within the year 652,257 566,606 Dividend paid within the year (590,140) (522,945) At end of year 431,293 369,176 34. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES, COMMITMENTS AND OFF BALANCE SHEET ITEMS The Group’s companies are subject to litigation arising in the normal course of business. The Directors are of the opinion that these litigations will not have a material effect on the financial position or profits of the Group. The Group does not have any material outstanding commitments. The Group engages various service providers for purchase of capital items. The engagement is normally contractual either through Purchase Orders or Service Level Agreements. The Group did not have any contractual commitments as the end of the year (2017: nil). 35. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The largest shareholder of the Group is the Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development S.A., a company incorporated in Switzerland. There are various other companies related to Jubilee Holdings Limited through common shareholdings or common directorships. In the normal course of business, insurance policies are sold to related parties at terms and conditions similar to those offered to major clients. Related parties rendered various services to the Group during the year. Transactions with related parties (Group) 2018 2017 Gross premium: KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Diamond Trust Bank Limited 436,469 370,003 Industrial Promotion Services (Kenya) Limited 17,562 128,788 TPS Eastern Africa Limited 19,906 238,059 Property Development and Management Limited 16,006 33,573 Nation Media Group 103,827 148,837 Total 593,770 919,260 Net claims incurred: Diamond Trust Bank Limited 140,119 216,983 Industrial Promotion Services (Kenya) Limited 10,197 53,318 TPS Eastern Africa Limited 2,469 4,164 Property Development and Management Limited 6,810 4,041 Nation Media Group 184,148 143,678 Total 343,743 422,184 Services received from: Industrial Promotion Services (Kenya) Limited 53 TPS Eastern Africa Limited 2,069 2,690 Nation Media Group 3,382 11,466 Total 5,451 14,209 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 91 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 35. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED) 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Outstanding premium: Diamond Trust Bank Limited 41,504 66,326 Industrial Promotion Services (Kenya) Limited 34,590 10,521 TPS Eastern Africa Limited (4,334) 700 Property Development and Management Limited 4,746 3,628 Nation Media Group 33,817 9,118 Total 110,323 90,293 Outstanding claims: Diamond Trust Bank Limited 24,517 12,530 Industrial Promotion Services (Kenya) Limited 785 19,158 TPS Eastern Africa Limited 2,398 256 Property Development and Management Limited 330 1,555 Nation Media Group 46,911 46,802 Total 74,941 80,301 Deposits with financial institutions Diamond Trust Bank Limited 5,761,107 6,027,433 Total 5,761,107 6,027,433 Interest received from financial institutions Diamond Trust Bank Limited 397,650 298,327 Total 397,650 298,327 Outstanding premium and claims balances arose out of the normal course of business and are payable within one year. Transactions with related parties (Company) 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Due from related parties: Jubilee Insurance (Mauritius) Limited 860 860 Jubilee Investment Company Limited (Tanzania) 11,463 Jubilee Insurance Company of Burundi Limited 24,241 20,917 Jubilee Insurance Company of Kenya Limited 23,190 Jubilee Investment Company Limited (Burundi) 60,620 60,620 Total 97,184 105,587 Due to related parties Jubilee Insurance Company of Kenya Limited 140,369 Jubilee Investment Company Limited (Tanzania) 20,689 Jubilee Investment Company Limited (Uganda) 126,966 137,916 Total 267,335 158,805 Net owing (170,151) (53,218) Transactions with related parties (Company) 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Borrowings from related parties Jubilee Investment Company Limited (Uganda) 623,807 630,315 Jubilee Investment Company Limited (Uganda) loaned USD 6.125 million to Jubilee Holdings Limited at the end of 2016, to settle intercompany balances owed to The Jubilee Insurance Company of Kenya Limited. The loan attracts an interest at 0.45% per annum. 92 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 36. MOVEMENTS IN INSURANCE LIABILITIES AND REINSURANCE ASSETS Group Short-term insurance business 2018 2017 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net KShs ‘000 KShs’000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs’000 KShs ‘000 Notified claims 5,870,122 (623,796) 5,246,326 5,766,775 (2,846,851) 2,919,924 Incurred but not reported 1,902,151 (763,456) 1,138,695 1,675,727 (701,204) 974,523 Total at start of year 7,772,273 (1,387,252) 6,385,021 7,442,502 (3,548,055) 3,894,447 Cash paid for claims settled during the (13,054,096) (924,706) (13,978,802) (12,698,614) 4,833,470 (7,865,144) year Increase in liabilities: Arising from current year claims 8,805,445 (839,144) 7,966,301 8,090,988 (2,973,447) 5,117,541 Arising from prior year claims 2,511,326 (352,270) 2,159,056 4,937,397 (2,199,220) 2,738,177 Total at end of year 6,034,948 (3,503,372) 2,531,576 7,772,273 (3,887,252) 3,885,021 Notified claims 4,606,641 (2,936,435) 1,670,206 5,870,122 (3,065,612) 2,804,510 Incurred but not reported 1,428,307 (566,937) 861,370 1,902,151 (821,640) 1,080,511 Total at end of year 6,034,948 (3,503,372) 2,531,576 7,772,273 (3,887,252) 3,885,021 Long-term Ordinary Group Ordinary insurance business Life Life Annuity Total Life Group Life Annuity Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At the Start of the year 7,603,775 1,139,193 8,235,398 16,978,366 5,732,257 1,267,165 5,682,911 12,682,333 Claims, surrenders and annuity payments (1,448,083) (270,394) (959,406) (2,677,883) (1,149,119) (654,329) (808,816) (2,612,264) Increase/(decrease) in the period 884,255 (66,746) 232,362 1,049,871 479,240 453,128 (1,021,283) (88,916) New business 584,674 122,989 687,578 1,395,241 613,722 96,322 1,779,954 2,489,998 Change in actuarial reserves 1,814,410 (108,928) 580,708 2,286,190 1,886,940 (66,524) 2,552,488 4,372,904 At the end of the year 9,439,031 816,114 8,776,640 19,031,785 7,563,041 1,095,761 8,185,254 16,844,055 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net KShs ‘000 KShs’000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs’000 KShs ‘000 Notified claims 947,106 (268,754) 678,352 1,007,119 (273,811) 733,308 Actuarial value of policy holders benefits 18,557,023 18,557,023 16,204,112 16,204,112 Total at end of year 19,504,129 (268,754) 19,235,375 17,211,231 (273,811) 16,937,420 37. OPERATING LEASES Lease as lessee The Group leases offices for some of its branches and agency operations under operating lease agreements which run for a period of two to six years with an option of renewal after expiry. The Group is restricted from entering into any sublease arrangements. At 31 December 2018, the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases were payable as follows: Lease as a Lessee 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Within one year 11,517 34,505 Later than one year and not later than five years 18,659 55,903 Amount payable later than five years 14,540 43,562 44,716 133,970 During the year ended 31 December 2018, KShs 305 million (2017: KShs 194 million) was recognized as rent expense in profit or loss. (ii) Lease as lessor The Group leases out its investment property (Note 17) to various tenants under operating lease agreements which run for a period of two to six years with the option to renew after expiry. The Group does not enter into any sublease arrangements. Lease as a Lessor 2018 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Within one year 100,743 244,658 Later than one year and not later than five years 483,163 1,173,383 Amount payable later than five years 3,104 7,538 587,010 1,425,579 At 31 December 2018, the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases were receivable as follows: During the year ended 31 December 2018, KShs 395 million (2017: KShs 341 million) was recognized as rental income in profit or loss in respect of the investment property, after netting of management expenses of KShs 202 million (2017: KShs 175 million). See Note 38.11 for the accounting policy in leases. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 93 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 38.1. BASIS OF PREPARATION The financial statements are prepared in compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the manner required by the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. The measurement basis applied is the historical cost basis, except where otherwise stated in the accounting policies below. The financial statements and have been prepared on a going concern basis and are presented in Kenya Shillings (KShs), rounded to the nearest thousand, unless otherwise indicated. New Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are effective and adopted in the 2018 annual financial statements The Group has adopted the following new standards and amendments during the year ended 31 December 2087, including consequential amendments to other standards with the date of initial application by the Group being 1 January 2018. The nature and effects of the changes are explained below: New standard or amendments Effective for annual periods beginning on or after Revenue from contracts with customers (IFRS 15) 1 January 2018 Financial instruments (IFRS 9) 1 January 2018 Applying IFRS 9 financial instruments with IFRS 4 insurance contracts (Amendments to IFRS 4) 1 January 2018 IFRIC 22 foreign currency transactions and advance consideration 1 January 2018 Classification and measurement of share based payment transactions (Amendments to IFRS 2) 1 January 2018 Transfers of Investment Property (IAS 40) 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers This standard replaces IAS 11 Construction Contracts, IAS 18 Revenue, IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes, IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers and SIC-31 Revenue – Barter of Transactions Involving Advertising Services. The standard contains a single model that applies to contracts with customers and two approaches to recognising revenue: at a point in time or over time. The standard specifies how and when an IFRS reporter will recognise revenue as well as requiring such entities to provide users of financial statements with more informative, relevant disclosures. The standard provides a single, principles based five-step model to be applied to all contracts with customers in recognising revenue being: Identify the contract(s) with a customer; identify the performance obligations in the contract; determine the transaction price; Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and recognise revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. The adoption of these changes did not have a significant effect on the amounts and disclosures of the Group’s financial statements. IFRS 9: Financial Instruments On 24 July 2014 the IASB issued the final IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Standard, which replaces earlier versions of IFRS 9 and completes the IASB’s project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. Even though these measurement categories are similar to IAS 39, the criteria for classification into these categories are significantly different. In addition, the IFRS 9 impairment model has been changed from an “incurred loss” model from IAS 39 to an “expected credit loss” model. The standard is effective for annual period beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with retrospective application and early adoption permitted. The Group early adopted IFRS 9 as issued by the IASB in July 2014 with a date of transition of 1 January 2018, which resulted in changes in accounting policies and adjustments to the amounts previously recognised in the financial statements. The Group has now updated the classification based on the full adoption in 2018. As permitted by the transitional provisions of IFRS 9, the Group elected not to restate comparative figures. Any adjustments to the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities at the date of transition were recognised in the opening retained earnings and other reserves of the current period. 94 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED) New Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are effective and adopted in the 2018 annual financial statements (continued) IFRS 9: Financial Instruments (continued) Consequently, for notes disclosures, the consequential amendments to IFRS 7 disclosures have also only been applied to the current period. The comparative period notes disclosures repeat those disclosures made in the year. The adoption of IFRS 9 has resulted in changes in our accounting policies for recognition, classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities and impairment of financial assets. IFRS 9 also significantly amends other standards dealing with financial instruments such as IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’. The Group fully implemented IFRS 9 with effect from 1 January 2018, with the impact of the cumulative adjustment reflected as an adjustment to opening retained income. Classification and measurement under IFRS 9 All financial assets under IFRS 9 are to be initially recognised at fair value, including directly attributable transactions costs (for financial assets not measured at fair value through profit or loss). Financial assets are to be classified based on: (i) the business model within which the financial assets are managed and (ii) the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial assets (whether the cash flows represent ‘solely payment of principal and interest’). Financial assets are measured at amortised cost if they are held within a business model whose objective is to hold those assets for the purpose of collecting contractual cashflows and those cashflows comprise solely payments of principal and interest (‘hold to collect’). Financial assets are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if they are held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cashflows and selling financial assets, and those contractual cashflows comprise solely payments of principal and interest (‘hold to collect and sell’). Movements in the carrying amount of these financial assets should be taken through OCI, except for impairment gains or losses, interest revenue and foreign exchange gains or losses, which are recognised in profit or loss. Where the financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from equity to profit or loss. Other financial assets are measured at FVTPL. All derivative instruments that are either financial assets or financial liabilities will continue to be classified as held for trading and measured at fair value through profit and loss. The accounting for financial liabilities is largely unchanged, except for financial liabilities designated at FVTPL. Changes in the fair value of these financial liabilities that are attributable to the group’s own credit risk are recognised in OCI. Where the financial liability is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI is not reclassified from equity to profit or loss. However, it may be reclassified within equity. The group currently provides note disclosure in respect of the change in fair value due to credit risk of the group’s financial liabilities designated at FVTPL, in Note 4 b. For equity investments that are neither held for trading nor contingent consideration, the Group may irrevocably elect to present subsequent changes in fair value of these equity investments in either (i) profit or loss (FVTPL); or (ii) other comprehensive income (FVOCI). Where the equity investment is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI is not reclassified from equity to profit or loss. However, it may be reclassified within equity. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 95 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED) New Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are effective and adopted in the 2018 annual financial statements (continued) IFRS 9: Financial Instruments (continued) Classification and measurement under IFRS 9 (continued) Based on the financial assets at 31 December 2017, the Group and Company assessment is shown as follows Group Original carrying New carrying Original classification New classification amount under amount under under IFRS 9 (2008) under IFRS 9 IFRS (2008) IFRS 9 Financial assets KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Equity investments – quoted Fair value through OCI Fair value through OCI 1,276,692 1,276,692 Equity investments – quoted Fair value through P&L Fair value through P&L 6,853,603 6,853,603 Equity investments – quoted Fair value through P&L Fair value through OCI 766,843 766,843 Equity investments – unquoted Fair value through P&L Fair value through P&L 3,157,632 3,157,632 Mortgage loans Amortised cost Amortised cost 109,098 109,098 Receivables arising out of direct insurance Amortised cost Amortised cost 4,204,795 4,156,192 arrangements Other receivables Amortised cost Amortised cost 1,080,642 1,080,642 Government securities Amortised cost Amortised cost 47,195,222 47,194,184 Corporate bonds and commercial paper Amortised cost Amortised cost 904,007 903,993 Deposits with financial institutions Amortised cost Amortised cost 10,585,597 10,584,530 Cash and bank balances Amortised cost Amortised cost 1,517,872 1,516,953 Total financial assets 77,622,003 77,600,362 Company Original classificaOriginal carrying New carrying tion under IFRS 9 New classification amount under amount under (2008) under IFRS 9 IFRS 2008 IFRS 9 Financial assets KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Equity investments – quoted Fair value through OCI Fair value through OCI 20,270 20,270 Equity investments – unquoted Fair value through OCI Fair value through OCI 65,630 65,630 Other receivables Amortised cost Amortised cost 109,916 109,916 Deposits with financial institutions Amortised cost Amortised cost 250,098 250,098 Cash and bank balances Amortised cost Amortised cost 22,898 22,898 Total financial assets 468,812 468,812 Reconciliation of statement of financial position balances from the IFRS 9 (2008)/IAS 39 to IFRS 9 The Group performed a detailed analysis of its business models for managing financial assets and analysis of their cash flow characteristics. The following table reconciles the carrying amount of financial assets, from their previous measurement categories in accordance with IFRS 9 (2008) /IAS 39 as at 31 December 2017 to the new measurement categories under IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018: 96 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED) New Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are effective and adopted in the 2018 annual financial statements (continued) IFRS 9: Financial Instruments (continued) Reconciliation of statement of financial position balances from the IFRS 9 (2008)/IAS 39 to IFRS 9 (continued) IFRS 9 (2008) carrying IFRS 9 carryGroup amount 31 Reclassifications Remeasurement ing amount 1 December January 2018 2017 Financial assets at amortised cost KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Cash and bank balances Opening balances as per IFRS 9 2008 1,517,872 1,517,872 Reclassification Remeasurement: ECL allowance (919) (919) Closing balances as per IFRS 9 1,517,872 (919) 1,516,953 Deposits with financial institutions Opening balances as per IFRS 9 2008 10,585,597 10,585,597 Reclassification Remeasurement: ECL allowance (1,067) (1,067) Closing balances as per IFRS 9 10,585,597 (1,067) 10,584,530 Government securities Opening balances as per IFRS 9 2008 47,195,222 47,195,222 Reclassification 8,879,604 8,879,604 Remeasurement: ECL allowance (1,038) (1,038) Closing balances as per IFRS 9 47,195,222 8,879,604 (1,038) 50,073,788 Receivables arising out of direct insurance 4,204,795 4,204,795 arrangements Opening balances as per IFRS 9 2008 Reclassification Remeasurement: ECL allowance (48,603) (48,603) Closing balances as per IFRS 9 4,204,795 (48,603) 4,156,192 Corporate bonds and commercial papers Opening balances as per IFRS 9 2008 904,007 904,007 Reclassification 39,185 39,185 Remeasurement: ECL allowance (14) (14) Closing balances as per IFRS 9 904,007 39,185 (14) 943,178 Mortgage loans receivable Opening balances as per IFRS 9 2008 109,098 109,098 Reclassification Remeasurement: ECL allowance Closing balances as per IFRS 9 109,098 109,098 Other receivables Opening balances as per IFRS 9 2008 1,080,642 1,080,642 Reclassification Remeasurement: ECL allowance Closing balances as per IFRS 9 1,080,642 1,080,642 Total financial assets measured at amortised cost 65,597,233 8,918,789 (51,641) 74,464,381 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 97 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED) New Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are effective and adopted in the 2018 annual financial statements (continued) IFRS 9: Financial Instruments (continued) Reconciliation of statement of financial position balances from the IFRS 9 (2008)/IAS 39 to IFRS 9 (continued) IFRS 9 2018 carrying IFRS 9 carrying Company amount 31 December Reclassifications Remeasurement amount 1 January 2017 2018 Financial assets at amortised cost KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Cash and balances Opening balances as per IFRS 9 2008 22,898 22,898 Reclassification Remeasurement: ECL allowance Closing balances as per IFRS 9 22,898 22,898 Deposits with financial institutions Opening balances as per IFRS 9 2008 250,098 250,098 Reclassification Remeasurement: ECL allowance Closing balances as per IFRS 9 250,098 250,098 Other receivables Opening balances as per IFRS 9 2008 109,916 109,916 Reclassification Remeasurement: ECL allowance Closing balances as per IFRS 9 109,916 109,916 Total financial assets measured at 382,912 382,912 amortised cost Reconciliation of impairment allowance balance from IFRS 9 (2008) to IFRS 9 The following table reconciles the prior period’s closing impairment allowance measured in accordance with IAS 39 incurred loss model to the new impairment allowance measured in accordance with the IFRS 9 expected loss model at 1 January 2018: Group Impairment at Excepted Credit 31 December Reclassifications Remeasurement Loss at 1 January 2017 2018 Financial asset KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Cash and bank balances 919 919 Deposits with financial institutions 1,067 1,067 Receivables arising from direct insurance arrangement 675,813 48,603 724,416 Government securities at amortised cost 1,038 1,038 Corporate bonds and commercial paper 14 14 Total 675,813 51,641 727,454 98 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED) New Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are effective and adopted in the 2018 annual financial statements (continued) IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration This Interpretation applies to a foreign currency transaction (or part of it) when an entity recognises a non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration before the entity recognises the related asset, expense or income (or part of it). This Interpretation stipulates that the date of the transaction for the purpose of determining the exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset, expense or income (or part of it) is the date on which an entity initially recognises the non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration. This Interpretation does not apply to income taxes, insurance contracts and circumstances when an entity measures the related asset, expense or income on initial recognition: a) at fair value; or b) at the fair value of the consideration paid or received at a date other than the date of initial recognition of the non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from advance consideration (for example, the measurement of goodwill applying IFRS 3 Business Combinations). The amendments apply retrospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted. The adoption of these changes did not affect the amounts and disclosures of the Group and Company financial statements. Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions (Amendments to IFRS 2) The following clarifications and amendments are contained in the pronouncement: Accounting for cash-settled share-based payment transactions that include a performance condition Up until this point, IFRS 2 contained no guidance on how vesting conditions affect the fair value of liabilities for cash-settled share-based payments. IASB has now added guidance that introduces accounting requirements for cash-settled share-based payments that follows the same approach as used for equity-settled share-based payments. Classification of share-based payment transactions with net settlement features IASB has introduced an exception into IFRS 2 so that a share-based payment where the entity settles the share-based payment arrangement net is classified as equity-settled in its entirety provided the share-based payment would have been classified as equity-settled had it not included the net settlement feature. Accounting for modifications of share-based payment transactions from cash-settled to equity-settled Up until this point, IFRS 2 did not specifically address situations where a cash-settled share-based payment changes to an equity-settled share-based payment because of modifications of the terms and conditions. The IASB has introduced the following clarifications: IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration — On such modifications, the original liability recognised in respect of the cash-settled share-based payment is derecognised and the equity-settled share-based payment is recognised at the modification date fair value to the extent services have been rendered up to the modification date. — Any difference between the carrying amount of the liability as at the modification date and the amount recognised in equity at the same date would be recognised in profit and loss immediately. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Earlier application is permitted. The amendments are to be applied prospectively. However, retrospective application is allowed if this is possible without the use of hindsight. If an entity applies the amendments retrospectively, it must do so for all of the amendments described above. The Group and the Company do not have share based payments hence there amendment has no impact. Transfers of Investment property (Amendments to IAS 40) The IASB has amended the requirements in IAS 40 Investment property on when a company should transfer a property asset to, or from, investment property. The Group and the Company did not make any transfers and hence there amendment has no impact. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 99 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED) New and amended standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2018 A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2018, and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements. The Group does not plan to adopt these standards early. These are summarised below; New standards Effective for annual periods beginning on or after IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 IFRIC 23 Classification on accounting for income tax exposures 1 January 2019 IAS 28 Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2019 IFRS 17 Insurance contracts 1 January 2022 IFRS 9 Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation 1 January 2019 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Company (Amendments to To be determined IFRS 10 and IAS 28). Annual improvements cycle (2015 – 2017) 1 January 2019 IAS 19 Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement (Amendments to IAS 19) 1 January 2019 IFRS 3 Definition of balances 1 January 2020 Amendments to IAS 1& IAS 8 Definition of Material 1 January 2020 Amendments to references to conceptual framework in IFRS standards 1 January 2020 IFRS 16: Leases IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016 and replaces replaces IAS 17 Leases and its related interpretations for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. The Group as lessee: IFRS 16 introduces a ‘right of use’ model whereby the lessee recognises a right-of-use asset and an associated financial obligation to make lease payments for all leases with a term of more than12 months. The asset will be amortised over the lease term and the financial liability measured at amortised cost with interest recognised in profit and loss using the effective interest rate method. The Group as lessor: IFRS 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in IAS 17. Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify and account for its leases as operating leases or finance leases. The Group is in the process of assessing the impact of IFRS 16 and which transitional approach will be used. IFRIC 23 Clarification on accounting for Income tax exposures IFRIC 23 clarifies the accounting for income tax treatments that have yet to be accepted by tax authorities, whilst also aiming to enhance transparency. IFRIC 23 explains how to recognise and measure deferred and current income tax assets and liabilities where there is uncertainty over a tax treatment. An uncertain tax treatment is any tax treatment applied by an entity where there is uncertainty over whether that treatment will be accepted by the tax authority. If an entity concludes that it is probable that the tax authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment that has been taken or is expected to be taken on a tax return, it should determine its accounting for income taxes consistently with that tax treatment. If an entity concludes that it is not probable that the treatment will be accepted, it should reflect the effect of the uncertainty in its income tax accounting in the period in which that determination is made. Uncertainty is reflected in the overall measurement of tax and separate provision is not allowed. 100 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED) New and amended standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2018 (continued) IFRIC 23 Clarification on accounting for Income tax exposures (continued) The entity is required to measure the impact of the uncertainty using the method that best predicts the resolution of the uncertainty (that is, the entity should use either the most likely amount method or the expected value method when measuring an uncertainty). The entity will also need to provide disclosures, under existing disclosure requirements, about; a) judgments made; b) assumptions and other estimates used; and c) potential impact of uncertainties not reflected. Management is currently evaluating the impact of the new standard to the Group’s financial statements. IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts sets out the requirements that an entity should apply in reporting information about insurance contracts it issues and reinsurance contracts it holds. An entity shall apply IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts to: a) insurance contracts, including reinsurance contracts, it issues; b) reinsurance contracts it holds; and c) investment contracts with discretionary participation features it issues, provided the entity also issues insurance contracts. IFRS 17 requires an entity that issues insurance contracts to report them on the statement of financial position as the total of: a) the fulfilment cash flows-the current estimates of amounts that the entity expects to collect from premiums and pay out for claims, benefits and expenses, including an adjustment for the timing and risk of those amounts; and b) the contractual service margin-the expected profit for providing insurance coverage. The expected profit for providing insurance coverage is recognised in profit or loss over time as the insurance coverage is provided. IFRS 17 requires an entity to recognise profits as it delivers insurance services, rather than when it receives premiums, as well as to provide information about insurance contract profits that the Company expects to recognise in the future. IFRS 17 requires an entity to distinguish between groups of contracts expected to be profit making and groups of contracts expected to be loss making. Any expected losses arising from loss-making, or onerous, contracts are accounted for in profit or loss as soon as the Company determines that losses are expected. IFRS 17 requires the entity to update the fulfilment cash flows at each reporting date, using current estimates of the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows and of discount rates. The entity: a) accounts for changes to estimates of future cash flows from one reporting date to another either as an amount in profit or loss or as an adjustment to the expected profit for providing insurance coverage, depending on the type of change and the reason for it; and b) chooses where to present the effects of some changes in discount rates-either in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income. IFRS 17 also requires disclosures to enable users of financial statements to understand the amounts recognised in the entity’s statement of financial position and statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, and to assess the risks the Company faces from issuing insurance contracts. IFRS 17 replaces IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts. IFRS 17 is effective for financial periods commencing on or after 1 January 2022. An entity shall apply the standard retrospectively unless impracticable. A Company can choose to apply IFRS 17 before that date, but only if it also applies IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The adoption of these changes are expected to have a significant impact on the amounts and disclosures of the Group’s financial statements. Management is currently evaluating the impact upon adoption of the standard. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 101 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED) New and amended standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2018 (continued) Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation (Amendments to IFRS 9) The amendments clarify that financial assets containing prepayment features with negative compensation can now be measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) if they meet the other relevant requirements of IFRS 9. Management is currently evaluating the impact of the new standard to the Group’s financial statements. The amendments apply for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 with retrospective application, early adoption is permitted. Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures (Amendment to IAS 28) The amendments clarify that an entity applies IFRS 9 to long-term interests in an associate and joint venture that form part of the net investment in the associate or joint venture but to which the equity method is not applied. Management is currently evaluating the impact of the new standard to the Group’s financial statements. The amendments apply for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. Early adoption is permitted. Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Company (Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28) The amendments require the full gain to be recognised when assets transferred between an investor and its associate or Company meet the definition of a ‘business’ under IFRS 3 Business Combinations. Where the assets transferred do not meet the definition of a business, a partial gain to the extent of unrelated investors’ interests in the associate or Company is recognised. The definition of a business is key to determining the extent of the gain to be recognised. The effective date for these changes has now been postponed until the completion of a broader review. The adoption of these changes will not affect the amounts and disclosures of the Group and Company financial statements. Annual improvement cycle (2015 – 2017) – various standards Standards Amendments Clarifies how a Company accounts for increasing its interest in a joint operation that meets the definition of a business: IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IFRS – If a party maintains (or obtains) joint control, then the previously held interest is not remeasured. 11 Joint Arrangements – If a party obtains control, then the transaction is a business combination achieved in stages and the acquiring party remeasures the previously held interest at fair value. Clarifies that all income tax consequences of dividends (including payments on financial instruments classified IAS 12 Income taxes as equity) are recognised consistently with the transactions that generated the distributable profits – i.e. in profit or loss, OCI or equity. Clarifies that the general borrowings pool used to calculate eligible borrowing costs excludes only borrowings that specifically finance qualifying assets that are still under development or construction. Borrowings that were intended to specifically finance qualifying assets that are now ready for their intended use or sale – or IAS 23 Borrowing costs any non-qualifying assets – are included in that general pool. As the costs of retrospective application might outweigh the benefits, the changes are applied prospectively to borrowing costs incurred on or after the date an entity adopts the amendments. The amendments are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 with earlier application permitted. The adoption of these amendments is not expected to affect the amounts and disclosures of the Company’s financial statements. 102 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED) New and amended standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2018 (Continued) IAS 19 Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement (Amendments to IAS 19) The amendments clarify that: – on amendment, curtailment or settlement of a defined benefit plan, a Company now uses updated actuarial assumptions to determine its current service cost and net interest for the period; and – the effect of the asset ceiling is disregarded when calculating the gain or loss on any settlement of the plan and is dealt with separately in other comprehensive income (OCI). Consistent with the calculation of a gain or loss on a plan amendment, entities will now use updated actuarial assumptions to determine the current service cost and net interest for the period. Previously, entities would not have updated the calculation of these costs until the year-end. Further, if a defined benefit plan is settled, any asset ceiling would be disregarded when determining the plan assets as part of the calculation of gain or loss on settlement. The amendments apply for plan amendments, curtailments or settlements that occur on or after 1 January 2019, or the date on which the amendments are first applied. Earlier application is permitted. The adoption of this standard will not have an impact on the financial statements of the Group. IFRS 3 Definition of a Business With a broad business definition, determining whether a transaction results in an asset or a business acquisition has long been a challenging but important area of judgement. These amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations seek to clarify this matter as below however complexities still remain. – Optional concentration test The amendments include an election to use a concentration test. This is a simplified assessment that results in an asset acquisition if substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets. – Substantive process If an entity chooses not to apply the concentration test, or the test is failed, then the assessment focuses on the existence of a substantive process. The definition of a business is now narrower and could result in fewer business combinations being recognised. The amendment applies to businesses acquired in annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020. Earlier application is permitted. The adoption of this standard will not have an impact on the financial statements of the Group. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 103 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED) New and amended standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2018 (Continued) Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards This amendment sets out amendments to IFRS Standards (Standards), their accompanying documents and IFRS practice statements to reflect the issue of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) revised Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting in 2018 (2018 Conceptual Framework). Some Standards, their accompanying documents and IFRS practice statements contain references to, or quotations from, the IASC’s Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements adopted by the IASB in 2001 (Framework) or the Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting issued in 2010. Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards updates some of those references and quotations so that they refer to the 2018 Conceptual Framework, and makes other amendments to clarify which version of the Conceptual Framework is referred to in particular documents. These amendments are based on proposals in the Exposure Draft Updating References to the Conceptual Framework, published in 2015, and amend Standards, their accompanying documents and IFRS practice statements that will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020. TThe adoption of these changes will not affect the amounts and disclosures of the Group’s financial statements. IAS 1 and IAS 8 Definition of Material The amendment refines the definition of Material to make it easier to understand and aligning the definition across IFRS Standards and the Conceptual Framework. The amendment includes the concept of ‘obscuring’ to the definition, alongside the existing references to ‘omitting’ and ‘misstating’. Additionally, the amendments also adds the increased threshold of ‘could influence’ to ‘could reasonably be expected to influence’ as below. “Information is material if omitting, misstating or obscuring it could reasonably be expected to influence decisions that the primary users of general purpose financial statements make on the basis of those financial statements, which provide financial information about a specific reporting entity.” However, the amendment has also removed the definition of material omissions or misstatements from IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. The amendments are effective from 1 January 2020 but may be applied earlier. The Group is assessing the potential impact on its financial statements resulting from the application of the refined definition of materiality. 104 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.2. CONSOLIDATION a) Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control commences until the date on which control ceases. The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the Group recognizes any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. The excess of the consideration transferred the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value over any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognized directly in profit or loss. Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealized gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less impairment. Cost is adjusted to reflect changes in consideration arising from contingent consideration amendments. Cost also includes direct attributable costs of investment. b) Investment in Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence, but not control, or joint control over the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investments in associates include goodwill identified on acquisition net of all accumulated impaired losses. The Group’s share of its associates’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the profit or loss, and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in other comprehensive income. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment. When the Group’s share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the associates. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of associates have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. Dilution of gains and losses arising from investment in associates are recognised in the profit or loss. c) Foreign currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in Kenya Shillings, which is the Company’s functional and presentation currency. (i) Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency of the respective entity using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in profit or loss. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate when the fair value was determined. (ii) Consolidation of group entities The results and financial position of all the group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: • Assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position presented are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date • Income and expenses for each profit or loss are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions); and • All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component in other comprehensive income. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 105 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.2. CONSOLIDATION (CONTINUED) c) Foreign currency (Continued) On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are recognized in the statement of other comprehensive income and accumulated in shareholders’ equity (translation reserve). When a foreign operation is disposed of in its entirety or partially such that control or significant influence is lost, the cumulative amount in the translation reserve related to that foreign operation is reclassified to profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal. If the Group disposes of part of its investment in a subsidiary but retains control, then the relative proportion of the cumulative reserve is re attributed to NCI. When the Group disposes of only part of an associate while retaining significant influence, the relative proportion of the cumulative amount is reclassified to profit or loss. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. 38.3. SEGMENT INFORMATION An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenue and incur expenses including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components, whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the Group chief strategy & administration officer, to make decisions about resources allocated to each segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete information is available. Group costs are allocated to segments on a reasonable and consistent basis. Transactions between segments are generally accounted for in accordance with Group policies as if the segment were a stand-alone business with intra segment revenue and cost being eliminated in head office. The Chief Operating Decision Maker within the Group is the Jubilee Holdings Limited Board of Directors. The group results are analyzed across 9 operating segments based on a combination of geographical areas and products and services. There are five geographical segments: Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi and Mauritius within which there are three segments classified according to products and services: Short-term business, which includes General and Medical, Long-term business, which includes Individual Life, Group Life and Pension, and Investments. This is consistent with the way the Group manages the business. General insurance business of any class or classes not being long-term insurance business. Classes of short-term insurance include, Engineering insurance, Fire insurance domestic risks, Fire insurance industrial and commercial risks, Liability insurance, Marine insurance, Motor insurance private vehicles , Motor insurance commercial vehicles, Personal accident insurance, Theft insurance ,Workmen’s Compensation and Employer’s Liability insurance and Miscellaneous insurance (i.e. class of business not included under those listed above). Medical insurance means the business of affecting and carrying out contracts of insurance against costs of otherwise non-recoverable medical and surgical expenses necessarily and reasonably incurred by a member as a direct result of sustaining accidental bodily injury and/or illness and/or disease within the period of insurance subject to the policy provisions/ terms, exclusions and conditions. Medical and general have been aggregated as the Group does not hold the assets and liabilities separately. Ordinary & Group Life: Includes insurance business of all or any of the following classes, namely, life assurance business, superannuation business and business incidental to any such class of business; Life assurance business means the business of, or in relation to, the issuing of, or the undertaking of liability to pay money on death (not being death by accident or in specified sickness only) or on the happening of any contingency dependent on the termination or continuance of human life (either with or without provision for a benefit under a continuous disability insurance contract), and include a contract which is subject to the payment of premiums for term dependent on the termination or continuance of human life and any contract securing the grant of an annuity for a term dependent upon human life; Superannuation business means life assurance business, being business of, or in relation to, the issuing of or the undertaking of liability under superannuation, group life and permanent health insurance policy. The segments are individually considered by management when making decisions and they are the basis for resource allocation and performance measurement by the Board of Directors. There are no reconciling differences between the primary financial statements of the Group and the reported segmental information. The Group accounts for inter-segmental transactions as if the transactions were to third parties. Any outstanding amounts owing within the Group companies most of which constitutes dividends payable are included under group eliminations. Results of activities considered incidental to Jubilee Holdings main operations as well as unallocated revenues and expenses, liabilities and assets have been categorized under investments segment. There are no reconciling differences between the primary financial statements of the Group and the reported segmental information. The Group has a widely diversified policy holder base and is therefore not reliant on any individual major customers. 38.4. INSURANCE CONTRACTS a) Classification The Group issues contracts that transfer insurance risk or financial risk or both. Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer significant insurance risk. Such contracts may also transfer financial risk. As a general guideline, the Group defines as significant insurance risk, the possibility of having to pay benefits on the occurrence of an insured event that are at least 10% more than the benefits payable if the insured event did not occur. Investment contracts are those contracts that transfer financial risk with no significant insurance risk. See accounting policy for these contracts under 38.6. Insurance contracts and investment contracts are classified into two main categories, depending on the duration of risk and as per the provisions of the Insurance Act. 106 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.4. INSURANCE CONTRACTS (CONTINUED) a) Classification (continued) (i) Long-term insurance business Includes insurance business of all or any of the following classes, namely, life assurance business, superannuation business and business incidental to any such class of business; Life assurance business means the business of, or in relation to, the issuing of, or the undertaking of liability to pay money on death (not being death by accident or in specified sickness only) or on the happening of any contingency dependent on the termination or continuance of human life (either with or without provision for a benefit under a continuous disability insurance contract), and include a contract which is subject to the payment of premiums for term dependent on the termination or continuance of human life and any contract securing the grant of an annuity for a term dependent upon human life; Superannuation business means life assurance business, being business of, or in relation to, the issuing of or the undertaking of liability under superannuation, group life and permanent health insurance policy. (ii) Short-term insurance business Short-term insurance business means insurance business of any class or classes not being long term insurance business. Classes of General Insurance Include, Engineering insurance, Fire insurance domestic risks, Fire insurance industrial and commercial risks, Liability insurance, Marine insurance, Motor insurance private vehicles , Motor insurance commercial vehicles, Personal accident insurance, Theft insurance ,Workmen’s Compensation and Employer’s Liability insurance and Miscellaneous insurance (i.e. class of business not included under those listed above). Motor insurance business means the business of affecting and carrying out contracts of insurance against loss of, or damage to, or arising out of or in connection with the use of, motor vehicles, inclusive of third party risks but exclusive of transit risks. Personal Accident insurance business means the business of affecting and carrying out contracts of insurance against risks of the persons insured sustaining injury as the result of an accident or of an accident of a specified class or dying as the result of an accident or of an accident of a specified class or becoming incapacitated in consequence of disease or of disease of a specified class. Fire insurance business means the business of affecting and carrying out contracts of insurance, otherwise than incidental to some other class of insurance business against loss or damage to property due to fire, explosion, storm and other occurrences customarily included among the risks insured against in the fire insurance business. Medical insurance means the business of affecting and carrying out contracts of insurance against costs of otherwise non-recoverable medical and surgical expenses necessarily and reasonably incurred by a member as a direct result of sustaining accidental bodily injury and/or illness and/or disease within the period of insurance subject to the policy provisions/ terms, exclusions and conditions. Marine insurance business means the business of affecting and carrying out contracts of insurance against loss of consignment of goods during transit. Burglary insurance business relates to contracts of insurance against loss due to theft involving actual break in or break out. b) Recognition and measurement (i) Premium income For long term insurance business, premiums are recognized as revenue when they become payable by the contract holder. Premiums are shown before deduction of commission. For short-term insurance business, Premium income is recognized on assumption of risks, and includes estimates of premiums due but not yet received, less an allowance for cancellations, and less unearned premium. Unearned premiums represent the proportion of the premiums written in periods up to the accounting date that relates to the unexpired terms of policies in force at the reporting date. Whilst all other subsidiaries computed the reserve based on the 24ths method, The Jubilee Insurance Company of Kenya Limited revised the method of computing the unearned premiums to the 1/365th method with effect from 1 January 2014. Premiums are shown before deduction of commission and are gross of any taxes or duties levied on premiums. (ii) Claims and policy holders benefits payable For long term insurance business, benefits are recorded as an expense when they are incurred. Claims arising on maturing policies are recognized when the claim becomes due for payment. Death claims are accounted for on notification. Surrenders are accounted for on payment. A liability for contractual benefits that are expected to be incurred in the future is recorded when the premiums are recognized. The liability is determined as the sum of the expected discounted value of the benefit payments and the future administration expenses that are directly related to the contract, less the expected discounted value of the theoretical premiums that would be required to meet the benefits and administration expenses based on the valuation assumptions used (the valuation premiums). The liability is based on assumptions as to mortality, persistency, maintenance expenses and investment income that are established at the time the contract is issued. A margin for adverse deviations is included in the assumptions. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 107 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.5. INSURANCE CONTRACTS (CONTINUED) b) Recognition and measurement (continued) (ii) Claims and policy holders benefits payable (continued) Where insurance contracts have a single premium or a limited number of premium payments due over a significantly shorter period than the period during which benefits are provided, the excess of the premiums payable over the valuation premiums is deferred and recognized as income in line with the decrease of unexpired insurance risk of the contracts in-force or, for annuities in force, in line with the decrease of the amount of future benefits expected to be paid. The liabilities are recalculated at each reporting date using the assumptions established at inception of the contracts. For short-term insurance business, claims incurred comprise claims paid in the year and changes in the provision for outstanding claims. Claims paid represent all payments made during the year, whether arising from events during that or earlier years. Outstanding claims represent the estimated ultimate cost of settling all claims arising from incidents occurring prior to the reporting date, but not settled at that date. Outstanding claims are computed on the basis of the best information available at the time the records for the year are closed, and include provisions for claims incurred but not reported (“IBNR”). Outstanding claims are not discounted. (iii) Commissions and deferred acquisition costs (“DAC”) Commissions earned and payable are recognized in the period in which relevant premiums are written. A proportion of commission payable is deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premium is earned. Deferred acquisition costs represent a proportion of acquisition costs that relate to policies that are in force at the year end. (iv) Liability adequacy test At each reporting date, liability adequacy tests are performed to ensure the adequacy of the contract liabilities net of related DAC. In performing these tests, current best estimates of future contractual cash flows and claims handling and administration expenses, as well as investment income from the assets backing such liabilities, are used. Any deficiency is immediately charged to profit or loss initially by writing off DAC and by subsequently establishing a provision for losses arising from liability adequacy tests (the unexpired risk provision). As set out in Note 38.4(a) above, long-term insurance contracts are measured based on assumptions set out at the inception of the contract. When the liability adequacy test requires the adoption of new best estimate assumptions, such assumptions (without margins for adverse deviation) are used for the subsequent measurement of these liabilities. (v) Reinsurance contracts held Contracts entered into by the Group with reinsurers under which the Group is compensated for losses on one or more contracts issued by the Company and that meet the classification requirements for insurance contracts are classified as reinsurance contracts held. Contracts that do not meet these classification requirements are classified as financial assets. Insurance contracts entered into by the Group under which the contract holder is another insurer (inwards reinsurance) are included with insurance contracts. The benefits to which the Group is entitled under its reinsurance contracts held are recognized as reinsurance assets. These assets consist of short-term balances due from reinsurers, as well as longer term receivables that are dependent on the expected claims and benefits arising under the related reinsured insurance contracts. Amounts recoverable from or due to reinsurers are measured consistently with the amounts associated with the reinsured insurance contracts and in accordance with the terms of each reinsurance contract. Reinsurance liabilities are primarily premiums payable for reinsurance contracts and are recognized as an expense when due. The Group assesses its reinsurance assets for impairment on a quarterly basis. If there is objective evidence that the reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount of the reinsurance asset to its recoverable amount and recognizes that impairment loss in the profit or loss. The Group gathers the objective evidence that a reinsurance asset is impaired using the same process adopted for financial assets held at amortized cost. The impairment loss is also calculated following the same method used for these financial assets. (vi) Receivables and payables related to insurance contracts and investment contracts Receivables and payables are recognized when due. These include amounts due to and from agents, brokers and insurance contract holders. If there is objective evidence that the insurance receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount of the insurance receivable accordingly and recognizes that impairment loss in profit or loss. The Group gathers the objective evidence that an insurance receivable is impaired using the same process adopted for loans and receivables. The impairment loss is also calculated under the same method used for these financial assets. (vii) Salvage and subrogation reimbursements Some insurance contracts permit the Group to sell (usually damaged) property acquired in settling a claim (for example, salvage). The Group may also have the right to pursue third parties for payment of some or all costs (for example, subrogation). Estimates of salvage recoveries are included as an allowance in the measurement of the insurance liability for claims, and salvage property is recognized in other assets when the liability is settled. The allowance is the amount that can reasonably be recovered from the disposal of the property. Subrogation reimbursements are also considered as an allowance in the measurement of the insurance liability for claims and are recognized in other assets when the liability is settled. The allowance is the assessment of the amount that can be recovered from the action against the liable third party. 108 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.6. INVESTMENT CONTRACTS The Group issues investment contracts with fixed and guaranteed terms (fixed interest rate). The investment contracts include funds administered for a number of retirement benefit schemes. For investment contracts with fixed and guaranteed terms, the amortized cost basis is used. In this case, the liability is initially measured at its fair value less transaction costs that are incremental and directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the contract. Subsequent measurement of investment contracts at amortized cost uses the effective interest method. This method requires the determination of an interest rate (the effective interest rate) that exactly discounts to the net carrying amount of the financial liability, the estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period if the holder has the option to redeem the instrument earlier than maturity. The Group re-estimates at each reporting date the expected future cash flows and recalculates the carrying amount of the financial liability by computing the present value of estimated future cash flows using the financial liability’s original effective interest rate. Any adjustment is immediately recognized as income or expense in profit or loss. For investment contracts with discretionary participation in profits, the liability is set approximately equal to the value of the underlying asset of the contract. 38.7. REVENUE RECOGNITION (i) Insurance premium revenue The revenue recognition policy relating to insurance contracts is set out under note 38.4 (b) (i). (ii) Non interest income from financial investments The revenue recognition policy for non-interest income from financial investments is disclosed in note 38.11. (iii) Interest income and expenses Interest income and expense for all interest-bearing financial instruments, including financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss, are recognized within ‘investment income’ and ‘finance costs’ in the profit or loss using the effective interest rate method. (iv) Dividend income Dividend income for available-for-sale equities is recognized when the right to receive payment is established – this is the ex-dividend date for equity securities. (v) Rental income from investment properties Rental income is recognised in the period it is earned. (vi) Commission earned The revenue recognition policy on commission is disclosed in note 38.4 (b) (iii). 38.8. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT All categories of property and equipment are initially recorded at cost. Property and equipment are subsequently measured at historical cost less depreciation and impairment losses. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the financial period in which they are incurred. Depreciation on assets is calculated using the straight line method to write down their cost to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Computers 3 years Office equipment 4 years Motor vehicles 5 years Furniture, fixtures and fittings 10 years These rates have been applied consistently over the years. The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its estimated recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 109 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.8. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED) Gains and losses on disposal of property and equipment are determined by reference to their carrying amount and are included in profit or loss. 38.9. INVESTMENT PROPERTY Buildings, or part of a building, (freehold or held under a finance lease) and land (freehold or held under an operating lease) held for long term rental yields and/or capital appreciation are classified as investment property. Investment property is measured at cost on initial recognition and subsequently measured at fair value. Directors monitor the investment property market and economic conditions, including general and property inflation, on a regular basis to identify changes in market conditions that may lead to significant change in fair value. Changes in fair values are included in investment income in the profit or loss. On disposal of the investment property, the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount is charged or credited to the statement of profit or loss. 38.10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (i) Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary/associate at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in investments in associates. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Gains and losses on disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. Each of those cash-generating units represents the Group’s investment in each country of operation by each reporting segment. (ii) Computer software Acquired computer software licenses are capitalized on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software. These costs are amortized over their estimated useful lives (three to five years). Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programs are recognized as an expense as incurred. Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognized as intangible assets. Direct costs include the software development, employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads. Computer software development costs recognized as assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives (not exceeding three years). 38.11. FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The Group initially classified financial instruments in accordance with IFRS 9 (2008) which was early adopted in the year 2009. The classifications have been updated based on full adoption in 2018. All financial assets are recognized and derecognized on trade date when the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the timeframe established by the market concerned. Financial assets are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), which are initially measured at fair value. All recognized financial assets are subsequently measured in their entirety at either amortized cost or fair value. Fair values of quoted investments in active markets are based on quoted bid prices. Fair values for unquoted investments are estimated using valuation techniques. These include the use of recent arm’s length transactions, discounted cash flow analysis and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants. Classification of financial assets From 1 January 2018, the Group has applied IFRS 9 and classifies its financial assets in the following measurement categories: • those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either through OCI or through profit or loss), and • those to be measured at amortised cost. For assets measured at fair value, gains and losses will either be recorded in profit or loss or OCI. For investments in equity instruments that are not held for trading, this will depend on whether the Group has made an irrevocable election at the time of initial recognition to account for the equity investment at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI). Recognition and derecognition Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade-date, the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. 110 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.11. FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (CONTINUED) Measurement At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are expensed in profit or loss. Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered in their entirety when determining whether their cash flows are solely payment of principal and interest. Debt instruments at amortised cost and the effective interest method Debt instruments are those instruments that meet the definition of a financial liability from the issuer’s perspective, such as loans, government and corporate bonds. Classification and subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on: (i) the Group’s business model for managing the financial assets; and (ii) the cash flow characteristics of the asset. Based on these factors, the Group classifies its debt instruments into one of the following three measurement categories: • Amortised cost: Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost. Interest income from these financial assets is included in investment income using the effective interest rate method. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition is recognised directly in profit or loss and presented in other gains/ (losses). Impairment losses are presented as separate line item in the statement of profit or loss. • FVOCI: Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for selling the financial assets, where the assets’ cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest, are measured at FVOCI. Movements in the carrying amount are taken through OCI, except for the recognition of impairment gains or losses, interest income. Interest income from these financial assets is included in investment income using the effective interest rate method. Foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in other gains/ (losses) and impairment expenses are presented as separate line item in the statement of profit or loss. • FVPL: Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or FVOCI are measured at FVPL. A gain or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently measured at FVPL is recognised in profit or loss and presented net within other gains/ (losses) in the period in which it arises. Business model: the business model reflected how the Group manages the assets in order to generate cash flows i.e. whether the Group’s objective is solely to collect the contractual cash flows from the assets or is to collect both the contractual cash flows and cash flows arising from the sale of assets. If neither of these is applicable (e.g. financial assets held for trading purposes), then the financial assets are classified as part of ‘other’ business model and measured at FVTPL. Factors considered by the Group in determining the business model for a group of assets include past experience on how the cash flows for these assets were collected, how the asset’s performance is evaluated and reported to key management personnel and how risks are assessed and managed. SPPI: Where the business model is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows or to collect contractual cash flows and sell, the Group assesses whether the financial instruments’ cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest (‘SPPI test’). In making this assessment, the Group considers whether the contractual cash flows are consistent with a basic lending arrangement i.e. includes only consideration for the time value of money, credit risk, other basic lending risks and a profit margin that is consistent with a basic lending arrangement. Where the contractual terms introduce exposure to risk or volatility that are inconsistent with a basic lending arrangement, the related financial asset is classified and measured at fair value through profit or loss. The Group reclassifies debt investments when and only when its business model for managing those assets changes. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown as part of current liabilities on the statement of financial position. The reported cash and cash equivalents are amounts cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. Foreign denominated balances are measured using the foreign exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 111 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.11. FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (CONTINUED) Equity instruments The Group subsequently measures all equity investments at fair value. Where the Group’s management has elected to present fair value gains and losses on equity investments in OCI, there is no subsequent reclassification of fair value gains and losses to profit or loss following the derecognition of the investment. Dividends from such investments continue to be recognised in profit or loss as other income when the Group’s right to receive payments is established. Changes in the fair value of financial assets at FVPL are recognised in other gains/ (losses) in the statement of profit or loss as applicable. Impairment losses (and reversal of impairment losses) on equity investments measured at FVOCI are not reported separately from other changes in fair value. • Equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI); At initial recognition, the Group can make an irrevocable election (on an instrument-by-instrument basis) to designate investments in equity instruments as at FVTOCI. Designation at FVTOCI is not permitted if the equity investment is held for trading. A financial asset is held for trading if: • it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling it in the near term; or • on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Group manages together and has evidence of a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking; or Investments in equity instruments at FVTOCI are initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs. Subsequently, they are measured at fair value with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the fair value reserve. Where the asset is disposed of, the cumulative gain or loss previously accumulated in the fair value reserve is not reclassified to the statement of profit or loss, but is reclassified to retained earnings. Determination of fair value For financial instruments traded in active markets, the determination of fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities is based on the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. This includes listed equity securities and quoted debt instruments at the Nairobi Securities Exchange. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price. A financial instrument is regarded as quoted in an active market if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry, pricing service or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length basis. If the above criteria are not met, the market is regarded as being inactive. For example a market is inactive when there is a wide bid-offer spread or significant increase in the bid-offer spread or there are few recent transactions. For all other financial instruments, fair value is determined using valuation techniques. In these techniques, fair values are estimated from observable data in respect of similar financial instruments, using models to estimate the present value of expected future cash flows or other valuation techniques, using inputs existing at the dates of the statement of financial position. Fair values are categorised into three levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the degree to which the inputs to the measurement are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety: • Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. • Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). • Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are recognised by the Group at the end of the reporting period during which the change occurred. 112 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.11. FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (CONTINUED) Impairment From 1 January 2018, the Group assesses on a forward looking basis the expected credit losses associated with its debt instruments carried at amortised cost and FVOCI. The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk. Prior to 1 January 2018, the Group would assess at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (a ‘loss event’) and that loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated. Objective evidence that a financial asset or group of assets is impaired includes observable data that comes to the attention of the Group about the following events: Objective evidence that a financial asset or group of assets is impaired includes observable data that comes to the attention of the Group about the following events: • significant financial difficulty of the issuer or debtor; • a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in payments; • it becoming probable that the issuer or debtor will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation; • the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties; or • observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flow from a group of financial assets since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot yet be identified with the individual financial assets in the Group, including: An adverse changes in the payment status of issuers or debtors in the Group; or National or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the assets in the Group. IFRS 9 replaced the previous ‘incurred loss’ model in IAS 39 with a forward-looking ‘expected credit loss’ (“ECL”) model. The new impairment model applies to the following financial instruments that are not measured at FVTPL or FVTOCI: • Government securities measured at amortised cost • Receivables arising from direct insurance arrangements • Rent and other receivables; • Loan receivable • Corporate bonds and commercial paper; • Deposits with financial institutions; and • Cash and bank balances. No impairment loss is recognised on equity investments and financial assets measured at FVPL. The Group recognises loss allowance at an amount equal to either 12-month ECLs or lifetime ECLs. Lifetime ECLs are the ECLs that result from all possible default events over the expected life of a financial instrument, whereas 12-month ECLs are the portion of ECLs that result from default events that are possible within the 12 months after the reporting date. The Group will recognise loss allowances at an amount equal to lifetime ECLs, except in the following cases, for which the amount recognised will be 12-month ECLs: • Debt instruments that are determined to have low credit risk at the reporting date. The Group will consider a debt instrument to have low credit risk when its credit risk rating is equivalent to the globally understood definition of ‘investment-grade’ and investments in Government securities; and • Other financial instruments (other than trade and lease receivables) for which credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition. Loss allowances for premium and rent receivables will always be measured at an amount equal to lifetime ECLs. The impairment requirements of IFRS 9 require management judgement, estimates and assumptions, particularly in the following areas, which are discussed in detail below: • assessing whether the credit risk of an instrument has increased significantly since initial recognition; and • incorporating forward-looking information into the measurement of ECLs. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 113 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.11. FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (CONTINUED) Measurement of expected credit losses ECLs are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses and will be measured as follows: • financial assets that are not credit-impaired at the reporting date: the present value of all cash shortfalls – i.e. the difference between the cash flows due to the entity in accordance with the contract and the cash flows that the Group expects to receive; • financial assets that are credit-impaired at the reporting date: the difference between the gross carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows; An asset is credit-impaired if one or more events have occurred that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the asset. Expected credit losses Expected credit losses are computed as a product of the Probability of Default (PD), Loss Given Default (LGD) and the Exposure at Default (EAD). ECL = PD x LGD x EAD In applying the IFRS 9 impairment requirements, the Group follows one of the approaches below: • The general approach • The simplified approach The Group will apply the approaches below to each of its assets subject to impairment under IFRS 9: Financial Asset Impairment approach Loans receivable General Approach Receivables arising out of direct insurance arrangements Simplified Approach Lease and other receivables Simplified Approach Government securities at amortised cost General Approach Corporate bonds and commercial paper General Approach Deposits with financial institutions Simplified Approach Cash and bank balances Simplified Approach (i) The General Approach Under the general approach, at each reporting date, the Group determines whether the financial asset is in one of three stages in order to determine both the amount of ECL to recognise as well as how interest income should be recognised. • Stage 1 where credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition. For financial assets in stage 1, the Group will recognise 12 month ECL and recognise interest income on a gross basis – this means that interest will be calculated on the gross carrying amount of the financial asset before adjusting for ECL. • Stage 2 where credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition. When a financial asset transfers to stage 2, the Group will recognise lifetime ECL but interest income will continue to be recognised on a gross basis. • Stage 3 where the financial asset is credit impaired. This is effectively the point at which there has been an incurred loss event. For financial assets in stage 3, the Group will continue to recognise lifetime ECL but they will now recognise interest income on a net basis. As such, interest income will be calculated based on the gross carrying amount of the financial asset less ECL. The changes in the loss allowance balance are recognised in profit or loss as an impairment gain or loss. (ii) The Simplified approach Under the simplified approach, the Group measures the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses. 114 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.11. FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (CONTINUED) Expected Credit Loss (Continued) (ii) Simplified approach (Continued) Definition of default The Group will consider a financial asset to be in default when: • the counterparty or borrower is unlikely to pay their credit obligations to the Group in full, without recourse by the Group to actions such as realising security (if any is held); or • the counterparty or borrower is more than 90 days past due on any material credit obligation to the Group. This will be consistent with the rebuttable criteria set out by IFRS 9 and existing practice of the Group; or In assessing whether the counterparty or borrower is in default, the Group considers indicators that are: • Qualitative: e.g. Breach of covenant and other indicators of financial distress; • Quantitative: e.g. Overdue status and non-payment of another obligation of the same issuer to the Group; and • Based on data developed internally and obtained from external sources. Inputs into the assessment of whether a financial instrument is in default and their significance may vary over time to reflect changes in circumstances. Significant increase in credit risk (SIICR) When determining whether the credit risk (i.e. risk of default) on a financial instrument has increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group considers reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and available without undue cost or effort. This includes both quantitative and qualitative information and analysis based on the Group’s historical experience, expert credit assessment and forwardlooking information. The Group primarily identifies whether a significant increase in credit risk has occurred for an exposure by comparing: • The remaining lifetime probability of default (PD) as at the reporting date; with • The remaining lifetime PD for this point in time that was estimated on initial recognition of the exposure. The assessment of significant deterioration is key in establishing the point of switching between the requirement to measure an allowance based on 12-month expected credit losses and one that is based on lifetime expected credit losses. • The Group monitors the effectiveness of the criteria used to identify significant increases in credit risk by regular reviews to confirm that: • the criteria are capable of identifying significant increases in credit risk before an exposure is in default; • the criteria do not align with the point in time when an asset becomes 30 days past due; • the average time between the identification of a significant increase in credit risk and default appears reasonable; • exposures are not generally transferred from 12-month ECL measurement to credit-impaired; and • there is no unwarranted volatility in loss allowance from transfers between 12-month and lifetime ECL measurements. Incorporation of forward-looking information The Group incorporates forward-looking information into both its assessment of whether the credit risk of an instrument has increased significantly since initial recognition and its measurement of ECL. It formulates a ‘base case’ view of the future direction of relevant economic variables and a representative range of other possible forecast scenarios based on advice from the Group risk committee and economic experts and consideration of a variety of external actual and forecast information. This process involves developing two or more additional economic scenarios and considering the relative probabilities of each outcome. External information includes economic data and forecasts published by governmental bodies and monetary authorities in the countries where the Group operates, supranational organisations such as the Organisation for Economic Co¬operation and Development and the International Monetary Fund, and selected private-sector and academic forecasters. The base case represents a best estimate and is aligned with information used by the Group for other purposes, such as strategic planning and budgeting. The other scenarios represent more optimistic and more pessimistic outcomes. The Group also periodically carries out stresstesting of more extreme shocks to calibrate its determination of these other representative scenarios. The Group has identified and documented key drivers of credit risk and ECL for each portfolio of financial instruments and, using an analysis of historical data, has estimated relationships between macro-economic variables and credit risk and credit losses. The predicted relationships between the key indicators and the default and loss rates on various portfolios of financial assets have been developed by analysing historical data over the past 10 to 15 years. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 115 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.11. FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (CONTINUED) Measurement of ECL The key inputs into the measurement of ECL are the term structures of the following variables: • Probability of Default; • Loss given default (LGD); and • Exposure at default (EAD). To determine lifetime and 12-month PDs, the Group uses the PD tables supplied by Rating Agencies based on the default history of obligors with the same credit rating. The Group adopts the same approach for unrated investments by mapping its internal risk grades to the equivalent external credit ratings. The PDs are recalibrated based on current bond yields and CDS prices, and adjusted to reflect forward-looking information as described above. Changes in the rating for a counterparty or exposure lead to a change in the estimate of the associated PD. LGD is the magnitude of the likely loss if there is a default. The Group estimates LGD parameters based on the history of recovery rates of claims against defaulted counterparties. The LGD models consider the structure, collateral, seniority of the claim, counterparty industry and recovery costs of any collateral that is integral to the financial asset. For loans secured by retail property, loan-to-¬value ratios are a key parameter in determining LGD. LGD estimates are recalibrated for different economic scenarios. They are calculated on a discounted cash flow basis using the effective interest rate as the discounting factor. EAD represents the expected exposure in the event of a default. The Group derives the EAD from the current exposure to the counterparty and potential changes to the current amount allowed under the contract, including amortisation, and prepayments. The EAD of a financial asset is its gross carrying amount. As described above, and subject to using a maximum of a 12-month PD for financial assets for which credit risk has not significantly increased, the Group measures ECL considering the risk of default over the maximum contractual period (including any borrower’s extension options) over which it is exposed to credit risk, even if, for risk management purposes, the Group considers a longer period. Where modelling of a parameter is carried out on a collective basis, the financial instruments are grouped on the basis of shared risk characteristics, which include: • instrument type; • credit risk grading; • collateral type; • date of initial recognition; • remaining term to maturity; industry; and • geographic location of the borrower. The groupings are subject to regular review to ensure that exposures within a particular group remain appropriately homogeneous. When ECL are measured using parameters based on collective modelling, a significant input into the measurement of ECL is the external benchmark information that the Group uses to derive the default rates of its portfolios. This includes the PDs provided in the [Rating Agency N] default study and the LGDs provided in the [Rating Agency ll] recovery studies. Operating lease receivables The ECL of operating lease receivables are determined at country level using a provision matrix. Loss rates are calculated with reference to days past due and actual credit loss experience over the past five years and are multiplied by scalar factors to incorporate forward-looking information. Modification of contracts The Group rarely renegotiates or otherwise modifies the contractual cash flows of securities. When this happens, the Group assesses whether or not the new terms are substantially different to the original terms. The Group does this by considering, among others, the following factors: • If the counterparty is in financial difficulty • Whether any substantial new terms are introduced that affect the risk profile of the instrument • Significant extension of the contract term when the borrower is not in financial difficulty • Significant change in interest rate • Change in the currency the security is denominated in • Inclusion of collateral, other security or credit enhancements that significantly affect the credit risk associated with the loan 116 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.11. FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (CONTINUED) Modification of contracts (Continued) If the terms are substantially different, the Group derecognises the original financial asset and recognised a ‘new’ asset at fair value and recalculates a new EIR for the asset. The date of renegotiation is consequently considered the date of initial recognition for impairment calculation purposes, including the purpose of determining whether a SICR has occurred. If the terms are not substantially different, the renegotiation or modification does not result in derecognition, and the Group recalculates the gross carrying amount based on the revised cash flows of the financial asset and recognises a modification gain or loss in profit or loss. The new gross carrying amount is recalculated by discounting the modified cash flows at the original EIR. Write off policy The Group writes off financial assets, in whole or in part when it has exhausted all practical recovery effort and has concluded that there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Indicators that there is no reasonable expectation of recovery include (i) ceasing enforcement activity; and (ii) the Group is foreclosing on collateral and the value of the collateral is such as there is no reasonable expectation of recovering in full. The Group may write-off financial assets that are still subject to enforcement activity. There were no write offs such assets during the year ended 31 December 2018. (2017 – nil). The Group still seeks to recover amounts it is legally owed in full, but which have been partially written off due to no reasonable expectation of full recovery Accounting policies applied until 31 December 2017 The Group has applied IFRS 9 retrospectively, but has elected not to restate comparative information. As a result, the comparative information provided continues to be accounted for in accordance with the Group’s previous accounting policy. The classification depended on the purpose for which the investments were acquired. Management determined the classification of its investments at initial recognition and, in the case of assets classified as held-to-maturity, re-evaluated this designation at the end of each reporting period. Subsequent measurement The measurement at initial recognition did not change on adoption of IFRS 9, see description above. Subsequent to the initial recognition, loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments were carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at FVPL were subsequently carried at fair value. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value were recognised as follows: • for financial assets at FVPL – in profit or loss within other gains/(losses). • for available-for-sale financial assets that are monetary securities denominated in a foreign currency – translation differences related to changes in the amortised cost of the security were recognised in profit or loss and other changes in the carrying amount were recognised in other comprehensive income. • for other monetary and non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale – in other comprehensive income. When securities classified as available-for-sale were sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in other comprehensive income were reclassified to profit or loss as gains and losses from investment securities. Impairment The Group assessed at the end of each reporting period whether there was objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets was impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets was impaired and impairment losses were incurred only if there was objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (a ‘loss event’) and that loss event (or events) had an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that could be reliably estimated. In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost was considered an indicator that the assets are impaired. De-recognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognizes a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognizes its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognize the financial asset. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 117 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.11. FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (CONTINUED) Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities which includes creditors arising out of reinsurance arrangements and direct insurance arrangement, borrowings and other payable, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognized on an effective yield basis. Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position only when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Renegotiated loans Loans that are either subject to collective impairment assessment or individually significant and whose terms have been renegotiated are no longer considered to be past due but are treated as new loans. In subsequent years, the renegotiated terms apply in determining whether the asset is considered to be past due 38.12. ACCOUNTING FOR LEASES Leases of property and equipment where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalized at the inception of the lease at the lower of their fair value and the estimated present value of the underlying lease payments. Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in non-current liabilities. The interest element of the finance charge is charged to profit or loss over the lease period. Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or the estimated useful life of the asset. Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. 38.13. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held with banks, other short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. 38.14. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (i) Short-term benefits Short-term employee benefits are expensed as the related service is provided. A liability is recognized for the amount expected to be paid if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably. (ii) Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates defined contribution retirement benefit scheme for its employees. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. The assets of all schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds, which are funded by contributions from both the Group and employees. The Group and all its employees also contribute to the appropriate Social Security Fund, which are defined contribution schemes. The Group’s contributions to the defined contribution schemes are charged to profit or loss in the year to which they relate. (iii) Other entitlements The estimated monetary liability for employees’ accrued annual leave entitlement at the reporting date is recognized as an expense accrual. 38.15. INCOME TAX EXPENSE Income tax expense is the aggregate of the charge to profit or loss in respect of current income tax and deferred income tax. Current income tax is the amount of income tax payable on the taxable profit for the year determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation and any adjustment to tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years. It is measured using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Current tax also includes any tax arising from dividends. Deferred income tax is provided in full on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying values for financial reporting purposes. However, if the deferred income tax arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit nor loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax liability is settled. 118 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.15. INCOME TAX EXPENSE (CONTINUED) Deferred income tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilized. Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The measurement of deferred tax reflects the tax consequences that would flow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the reporting date, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. For this purpose, the carrying amount of investment property measured at fair value is presumed to be recovered through sale. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only if certain criteria are met. 38.16 .DIVIDENDS Dividends payable to the Group’s shareholders are charged to equity in the period in which they are declared. Proposed dividends are shown as a separate component of equity until declared. 38.17. SHARE CAPITAL Shares are classified as equity when there is no obligation to transfer cash or other assets. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of equity instruments are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax. 38.18. COMPARATIVES Where necessary, comparative figures have been adjusted or extended to conform to changes in presentation in the current year. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 119 Supplementary information GROUP REVIEW—FIFTEEN YEARS 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 KShs million Shareholders’ Funds 26,184 23,552 19,946 19,098 15,439 12,431 8,020 6,154 5,114 3,389 2,871 3,606 3,393 2,370 2,094 Share Capital 362 362 329 329 299 299 299 272 248 225 225 225 180 180 180 Long-Term Business 67,243 59,426 48,827 42,337 38,652 28,743 23,476 18,802 14,637 11,495 11,730 9,333 6,504 5,115 4,081 Funds Total Assets 114,168 104,968 90,568 82,378 74,506 61,159 47,418 38,040 30,691 23,736 20,203 17,942 15,356 11,591 9,724 Profit Before Tax 5,410 5,161 4,563 4,145 3,949 3,151 2,693 2,144 2,053 1,116 901 810 665 471 359 Profit Attributable to 3,806 3,932 3,297 2,814 2,880 2,255 2,115 1,802 1,756 825 636 617 528 348 241 Shareholders Profit Attributable to Non 371 298 379 307 224 248 169 108 83 89 77 46 32 47 36 Controlling interest Dividends to 652 652 560 560 509 419 419 299 272 203 191 191 153 144 90 Shareholders Dividend Cover Ratio 5.84 6.03 5.89 5.03 5.66 5.38 5.05 6.02 6.45 4.07 3.33 3.23 3.45 2.42 2.68 Bonus Issue 0:00 0:00 1:10 0:00 1:10 0:00 0:00 1:10 1:10 1:10 0:00 1:04 0:00 0:00 0:00 *Earnings Per Share (KShs) (par value 52.52 54.26 45.49 38.83 39.73 31.12 29.18 24.86 24.23 11.38 8.78 8.51 7.29 4.80 3.33 KShs 5) * Earnings per share has been calculated on 72,473 million shares for all the years. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 120 121 WINNERS OF Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 29 AWARDS Supplementary information AND YOUR AKI GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY OF THE YEAR TRUST! AKI COMPANY OF THE YEAR AWARDS AWARD AKI AGENT OF THE YEAR 2019 KENYA General Insurance Company of the Year Winner Life Insurance Company of the Year 2nd Runners Up CIO 100 EA AWARD 2018 KENYA Insurance Category Winner REAL ESTATE EXCELLENCE AWARD 2018 KENYA Plate Glass Insurer of the Year Winner AKI AGENT OF THE YEAR FIRE AWARDS (INSURANCE) AWARD FIRE AWARDS 2018 KENYA Insurance Category Jubilee Holdings 1st Runners Up AGENT CHOICE AWARD 2018 – KENYA Training Excellence &Impact Winner Best Claim Settlement Winner Risk Management & Solutions Winner Best Counter Fraud Initiative Winner Best Corporate Social Responsibility Winner Innovative Company of the Year -Winner Customer Champion 1st Runners Up CIO 100 AWARD Best Product 1st Runners Up DIGITAL INCLUSION AWARD DIGITAL INCLUSION AWARDS 2018 KENYA Insurance Category Winner THINK BUSINESS AWARDS 2018 KENYA Most Innovative Insurance Company Winner The Training Award Winner Claims Settlement Award Life Insurance Winner General Insurer of the Year -1st Runners Up Claim Settlement Award General insurance -1st Runners Up Medical Underwriter of the Year Group -1st Runners Up Medical Underwriter of the Year Personal 1st Runners Up Best Company in Sustainable CSR 1st Runners Up AGENTS CHOICE AWARD Life Insurer of the Year 2nd Runners Up THINK BUSINESS AWARD Best Insurance in Product Distribution and Marketing 2nd Runners Up AFRICAN INSURANCE AWARDS 2018 KENYA Insurance Innovation of the year 2018 Winner CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AWARDS UGANDA 2018 Insurance Companies Winner AKI AGENT AWARDS AAYA 2018 KENYA Most Improved Company Individual Life Winner Company of the Year 1st Runners Up AFRICAN ASSURANCE AWARD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AWARD Living free is... giving hope through music At Jubilee Insurance we believe that everyone should have access to economic opportunities, medical care, education and creative disciplines. Jubilee Insurance is a proud sponsor of Ghetto Classics, the flagship programme of the Art of Music Foundation. This community programme involves over 300 children in Korogocho – one of Kenya’s largest slums – and over 600 more underprivileged children countrywide. The children are taught life skills through the discipline of studying music and also provided with income generating opportunities. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MAASAI MARA CONSERVATION TRUST KENYA Over the next 5 year KShs. 15 million has been committed to the Maasai Wilderness Conservation Trust in Kajiado to support their efforts In: Conservation of Tsavo West By purchasing a specialized motorcycle to assist the conservancy warders in effective patrols to minimize humanwildlife conflict in the areas. Offering university bursaries to 48 bright needy students from the community from various universities. Providing health services to the community by training a member of the community to be a nurse and purchase of an ultrasound machine for the community health center. BREAST CANCER AWARENESS KENYA Jubilee Insurance Kenya Team led by GCEO Dr. Julius Kipng’etich visited the Cancer Pediatric Ward at Kenyatta National Hospital to deliver donations and give support to children affected by cancer as part of the “Live Free!” agenda. The visit was meant to cheer-up the children battling with cancer, create awareness and encourage our staff to get screened for various forms of cancer. 124 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CONTINUED) EAR OPERATION BREAKING THE SILENCE KENYA So far, we have managed to conduct 113 successful ear surgeries both in Nairobi and outside with a total of 148 since the inception of the project in 2017. Mama Lucy Hospital : 10, Kisumu Surgical Camp : 27, Machakos Surgical Camp : 30, Nanyuki Surgical Camp : 30, Kisii Surgical Camp : 16 WORLD WATER DAY KENYA In pursuit of environmental conservation, Jubilee Insurance Kenya participated in a tree planting exercise in Mwingi West Constituency in partnership with Kenya Organization for Environmental Education in commemoration of World Water Day “Leaving no one behind”. Over 500 tree seedlings were planted with another 2,000 seedlings distributed among the 19 participating schools to be planted in their respective Grounds. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 125 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Living free is... the freedom to see At Jubilee Insurance we understand that everyone should have access to economic opportunities, medical care, education and creative disciplines. We believe in transforming the lives of every beneficiary of our CSR projects and ensuring that we impact their lives wholesomely, one life at a time. 126 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CONTINUED) EYE PROJECT FREEDOM TO FOCUS KENYA In partnership with Kenya Society for the Blind, since 2017 Jubilee Insurance has been a proud sponsor of the Eye Project. To date the project has provided important eye treatment to more than 1,500 beneficiaries and provided spectacles to more than 250 public primary pupils. BEYOND ZERO CAMPAIGN KENYA Jubilee Insurance through the “Maisha Fiti” wellness program donated KShs.3m for mobilization of medical resources and provision of GPA covers for the over 27,000 participants, officials and volunteers during the marathon. The initiative is in line with our core business agenda to increase access to, and uptake of, health insurance. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 127 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CONTINUED) LIVE FREE PAINTING COMPETITION KENYA So far the Live Free Painting Competition has awarded 33 students with full Secondary school education scholarship. The 25 national winners underwent a mentorship training in abstract thinking through art and were exposed to real works of art at the GoDown Art Center and Nairobi Primary School. PATIENT VISIT TANZANIA In October 2018, as part of giving back to the society, the Jubilee insurance team devoted a few days away from work to spend time with patients in different hospitals in Dar es Salaam, where they provided patients with words of encouragements and hope. 128 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CONTINUED) renovation OF cloakroom, classroom and teacher’s houseS TANZANIA Mbeya Itiji primary school cloak room (before) Cloak room (after) Mwembesongo primary school renovations (before) Renovations (after) Mlimwa”B” primary school toilet construction (before/after) Jang’ombe primary school class renovation (before/after) Madenga primary school toilet construction (before/after) Katerero primary school teachers houses (before/after) Seven key schools were identified for renovations in Tanzania during the 80th Year anniversary. Renovations were completed in 2018. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 129 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CONTINUED) KIDS OF AFRICA MARATHON UGANDA Our Uganda Team joined the Kids of Africa, in a fun run by sponsoring Ugsh. 10 million for the marathon. The funds will go towards the construction of modern sanitation facilities for the kids in public schools in Bugiri Village, Kisubi Ward, Katabi Town Council and Wakiso District. BLOOD DONATION DRIVE UGANDA The Jubilee Life Insurance Uganda Team partnered with EICA (East Indian Cultural Association) and Uganda Blood Transfusion Services to power a blood donation drive in December 2018. Over 120 units of blood were donated on the day. 130 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CONTINUED) BREAST CANCER AWARENESS UGANDA The Jubilee Insurance Uganda Team took part in the Breast Cancer Awareness month campaign to carry out sensitization, screening, provide support and educate the victims/survivors at the Uganda Cancer Institute. ASANTE AFRICA YOUTH LEADERSHIP AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP INCUBATOR PROGRAM EAST AFRICA Jubilee Insurance Kenya donated promotional items for the Asante Africa Foundation – Youth Leadership and Entrepreneurship Incubator Program that took place in Arusha Tanzania. The more than 100 youth from the four East African countries represented were empowered with tools on job readiness, entrepreneurship skills and personal development to become change agents whose dreams and actions transform the future of their communities and countries. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 131 ADVERTISEMENTS JUBILEE INSURANCE INTRODUCES MAISHA FITI, THE NEXT FRONTIER IN HEALTH INSURANCE WITH A RANGE OF CARE AND LIFESTYLE MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS. Wellness · Lifestyle · Nurturing PROGRAMS INCLUDE: • LOYALTY REWARDS PROGRAM • MUM’S CLUB • SENIORS WELLNESS PROGRAM • LIFESTYLE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM For more information call: 0709949000 | Email: wellness@jubileekenya.com Web: www.jubileeinsurance.com | Facebook: /jubileeinsurance 132 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 ADVERTISEMENTS (CONTINUED) ACCIDENTS HAPPEN ANYWHERE LIVING A JUBILEE INSURANCE PERSONAL ACCIDENT COVER WILL LIFT YOU UP FREE IS... ACHIEVING YOUR DREAM CALL US TODAY: 0792 666 838 Call us today: 0792 666 838 GENERAL • PENSION • MEDICAL • LIFE www.jubileeinsurance.com THE FUTURE CFO HELP THEM ACHIEVE THEIR POTENTIAL. INVEST IN A JUBILEE LIFE INSURANCE EDUCATION PLAN Call us for free on: 0800 783030 www.jubileeinsurance.com Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 133 Living free is... creating memories At Jubilee Insurance we believe that everyone should have access to affordable, high quality healthcare. We were therefore very proud to be a key sponsor of the Beyond Zero half marathon in March 2019. Launched in January 2014 by Her Excellency Margaret Kenyatta, The First Lady of the Republic of Kenya. Beyond Zero is a charitable organisation with a mission to ensure that all Kenyan mothers deliver safely, and that their children are born healthy, remain healthy and are HIV free. 134 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 NOTES Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 135 NOTES 136 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 REGIONAL GROUP OFFICES AND BRANCHES KENYA MBALE P.O Box 20524, Dar Es Salaam Plot 2 ,Bugisu Cooperative Union Building, Room no. 206, T: +255 22 2110176/80 HEAD OFFICE 2nd Floor, Republic Street, Mbale E: life@jubileetanzania.com Jubilee Insurance House, Wabera St. T: +256 454 431 234 P.O. Box 30376 00100 GPO, Nairobi, Kenya M: +256 773 350 778 BRANCHES T: +254 020 328 1000 E: jicug@jubileeuganda.com QUALITY CENTER BRANCHES PARK ROYAL RETAIL OFFICE Dar Es Salaam, Ground 2 West Shop No G13c Plot 69, Park Royal,2nd Floor, Buganda Road. Quality Centre Shopping Mall, Nyerere Road BUNGOMA M: + 256 776 220 234 T: +255 22 2862124 HIBHO Plaza, 1st Floor, Moi Avenue E: jicug@jubileeuganda.com E:jicqc@jubileetanzania.com T: +254 709 901 515 UGANDA LIFE MWANZA ELDORET Nyanza Co-operative Union Building, Kenyatta Road Imperial Court Eldoret 1st Floor, Nairobi/ Uganda Highway HEAD OFFICE P.O. Box10456 Mwanza, T: +254 709 901 510 14, Parliament Avenue T: +255 28 2541655/+255 25 2500299 East Upper Podium Floor, Jubilee Insurance Center E: jicmwz@jubileetanzania.com KISII P.O. Box 7122, Kampala New Sansora Building 1st Floor, Town Centre Hospital Road T: 0312 178 800 MBEYA T: +254 058 203 1645 E: lifeug@jubileeuganda.com NBC (1997) Ltd Building, Ground Floor, Karume Avenue P.O. Box 2182, Mbeya KISUMU AGENCY OFFICE T: +255 25 2503172 Jubilee Insurance House, Oginga Odinga Road, 3rd Floor E: jicmby@jubileetanzania.com P.O. Box 378 Kisumu, KAMPALA WEST T: 0709901700 Plot 26, Park Royal Building, Room A4, 4th Floor ZANZIBAR Buganda Road ZSTC Investment Building, Ground Floor, Malawi Road THIKA T: 0392 175 438 P.O. Box 2344 Zanzibar Maisha Heights 3rd Floor, Thika Town T: +255 24 2239243 T: 0709901729 / 0702957979 JINJA E: jicznz@jubileetanzania.com Plot 28-30 ,City Hotel Building, Ground Floor, Clive Road MERU T: 0393 000 021 MOROGORO Alexander House, 2nd Floor, Meru Town Moi Avenue Hood Property Building, 1st Floor, Ngoto Street T: +254 064 643 0722 ARUA P.O. Box 190, Morogoro +254 709 901 525 Plot 16-22, KKT Plaza Building, Block A, Room A6, T: +255 23 2613966 2nd Floor, Duka Road E: jicmor@jubileetanzania.com MOMBASA T: 0393 000 207 Jubilee Insurance Building, 3rd Floor, Moi Avenue, ARUSHA P.O. Box 90220 80100, Mombasa MBALE NSSF Mafao House, 2nd Floor, Old Moshi Road T: 0709901600 Plot 30, Generous Towers 1st Floor, Kumi Road P.O. Box 1836, ARUSHA T: 0393 000 022 T: +255 27 2520131 MOMBASA ROAD E: jicars@jubileetanzania.com Tulip House Ground Floor T: +254 071 554 5419 / Finance: +254 071 554 5444 MBARARA DODOMA Plot 3B, New Kasaka Building, 1st Floor, Stanley Road ACT Building, Ground floor, Corner of Hatibu St /7th Road NAKURU T: 0393 000 023 P.O. Box 11027, DODOMA Tower One, Moi Road T: +255 26 2320166 T: +254 051 221 1119/ 0702 958 897 ENTEBBE E: jicdom@jubileetanzania.com Plot 90 First Floor, Entebbe-Kampala Road, NYERI T: 0392 178 039 TEGETA, Sohan Plaza, 3rd Floor, Moi Nyayo Way Kibo Commercial Complex Block E 1st Floor, T: +254 798 449 360 GULU Old Bagamoyo Road Plot 20 Gulu City Mall building Room ,13, 2nd floor, T: +255 22 2926303 WESTLANDS Gulu Avenue E: jictgt@tanzania.com Fuji House, 6th Floor wing B, Westlands T: 0392 178 048 T: +254 709 901 520 MAURITIUS HOIMA UGANDA GENERAL Plot 33 Messiah Towers 1st Floor, Hoima – Kampala Road HEAD OFFICE T: 0392 178 050 One Cathedral Square, Mezzanine Floor, HEAD OFFICE Pope Hennessy Street, Port Louis MASAKA T: 00230 202-2200 Jubilee Insurance Company of Uganda Limited Plot 19, Kwewayo Building ,Room 9,1st Floor, E: info@jubileemauritius.com Plot 14, Jubilee Insurance Center 1st Floor, Parliament Avenue Edward Avenue P.O. Box 10234 Kampala T: 0393 000 206 BRANCHES T: +256414311701 E: lifeug@jubileeuganda.com KAMPALA EAST QUATRE BORNES Ntinda Complex, Block B Ground Floor, Stretcher road Ground floor, France Centre, St Jean Road, Quatre Bornes AGENCY OFFICES T: 0393 178 800 T: 00230 202-2200 MBARARA TANZANIA BEAU BASSIN BRANCH Plot 4, Nakumatt Building, Room No. 28, 2nd Floor, Mbarara 178, Royal Road, Beau Bassin T: +256 485 420 116 TANZANIA GENERAL HEAD OFFICE T: 00230 454-5700 M: +256 750 867 297 Jubilee Insurance Company of Tanzania Limited. E: jicug@jubileeuganda.com Amani Place, 6th Floor, Ohio Street BURUNDI P.O Box 20524, Dar es Salaam T: +255 22 2135121-4 HEAD OFFICE JINJA F: +255 22 2135116 Jubilee Insurance Company of Burundi Plot 82, Arcade 82, Room No.3, 1st Floor, Main Street Arcade, E: enquiry@jubileetanzania.com 8 Chaussée Prince Louis Rwagasore, Jinja Immeuble Jubilee Centre, T: +256 434 122 369 TANZANIA LIFE HEAD OFFICE 2290 Bujumbura, Burundi, M: +256 750 867 390 Jubilee Life Insurance Company of Tanzania Limited. T: +257 22 27 58 20/1/2, E: jicug@jubileeuganda.com Amani Place, 9th Floor, Ohio Street E:jicb@jubileeburundi.com www.jubileeinsurance.com
