2018 Global Citizenship Report Citizenship at Citi Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices A What’s Inside “We consistently assess Citi’s role in response to three questions: What are we doing to help create inclusive and resilient communities? How can we use our voice to help drive dialogue toward solutions? Is Citi walking the talk — are we doing the right things within our own firm? The short answer to all three Citizenship at Citi of these questions continues to be the same: pg. 5 Letter from Our CEO that we can and should do more.” pg. 7 Citi at a Glance — Michael L. Corbat, CEO pg. 9 Citizenship Approach Solutions for Impact pg. 23 Inclusive and Resilient Communities pg. 45 Environmental Finance 1 How We Do Business pg. 59 Environmental and Social Risk Management pg. 67 Human Rights pg. 75 Operations and Supply Chain pg. 91 Digital Innovation pg. 101 Talent and Diversity pg. 121 Ethics and Culture ABOUT THIS REPORT This report illustrates how we bring our mission to life through our business; it covers our corporate citizenship activities and performance for 2018. Our reporting focuses on the issues we determined to be of greatest importance through a materiality assessment completed in 2017. This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. We also used the United Nations (UN) Global Compact and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights frameworks to guide our reporting. (See related indexes.) Appendices We have embedded the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into relevant sections of the report. Additionally, we include an index that indicates where pg. 133 Sustainable Progress report content is specifically aligned to the recommendations of the G20 Financial Strategy Scorecard Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. Finally, this pg. 135 GRI Content Index report supplements information published in our 2018 Annual Report. pg. 151 Task Force on Climate-related All reporting and performance data are limited to information for the owned and Financial Disclosures Index operated facilities of Citigroup Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless stated otherwise. pg. 153 United Nations Global Additional information about Citi can be found on our website. For more informaCompact Index tion on Citi’s citizenship initiatives, please visit citi.com/citizenship or contact: pg. 155 United Nations Guiding Global Public Affairs Principles Reporting Citigroup Inc. Framework Index 388 Greenwich Street pg. 160 Assurance New York, NY 10013 citizenship@citi.com 2 Citizenship at Citi IN THIS SECTION pg. 5 Letter from Our CEO pg. 7 Citi at a Glance pg. 9 Citizenship Approach 3 FPO photo 4 CITIZENSHIP AT CITI Letter from Our CEO • Letter from Our CEO Citi at a Glance One of the questions I’m most frequently asked is: One profound implication of the widening income Citizenship Approach “What keeps you up at night?” divide is evident in our polarized politics. In so many places around the world, political discourse — though I have a short list of items I put into this category, never all that civil in tone — has devolved into little some specific to Citi and others that extend beyond more than a series of “I’m right and you’re wrong” our firm. The widening income gap in the U.S. and shouting matches. Compromise is seen as a sign globally has ranked high on that list for many years, of weakness, or worse, disloyalty. Not surprisingly, and has risen even higher in recent years as we see talking over and past each other hasn’t led to much new consequences of this fundamental division play effective action being taken to address the root out all around us. challenges we face as a society. 5 I worry greatly about this dynamic, and believe there We were the first firm to disclose our unadjusted pay is an opportunity for Citi and others in the private gaps between women and men globally, and between sector to lead a more constructive dialogue and work minorities and non-minorities in the U.S. toward solutions. With that in mind, we consistently assess Citi’s role in response to three questions: • What are we doing to help create inclusive and resilient communities? At Citi, we have • How can we use our voice to help drive dialogue toward solutions? learned that there are • Is Citi walking the talk — are we doing the right times when we need things within our own firm? to take a stand when The short answer to all three of these questions continues to be the same: that we can and should our values and mission do more. Our mission of enabling growth and economic progress will never be complete, but are on the line. year after year, my colleagues and our firm keep pushing ourselves in the right direction. Internally, we have taken steps to mirror many of the changes we need to make as a society. We have also taken the UN Sustainable Development Goals as guideposts and inspirations to continue to do In this report, you will find no shortage of big chalmore — as much as we can. We believe we have a role lenges — local, national, regional and global — to play across all 17 goals, but can drive the greatest described in daunting detail. You will also find impact on seven: Gender Equality; Affordable and specific examples of the creative solutions my Citi Clean Energy; Decent Work and Economic Growth; colleagues are continuously conceiving with our Industry Innovation and Infrastructure; Sustainable clients and communities to address them. Those Cities and Communities; Climate Action and last but challenges range from climate change, to the urgent not least, Partnerships for the Goals. need for exponentially more infrastructure investment globally, to an affordable housing crisis in the The last goal, #17 related to partnerships, is at the U.S. that has widened even further a gap that disproheart of everything we do. We know no one person, portionately affects low-income people and families company, nation, or community can do enough and communities of color. That gap is a primary alone. That’s why, when we bring others to the table contributor to the economic inequality I cited above to work with us and start a dialogue, we start to that pervades our society and our politics. achieve an important goal of our own: leadership. At Citi, we have learned that there are times when we need to take a stand when our values and mission are on the line. We were the first bank to announce a Commercial Firearms Policy in the U.S. that promotes responsible business practices at the point of sale. Michael L. Corbat, CEO 6 CITIZENSHIP AT CITI Citi at a Glance Letter from Our CEO Responsibly provide Serve as a Create • financial services trusted partner economic value Citi at a Glance Citizenship Approach Supporting clients in more than Digital and mobile at the core of a 160 countries and jurisdictions simpler, better client experience Diverse workforce of 204,000 to More than 200 years serve our customers and clients of experience Institutional Global Consumer Clients Group Banking Largest proprietary global network Serving over 110 million customers with a client base of 13,000 and a presence in 98 countries A digital leader in credit cards, retail Facilitates ~$4 trillion of transaction banking and wealth management across flows daily 19 markets Serves more than 90% of global Growing Commercial Bank that serves Fortune 500 companies midsized clients with cross-border needs Citizenship Approach Executing a business Reporting transparently ! Taking a stand on model that adds and learning through ? issues that matter value to society dialogue and driving solutions Maintaining a focus on ethical Catalyzing innovation through decision-making and responsible strategic philanthropy business practices and employee engagement 7 Citi’s Value Proposition A Mission of Enabling Growth and Progress What You Can Expect from Us and What We Expect from Ourselves Citi’s mission is to serve as a trusted partner to our communities around the world. We provide financing clients by responsibly providing financial services and support to governments at all levels, so they can that enable growth and economic progress. Our core build sustainable infrastructure, such as housing, activities are safeguarding assets, lending money, transportation, schools and other vital public works. making payments and accessing the capital markets on behalf of our clients. We have 200 years of expeThese capabilities create an obligation to act responsirience helping our clients meet the world’s toughest bly, do everything possible to create the best outcomes, challenges and embrace its greatest opportunities. and prudently manage risk. If we fall short, we will take We are Citi, the global bank — an institution connectdecisive action and learn from our experience. ing millions of people across hundreds of countries and cities. We strive to earn and maintain the public’s trust by constantly adhering to the highest ethical standards. We protect people’s savings and help them make the We ask our colleagues to ensure that their decisions purchases — from everyday transactions to buying pass three tests: they are in our clients’ interests, a home — that improve the quality of their lives. We create economic value, and are always systemically advise people on how to invest for future needs, responsible. When we do these things well, we make such as their children’s education and their own a positive financial and social impact in the commuretirement, and help them buy securities such as nities we serve and show what a global bank can do. stocks and bonds. We work with companies to optimize their daily operations, whether they need working capital, to make payroll or to export their goods overseas. By lending to companies large and small, we help them grow, creating jobs and real economic value at home and in 8 CITIZENSHIP AT CITI Citizenship Approach Letter from Our CEO Through our corporate citizenship efforts, we aim to be engaged community problem solvers working to address some of society’s Citi at a Glance greatest challenges, an imperative stated in our mission and an • idea that shapes our decisions every day. In this report, we share Citizenship Approach many individual stories of progress — how as a bank, employer and philanthropist, Citi catalyzes sustainable growth — with a focus not on short-term fixes but on broader systemic changes. We align many of these efforts with the UN Maintaining a Focus on Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Climate Agreement, and our commitment to engagement, Ethical Decision-Making and innovation and market-based solutions is unwavering. Responsible Business Practices When we fall short, we learn from the experience; and when we can bring others to the table, we view this Ethical business practices are central to the success as leadership. On the following pages, we outline how of the entire financial services sector. We place we put this approach into action. significant emphasis on understanding, improving and fully integrating ethical and responsible practices in everything we do. Executing a Business Model That Adds Value to Society The Ethics and Culture section provides more detail on how we do this — both our successes and where we see need for continued attention and improveCiti’s opportunity to scale solutions and increase ment. This will continue to be the foundation of all impact is driven by the products and services we our citizenship efforts at Citi. bring to market. Our core businesses, and the financial innovation that is inspired by our drive to serve clients and solve society’s greatest challenges, ! Taking a Stand on Issues That are fundamental to our mission to enable growth and progress. Our relationships with our clients ? Matter and Driving Solutions are instrumental, but when we can, we take steps on our own. From investing directly in community Companies are increasingly expected to leverage land trusts across the U.S. to preserve housing their corporate voices to benefit society. Like many affordability for communities that need it, to issuing of our corporate peers, we have chosen to take our first green bond in early 2019, we continue to a stand on issues that matter to our employees, challenge ourselves in how we can enable growth clients, investors and communities. For example, and progress. we have issued statements indicating our continued commitment to the Paris Agreement, our support of Despite our progress to date, we know that we have a immigrants from around the world in the workforce great deal more work to do, which we note throughand in our communities, the importance of pay out this report as part of our management of our equity, and our commitment to tolerance and racial material citizenship issues. and ethnic inclusion. Speaking out, however, is often just the first step. Where we can, we actively work to 9 be part of the solutions to very complex and pressing Catalyzing Innovation Through issues such as global warming and social inequality. We also were the first financial institution to enact a Strategic Philanthropy U.S. Commercial Firearms Policy, which is centered and Employee Engagement around current firearms sales best practices. Through our engagement efforts with a wide range Citi and the Citi Foundation support a variety of of stakeholders, as well as through our business-led philanthropic causes and, wherever possible, develop solutions and our philanthropic activities, we aim to partnerships with community organizations that make a positive and meaningful contribution to the allow us to catalyze change through innovative problems at hand. and efficient solutions. In 2018, the Citi Foundation provided $78 million in grants that increase financial inclusion, promote job opportunities for youth and Reporting Transparently and reimagine approaches to building economically Learning Through Dialogue vibrant cities. Through Citi businesses around the world, Citi provided $76 million in charitable giving To successfully meet the expectations of our staketo causes that align with our mission of enabling holders, especially as the scope and pace of disclogrowth and progress. sure evolves, we need to both communicate what we We increase our impact in the community by encourare doing and engage in dialogue to understand what aging our colleagues to lend their time and talent more can be done. We are committed to improving toward volunteer activities that complement our not only our reporting efforts but also the way in giving. Our signature effort, Global Community Day, which we engage stakeholders in all of our activities. engaged more than 100,000 volunteers, including By doing so, we increase our involvement in creating Citi colleagues, alumni, clients, friends and families, solutions to some of the world’s most complex and in events across 90 countries. pressing challenges. We highlight examples of Citi and Citi Foundation This report contains a snapshot of our efforts to philanthropy throughout this report and provide more increase transparency and knowledge building, and detail on how we engage our employees in volunteer we supplement our annual reporting with articles, activities in the Talent and Diversity section. reports, surveys, convenings and other relevant perspectives throughout the year. < Recognition for Our Corporate Citizenship Efforts In 2018, Citi was named the World’s Best Bank for Corporate Responsibility by Euromoney and the Most Innovative Investment Bank for Corporate Social Responsibility by The Banker. These awards are great recognition for our ongoing efforts to support the communities in which we live and work. “Through its internal policies, its public statements on key global issues and the use of its capital and philanthropic dollars to shore up the financial industry and local economies in which it operates, Citi has consistently demonstrated its commitment to work alongside communities and support their growth.” — Euromoney magazine 10 Citi’s Support for and managing the potential impacts on the global economy and financial system, the G20 Financial Global Climate-Related CITIZENSHIP Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related AT CITI Financial Disclosures (TCFD) released recommendaDisclosures tions for voluntary climate disclosures in June 2017. Letter from Our CEO Citi was an early supporter of the TCFD recommendations, and our CEO signed a statement of support Citi at a Glance for them along with leaders from more than 100 other companies. • Citizenship Following the launch of the TCFD recommendations, Approach Citi collaborated with 15 other leading banks and the UN Environment Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) on a banking-sector pilot project to implement the recommendations related to climate scenario analysis, including a 2°C or lower scenario. Scenario analysis is a way to test the potential business impacts of future events, such as varying degrees of global warming, based on assumptions regarding policies, technologies, demand and other macroeconomic factors. Considering a variety of climate scenarios allows companies to better assess and plan for the full range of potential risks and opportunities associated with the anticipated impacts of a changing climate. The pilot project focused on the two main categories of climate-related risks and opportunities: risks associated with the transition to a low-carbon economy (referred to as “transition risks”), such as policy and technology changes that drive shifts in demand and prices; and physical risks that companies face due to Climate change is one of the most critical issues changes in the climate, such as chronic changes in of our time. As detailed in the Intergovernmental precipitation and temperatures, rising sea levels and Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) special report more frequent and severe extreme weather events. Global Warming of 1.5°C, the impacts and costs of climate change are already affecting many industries The pilot group leveraged the expertise of Oliver and regions globally and are expected to further Wyman, a global management consultancy, as well as increase as the world continues to warm. These dire the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research findings were echoed in the Fourth National Climate (PIK) and the International Institute for Applied Assessment, published by the U.S. Global Change Systems Analysis, to develop a methodology and tool Research Program. The assessment found that no to assess potential transition risks and opportunities region of the U.S. will be spared from the costly and obtain climate scenario data. We considered impacts of climate change, which, if we remain on our 1.5°C and 2°C scenarios, which are aligned with current warming trajectory, could potentially cost the ambitions of the Paris Agreement and in which the U.S. economy upward of $500 billion per year transition risks are expected to be prevalent. by the end of the century in crop damage, lost labor Participants in the UNEP FI pilot published their work and productivity, disruptions to trade and extreme on assessing transition risks and opportunities in a weather damages, while also threatening human report titled Extending Our Horizons in April 2018. health and the well-being of coastal communities. UNEP FI released a second report, Navigating a New In recognition of the importance of understanding the Climate, which focuses on assessing physical climate risks and opportunities associated with climate change risks and opportunities, in July 2018. Developed in 11 Summary of Citi’s TCFD Banking-Sector Pilot Results Transition Risk Scenario* Key Assumptions Impacts — 2030 to 2040** 2°C Carbon Price: Utilities (U.S.) 2030: $68 • Regulated low-carbon utilities: no change to 1 notch 2040: $111 downgrade • Use of fossil fuels continues throughout the century but at a declining rate as • Regulated heavy-carbon utilities: 1–2 notch downgrade they are replaced by renewables • Unregulated low-carbon utilities: 1–2 notch downgrade • Carbon capture and storage is commer• Unregulated heavy-carbon utilities: 2–3 notch downgrade cial after 2030 • Electricity prices increase as growing Oil & Gas Exploration & Production electric vehicle adoption and electrifica(U.S. and Canada) tion of transport increases demand • Offshore: no change • In the short term, oil and gas serve as • Shale and non-conventional: no change substitutes as the world transitions from coal, and oil remains an important trans• Conventional: no change port fuel as transport demand grows 1.5°C Same Assumptions, but Higher Oil & Gas Exploration & Production Carbon Price: (U.S. and Canada) 2030: $117 • Offshore: 1–2 notch downgrade 2040: $190 • Shale and non-conventional: 1–2 notch downgrade • Conventional: no change Physical Risk Scenario Impacts — 2040 2°C Utilities • Production declines 9.5–15.1% with an average decline of 11% by 2040, driven primarily by incremental (chronic) climate change • Half of companies have 1 notch downgrade due to productivity decline 4°C Utilities • Production declines 10.7–15.1% with an average decline of 13.2% by 2040, driven primarily by incremental (chronic) climate change • Half of companies have 1 notch downgrade due to productivity decline * Citi used the assumptions and outputs of the “REMIND CD-LINKS” scenarios developed by PIK. ** Ratings refer to Citi’s internal credit ratings. consultation with Acclimatise, a UK-based advisory In addition to contributing to both UNEP FI reports, and analytics company specializing in climate change Citi piloted the methodologies and tools developed adaptation and risk management, the physical risk in the pilot project on parts of our lending portfomethodology considers how the physical impacts lios where climate risks are expected to be most from incremental climate change and extreme material. We tested the transition risk methodology weather events may affect key credit risk metrics. on our U.S. utilities and U.S. and Canada oil and Because physical climate risks increase as global gas exploration and production portfolios using the temperatures rise, the 2°C scenario and a businessassumptions and outputs of the “REMIND CD-LINKS” as-usual scenario of 4°C were used to analyze the scenarios developed by PIK. We piloted the physical potential physical risks. risk methodology on our U.S. utilities portfolio 12 using data from scientific studies of climate and Our participation in the UNEP FI pilot and our potential climate impacts under a 2°C scenario that resulting TCFD report are an important part of CITIZENSHIP corresponded to IPCC Representative Concentration Citi’s commitment to transparency and to strategic AT CITI Pathway (RCP) 2.6 and a 4°C scenario corresponding management of our risks and opportunities. We also to IPCC RCP 8.5. Following our climate scenario continue to highlight relevant climate disclosures Letter from Our CEO analyses, we published the results in our first TCFD in this report and include an index where related report, Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future. content can be found throughout the report. The Citi at a Glance pilot project is just the beginning of our journey The pilot provided us with valuable experience to incorporate climate analysis into our strategy and a better understanding of how climate change and reporting and to deepen our understanding • Citizenship can potentially impact key portfolios while raising of climate-related risks and opportunities. We are Approach a number of difficult challenges associated with looking to build upon the efforts of our first climate conducting climate scenario analysis. We highlighted scenario analysis and climate disclosure report our findings and the challenges we faced, along with and are evaluating different approaches to further ideas for how the analysis can be improved, in our assess how global warming will affect our business. TCFD report. We are engaging a range of stakeholders, including investors, to determine the best path forward as we Overall, our pilot scenario analyses found that the further implement the TCFD recommendations. climate risks to our clients may vary depending on their cost structure and ability to pass on costs to In addition to our TCFD efforts for our lending porttheir customers. The risks to Citi associated with folio, we are also working to implement the TCFD our lending portfolios, however, will be limited and recommendations at Afore Citibanamex, Mexico’s manageable in 2030 and 2040, given the relatively second-largest pension fund, which manages retireshort tenor of our loans (3–5 years) and our ability ment assets for more than 11 million employees to restructure loans when they come due, compared in Mexico. We take the financial well-being of our with the longer time frame of climate impacts. But clients very seriously and, as responsible fiduciaries based on the scenarios and scenario assumptions that invest for the long term, incorporating environwe used, expected impacts will likely become more mental, social and governance (ESG) factors into our severe over time as carbon prices increase and fossil investment process is fundamental. Climate risks are fuel use decreases under climate transition scenarios not yet well understood, but are already impacting and as physical risks intensify due to increased emiscompanies in many sectors and even the fiscal health sions and warming over the century. The IPCC report of governments. These risks can also potentially warned that the world is warming much faster than threaten future returns, which our clients rely on previously expected, making it ever more imperative for a secure financial future. To deepen our underto take action today, while there is still time to limit the standing of climate risks, we have joined the UNEP FI warming trend and counter its effects. Investor Pilot Project to implement the TCFD recommendations and are in the process of analyzing how Addressing global warming and managing climate transition and physical risks may impact the comparisks is both smart and beneficial for the economy. nies and investments in our investment portfolio. To Not only will it prevent unnecessary harm in the encourage the transition to a low-carbon economy, future, it also creates profitable opportunities for we plan to engage portfolio companies about climate businesses in numerous sectors. In this Global action and will also assess other actions we can take Citizenship Report, we outline how we manage to improve the resiliency of our portfolio. climate-related opportunities and mitigate climate risk through our business. We also address our efforts to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to minimize our environmental impacts and enhance The TCFD Index highlights where related the resilience of our operations. These activities are content can be found throughout this report. built upon strong governance for climate change, with oversight from both the Board and senior management. 13 Citi and the Sustainable where information is relevant to action on the SDGs. While our work and the content of this report Development Goals cover many SDGs, we have identified seven goals on which we can have the greatest impact. Given our global footprint and our role in financing Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions (Citi GPS), our economies around the world, Citi has an important premiere thought leadership product designed to help role to play in helping to finance the UN Sustainable navigate the economy’s most demanding challenges, Development Goals (SDGs) and the estimated $5 triluses the SDGs among other global reference points 1 lion to $7 trillion annual global development need. to inform strategic insight on topics such as singleThe SDGs are a core part of the UN’s 2030 Agenda use plastics and the transition to more responsible for Sustainable Development. production and consumption of plastics and other packaging materials. We also released a report in Since 2016, Citi has been reporting on how our 2018 that aimed to simplify the SDGs and identify activities relate to the SDGs, including in our annual the incremental financial costs and opportunities of Global Citizenship Report and in a standalone report achieving the individual goals and the human benefit published in 2017. Throughout this 2018 Global that might be gained by solving them. Citizenship Report, we have made an effort to indicate 5 Gender Equality PAGES 38 | 85 | 96 | 103 7 Affordable and Clean Energy PAGE 47 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth These 17 interrelated PAGES 38 | 41 | 70 | 83 | 96 goals represent an ambitious 9 Industry, Innovation agenda to achieve a sustainable and Infrastructure PAGES 27 | 30 | 38 | 96 future by 2030. Citi has a role to play in all 17, yet our business 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities most directly impacts the seven PAGES 30 | 32 | 47 highlighted here. 13 Climate Action PAGE 47 17 Partnerships for the Goals PAGE 24 1 United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, World Investment Report 2014: Investing in the SDGs — An Action Plan (April 2014), page xi, http://unctad.org/en/PublicationsLibrary/wir2014_en.pdf. 14 Citizenship Governance Additionally, the Chair of the Board is a nonexecutive independent director. The standing at Citi CITIZENSHIP committees of our Board of Directors are: AT CITI • Audit • Operations and Letter from Good governance is a fundamental principle at Citi, Technology Our CEO • Ethics and Culture and we work to ensure that we are at the leading • Personnel and • Executive edge of best practices. We strive to maintain the Compensation Citi at a Glance highest standards of ethical conduct: Reporting • Nomination, Governance • Risk Management results with accuracy and transparency and mainand Public Affairs • taining full compliance with the laws, rules and Citizenship Approach regulations that govern Citi’s businesses. All Board committees play a role in providing oversight of our efforts to ensure responsible business practices. For example, the Personnel and Corporate Governance Compensation Committee reviews all compensation Our governance structures, policies and processes programs, including incentive compensation, so serve employee, client and community needs and that they do not, among other things, encourage promote a culture of accountability and ethical conduct imprudent risk taking. The Nomination, Governance across our firm. Information about Citi’s corporate and Public Affairs Committee oversees Citi’s global governance is publicly available on our website. citizenship and sustainability activities and performance. Our Ethics and Culture Committee reflects Our Board of Directors aims to have at least our commitment to promote a strong culture of two-thirds of its members as independent directors. ethical conduct. To review the responsibilities of Currently, 87 percent of the Board is independent. each of the committees of our Board of Directors, see our Board charters. Citizenship Governance Citi Board of Directors Committees Audit Ethics and Executive Nomination, Operations Personnel Risk Committee Culture Committee Governance and and Management Committee and Public Technology Compensation Committee Affairs Committee Committee Committee Corporate Citizenship Environmental and and Sustainability Social Advisory Council Material Citizenship Issues Addressed Addressing For additional Talent Diversity/ Climate material Human Rights Ethics Attraction/ Equal Change Risk/ issues, see Development Opportunity Opportunity page 17 15 Citizenship and Sustainability Governance from Banking, Risk, Public Affairs, Operations, Corporate Sustainability, and Environmental and As noted previously, the Nomination, Governance Social Risk Management (ESRM). Council meetings and Public Affairs Committee of the Board of are held approximately three times annually. Citi’s Directors oversees our citizenship activities. This ESRM Policy is managed by the ESRM team, which committee’s responsibilities include reviewing our works closely with ESRM specialists in the busipolicies and programs for sustainability, climate ness and with regional ESRM Champions. Within change, human rights and other material citizenship Operations and Technology, our Corporate Realty issues, as well as advising on engagement with Services and Enterprise Supply Chain teams each external stakeholders. For more information on the have specialized sustainability groups that manage roles and responsibilities of the committee, downour environmental footprint and green building load the Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs goals and oversee supply chain sustainability. These Committee charter. specialized teams sit within their respective business units, ensuring ownership of sustainability goals At the senior executive level, corporate citizenship throughout the company. at Citi is led by the Head of Corporate Citizenship and President of the Citi Foundation, who provides progress reports to the Nomination, Governance and Ethics and Business Practices Public Affairs Committee at least annually on issues, trends and results pertaining to some of the compaEthics and responsible business practices are among ny’s most important citizenship and sustainability the most material citizenship issues for Citi and our issues. She also collaborates with a range of senior stakeholders. The Ethics and Culture Committee of leaders to enable the development and implementathe Board oversees management's efforts to foster tion of goals and programs that generate a positive a culture of ethics within the company and receives impact on society. regular reports from senior management on the progress of those efforts. To learn more about the Citi’s Corporate Sustainability team, which reports to responsibilities of the committee, download the Ethics the Head of Corporate Citizenship, works in partnerand Culture Committee charter. You can also learn ship with our businesses to lead and implement our more about efforts to encourage a culture of ethics in ambitious Sustainable Progress Strategy globally, as the Ethics and Culture section of this report. well as our efforts to ensure that the human rights of our employees, suppliers and those affected by the Among its responsibilities, the Risk Management projects we finance are respected. Citi has an Committee reviews Citi’s risk appetite framework, Environmental and Social Advisory Council that including reputational risk appetite, and reviews and provides guidance on environmental and social approves key risk policies, including those focused on issues related to global business activities, including environmental and social risk. To learn more about advising on the Sustainable Progress Strategy. the responsibilities of this committee, download the The council is chaired by senior executives in our Risk Management Committee charter. Institutional Clients Group and includes executives 16 Our Material Issues: quantitative survey of more than 200 global external stakeholders and over 500 Citi managing directors. Citi in a Global Context CITIZENSHIP It also included a review of the environmental, social AT CITI and governance (ESG) attributes used by rating and ranking agencies and a focus on how these issues Letter from We conduct periodic and comprehensive materiOur CEO will play out between now and 2030. ality assessments to identify our most relevant (or “material”) reporting topics from a corporate A key insight underscored by our materiality process Citi at a Glance citizenship perspective — which is a broader standard is the interconnectedness among material issues, than those used in our financial disclosures. These such as acting in our clients’ best interests, systemic • citizenship topics, which we refer to as “material risk, climate change and talent attraction and Citizenship Approach issues” throughout this report, help inform which development. Our core business must address these issues we communicate here, which issues we issues holistically, and our citizenship approach must consider raising to our Board, and how we establish enable the business to address the risks and opporour citizenship priorities. Our most recent materitunities presented by the material issues. ality assessment was completed in late 2017. That assessment included feedback through an online GRI 102-43, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 Citi’s Material Issues Addressing Data Climate Change Transparency Security/ Ethics Risk/Opportunity Privacy Products/ Financial Acting in Services with Human Systemic IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Inclusion/ Clients’ Environmental/ Rights Risk Access Best Interest Social Benefit Health/ Environmental Corporate Employee Customer Well-Being of Footprint Governance Risk Behavior Satisfaction Employees Responsible Partnerships Talent Diversity/ Innovation/ Supply Chain/ with Civil Society/ Attraction/ Equal Digitization Operations Government Development Opportunity Preparing Youth for Strategic Regulatory the Future Philanthropy Reform Economy INFLUENCE ON BUSINESS SUCCESS 17 Stakeholder our citizenship approach. This analysis happens across various functions; the Citizenship and Sustainability Engagement at Citi teams, Public Affairs, Government Affairs, Investor Relations, Human Resources, Corporate Governance and other teams across the business review their One of the most important ways we fulfill our stakeholder partnerships regularly, as does the Citi mission to be a trusted partner to our clients is by Foundation. For example, the Citizenship team works engaging with a wide array of stakeholders to gain closely with Diversity, Recruiting and other units to their input and insights and share our expertise and look at partnerships across functions that relate to perspectives. Our 2017 materiality assessment was Citi’s diversity priorities. an important step in identifying and addressing the most relevant issues, but we undertake many more For more information on our recent stakeholder forms of stakeholder engagement throughout the engagement efforts, please see the table on the year across our business. next page. Annually, we review our relationships to identify any GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44 gaps and to consider potential new partners that would be valuable stakeholders for the company and inform Citi Affinity group senior executive co-leads hosting a town hall. 18 Stakeholder Engagement CITIZENSHIP AT CITI Stakeholder Group How We Engage Examples from 2018 Letter from Investors • Group calls and meetings (quar• Completed dialogue sessions focused on ESG, Our CEO terly earnings calls, investor including sustainability and human capital manageconferences and Citi-hosted group ment, with institutional investors representing over meetings) 31 percent of Citi's outstanding common stock Citi at a Glance • One-on-one meetings to discuss • Citi senior executives presented at a number of financial performance and ESG industry conferences for investors and peers • issues Citizenship • Members of the Board and senior management Approach • Communications through conducted meetings and calls with investors for Investor Relations and Corporate input on a variety of governance and compensaGovernance teams tion matters Government • In-person meetings, conference • Citi’s CEO participated in 56 meetings with regulacalls, lobbying activities, industry tors, central bankers and government officials from and Regulators associations, public policy forums, the U.S. and other countries, in addition to regular press conferences, conferences bank supervisory meetings and convenings • Participated on the Consumer Financial Protection • Membership on government Bureau’s Advisory Board councils and committees • Hosted forums with mayors around the world to discuss development, inclusion and climate change issues • Participated in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s conference exploring progress and challenges in reforming culture and behavior in the financial services industry Suppliers • In-person meetings, calls, confer• Co-hosted events with NGOs and industry orgaences and workshops nizations and participated on panels to provide educational content to diverse suppliers • Corporate Responsibility Questionnaire to help assess • Hosted multiple events to create opportunities management of ESG issues to engage with diverse suppliers, including the Supplier Expo, the Chief Procurement Officer Summit and the National Minority Supplier Development Council's Corporate Plus Summit Community Leaders • In-person meetings, calls, confer• Served on the Board of the UN Global Compact’s ence calls, emails, social media U.S. Network and Nongovernmental and events Organizations (NGOs) • Served as co-chair of UNEP FI's Global Steering • Specialized websites, including Committee for the Citi Foundation and Citi • Engaged community leaders and NGOs at Citi Community Development Foundation events, including Pathways to Progress, • Collaboration with NGOs on issues Community Progress Makers and Financing relevant to their organizations and Sustainable Cities Initiative gatherings our business 19 Stakeholder Group How We Engage Examples from 2018 Employees • Company intranet, email, mail and • 100,000 employees, friends and families particiin-person meetings pated in Citi’s annual day of service events held in more than 450 cities across 90 countries • Voice of the Employee surveys • Approximately 23,000 employees participated in • Employee Networks, volunteer more than 170 Employee Network chapters, and councils and Green Teams more than 1,800 participated in 21 Green Teams • Community events globally • In-person and online training • More than 194,000 employees completed compli• Performance reviews ance training, including on anti-money laundering, sanctions and anti-bribery topics • Citi Blog • Featured stories on Citi’s intranet and in blogs from Citi senior executives, employees and partners highlighting how we enable growth and progress • Established the Global Sustainability Network, made up of employees from across Citi whose work connects with sustainability and who contribute to Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy Clients and Customers • Meetings to share Citi’s environ• Engaged Citi mobile customers in a co-creation mental and social performance effort to identify digital banking challenges that and to understand our clients’ our mobile app could potentially help solve approach to managing environ• Citi’s CEO held an average of 40 client meetings mental and social risks per month in cities around the world • Social media, including Customer Service Twitter handle (@AskCiti) • Customer satisfaction surveys • Citi Blog Other Financial • Working groups • Worked on implementing the Financial Stability Board’s TCFD recommendations with UNEP FI and Institutions • Joint projects 15 other banks • In-person meetings, • Member of the Equator Principles Association since conference calls 2004, along with 91 other financial institutions in • Industry groups, roundtables, 37 countries workshops and events • Founding member of the Diversity Project North America, a National Investment Company Service Association initiative to promote diversity in the asset management industry • One of 30 financial institutions to sign the Mansion House Declaration as part of United for Wildlife’s Financial Taskforce to tackle wildlife crimes • Member of the Banking Standards Board in the UK, supporting its independent role to help rebuild trust and confidence across the UK banking industry 20 Solutions for Impact IN THIS SECTION pg. 23 Inclusive and Resilient Communities pg. 45 Environmental Finance 21 FPO photo 22 Inclusive and SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT • Resilient Communities Inclusive Citi and the Citi Foundation take action to effect positive and and Resilient Communities meaningful change in our communities, often working in tandem Environmental to increase our overall impact. From our focus on infrastructure to Finance affordable housing, from jobs to financial inclusion, we are helping to build more inclusive and resilient communities. Catalyzing Inclusive and Resilient Communities Citi and the Citi Foundation focus our efforts in six primary areas, with the following overarching impacts and results in 2018. $49M invested globally by of W ork I n n ov a t & C o m m i ve L o c u n it a l y C Go cities globally engaged in 83 the Citi Foundation t u re h a ve ng r implementing municipal through its Pathways Fu e he t innovation projects with to Progress program T e n ts support from the Citi to prepare youth for nm gen Foundation A 21st century jobs Some of the contributors to these outcomes in communities: F i n a n ci a l I n cl u si o n • Public Sector Group I n f r a s tr u c tu re 440K clients of minority• Municipal Securities Division • Inclusive Finance • Export and Agency Finance $3.7B financed in owned banks and • Community Capital green building credit unions in • Community Development and sustainable the U.S. received • Corporate Sustainability transportation fee-waived access • Citi Foundation projects globally through the Citi ATM Community Network Th vin ni us i ri gS o p g ma H h ll B a b l e n e rs u si n rd w e ss e s Affo omeo & H $11B in lending provided $6B in loans provided for to small businesses affordable housing in the U.S. projects in the U.S. 23 This section of the report is by no means a comprehensive collection of our efforts but rather a sample of highlights to demonstrate how we deploy our products, people and financial resources to solve problems in our communities, promote economic mobility and create economies in which households at all income levels have the opportunity to succeed. A range of Citi businesses and units contributes to the efforts highlighted throughout this section, including the following: • Citi Public Sector Group globally and Municipal Securities Division in the U.S. provide products and services to national and local governments, central banks and other public-sector institutions that enable countries and communities to operate. • Citi Export and Agency Finance collaborates Participants at a Citi Foundation Community Progress Makers convening in Miami. with export credit agencies, multilateral agencies and development finance institutions to help Underlying our approach is the notion that no expand their reach in both developed and emergsingle institution can address system challenges by ing markets. working in a silo. We rely on a variety of partner• Citi Community Capital, our community developships — with clients, governments, NGOs, academic ment lending and investing group, provides finaninstitutions, and companies ranging from startups cial products to help affordable housing developto large, multinational corporations — to succeed. ers construct, rehabilitate, refinance and acquire These partnerships highlight how our work contribaffordable multi-family housing across the U.S. utes directly to SDG 17, which seeks to strengthen • Citi Inclusive Finance works across Citi busithe means of implementation and revitalize the nesses globally to develop solutions that enable global partnership for sustainable development. us, our clients and our partners to expand access In particular, Citi’s efforts contribute to target to financial services and advance economic prog17.3, which seeks to mobilize additional financial ress in underserved market segments. resources for developing countries from multiple sources, including the private sector, to ensure • Citi Corporate Sustainability partners with sufficient financing is available to achieve the SDGs. colleagues across Citi businesses to encourage and enable solutions that contribute to sustainable SDG Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals growth around the world. • Citi Community Development forges innovative partnerships with nonprofits and public agencies across the U.S. to expand access to financial products and services and build sustainable business solutions. In addition, the Citi Foundation, a private foundation funded by Citi, provides philanthropic grants to community organizations around the world for efforts that increase financial inclusion, catalyze job opportunities for youth and reimagine approaches to building economically vibrant cities. 24 Innovative Local Public-Sector and Institutional Funding We provide a broad range of banking and financial Government products and services, advice and support to public-sector clients, such as government agencies, SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT and Community central banks, development organizations, NGOs and academic institutions, to enable them to more effec• Change Agents tively provide critical services to local communities. Inclusive As national socioeconomic agendas around the In West Africa, for example, where we are a bank and Resilient Communities world are increasingly politicized, local governments to other financial institutions in a number of counand community organizations are playing a bigger tries, we are expanding our focus on public-sector Environmental role as change agents, leading on a wide array institutions. Governments in the region, which have Finance of issues, including infrastructure, employment, aggressive development plans amid fast economic housing and financial health. Moreover, these entigrowth, require financing to meet their objectives. In ties often do so while facing significant budget and Côte d’Ivoire, Citi has had a presence since 1975, with resource constraints. A core pillar of our efforts to only a brief hiatus during 2010 and 2011 in the wake of invest in local communities is to collaborate with post-electoral conflict. Since then, Citi has been working — and provide financial solutions to — local governwith government and banking authorities to help ments and community organizations. restore the country’s financial system. Our expansion < Stimulating International Trade Historically, international trade has been seen as a The signing marks the extension of an existing driver of growth, and 2018 witnessed a shift in how facility under the IFC’s Global Trade Liquidity trade is conducted. Our role is to continue to facilProgram, first launched by the IFC and Citi in itate efficient trade while helping clients prepare 2009. Since then, these collaborative efforts for and adapt to changing policy frameworks. In have financed a total trade volume of $29 billion, emerging markets, Citi looks for opportunities with around $11.1 billion in low-income and to stimulate international trade growth, helping lower-middle-income countries and another clients identify favorable market conditions in $4.5 billion in countries categorized by the World order to “de-dollarize” debt — in other words, Bank as among the poorest. The longstanding convert supranational hard-currency loans to local partnership has facilitated financing for 4,092 currency debt, thereby mitigating foreign exchange trade transactions through 163 banks in 46 risk and promoting the development of swap emerging countries, of which 25 are lowor markets in the country. lower-middle-income countries. In 2018, Citi and the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank, announced the signing of a $1.2 billion risk-sharing facility to support emerging market trade flows. The initiative will work in partnership with global and regional banks with the goal of expanding the availability of trade at a time of reported global scarcity. 25 into public-sector finance in West Africa — including while also contributing to positive environmental and in Senegal, Cameroon, Gabon and the Democratic social solutions. Thematic bonds continue to evolve Republic of Congo — will help support education, health, to address changing needs and issues, and Citi works security and an estimated $130 billion to $170 billion in closely with clients and partners on new products. needed infrastructure spending. For example, catastrophe bonds are a prefunded Our services to the public sector recently earned us mechanism to provide a government immediate liquidrecognition as the Most Innovative Investment Bank ity after a natural disaster, helping kick-start recovery for Sovereigns, Supranationals and Agencies (SSAs) efforts, stave off a downward financial spiral and from The Banker, which cited Citi’s work helping SSAs build resilience. In September 2018, we underwrote a with new technologies such as artificial intelligence, $1.36 billion catastrophe bond for four Latin American big data analytics and blockchain. countries. The proceeds from the sale to investors are held at the World Bank as collateralized insurance. If an earthquake were to strike, the funds would get Innovative Financing released to the sponsoring government(s) to finance Many investors are looking for returns beyond profit, relief, recovery and budgetary support. and Citi offers products that deliver on this intent. The bond issuance was the largest earthquake Thematic bonds — such as green, social and sustaincatastrophe bond and sovereign catastrophe bond ability bonds — provide a way for investors to see yields to date. For Citi, a deal of this type demonstrates the < Service Design for and with Low-Income New Yorkers Service design is an emerging field that works to behavioral science, economics, information techactively engage all stakeholders of a service — nology, design and other related disciplines. The especially beneficiaries — to better understand every Service Design Studio is available to all New York aspect of how a service is administered to improve City government agencies, providing a valuable its delivery and impact. Think of it as a peopleresource to test and scale innovative public service centered approach that takes into account how improvements for low-income New Yorkers. services are delivered in a more holistic fashion. In its first year, the Service Design Studio reached In October 2017, the New York City Mayor’s Office more than 600 government employees from more for Economic Opportunity, the Mayor’s Fund to than 40 city agencies through 13 workshops, Advance New York City and Citi launched the five civic design forums and 125 office hours. nation’s first-ever municipal Service Design Studio The Studio also selected the Administration for and toolkit dedicated to making public services Children’s Services’ proposal for the yearlong for lower-income New Yorkers as effective and Pathways to Prevention project to put families at accessible as possible. The studio launch built on the center of child welfare preventative services. several years of work with the city of New York In 2018, the Studio received awards for innovation to explore the use of service design to improve by design and government creativity from Fast services that meet the needs of its most vulneraCompany and Adobe. ble residents, from free tax preparation to financial coaching, through the Designing for Financial Meanwhile, the city of Oakland, Calif., launched an Empowerment initiative. official service design program in early 2018 with assistance from Citi. Oakland upgraded a website The Service Design Studio at the Mayor’s Office on which renters can question increases in rent for Economic Opportunity and its accompanying that they consider to be unlawful. The city is also toolkit, NYC Civic Service Design Tools + Tactics, developing programs that will connect young provide a central resource for expertise and best people with summer jobs and is partnering with practices in service design to support public Citi on a financial empowerment program for lowservants in New York City. The service design to moderate-income mothers and their families, approach incorporates ethnographic field research, especially women of color. 26 breadth and depth of our relationships — connecting since the program’s inception. Through Living Cities, governments, the World Bank, investors and the these five cities are working on projects that support insurance industry to achieve a landmark transaction. the growth of local minority-owned businesses in their communities, recognizing untapped potential To learn more about Citi’s efforts to promote the growth and creating high-quality jobs. SOLUTIONS of other thematic bonds, including green and sustainFOR IMPACT ability bonds, visit the Environmental Finance section. In the U.S., cities spend an estimated $1 trillion annually on goods and services. Local governments • are recognizing an opportunity to re-engineer the Inclusive and Resilient Philanthropic Efforts procurement process to provide more opportunities Communities for minority businesses, which often lack the capital Around the world, NGOs make valuable contributions to addressing difficult social problems. But they need to meet the upfront requirements to bid on city Environmental contracts. Charlotte, N.C. — part of City Accelerator’s Finance funding and other resources to amplify the impact of their work or to pursue as-yet-unproven solutions 2017 cohort of cities — launched AMP UP Charlotte, that can be tested and later brought to scale. This a seven-month, in-person technical assistance is often where Citi and the Citi Foundation can play program for minority business owners seeking city an effective role. Moreover, by helping city leaders contracts. And the city of Milwaukee, also part of the develop technology-driven solutions to urban chal2017 group, worked to build awareness of contractlenges, our initiatives help support SDG 9, which ing opportunities and inclusion programs after a promotes inclusive and sustainable industrialization survey of small and minority-owned businesses and fosters innovation. revealed a lack of awareness. City Accelerator The City Accelerator directly contributes to SDG 9, target 9.3, which seeks to increase the access of Since 2014, the City Accelerator, an initiative of small-scale industrial and other enterprises, in the Citi Foundation and Living Cities, has gathered particular in developing countries, to financial municipal leaders from U.S. cities of all sizes to share services, including affordable credit, and their learnings and try new approaches for sustainable integration into value chains and markets. and equitable urban growth. In 2018, the Foundation expanded the initiative to five more cities — Atlanta, SDG Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Ga., El Paso, Texas, Long Beach, Calif., Newark, N.J., and Rochester, N.Y. — bringing the total to 22 cities “We’re lifelong learners who want to be responsive to the needs of local minorityand women-owned firms. We learned from fellow City Accelerator cities and are reducing barriers for these businesses.” —C  athy Kwiatkowski, Director of Public Affairs, Department of Procurement Services, City of Chicago “The city of Milwaukee redesigned inclusion marketing efforts, piloted a new public buying plan, and hosted networking sessions and an internal workgroup to increase participation of diverse businesses.” — Nikki Purvis, Director, Department of Administration, Office of Small Business Development, City of Milwaukee 27 Cities for Citizenship Since 2014, Citi has partnered with the mayors of < Financing Sustainable Cities Initiative Los Angeles, Chicago and New York City, as well as A recent report by Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions the Center for Popular Democracy and the National (Citi GPS) sets out seven steps for making cities more Partnership for New Americans, to implement Cities sustainable. Contrasting “the vicious and virtuous circles for Citizenship. This nonpartisan national initiative of urban investment,” the report examines how cities can helps provide naturalization resources to the estimake the most of the money they have and gain access to mated 8.8 million legal U.S. residents eligible for citigreater funding via innovative new financing structures. zenship and encourages cities to invest in citizenship programs. About half of those eligible for citizenship Those seven steps will require central governments, are low income, and becoming a naturalized citizen industry, the financial community and cities to all do their can improve access to higher-paying jobs, increasing part to tackle challenges from sustainable infrastrucsalary by as much as 11 percent. As a founding corpoture to sustainable transportation. Learn more in the rate partner of Cities for Citizenship, we have worked Sustainable Cities report. with municipalities and nonprofit organizations across the country to expand naturalization and financial The Financing Sustainable Cities Initiative (FSCI), a inclusion programs and provide access to legal assispartnership funded by the Citi Foundation, aims to help tance, microloans and financial counseling. Since its educate cities about how to accelerate and scale up their launch, Cities for Citizenship has grown from a collabinvestments in sustainable urban solutions. In 2015, the oration with three cities to a network of more than 70 Foundation teamed up with the WRI Ross Center for cities and counties across the U.S. More information is Sustainable Cities and the C40 Cities Climate Leadership available in latest Cities for Citizenship report. Group to help reduce global emissions and improve quality of life for urban residents around the world. One Community Progress Makers Fund area of focus is transportation infrastructure, which is Citi and the Citi Foundation regularly work with essential for sustainable growth. community organizations to amplify their impact. The Community Progress Makers Fund began in 2015 as a In Bhopal, India, for example, the FSCI provided technical two-year, $20 million initiative by the Citi Foundation assistance for India’s first bike share program. The city to support high-impact community organizations had been seeing an increase in road traffic — and resulting that are driving economic opportunities in their increases in noise and air pollution — but had low levels of communities. Forty nonprofit organizations in six bicycle ridership, in part due to a lack of infrastructure that cities received general operating support grants of could ensure cyclists' safety. The bike program launched in $500,000 over two years plus access to skills-based, 2017 with 500 bicycles and 50 docking stations. Within the pro bono Citi volunteer teams and a network of first two months, it had 17,000 members, growing to more technical experts. The unrestricted funds allow these than 30,000 by March 2018. In addition to the bikes and organizations to learn and innovate. By providing docking stations, the city has invested in bike lanes on city technical assistance, we not only build capacity in streets to help protect cyclists. what grantees are already good at, we also drive progress toward achieving stronger results. The FSCI is supporting sustainable transportation systems in other cities as well, such as bike shares in Based on the success of those first 40 participating Bogotá and Cali, Colombia, and electric buses in Buenos organizations, the Foundation renewed the Fund and Aires, Los Angeles, and Durban, South Africa. announced 40 new grantees in 2018 that are already increasing their impact, including connecting low-income families to affordable housing, strengthening small businesses and helping community residents participate in public decision-making. 28 Impacts of the Community SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT • Inclusive and Resilient Progress Makers Fund Communities With support from the Community Progress Makers Fund, 40 nonprofit organizations in cities across the U.S. deployed innovative solutions to address longstanding urban economic Environmental challenges, from creating jobs to expanding affordable housing to supporting small businesses Finance and increasing energy savings for families. Below is a snapshot of their collective impact. “The Community Progress Makers Fund “We are piloting an integrated model that provides is building our capacity to expand our diverse Bay Area small businesses with affordable program and double the number of lives loans, pro bono mentoring, and quality jobs tools and we are able to change for the better.” incentives to help them create jobs that are good for their workers and good for their business.” — Tom Vozzo, Homeboy Industries, Los Angeles — Mary Jo Cook, Pacific Community Ventures, San Francisco “Programs like Citi Foundation’s Community Progress Makers Fund facilitate our efforts to bridge the economic divide. By funding local nonprofits, they serve as key partners in our mission to create a pathway to prosperity for low-income residents through everything from affordable housing to economic development. This enables us to continue working to create transformative change and make lasting impacts on our residents’ lives.” — Mayor Francis Suarez, City of Miami Cumulative Impacts of Community Progress Makers* 45K people helped $13.5M 2.4K 36K saved in small businesses people placed in 4.5K young people in securing energy costs strengthened affordable housing connected to jobs financial assets * Includes impacts across all Community Progress Makers, from 2016 to October 2018. 29 Infrastructure Publicand private-sector stakeholders need to work together to find ways to overcome investment barriers. Citi finances billions in infrastructure projects around the world. In 2018, our activities included providing In our 2016 Citi GPS report, Infrastructure for more than $3.7 billion in green building and sustainable Growth, we estimated that as much as $59 trillion transportation projects that are helping cities meet in global infrastructure investment will be needed the needs of rapid urbanization and work toward SDG by 2030 to keep up with demand and replace 9, which commits to build resilient infrastructure, aging systems. While the need for improved infrapromote inclusive and sustainable industrialization structure negatively impacts the lives of people and foster innovation, as well as SDG 11, which aims worldwide, low-income communities and developto make cities and human settlements inclusive, ing economies are especially hard hit. As noted in safe, resilient and sustainable. Our work contributes the report, more than 1.5 billion people around the to target 9.1, which includes developing quality, world live without electricity, nearly 1 billion lack reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure, clean water and 2.5 billion have no access to basic and also supports target 11.2, which includes an aim of sanitation. This deficiency impacts those living in providing access to safe, affordable, accessible and developed countries too; according to the American sustainable transport systems for all. Society of Civil Engineers, degraded infrastructure in the U.S. decreases GDP by nearly $4 trillion and SDG Goal 9: Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure costs American families an average of $3,400 in 1 disposable income annually. SDG Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities < Supporting Water Infrastructure Poor water management policies, insufficient infrainfrastructure activities, such as new wells, transmisstructure and a lack of effective pricing mechanisms sion lines and a large regional water-supply project. are major contributors to an impending global water The transaction was the largest issuance completed crisis. New approaches to demand for water are to date for the Texas Water Development Board. more urgent than ever. According to a 2017 report by Citi GPS, $7.5 trillion to $9.7 trillion is needed Also in 2018, Citi acted as a joint bookrunner/ratings in investment for water and sanitation and related advisor on Korea Water Resources Corporation’s equipment around the world to address this issue. $300 million, five-year green bond. This state-owned company in South Korea develops and manages In September 2018, Citi priced the Texas Water water resources and water-supply facilities. The Development Board’s State Water Implementation bond will be used to finance and/or refinance water Revenue Fund for Texas Revenue Bonds. The projects related to climate change adaptation, $1.7 billion transaction was issued to provide funds sustainable water supply, renewable energy and to implement the state water plan and to provide water management. financial assistance for eligible water-supply 1 “Infrastructure Report Card: Economic Impact,” American Society of Civil Engineers, accessed February 2019, https://www.infrastructurereportcard.org/the-impact/economic-impact. 30 SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT • Inclusive and Resilient Citi Bike Five Years and Counting Communities Environmental replace photo Finance New York City’s vast underground And in late 2018, the ride-sharing network of trains is likely the first thing company Lyft announced it will invest that comes to mind when thinking of $100 million to improve and strengthen the city’s public transportation. But the New York’s Citi Bike system, including New York City newest form of public transportation is doubling its service area and tripling the Launched: May 2013 also making its mark. Since launching in number of bikes in the next five years, Trips since launch: 71.8M 2013, Citi Bike has become an integral making it one of the largest bike share Miles traveled: 124.1M part of the public transport landscape systems in the world. Annual members: 144K in the city. Citi Bike has been one of the most Over the course of five years in New visible demonstrations of our bank’s York, Citi Bike facilitated more than commitment to playing an active 70 million trips and today boasts nearly role in the communities we serve 145,000 annual members, employing and making a positive contribution to Miami more than 475 people during peak society. The program exemplifies how Launched: Dec. 2014 summer season. Citi Bike has also a public–private partnership can lead Trips since launch: 6.4M expanded beyond our hometown, with to more sustainable solutions. In New Miles traveled: 19.2M the trademark blue bicycles popping up York, the public–private concept was Annual members: 5.8K in Miami, Fla., and Jersey City, N.J. recently extended to increase accessibility among lower-income residents. In 2018, Citi Bike rolled out a New York Individuals living in New York City City fleet of 200 pedal-assist electric and Jersey City Housing Authorities bikes, which are powered by a frontresidences are eligible for discounted wheel motor that allows bikers to ride Citi Bike memberships of $5 a month, Jersey City up to 18 miles per hour with an electric with no long-term commitment. The Launched: Sept. 2015 “boost.” The e-bikes were averaging discount is also available for New Trips since launch: 978K 14 trips per day, double the average of Yorkers who receive Supplemental Miles traveled: 1.2M traditional bikes. Nutrition Assistance Program benefits. Annual members: 3.4K All figures are through December 31, 2018. 31 < Natural Disasters Affordable Housing Citi and the Citi Foundation continued support and Homeownership for disaster relief and recovery efforts across Soaring housing costs and weak income growth are the globe in 2018. The Foundation provided a placing significant affordability pressures on low$500,000 grant to the American Red Cross 2 and moderate-income households. National median for its Annual Disaster Giving Program, which rents in the U.S. rose 20 percent faster than inflaenables the organization to immediately and tion overall between 1990 and 2016, with median efficiently respond to disasters across the home prices rising 41 percent faster. While the U.S. with health services, food and medical growth in renter households appears to be slowing supplies, and provided supplementary support and homeownership rising, there continues to be a in the aftermath of Hurricanes Florence and 3 wide gap in homeownership by race and ethnicity. Michael and wildfires. In India, through Citi and Communities of color and low-income families employee giving, over $200,000 was raised to continue to be disproportionately impacted by these rebuild the homes and lives of families devastrends, contributing to growing inequality. tated by the floods in Kerala. Citi is working to help solve the affordable housing We also continued to support the communities crisis by financing projects in low-income urban still recovering from extreme weather events areas and developing new models to strengthen in late 2017. Citi gave $500,000 to four orgaaffordable housing markets overall. This work aligns nizations in Puerto Rico to target some of the with SDG target 11.1, which includes providing access communities hardest hit by Hurricane Maria. for all to adequate, safe and affordable housing and These funds are supporting housing counbasic services. seling, repairs and other recovery services across the island. And, following earthquakes SDG Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities in Mexico in 2017, Fomento Social Banamex, which leads our philanthropic efforts in Mexico in close coordination with the Citi Foundation, Financing Affordable Housing received more than $6 million in public donations and matched those funds with support We offer a range of housing financing solutions — from other foundations, to contribute more including municipal bonds, tax credits and subsidies than $12 million to relief and recovery efforts. — to affordable housing developers. We focus on Throughout 2018, these funds went to 49 projprojects that serve low-income and special needs ects across the seven Mexican states affected populations, including seniors, individuals with by the earthquakes. disabilities and the homeless. Our work goes beyond just housing; we also finance projects critical to Citi supported recovery for communities in strong and vibrant communities such as schools, Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria. healthcare facilities and businesses that contribute to revitalization. At Citi, our experience as one of the new photo to come leading providers of affordable housing financing in the U.S. enables us to support clients through complex development projects that take advantage of growing development opportunities, including adaptive reuse and Rental Assistance Demonstration (RAD) programs. 2 Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University, The State of the Nation’s Housing 2018, (2018) http://www.jchs.harvard.edu/sites/default/files/Harvard_JCHS_State_of_the_Nations_Housing_2018.pdf. 3 Ibid. Family Advisory Network 2017 Survey Results Released,” Military America Saves (website), accessed February 2019, https://militarysaves.org/blog/1578-military-family-advisory-network-2017-survey-results-released. 32 Adaptive reuse projects allow developers to take $55.3 million transition of the historic Blue Flame existing non-residential buildings and convert them building — so named for a 21-foot steel and plexiinto livable housing units. These often-complex glass flame at the top of the tower — from an office projects test the capabilities of financiers and develbuilding into 120 affordable housing apartments and opers alike; but, when successful, they not only nearly 40,000 square feet of commercial space. SOLUTIONS provide valuable housing but also can help preserve Citi provided a $21 million construction loan and FOR IMPACT landmarks and contribute to the growth of the a $3.75 million permanent loan for the project to surrounding community. Renovating existing buildcomplement low-income housing tax credits and • Inclusive ings also often comes at a lower environmental cost historic tax credits. In the last five years, we have and Resilient than building new ones. One such example is in financed 25 adaptive reuse projects across the Communities El Paso, Texas, where we are helping to finance the U.S., totaling nearly $658 million. Environmental Finance Affordable Housing Impacts In 2018, we provided more than $6 billion in loans for affordable housing projects in the U.S., covering more than 35,000 units in 248 cities, serving as the leading financer of affordable housing in the U.S. for the ninth consecutive year. BUILDINGS FINANCED PROJECTS CLOSED 2K 215 83 Rehab construction 79 New 572 construction Green buildings 42 Other permanent 30M financing Total square feet 7 Adaptive reuse 4 Acquisition 10K Senior units 1.6K HOUSING UNITS Transit-oriented development 33 States CREATED units 35K 365 Formerly homeless units 156 248 Cities Workforce units 121 Vet units CLIENTS 22.8K SERVED 112 Additional other affordable housing vet 33 workforce RAD is a program of the U.S. Department of Housing Innovative Approaches to Creating and and Urban Development that seeks to preserve and improve affordable housing. According to federal Preserving Affordable Housing figures, public housing units across the country A half century after the Fair Housing Act was passed need more than $26 billion in repairs, but many to boost access to housing opportunities for all U.S. local housing authorities cannot afford to pay for residents, the entry point for homeownership is the necessary upgrades. The RAD program allows only getting higher. While housing prices have risen public housing agencies to change the way they are across the country, real median household income funded so they can be eligible for repair loans. Citi has has remained stagnant, pushing many families out financed 51 such developments since 2015, totaling of the neighborhoods they have long called home. $1.4 billion of debt and another $300 million of lowincome housing tax credits. In New York, for example, Citi has zeroed in on a proven tool for creating and Citi provided $213 million in financing to renovate preserving affordable housing: community land Ocean Bay Apartments, a 1,395-unit distressed public trusts (CLT). A CLT is a nonprofit organization that housing development that suffered considerable buys land to build permanently affordable housing damage from Hurricane Sandy in 2012. Citi has also for low-income households. Under this model, the supported a RAD Roundtable in New York City to share CLT places a cap on resale and rental prices to best practices and help these efforts scale. maintain affordability over the long term, even as property prices in the area escalate. This enables renters to acquire stable, affordable housing, while Inclusive and Supportive Housing those able to buy can build equity and accrue other benefits of homeownership. Citi works to increase and preserve affordability while strengthening affordable housing options for Citi has invested approximately $5 million in seeding vulnerable populations that are often overlooked. new CLTs in New York City, Long Island, Washington, In Washington, D.C., Citi provided the construction D.C., and Miami, among other locations in the U.S. loan to finance the conversion of Abrams Hall Senior A new initiative — the Citi/Grounded Solutions Apartments, a former Army barracks at the Walter Network CLT Accelerator Fund — is propelling the Reed Medical Campus. The building will provide 80 growth of CLTs and other shared-equity programs. units for low-income seniors — 64 of them for senior With a $1 million investment from Citi, the Grounded households earning 50 percent or less of the area Solutions Network is scaling up the sector and median income (AMI), with the remainder for senior increasing access to permanently affordable homehouseholds earning 30 percent or less of the AMI. ownership for low-income, first-time homebuyers. In 2018, Grounded Solutions held a competitive Discrimination against members of the LGBT+ review process to select three Accelerator Fund community can be a roadblock to accessing safe and recipients. With support from Citi, the Grounded affordable housing. Many LGBT+ seniors in particular Solutions Network is providing technical assistance now live in “mainstream” housing communities, and investing $500,000 in capital grants to existwithout programs to appropriately address the needs ing high-capacity CLTs and similar shared-equity of older LGBT+ populations. It is estimated that homeownership programs that hold the potential to nearly 50 percent of older same-sex couples applying transform the lives of low-income households. for senior housing are subjected to discrimination. Citi partners with SAGE, one of the nation’s oldest nonprofit organizations dedicated to the needs of the elder LGBT+ constituency, to help ensure that communities are equipped to support aging LGBT+ residents through capacity building, consumer education, advocacy, training and the construction of more LGBT+-welcoming housing. Citi is also collaborating with True Colors United to address the housing challenges disproportionately facing LGBT+ youth nationwide. 34 Thriving Small Citi is also backing Accelerator Funds in San Francisco and New York, cities where affordable Businesses housing is especially lacking. In San Francisco, Citi was an early investor in a public–private partnership that aims to accelerate the production and Small businesses are fundamental to the success of SOLUTIONS preservation of 1,500 rental units in the fund’s first FOR IMPACT the global economy, generating two out of every three five years. In New York, Citi invested in the Joint 4 net new jobs in the U.S. alone; yet they often face Ownership Entity NYC (JOE NYC), which is enabling • difficulties accessing the capital and development Inclusive neighborhood-based nonprofit housing organizations and Resilient resources needed to thrive and grow. Through direct to aggregate their affordable units to achieve econCommunities financing and partnerships with community organiomies of scale. Together, these organizations have zations and local government, we support the growth created the city’s largest nonprofit housing portfolio, Environmental and development of small businesses and the broader totaling more than 3,000 units in 52 affordable Finance economic ecosystem in countries around the world. In housing projects. In 2018, Citi invested $1 million to 2018, Citi invested more than $11 billion in small busihelp JOE NYC acquire an additional 1,000 units of ness lending in the U.S. affordable housing over 18 months. In Puerto Rico, Citi is investing in a CLT in an area hard hit in 2017 by Hurricane Maria. The Caño Martin Removing Barriers to Growth Peña CLT focuses on a densely populated area of San Citi works with public and private partners to help Juan that is home to a disproportionate number of remove the individual and systemic barriers to low-income residents. Citi’s investment aims to help success for current and aspiring small business families secure a pathway to ownership and longowners, such as access to capital and affordable term affordability. Since 2016, we have invested more space, as well as roadblocks to entrepreneurship. than $1 million in housing assistance in Puerto Rico. Because the specific challenges facing entrepreneurs often vary by region, country or even city, we engage with local entities to implement thoughtful solutions. In Asia, for example, Citi recently signed an agreement Affordable Housing: < with the Asian Development Bank (ADB) through its Mayors’ Biggest Concern Trade Finance Program (TFP) to help address the trade finance needs of small and medium-sized enterWhat’s the #1 reason why residents leave their city? prises. Through the May 2018 agreement, the ADB The lack of affordable housing, which tops the list and Citi intend to collaborate in financing up to of concerns among the nation’s municipal leaders, $100 million or more in trade to support importers according to the 2017 Menino Survey of Mayors. and exporters in developing markets. Citi and the Named after the late Boston Mayor Thomas M. ADB, which have been working together since 2009 Menino, the annual survey is the largest and most to support trade in Asia, share the risk underlying comprehensive of its kind in the U.S., with 110 sitting these transactions. Over nearly a decade, the ADB’s mayors participating in the most recent study. Citi has TFP has supported more than 12,000 small and supported the survey for four consecutive years. medium-sized businesses across developing Asia in sectors ranging from commodities and capital goods to medical supplies and consumer goods. 4 U.S. Small Business Administration Office of Advocacy, Small Business Quarterly Bulletin (March 2018), page 1, https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/ files/advocacy/Quarterly_Bulletin_March_2018.pdf.n 35 In Paraguay, Citi is supporting government-backed Supporting Training and Development efforts to promote access to financing for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) in The Citi Foundation provides funding to community an effort to bring more of them into the formal partners to empower entrepreneurs and small busieconomy. Our Citi Supplier Finance ® product will ness owners with business development support and allow MSMEs to advance payments using their line of training that are invaluable in launching or growing credit with Citi at advantageous corporate rates. their businesses. In New York City, Citi partnered with the Local In Colombia, where a decades-long armed civil Initiatives Support Corporation NYC and the NYC conflict has affected millions of citizens, we assisted Department of Small Business Services on a new the country’s largest microfinance membership initiative to help revitalize commercial corridors and association in its support of agricultural entrepresmall businesses across the city. Community organineurs living in rural areas. With Foundation funding, zations applied for funding and access to expertise Asomicrofinanzas (Asomicro), whose members to implement initiatives that were most valuable disburse 97 percent of the microcredit in the country, to their corridors. The organizations focused on is providing specialized training and assistance to storefront improvements, such as new signage and help 500 of these entrepreneurs grow their busilighting, as well as broader efforts aimed at boosting nesses and access additional financing opportunities. foot traffic, increasing sales and contributing to a Asomicro is also offering technical assistance, such greater sense of safety. as financial models and tools tailored to agricultural businesses, to microfinance institutions so they, in Across the country, millions of businesses are at turn, can better serve their clients. risk of closure because aging owners do not have succession plans with potential buyers. The loss of In the Philippines, the World Vision Development these businesses has the potential to be devastating Foundation is using Citi Foundation funding in six cities to their communities. Instead of selling to a single across the country to provide mentorship and training buyer, owners can convert their business to in topics such as operations management, marketing employee-owned cooperatives — enterprises that and sustainability planning to 350 microentrepreare owned and governed by their employees. neurs, while also increasing their access to financial Citi supports national organizations such as the products and services to help grow their business. Democracy at Work Institute and Capital Impact In Russia, the Centre of Social Technologies Garant Partners to generate research and provide capacity (Garant) is using its network of community centers building to drive growth in the field of employee to share best practices and provide counseling and ownership. In 2018, Citi supported the Washington education on self-employment to low-income resiArea Community Investment Fund’s D.C. Employee dents to help them launch and build an enterprise. Ownership Initiative, which provides retiring small These efforts, which have benefited more than 300 business owners with succession planning guidance entrepreneurs, are building the capacity of some and support to transfer the ownership of their busi20 community centers around the country. Garant nesses to employees. is also launching a campaign to highlight success stories that spotlight the role of entrepreneurship in creating opportunities in communities. 36 < Citi Microentrepreneurship Awards For more than a decade, the Citi Microentrepreneurship Awards (CMA) program has been a SOLUTIONS signature financial inclusion initiative of the Citi FOR IMPACT Foundation. Since 2005, the CMA program has • provided economic empowerment opportunities for Sanobar Anwer is awarded a Citi Inclusive microentrepreneurs, including a growing number Microentrepreneurship Award in Pakistan. and Resilient of young people, in about 30 countries. To date, the Communities His center now operates with more than 100 Foundation has invested more than $25.2 million machines, and he plans to expand even further. in microfinance networks and institutions and Environmental Sanobar Anwer, who is based in a remote commuFinance provided $11.6 million in cash prizes to more than nity in Hyderabad, is the owner of a poultry 6,300 entrepreneurs. shop. Originally discouraged by relatives from The 2018 winners in Pakistan exemplify the starting her own business, she now supports her program’s ability to change lives. Naseem Maseeh family and employs six people. To be eligible for from Karachi, owner of a stitching center, has the awards in Pakistan, where the program is trained more than 5,000 women. Although he executed in conjunction with the Pakistan Poverty is physically disabled, he was encouraged by his Alleviation Fund, a business must have benefited microfinance lender to start his own business, from an affordable loan and must have contribbeginning with only two or three sewing machines. uted to local economic growth in its community. < Accelerating Urban Manufacturing Urban manufacturing jobs hold great promise resources that enable nonprofit developers to more for economic opportunity. The median wage in effectively acquire and renovate manufacturing the urban manufacturing sector in the U.S. is space. The program complements the NYC Economic $50,400 a year, and 63 percent of jobs do not Development Corporation Industrial Developer require a college degree. Fund, which was launched the previous year. New York City has made the development of the Managed by the ANHD with support from Citi, industrial and manufacturing sector a key compothe Accelerator Fund aims to create 570,000 nent of its strategy to create more living wage square feet of new industrial space through the employment. In 2017, Citi and the Association for development of up to eight urban manufacturing Neighborhood and Housing Development (ANHD) facilities, leveraging an estimated $200 million launched the Urban Manufacturing Accelerator in public–private investment while generating or Fund to create and preserve quality manufacturing preserving an estimated 500 quality jobs. The jobs in New York City. The Fund provides frontline Fund is providing hands-on technical assistance and grant funding of up to $60,000 to support A rendering of the Peninsula Project, which received nonprofit developers. funding from the Urban Manufacturing Accelerator Fund. While the rate of unemployment is down in New York City, more than 60 percent of the new jobs created between 2009 and 2016 were lower-wage positions. The Urban Manufacturing Accelerator Fund offers an innovative approach to grow New York’s industrial and manufacturing sector and an inclusive path to higher-wage jobs and greater economic security for New York City households. 37 Financial Inclusion In Mexico — where national and local government support and engagement from academia and the private sector are helping to create fertile ground for social enterprises — we have been investing in initiatives that scale early-stage, high-impact environmenAccess to financial products and services is an tal and social enterprises that have the potential to essential part of financial resiliency — the ability to benefit thousands of people. Fomento Social Banamex, weather income shifts or unexpected costs — for which leads our philanthropic efforts in Mexico in both individuals and communities. It is also related to close coordination with the Citi Foundation, invested wider macroeconomic health. more than $800,000 in a range of projects with An estimated 2 billion adults around the world, leading NGOs in 2018 that provide specialized training, however — in both developing and developed markets mentorship and access to networks that enable entre— remain outside the formal banking sector. To preneurs to catalyze their impact. improve access for these people, banks need to understand and address the mistrust of financial institutions Inclusive Economic Growth among many traditionally underbanked communities and also invest in innovative products that meet their Most microfinance beneficiaries globally are women, unique needs. We offer products and services that making Citi’s work on microfinance a direct contribhelp improve financial resiliency and inclusion in these utor to SDG 5, in support of gender equality and communities and partner with organizations that are empowerment for all women and girls, and in increasing access to financial services and providing particular target 5.a, which strives for a range of educational resources to residents. gender-related objectives, including giving women equal rights to economic resources. By leveraging Our extensive work on financial inclusion contributes cross-sector partnerships and innovative approaches, to progress on SDG 8, which aims, among other Citi invests in microfinance and technology solutions things, to provide full and productive employment in underserved markets around the world. and decent work for all. For example, Citi’s work on financial inclusion in the U.S., Mexico and elsewhere Citi supports businesses, clients and transaccontributes to target 8.10, which aims to strengthen tions that aim to expand access to products and the capacity of domestic financial institutions to services in low-income communities. We recently encourage and expand access to banking, insurance partnered with Banco Guayaquil on a $20 million and financial services for all. agreement to expand financial inclusion in Ecuador through Banco Guayaquil’s Banco del Barrio Inclusive finance is also a key success factor for program, one of the most comprehensive inclusive progress on SDG 9, which aims to build resilient finance programs in Latin America. Similarly, Citi infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable entered into a $15 million financing agreement industrialization and foster innovation, specifically with the Microemprendedor Assistance Council, a enabling progress on target 9.3, which seeks to leading microfinance institution in Mexico. These increase the access of small-scale enterprises, agreements are part of a $495.5 million strategic particularly in developing countries, to financial initiative between Citi and the U.S. Overseas Private services to facilitate integration into value chains Investment Corporation to fund inclusive finance and markets. programs in emerging markets. To date, Citi has funded 53 inclusive businesses in 26 countries, with SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth nearly half a billion dollars in debt capital that has helped to catalyze the efforts of over 1.3 million SDG Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure microentrepreneurs. SDG Goal 5: Gender Equality 38 Making Financial Products and Services our long track record of supporting microentrepreneurs and expands mobile banking tools and financial More Accessible education resources. We are also working directly Citi is working to expand access to safe and affordwith the Mexican government to support its National able products and services to low-income communiFinancial Inclusion Strategy with private-sector SOLUTIONS ties and communities of color, where a lack of access resources and expertise. FOR IMPACT to financial products and services can leave families financially vulnerable. Through a joint venture with America Movil and a stra• tegic partnership with Oxxo, a network of convenience Inclusive and Resilient We have established relationships with 25 minority stores, Citibanamex provides a basic account and Communities depository institutions, community banks and credit mobile banking solution for the unbanked sector in unions as part of our Citi® ATM Community Network, Mexico called Transfer. It serves over 10 million clients, Environmental a pilot program we started in July 2016. Today, more more than 80 percent of whom are new to banking. Finance than 440,000 customers of these institutions are able to use any of Citibank’s 2,300 ATMs without paying out-of-network fees. Fostering Financial Empowerment Building financial knowledge and skills and improvSmaller banks and credit unions often have difficulty ing financial behaviors are important components maintaining a network of ATMs, which can negatively of building a more inclusive financial system. impact their clients. Nationwide, it costs consumers Consumers need access to financial products and an average of $4.69 per transaction to withdraw services, as well as the ability to use these products money from an out-of-network ATM. Moreover, responsibly while protecting their own best interests. studies show that low-income communities of color favor cash transactions, making ATM access and fees Citi offers a range of free, publicly available financial especially important. education resources online, including tools that help consumers plan for retirement, prepare for life By removing surcharge fees on cash withdrawals changes and protect their wealth. In some instances, from Citibank branch ATMs, we are helping to reduce when customers may need special assistance, such transaction costs, improve convenience and choice as during the U.S. federal government shutdown that for customers, and expand access for people in the ended in early 2019, we provide support to effectively communities we serve. Citi’s history of delivering on financial inclusion is one of harnessing our global infrastructure, leveraging our geographic reach and tapping the deep expertise <Taking One of the World’s Largest of our partners. By listening to the challenges of our Microfinance Institutions Public clients and the communities we serve, collaborating ASA International Group, a microfinance company with other institutions and learning from the work with subsidiaries in 12 countries, lends primarily to of leaders in the field of financial inclusion, we are low-income, female microentrepreneurs in Asia and working to create scalable, responsible and commerAfrica — with about 1.9 million clients in all. ASA is cially viable solutions that expand access and deliver one of the largest and most profitable global microgreater inclusive economic growth. finance institutions. In 2018, Citi coordinated and In Mexico, nearly half of the country’s citizens are sponsored ASA’s initial public offering (IPO) — the unbanked. As part of our $1 billion investment in first ever for a global microfinance issuer. 2016, Citibanamex — our Mexican subsidiary and the With a market cap of $411 million at launch, ASA country’s second-largest retail bank — is working now has the funding it needs to support its potential to increase financial inclusion in the country. Our client base: 365 million individuals without access investment included funding to create a financial to basic financial services and up to 1 billion underinclusion business unit focused on expanding access served female entrepreneurs. to safe and affordable financial services for unbanked citizens. Citibanamex Financial Inclusion builds upon 39 Supporting U.S. Veterans Veterans frequently return from active duty to face a host of challenges, including financial insecurity. A recent 5 survey of military families found that 60 percent of respondents did not have enough in their savings to cover three months of living expenses. Citi continues to invest in solutions that help alleviate the complex challenges that military families face, from housing and financial education to employment and military transition. In collaboration with Military.com, Citi expanded the Transition App, which provides resources for managing finances, education, health and benefits, and employment, among other issues. Since its launch in late 2016, the app has been downloaded more than 32,000 times. The app now features more content to support veterans with disabilities and military spouses. We also announced $300,000 for the Columbia University Center for Veteran Transition and Integration, which provides educational programming and support for veterans and military family members. The national expansion of the center will provide tools and resources for veterans entering the classroom and the workplace. The aim is to reach 10,000 former service members and their families in the first two years. In addition, we partner with organizations working to end the problem of veteran homelessness. On any given night 6 in America, an estimated 37,000 veterans are homeless. Since 2012, Citi has supported the Bring Them HOMES initiative of the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, which finances, facilitates, advocates for and implements affordable housing options for veterans, and its affiliate, the National Equity Fund. To date, a total of 4,300 affordable housing units, including 3,000 specifically for veterans, have been completed or are in development. In 2018, Citi commissioned photographer Gus Powell to create Bring Them HOMES: Photographs of Resilience, a 30-image exhibition that 5 “Military Family Advisory Network 2017 Survey Results Released,” Military shines a light on the perseverance and dynamic stories of veterans America Saves (website), accessed February 2019, https://militarysaves.org/ who were once homeless or at risk of homelessness. The exhibit, which blog/1578-military-family-advisory-network-2017-survey-results-released. included the two photos above, was on display at Citi’s Long Island 6 “2018 Annual Homeless Assessment Report to Congress,” December 2018, City and Tribeca offices and will travel to additional cities in 2019. https://www.hudexchange.info/resources/documents/2018-AHAR-Part-1.pdf. 40 The Future of Work address their needs. In this case, Citi offered assistance measures and dedicated assistance lines for customers experiencing financial hardship. We also partner with community organizations to build The youth unemployment rate is three times higher financial capability for individuals and communities. than that of adults. Allowing economically disadSOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT In the U.S., Citi collaborated with 12 major cities and vantaged young people to turn into economically regions in 2018 to expand free tax preparation services disadvantaged adults contributes to a destructive • cycle that hinders the growth of communities, cities for low-income families. Our investments supported Inclusive and Resilient the establishment or expansion of federal Earned and economies. Citi and the private sector as a whole Communities Income Tax Credit awareness campaigns. This tax have a role to play in helping to make the next genercredit is available to those earning less than $54,000 ation the most employable yet. And public–private Environmental and provides an average of $2,470 per household. In partnerships are among the most effective ways to Finance reach low-income communities at scale and drive Newark, N.J., for example, residents who used the free tax preparation program collected $13 million in total positive social and economic gains. tax refunds in 2018, a significant increase from the $10 million collected in the prior year. Through the Pathways to Progress initiative, Citi and the Citi Foundation help to deliver on SDG We also partnered with the National Disability target 8.6, which aims to substantially reduce, by Institute to launch Empowered Cities, a $2 million 2020, the proportion of youth not in employment, initiative to engage municipalities and community education or training. partners in the design, testing and delivery of scalable financial empowerment and inclusion solutions SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth within the disability community. Led by the city of New York, EmpoweredNYC is the first local pilot of Empowered Cities and focuses on enabling New Pathways to Progress Yorkers with disabilities to improve their financial Citi and the Citi Foundation are committed to stability. Starting in December 2018, EmpoweredNYC preparing young people for today’s competitive job launched new financial counseling services specifmarket through our Pathways to Progress initiative. ically tailored to meet the complex financial needs In 2017, the Citi Foundation doubled its dedication to of people with disabilities and their families. The this cause with a new, three-year, $100 million global initiative also offers monthly trainings for service pledge — the largest philanthropic commitment in providers to learn about financial empowerment the Foundation’s history. This builds on its previous issues faced by people with disabilities and how to $50 million effort in the U.S., which helped more connect people with disabilities with the resources to than 100,000 young people become career-ready meet their financial needs. and employable. We also work with several municipal and community The Foundation is working to reduce youth unempartners to educate immigrants on issues of financial ployment by partnering with community organizacapability. Many in the Mexican community in the tions and municipal leaders to connect 500,000 U.S., for example, lack exposure to formal financial young people around the world to jobs, paid services and are wary of hidden fees and large internships, workforce training and leadership develinstitutions in general. The Ventanilla de Asesoría opment by 2020. Citi is also leveraging the time and Financiera (VAF) operates within the Mexican talents of 10,000 Citi employee volunteers to serve Consulate and offers advice on banking services and as mentors and coaches to provide professional money management. Citi provided seed funding to advice to help young people move toward achieving create and scale this model and has collaborated with their career goals. the Foreign Ministry of Mexico to expand it to consulates across the country. Of the 48 VAFs operating in Over the course of the commitment, we have learned the consular offices of Mexico in the U.S., Citi directly a great deal about what works, about where our finances eight. support can add the most value and about the young 41 people that these programs aim to empower. One globe, and more than 80 percent are willing to take 7 of the key takeaways has been the persistence of risks to achieve their career aspirations. At the Citi youth optimism. Research we commissioned in 2017 Foundation, we aim to nurture that optimism, and found that more than 70 percent of young people heading into the final year of the commitment, we today feel optimistic about their career prospects took a look back at three key trends we have been despite profound uncertainty and change across the seeing across our Pathways to Progress grantmaking. PATHWAYS TO PROGRESS IN ACTION Young People Driving Solutions Young people are stepping up to create solutions to some of the biggest issues facing their communities, and we support programs that give them the platforms and resources they need to bring their solutions to life. The Partner: UN Development Programme In late 2017, the Citi Foundation partnered with the UN Development Programme to launch Youth Co:Lab, which harnesses youth leadership, entrepreneurship and innovation to tackle social challenges and unemployment in Asia, where about half of the world’s unemployed young people live. A participant pitching a social enterprise at a Youth Co:Lab Youth Co:Lab convened a series of national dialogues national dialogue in Malaysia. and social innovation challenges across the region, culminating in a summit in March 2018. These The Partner: Mikva Challenge dialogues served as platforms for young people to In 2017, the Mikva Challenge received a grant as engage directly with policymakers, private-sector part of the Foundation’s Youth Workforce Fund, partners, youth-led organizations, NGOs and which funded 15 nonprofit organizations in the U.S. academia on how to develop and accelerate youth-led to provide a range of employment opportunities for entrepreneurship and social innovation. The social an estimated 5,000 young people in a wide range innovation challenges, akin to startup “hackathons,” of areas — from environmental sustainability and allowed participants to showcase their proposed robotics to culinary arts and coding — through 2018. ideas and solutions to thorny global problems. The Mikva Challenge hired about 160 Chicago youth to participate in citywide youth councils with commuAt the concluding summit, five social enterprises nity leaders, school administrators and city officials founded by young people were recognized for their to identify and help solve pressing issues facing innovative approaches toward helping to achieve the community. The councils included dialogues the SDGs. Winning projects included a social media between youth and the Chicago Police Department chatbot that aims to be a one-stop-shop for quesand mandatory workshops for judges and public tions about legal and government processes and a defenders in the juvenile justice court division. Sixty textile recycling center that collects textile waste to recent high school graduates who excelled in Mikva be turned into higher-value products such as footprograms were placed in paid summer internships in wear and fashion accessories. city, county, state or federal public officials’ offices. 7 Citi Foundation, Global Youth Survey 2017: Economic Prospects & Expectations, https://www.citigroup.com/citi/foundation/data/pathways_youth_survey_2017.pdf. 42 PATHWAYS TO PROGRESS IN ACTION Young People Building Skills for a Changing Workplace A whole generation of youth today is in need of SOLUTIONS resources and skills to adjust to a rapidly evolving FOR IMPACT labor market. In fact, according to the World Economic • Forum, more than half of the global workforce will Inclusive need to be taught new skills in the next five years as and Resilient Communities emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence take over a significant proportion of current jobs. Environmental Youth participants in the cyber security program. Finance The Partner: Trust for the Americas Trust for the Americas, a nonprofit organization The Partner: Education for Employment affiliated with the Organization of American States, is The Citi Foundation’s longstanding partnership with preparing Latin America’s low-income urban youth for Education for Employment (EFE) is creating economic careers in cyber security. Latin America has seen an opportunities for urban young people in Morocco, unprecedented growth of jobs in the tech sector, but Tunisia, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. educational opportunities in the digital arena remain The Middle East and North Africa region has one limited. This program aims to bridge that skills gap and of the largest youth populations in the world — and give vulnerable youth access to employment opportualso the highest youth unemployment rate at nearly nities in high-demand industries. With Citi Foundation 30 percent, more than double the global average. A funding, the Trust has supported young people in mismatch between the skills taught in local educational Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic and Peru institutions and the needs of the labor market is at the since 2017 and expanded to Brazil in 2018. Through heart of the youth unemployment crisis. EFE focuses technical skills development and job-readiness training, on training and job placement in growing economic as well as opportunities to become certified, more than sectors, such as data call centers. In 2018, the program 300 participants in the program have improved their reached more than 400 youth, nearly doubling the prospects for employment in cyber security. impact achieved in the partnership’s first four years. PATHWAYS TO PROGRESS IN ACTION The Partner: Youth Business International Young People Accessing Networks In recognition of this, the Citi Foundation supports programs that help young people develop networks that may gain them employment and further their careers. A $1.6 million grant to Youth Business International (YBI) is providing 8,700 youth in Europe with entrepreneurship training and will establish more than 1,000 mentoring relationships across eight countries. The Citi Foundation has partnered with YBI for more than a decade. The Partner: iMentor In the U.S., the Citi Foundation and iMentor have A Youth Business International participant opened an Ethiopian restaurant in Belgium using skills and a loan he worked together since 2014 to equip high school received from the program. students with the tools they need to succeed academically and prepare for post-secondary education For a young person, getting a first job can someand career opportunities. iMentor’s model pairs times rest as much on having a strong network as high school students from low-income backgrounds it does on having the right skills and experience. with trained adult volunteers who mentor the young Networks can open opportunities, provide good role people on their college and career goals. In 2018, the models for how to approach the world of work and Foundation awarded iMentor a $1 million grant over encourage aspirations. two years to support close to 16,000 students in New 43 York City, Chicago and the San Francisco Bay Area. Pathways to Progress Highlights < Connecting Americans to Jobs The Citi Foundation’s efforts around the future of work have largely focused on young people, but 400K the challenge is much broader, as urbanization, globalization and rapid technology change will ensure disruption for the current workforce as well. Already, the skills gap is a leading cause of unemployment Youth reached and underemployment among adults. In 2018, the Foundation provided $10 million to the Local Initiatives Support Corporation’s Bridges to Career Initiative to help connect unemployed and underem7K Citi volunteers ployed Americans with jobs in growth industries that need trained workers, including healthcare, transportation, technology, construction and other industries. Through an expanded network of sites across the U.S., 160 job seekers will have access to a range of services designed to increase their incomes, improve their credit and raise their standards of living. In addition Community programs to skills training and career development, services will include personal finance coaching, continuing education courses to strengthen math and reading skills, and resources to help job seekers secure child care and 80 housing arrangements. Many of the new sites are located in areas that have been designated as Opportunity Zones, a federal incenCountries & territories tive to increase investments in low-wealth communities across the globe as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. 210K What’s Ahead Young people mentored Solutions to the wide array of complex and often intertwined challenges that communities face require collaboration — across the public and private sectors, with community organizations and with community members themselves. They also 15K require that companies, amid growing inequality and stunted political discourse, be proactive in engaging in and leading conversations that get at Businesses started by the root causes of these social challenges. We will youth entrepreneurs continue to challenge ourselves to do more, through business activity and philanthropy, and by bringing key stakeholders together to help build inclusive and resilient communities. 44 Environmental Finance SOLUTIONS A special report by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate FOR IMPACT Change, published in 2018, issued an urgent and ominous warning Inclusive and Resilient regarding the sooner-than-expected, substantial impacts of a Communities warming climate, from rising seas and dying coral reefs to massive • wildfires and food shortages — all by 2040. Trillions of dollars in Environmental Finance global investments are needed to limit global warming to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. Citi’s $100 Billion At Citi, we recognize the critical role our bank can play in financing a sustainable economy, including Environmental championing environmental finance activities. We have been outspoken in our support of the Paris Finance Goal Agreement, the international plan to address climate change and accelerate the actions and investments needed for a sustainable future. In 2018, we signed the We Are Still In declaration as Environmental finance, which refers to financial activpart of our ongoing commitment to supporting ity that reduces the impacts of climate change and climate change solutions and global collaboration. enables positive environmental impact, is one of the 1 We also furthered our commitment to drive investthree pillars of Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy. ment in clean energy and climate resilience by The flagship initiative of this pillar is our 10-year, becoming a founding member of the U.S. Alliance $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal (2014–2023). for Sustainable Finance, part of the International Due to increasing environmental finance activity in Network of Financial Centres for Sustainability the global market, we now expect to reach the convened by UN Environment. $100 billion mark by 2020 — well ahead of schedule. By the end of 2018, we had counted $95.3 billion. The rise in environmental finance activity has been < Climate Leadership Award driven by exponential growth in sectors such as renewable energy, the development of innovative In 2018, Citi received a Climate Leadership Award, financial products and demand in the marketplace. which honors corporations, organizations and When we launched our $100 billion goal, which individuals tackling climate change. Organized by built upon a previous $50 billion goal completed in the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions and 2013, many of the products available today — such The Climate Registry and sponsored by Bloomberg as green bonds and loans, hedging for renewable Philanthropies, the award recognized Citi’s compreenergy projects and loans linked to environmental, hensive approach to addressing climate change and social and governance (ESG) performance — were supporting sustainable growth. relatively new or even nonexistent. The developing interest in environmental financing is due not only 1 For performance against our Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard, please see the report Appendices. 45 to new and innovative products, however, but also In 2017, we released a standalone report called to recent efforts by corporations and other organiSustainable Growth at Citi: Progress and Impacts of zations to set and achieve their own sustainability Citi’s $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal. The targets, with an increased recognition of the urgency report shares our progress toward the goal from of the climate challenge and the need for solutions. 2014 through June 2017 and provides greater detail To meet these needs, we help our clients achieve on our accounting methodology and approach to the their sustainability goals while supporting an overall environmental and social impact measurement of stronger and more sustainable global economy. Citi’s environmental finance activities. Citi’s $100 billion goal supports our mission to provide financial services that enable growth and < #1 Bookrunner Ranking economic progress. Each transaction must meet at least one of six criteria in order to be counted: In 2018, Citi was ranked the #1 bookrunner in the renewable energy, water quality and conservation, Dealogic Global and Renewables league tables for sustainable transportation, green building, energy Project Finance, and we were ranked second in efficiency and clean technology. The activities that Dealogic’s USD-Denominated Sustainable Finance fall under the goal cover a diverse range of products league table and fifth in its Green Bond league table. and services, such as project and infrastructure We were also ranked second in the industry for our financing, green bonds, power purchase agreements municipal finance activity, which includes green bonds, and tax equity financing, to name a few. by the Thomson Reuters SDC league table and #1 for Tax Equity by Bloomberg New Energy Finance. $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal: Financial Highlights, 2014–2018 $95.3B toward the $100B Environmental Finance Goal* RESULTED IN $6.7B in sustainable $18.5B in public finance $11.1B in water quality transportation and conservation $61.3B in renewable $16.0B in green bonds** $4.1B in green building energy * Transactions fall within multiple categories of reporting. ** Includes green portion of sustainability bonds when information is available. 46 < Environmental Finance in Support of the SDGs 2 According to a recent report, an estimated investments in sustainable transit, another of the $90 trillion of investments in climate projects will key criteria of our goal. Through 2018, financing for SOLUTIONS be needed by 2030 to combat climate change sustainable transit projects contributed a cumulaFOR IMPACT and achieve the UN Sustainable Development tive $6.7 billion toward our goal. Goals. In addition, global green finance must Inclusive and Resilient reach $1 trillion by the end of 2020, growing each While SDG 13 is focused on the wider response to Communities year thereafter. a changing climate, several of our investments, including municipal bond underwriting and activ• Much of the work that we count toward our ities supporting water quality and conservation Environmental $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal is directly projects, deliver on SDG target 13.1, which aims in Finance aligned with three of the SDGs: SDG 7, which seeks part to strengthen resilience and adaptive capacto ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainity to climate-related hazards. able and modern energy for all; SDG 11, which aims to make cities and human settlements SDG Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable; and SDG 13, which contributes to urgent action to SDG Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities combat climate change and its impacts. SDG Goal 13: Climate Action For example, target 7.2, to increase the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix by 2030, and target 7.3, to double the global rate of energy efficiency improvements by 2030, are both directly aligned with the objectives of our $100 billion goal. In 2018, the financing of renewable energy and energy efficiency projects accounted for $36.3 billion and $800 million, respectively, toward our goal. The $100 billion goal also directly contributes to SDG target 11.2 — which aims to provide access to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport systems for all — thanks to our 2 Climate Bonds Initiative, Bonds and Climate Change: The State of the Market 2018 (September 2018), https://www.climatebonds.net/ files/reports/cbi_sotm_2018_final_01k-web.pdf. 47 Our $100B Environmental Finance Goal in Action To reach our goal, we apply our environmental criteria: Renewable Water Quality and Sustainable Green Energy Clean Energy Conservation Transportation Building Efficiency Technology Working with partners and clients we finance a range of transactions, such as the examples listed below: ALTERNATIVE ENERGY BANKING PUBLIC FINANCE COMMODITIES AND FINANCE • Wind Energy Power Transit Bond • Power Purchase Agreement • Wind Energy Project Financing • LEED-Certified Affordable • Monetization of Renewable Energy Credits • Solar Company IPO Housing Loan CONSUMER/COMMERCIAL BANKING GREEN BONDS • Solar Company Corporate Loan • Corporate Green Bond • Sovereign Green Bond $95.3B Our environmental finance activity can be seen around the world: Total $54.3B North America $4.1B Multiple $30.4B Europe, Middle East Regions and Africa $1.4B Latin America $5.0B Asia Pacific Figures may not sum to total due to rounding. This work results in measurable impacts: 8.5M mt CO e 131.6K Emissions avoided 2 55.9M Population in U.S. cities 5.7K Families served by 5.5K MW New renewable Jobs supported (direct, indirect and counties served by green affordable energy capacity and induced) water-quality projects housing 48 Our Accounting Methodology our industry peers, we have made this methodology 3 publicly available. We use a league table credit methodology, based on SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT third-party verifiable data, to calculate Citi’s share For the majority of the financial activity counted of the deals included in the $100 billion goal. This toward the goal, we use league table accounting Inclusive approach counts Citi’s direct contribution to environmeasures from Dealogic, Thomson Reuters and and Resilient Communities mental solutions on behalf of our clients, according Bloomberg New Energy Finance. For loans or other to our role in each transaction, and aligns with the financial products for which there are no established financial sector’s method for measuring credit for league tables, we count the amount that reflects Citi’s • Environmental business activity. To demonstrate transparency and financial involvement in the deal. Finance promote wider adoption of this approach among < Aligning Borrowing with Sustainability Goals What if a company could tie its interest rate to Such financings originated in Europe, where a achievement of its sustainability goals, directly number of loans have been structured to include an connecting financial success to positive environenvironmental component. In the U.S., this is still a mental and social performance? ESG-linked loans, a nascent area, with only a small number of relevant relatively new loan financing product, allow compatransactions to date. nies to do just that, demonstrating a commitment to sustainable business practices. Citi has served as bookrunner and mandated lead arranger on several ESG-linked transactions in the This growing trend of ESG-linked loans within the European market. In December 2017, Citi acted as investment-grade loan market provides a pricing coordinating bookrunner, syndication bank and incentive if certain sustainability targets are met mandated lead arranger for a new €600 million — or, conversely, a pricing penalty if they are not. revolving credit facility for Stora Enso Oyj to replace The ESG targets can be based on metrics commonly its existing revolving credit facility. Based in Helsinki, used by third-party analysts, such as ESG ratings, Stora Enso is a leading global provider of renewor they can be tailored to the borrower based on able solutions in packaging, biomaterials, wooden specific goals. The borrower and lender will deterconstructions and paper. The company aims to mine a goal or a set of goals that apply throughout replace fossil-fuel-based materials by innovating and the life of the loan with intermittent annual goals developing new products and services made from to track progress. In addition, lenders will expect a wood and other renewable materials. The facility robust ESG governance system to be put in place to benefits from a “green” margin adjustment, which ensure accountability to the loan structure. adjusts the initial margin according to Stora Enso’s performance against science-based targets (compliant with the Science Based Targets Initiative) relating to the company’s greenhouse gas emissions. 3 A league table is a competitive ranking of banks, companies, industries, geographies or other groups of entities ordered according to a metric (e.g., deal volume, number of deals). 49 Working Toward Our Goal Citi draws on the diverse expertise of our global teams to provide our clients with innovative products and services that best capture opportunities to address climate challenges. Our Corporate Sustainability team works closely with contributing business units to track progress toward our $100 billion goal in the following Jamie Forese discussing financing sustainable growth business categories — Alternative Energy Banking and at the 2018 Ceres Conference. Financing, Green Bonds, Public Finance, Commodities, and Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. “I’ve been in banking for 33 years, and I think we’ve seen an incredible Alternative Energy Banking and Finance evolution of the role that banks Citi provides a full range of financing solutions for play in environmental and social environmental projects globally, and we continue to issues today. We used to say, ‘We’re develop innovative, end-to-end solutions to meet our just a bank, what do you want us clients’ unique financing needs. Our Alternative Energy to do? We’re just here to facilitate Banking and Financing team has developed extensive expertise in financing solutions for a broad spectrum economic opportunity.’ Today, of renewable energy technologies, including wind, our position has evolved to say, solar, geothermal and biomass. For larger, utility-scale ‘Because we’re a bank, let’s see projects, we are able to provide multiple services as a one-stop shop for our clients, including construction what it is that we can do.’” financing, commodities hedging and tax equity on a —J  amie Forese, President, Citigroup single deal. Citi’s approach to alternative energy and and CEO, Institutional Clients Group banking products has sparked increased client demand for across-the-board financing solutions. $100B GOAL IN ACTION • ALTERNATIVE ENERGY BANKING AND FINANCE < Hornsea Wind Citi served as co-debt financial advisor, co-placement The debt financing package will partially fund the agent and sole export credit agency arranger construction of the offshore wind farm, as well as to Ørsted (formerly DONG Energy) and Global support the £4.5 billion acquisition by GIP III Jupiter Infrastructure Partners (GIP) on a £3.6 billion debt of a 50 percent stake in Hornsea 1, where Citi acted financing package for Hornsea 1, a greenfield UK as exclusive sell-side merger and acquisition finanoffshore wind farm project located in the southern cial advisor to Ørsted in the sale process. part of the North Sea. Hornsea 1 will be the world’s largest offshore wind farm when commissioned, with a total capacity of 1,218 megawatts, and will supply clean energy to more than 1 million UK homes. Citi led the structuring and placement of the debt financing — the largest-ever project financing in the global renewable sector — as co-debt financial advisor and co-placement agent. Citi also underwrote the £800 million export credit agency-backed facilities as sole arranger and sole initial lender. 50 Green, Social and Sustainability Bonds group, we worked on the release of the Social Bond Guidance document in 2016 to support the growth Citi was one of the largest underwriters of green, of the emerging markets for social bonds, which social and sustainability bonds globally in 2018. finance projects that produce clear socioeconomic These transactions helped our clients raise more benefits, and sustainable bonds, which support both SOLUTIONS than $178 billion to meet their environmental, social environmental and social benefits. Citi has been an FOR IMPACT and sustainability goals. active player in these bond markets, and while social and sustainable bonds are not counted toward our Inclusive In early 2018, Citi served as joint bookrunner and billing and Resilient $100 billion goal, which is focused on environmental and delivery on the Republic of Poland’s €2 billion Communities finance, they are an important part of our growing dual-tranche green bond offering, formed of 10and sustainable finance business. 30-year tenors — the latter being the longest ever • Environmental green bond issued by a sovereign. Also in 2018, Finance the San Francisco City and County Public Utilities Public Finance Commission issued the first green bond offering National and subnational governments are often on incorporating a put option. Citi served as senior the front lines in responding to climate change, and Citi manager. (Learn more on the next page.) provides financial solutions, including loans and bonds, to help them invest in clean water, transportation and Citi co-founded the Green Bond Principles, which energy infrastructure to meet the needs of their citiprovide issuers with guidelines encouraging zens. For example, the San Francisco City and County transparency, and we are an active member of its Public Utilities Commission (SFPUC) issued more than Social Bond Working Group. As part of that working $100B GOAL IN ACTION • GREEN, SOCIAL AND SUSTAINABILITY BONDS < Republic of Indonesia Green Bond In February 2018, the Republic of Indonesia rain forests. Indonesia has committed to reduce successfully priced a $1.25 billion five-year greenhouse gas emissions by 29 percent by 2030 green Sukuk, the world's first green sovereign and has pledged to make renewable energy oneSukuk offering. Sukuk are Sharia compliant quarter of its energy mix by 2025, double instruments that do not involve the payment and what it is today. Indonesia’s Green Bond and receipt of interest, which is not permitted under Green Sukuk Framework includes a broad range Sharia principles. of sectors that promote the transition to a low-emission economy and climate-resilient As the largest archipelagic country in the world, growth, including climate mitigation, adaptaIndonesia plays a significant role in global efforts tion and biodiversity. Citi served as joint lead to combat climate change and preserve the envimanager on this landmark transaction. ronment, especially its own extensive tropical 51 $594 million in revenue bonds, composed of approxCommodities imately $408 million in green certified bonds (Series 2018A&C) and nearly $186 million in serial bonds (Series Citi’s Commodities team and energy trading desk, 2018B). On behalf of the Commission, Citi served as Citigroup Energy Inc. (CEI), provides hedges for senior manager in underwriting the approximately $180 renewable energy project financing deals, helps million Series C five-year, fixed-rate, green put bonds. clients obtain renewable energy credits and works on Proceeds from the offering are expected to be used commodities derivatives. These services help enable to fund selected aspects of the SFPUC Sewer System our clients to achieve their financial and environImprovement Project, including stormwater, flood resilmental goals for renewable energy procurement. CEI ience, sewage treatment, wastewater and infrastructure has also played a role in helping Citi meet our goal upgrades, and are intended to address issues such as to power our facilities with 100 percent renewable aging infrastructure, seismic reliability, rising sea levels energy by 2020. and localized flooding. The offering represents the first In Texas, Citi provided a comprehensive financing green bond incorporating a put option. solution, including combining construction loan Citi’s community lending and investing activity also financing, an 11-year physical power hedge, agency includes financing of affordable housing. LEED-certified and trust services, and an unlevered tax equity partaffordable housing projects are counted toward our nership, for the Midway Wind project. In 2018, we also $100 billion goal. The affordable housing activity purchased renewable energy from this project. Learn counted in 2018 served nearly 1,000 families. more in the Operations section. $100B GOAL IN ACTION • PUBLIC FINANCE $100B GOAL IN ACTION • COMMODITIES < Affordable Housing Revenue Bonds < Sourcing Renewable Power In June 2018, Citi senior managed a $201 million In February 2018, CEI designed a wholesale power transaction for the New York State Housing intermediation structure to enable QTS Realty Finance Agency to finance nine multi-family Trust to source renewable power for its Irving, projects, accounting for more than 1,300 units of Texas, data center. The 10-year renewable energy affordable housing across the state. About $117 sale combined an asset-specific physical power million of the bonds were designated as certified hedge with renewable energy credits from the green bonds, meaning that the associated proj$316 million Flat Top Wind Project, located about ects will meet or exceed certain ENERGY STAR® 130 miles from Irving in Comanche, Texas. Citi efficiency standards and qualify as “low-carbon Project & Infrastructure Finance, Alternative buildings” under criteria set by the Climate Bonds Energy Finance and Commodities jointly provided Initiative. The sale was oversubscribed, with more the construction loan and letter of credit facilities, than $406 million in orders. Learn more about tax equity and energy hedge for the Flat Top Wind affordable housing in the Communities section. project in 2017. 52 $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal Financial Data* SOLUTIONS in billions of dollars, 2014–2018 FOR IMPACT Region 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 TOTAL TOTAL % Inclusive and Resilient North America 4.2 11.2 6.7 7.4 24.8 54.3 57% Communities Europe, Middle East 2.4 4.1 7.8 6.7 9.5 30.4 32% $95.3B and Africa • Environmental Finance TOTAL TO DATE $95.3B Asia Pacific TOTAL TO DATE 0.2 $95.3 $57BB TO DATE 2.3 0.1TOTAL0.5 1.8 5.0 5% Latin America 0.2 0.5 0.1 0.4 0.3 1.4 1% Multiple Regions 0.5 1.1 0.5 — 1.9 4.1 4% Total 7.5 16.9 15.6 16.9 38.4 95.3 100% Environmental Criteria Renewable Energy 4.9 11.6 9.6 10.9 24.4 61.3 64% Solar 0.8 2.1 0.6 4.9 1.6 10.0 10% Wind 3.0 7.9 8.6 4.4 7.3 31.2 33% Mixed Renewables 1.1 1.6 0.4 1.6 15.4 20.1 21% Energy Efficiency 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.0 0.9 1% $95.3B TOTAL TO DATE $95.3B TOTAL TO DATE $95.3 Green Building $57BB Sustainable TOTAL TO DATE 0.4 0.5 0.6 1.8 0.7 1.6 0.3 1.2 2.1 1.6 4.1 6.7 4% 7% Transportation Water Quality 0.4 1.2 2.8 1.4 5.3 11.1 12% and Conservation Clean Technology 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.3 0% Multiple Criteria 1.1 1.4 0.5 2.9 4.9 10.8 11% Total 7.5 16.9 15.6 16.9 38.4 95.3 100% Business Alternative Energy 4.2 11.0 9.0 9.2 24.1 57.5 60% Banking and Finance Green Bonds** 1.8 1.8 1.4 4.4 6.7 16.0 17% $95.3B TOTAL TO DATE $95.3 $57BB TOTAL TO DATE Public Finance 0.7 3.2 4.3 2.9 7.3 18.5 19% Commodities 0.2 0.5 0.5 0.2 0.0 1.4 1% Consumer Banking and 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.2 0.1 1.7 2% Commercial Banking Total 7.5 16.9 15.6 16.9 38.4 95.3 100% * Figures may not sum to totals due to rounding. ** Includes green portion of sustainability bonds when information is available. 53 Environmental and Social Impacts Achieved Through Our $100 Billion Goal The $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal is To calculate environmental impacts, we developed about more than the dollar figure. We recognize that models to estimate the GHG emissions avoided by a the real-world impacts of these investments are a subset of the of transactions that contribute to the crucial measure of success — for Citi, our clients and $100 billion goal — specifically, renewable energy our communities. financing, energy efficiency financing and public finance. The estimated 4 million metric tons of GHG When we first developed our goal, we felt it was emissions avoided as a result of our activities in 2018 important to measure and understand the full scope is the equivalent of removing more than 845,000 of our work. Utilizing stakeholder feedback, we idencars from the road for one year. tified a range of impacts — greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions avoided, jobs supported and community For social impacts, our primary metric is the number benefits realized — that we are able to apply to a of jobs that are supported by a segment of activity subset of the transactions counted toward the goal. counted toward the goal, specifically Citi’s financing We calculate these metrics where actual data or a of U.S.-based renewable energy projects and public reasonable proxy method can be obtained. There finance activity. We developed a model that estiis no one universal way to measure these impacts, mates our contribution to supporting job creation so we developed our approach following extensive based on an approach used by economists and public research on a variety of best practices. policy experts. These calculations are based on specific investment and expenditure profiles tied to This area of work continues to be an ongoing learning data aggregated from a number of sources. For 2018, process for us at Citi. We have refined our methodology we estimate that more than 37,000 direct, indirect over the last several years as we work to better underand induced jobs are supported by the financing we stand the impacts associated with the activity that provide to our clients. counts toward our goal. Overall, we take a conservative approach to reporting impacts and do not include deals For the first time, in 2018, we calculated our direct, in which we have limited transparency on transaction indirect and induced impact on the U.S. gross details. Our impact measurement methodology aligns domestic product (GDP). We estimate that our 2018 with our accounting approach to report on impacts financing activities have contributed approximately associated with our share of a transaction. $8.2 billion to U.S. GDP. 54 Impact Data* Environmental Impacts 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 TOTAL Avoided GHG 1,360,092 1,740,659 325,676 1,058,809 3,987,444 8,472,680 Emissions (mt) SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT Renewable Energy 1,294,788 1,590,612 180,739 1,057,022 3,922,551 8,045,712 Project Finance Inclusive and Resilient Energy Efficiency 60,061 145,524 140,149 63,229 408,963 Communities Finance • Public Finance 2,224 1,672 1,453 1,246 1,664 8,258 Environmental Finance Consumer/ 3,019 2,851 3,335 541 9,746 Commercial Banking Renewable Energy 563 869 278 619 3,154 5,483 Capacity Added (MW) Social Impacts 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 TOTAL Jobs Supported 11,574 29,494 30,140 22,995 37,364 131,567 Renewable Energy 4,870 8,069 4,378 4,357 5,098 26,772 Project Finance Public Finance** 6,704 21,425 25,762 18,638 32,266 104,795 People Serviced by 211,346 6,916,113 28,831,321 7,617,037 12,363,540 55,939,357 Water Quality and Conservation Projects Families Serviced by 1,237 1,004 1,166 1,340 956 5,703 Affordable Housing Activity Trips on Transit System 3.5B 3.1B 4.2B 3.2B 14.0B Projects (in billions) * Figures may not sum to total due to rounding. ** The 2017 amount of Public Finance jobs supported is revised from previous reporting to accurately reflect our methodology. 55 What’s Ahead < TCFD and Climate Opportunities As we approach completion of our $100 Billion Citi supports the Task Force on Climate-related Environmental Finance Goal, it’s abundantly clear that Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and its recommenthe scale of climate change, and its related impacts on dations for improved disclosures of the financial society, necessitates significant investments across impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities. all industries. Based on the latest information from The focus on climate opportunities as well as the IPCC, we anticipate these investments going risks is well-aligned with our Sustainable Progress beyond financing low-carbon energy, technology and Strategy. Our environmental finance activities infrastructure to include climate-friendly land use in reduce climate change impacts and create environthe forestry and agriculture sectors — areas that are mental solutions in collaboration with our clients gaining greater attention and understanding from and other stakeholders. both scientific and industry players and that will need significant financial investment in the decade ahead. If In November 2018, we released our first climate disclowe’re going to contribute to both mitigating the worst sure report, Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future, potential effects of global warming and increasing in response to the recommendations set forth in the our collective resilience to the expected changes, we TCFD. The report considers how physical risk (related must quicken the pace of transition across all sectors to extreme weather) and transition risk (related to to deliver the most scientifically and financially sound climate policy and rapid technology changes) could strategy we can. impact clients and the broader financial system. The report also highlights opportunities for Citi to support This transition requires that we look at new ways we clients by making investments in clean energy, infracan leverage our financial resources. In early 2019, structure and technology. Citi issued our inaugural green bond — a €1 billion, three-year, fixed-rate note. The bond will fund For more on how we are responding to the TCFD renewable energy, sustainable transportation, recommendations and managing climate risks and water quality and conservation, energy efficiency opportunities, see the Citizenship at Citi section. and green building projects financed as part of our $100 billion goal. Since co-founding the Green Bond Principles in 2014, Citi has been a leader in the development of the green bond market, and the issuance of this bond enhances our green bond advocacy through our support of initiatives like We expertise and furthers our commitment to the Are Still In, our partnerships with NGOs such as Ceres continued growth of the market. and the World Resources Institute, and engagement with trade organizations like the U.S. Chamber of It also requires that we continue to help lead the Commerce, with which we and other companies have dialogue around climate change. We are working been engaging on climate-related policy positions. with our investors to determine next steps in underThrough the use of our corporate voice, we work to standing climate risks and opportunities as part of encourage positive action and address societal chalour TCFD journey. We also continue to build on our lenges in the face of rapid change. 56 How We Do Business IN THIS SECTION pg. 59 Environmental and Social Risk Management pg. 67 Human Rights pg. 75 Operations and Supply Chain pg. 91 Digital Innovation pg. 101 Talent and Diversity pg. 121 Ethics and Culture 57 FPO photo 58 Environmental and Social Risk Management HOW WE DO The financing decisions we make, and our assessment and BUSINESS management of environmental and social risks, are integral to • Environmental acting responsibly as we enable growth and economic progress. and Social Risk Management Our risk management and client engagement activities help us evaluate financial opportunities. And, importantly, they give us the Human Rights opportunity to promote to our clients the adoption of international Operations and best practices in environmental and social impact management. Supply Chain Digital Innovation Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) For example, during 2018, we integrated new policy is one of the three pillars of our Sustainable Progress commitments related to the sale of firearms into our Talent and 1 Strategy. Our ESRM-related activities help us and our ESRM Policy (learn more about our U.S. Commercial Diversity clients navigate a constantly evolving risk landscape Firearms Policy in the Human Rights section.) We in order to make responsible decisions. also formalized a policy commitment restricting Ethics and Culture financing for the construction or expansion of coalfired power plants (learn more in the Reducing Credit Our ESRM Policy Exposure to Coal section). Citi finances billions of dollars in transactions for a wide variety of clients and projects, many of which have potential environmental and social impacts. Policy Implementation We carefully evaluate and consider these risks when Our centralized team of ESRM specialists evaluates making financing decisions on individual, projectall transactions that trigger a review according related transactions and during annual reviews and to our ESRM Policy. We also rely on employees portfolio assessments. throughout our organization globally, such as our ESRM Champions, to help spot potential risks. This Our internal ESRM Policy, summarized publicly in network approach greatly enhances the global coverour Environmental and Social Policy Framework, age capacity of our centralized specialist team. The helps us responsibly finance projects and activities ESRM team works collaboratively and shares inforby effectively engaging our clients on sustainability mation and best practices in bimonthly network calls best practices. The policy covers a broad scope that help support and strengthen the entire network. of financial products and client sectors and sets standards for how we assess client impacts on air Citi’s ESRM team categorizes the project-related quality, water quality, climate change, biodiversity, transactions they review as A, B or C, with A indicating local communities, labor and other environmental the highest risk. The categorization is based on the and social issues. We established our comprehensive magnitude of potential adverse environmental and ESRM Policy in 2003 — the first U.S.-based financial social impacts associated with the project and is institution to do so — and we continue to evolve aligned with the Equator Principles and International our approach in response to emerging risks and new Finance Corporation categorization. For general product development. corporate purposes transactions under our ESRM 1 For performance against our Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard, please see the report Appendices. 59 Policy (categorized as “general review”), we evaluate financing discussions. Also in 2018, we declined three a client’s environmental and social policies and perfortransactions related to project and equipment financmance, as well as its commitment and capacity to ing for new coal-fired power projects, in anticipation of manage environmental and social issues. Higher-risk, the rollout of our new policy commitments restricting project-related transactions receive in-depth reviews financing for new coal-fired power capacity. against applicable standards by independent environmental and social consultants. If gaps are found Applying our ESRM Policy helps us identify additional between a client’s environmental and social plans, risks beyond traditional credit risks, guides decisions policies or practices and international standards, we for how to evaluate future transactions related to develop an Environmental and Social Action Plan companies or projects within high-risk sectors, and (ESAP) to fill the gaps. As a condition of financing, presents opportunities for us to advise clients on we require the client to implement the ESAP, and we solutions to thematic risks. To learn more about monitor progress over time. our ESRM Policy, including Areas of High Caution, sector-specific standards and policy prohibitions, see For example, during due diligence for the potential our Environmental and Social Policy Framework. financing of a new U.S. wind farm, we identified possible risks related to an endangered bird species. GRI 102-44 The risk was a low probability but could have a high impact, if realized. As a condition of financing, we required the project sponsor to develop a species-specific operations protocol to: • Train the wind farm staff to identify the species in < ESRM Champions Are Key the visual vicinity of the project to Mitigating Environmental and • Develop a communications plan to report the Social Risk observation to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and relevant state agency Citi’s ESRM Champions are employees with regional expertise and additional ESRM training, who serve • Define circumstances that would require curtailas a bridge between our local banking teams and ment, including specific protocols to implement if our global ESRM team. They also assist in training the species is present local, internal teams about our ESRM Policy and provide important regional insights that improve Our ESRM Policy is most effective in cases like this our ability to make responsible lending decisions. one, when we are considering financing projects and For example, during 2018, our ESRM Champion in have the influence to include financing conditions Mexico led the development of an environmental requiring tangible actions to improve environmental and social risk screening tool that simplifies the and social outcomes. detection of sensitive areas in the vicinity of oil, gas, In some cases, however, we must decline to participate mining, power and real estate projects in Mexico. in a transaction because we do not believe we can The tool uses postal codes and public databases to adequately address the environmental and social risks quickly map and identify natural protected areas, through mitigation measures or the risks are too high. priority sites for biodiversity conservation, culturIn 2018, we evaluated an opportunity to finance an ally significant and archaeological sites, as well as oil and gas development project that our initial ESRM lands owned or occupied by Indigenous Peoples. In screening indicated would have impacts on the biodiaddition to maps, the tool provides general recomversity of a natural habitat and on local Indigenous mendations for more comprehensive environmental Peoples. While the project sponsor was using industryand social reviews. The tool has been adopted by leading biodiversity management approaches and the Mexican Banking Association, and voluntary making sincere attempts to constructively engage implementation by member banks will begin in 2019. with the indigenous communities, we did not think the project would be able to obtain the free, prior and informed consent of the affected Indigenous Peoples, and we therefore declined to move forward with 60 HOW WE DO Working to Improve Habitat BUSINESS • Conservation and Labor Conditions Environmental and Social Risk Management find alt photo Human Rights in the Palm Oil Industry Operations and Supply Chain Digital Innovation The palm oil industry has many environmental and In 2018, RSPO members passed new Principles and social challenges and is often linked to deforestation Criteria for the Production of Sustainable Palm Oil, Talent and and associated greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, which take a strong position on zero deforestation Diversity degradation of endangered species’ habitats and and the adoption of a decent living wage, as defined human rights risks. Many palm plantations have been by the Global Living Wage Coalition, for all palm Ethics and established on peat swamp forests, a particularly oil workers. The conservation and restoration of Culture carbon-rich type of forest that, when drained or existing high-conservation value and high-carbon burned, releases even more GHGs into the atmostock forested land, which would otherwise be turned sphere than other types of tropical forests. In addiinto palm oil plantations, is helping to mitigate envition to these concerning climate impacts, the largeronmental impacts and preserve critical orangutan scale conversion of tropical rain forests into palm oil habitat. Citi supports this step toward more sustainplantations can adversely impact biodiversity, such able palm oil and is integrating the new criteria as in Borneo and Sumatra, where orangutan popuinto our evaluation of clients’ operations. We also lations have been left without food and shelter and enhanced our Palm Oil Sector Standard questionnaire have become even more vulnerable to poachers due with new questions related to systemic labor risks to deforestation. on palm oil plantations, with a particular emphasis on child and forced labor. This addition will improve Citi has been an active member of the Roundtable on our ability to evaluate and address labor risks in our Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) since 2010 and currently clients’ business practices directly. serves on the RSPO Complaints Panel. We require our palm oil clients to become members of the RSPO At the same time, our partnership with the RSPO and regularly engage them on their progress toward allows us to collaborate broadly and contribute to 100 percent RSPO certification. In 2018 this engageworker welfare in less direct, but no less importment included discussing innovative ways for one ant, ways. For example, our service on the RSPO client to address its deforestation liabilities under Complaints Panel allowed us to show support for and RSPO requirements that ultimately led to their encourage the RSPO to partner with Ulula — a mobile establishment of a tropical rainforest conservation technology platform that facilitates reporting of fund and an orangutan conservation and rehabiliworker welfare issues, monitoring of working conditation area in Indonesia. We also engaged with the tions and employee engagement. The RSPO and Ulula founders of a new conservation fund that develops began working in 2018 to launch the platform in Sabah, conservation and restoration projects to offset palm Malaysia, and across four estates in Indonesia. oil plantation impacts and promoted their services to our clients and peer banks. 61 Monitoring the Changing Risk Landscape The ESRM team uses a number of methods to proactively scan the changing risk landscape for new, emerging risks as well as risks with increased prominence and prevalence. Through internal research and inputs from third-party environmental and social data providers, we monitor relevant developments in high-risk industries and stakeholder areas of concern to flag emerging issues. This ongoing monitoring keeps us responsive to evolving risks, allows us to raise awareness within Citi about emerging issues and helps us identify clients that are impacted by these emerging risks for engagement. Our risk monitoring feeds into our ESRM Watchlist process, through which we flag individual companies based on their track record, sensitive or controversial assets, third-party analyst scores and negative Client Engagement news. In 2018, for example, Citi added a large indusEngaging our clients is an important part of our trial company to the ESRM Watchlist due to concerns ESRM due diligence process. Initially, these engageabout environmental contamination and the resultments were tied only to specific, project-related ing health concerns in nearby communities that financial transactions and the associated enviled to violent protests. The Watchlist designation ronmental and social risks and mitigation efforts. prompted the ESRM team to conduct enhanced due However, as we have developed sector-specific risk diligence of a proposed transaction and to proacmanagement approaches over the years, we have tively engage with the client on environmental remeadded corporate-level reviews and engagements for diation, stakeholder engagement and community a number of sectors. These sector-specific risk review grievance measures. Through the risk monitoring processes encourage dialogue between Citi and our of the Watchlist process, the ESRM team continues clients about the material environmental and social to track developments with the company regarding risks associated with their operations, enabling us to litigation, regulatory inspections and community develop a better understanding of prevailing industry engagement and to drive continuous improvement practices and our clients’ performance. through ongoing client engagement. During 2018, we prioritized these broader engagements with a number of our North American clients in the oil and gas industry, particularly as more < Collaborating to Update and more seek to proactively engage their banks Industry Standards and investors on their environmental, social and governance performance. We discussed their enviDuring 2018, Citi actively participated in the Equator ronmental, health and safety management policies, Principles update process, helping to design the next stakeholder engagement approaches and climate iteration of this global standard for banks evaluating impact reduction strategies, as well as their efforts environmental and social risks. Citi participated in to improve transparency on these matters. We also multiple working groups, including those examining shared the evolving approaches banks are taking social risks, climate risks, biodiversity and the scope to evaluate their clients, as well as information on of covered transactions. This work is ongoing, with the what Citi is doing in response to the Task Force final, updated standard expected during 2019. on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. 62 Climate-Related Risk Climate change is one of the most critical issues facing our society today. Unless actions are taken to transition to a low-carbon economy and address climate-related risks, the impacts of climate change are only expected to increase. As a financier of the global economy, we are keenly aware that climate change HOW WE DO is a serious risk that affects many of our clients. In BUSINESS response, we are increasingly focused on how to assess • the impacts of climate change on our portfolios. Environmental and Social Risk Management Climate Risk Analysis Human Rights Citi has been conducting various types of climate risk analysis over the past few years. In 2016, we underOperations and took our first climate-related stress test. We collaboSupply Chain rated with the Natural Capital Finance Alliance and the UN Environment Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) to pilot Digital Innovation a drought stress-testing tool to assess the resilience of several lending portfolios to different drought Talent and scenarios in the U.S. and Mexico. We followed this up Diversity in 2017 with a stranded assets analysis to understand the likelihood that upstream oil and gas assets in our climate scenario analyses, which explored how clients’ Ethics and energy portfolio would lose value because of a carbon Culture creditworthiness changes under three temperature price or tax and how that would impact clients’ credit warming scenarios: 1.5°C, 2°C and 4°C. quality. More information about these analyses are available in our 2017 Global Citizenship Report. Following our analysis, Citi published our first TCFD report, Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future, in Building on this work, we partnered with 15 other November 2018. A summary of the report is included leading global and regional banks and UNEP FI on a in the Citizenship at Citi section of this report, and a pilot project to conduct climate scenario analysis in TCFD index is included in the Appendices. alignment with the TCFD recommendations released in June 2017. We used the methodologies that this working group developed to assess the potential Reducing Credit Exposure to Coal financial impacts of transition risk and physical The shift away from fossil fuels in pursuit of renewrisk associated with climate change to understand able energy will have a significant effect on both climate-related risks and opportunities in Citi’s lending coal-fired power production and coal mining. Since portfolios for U.S. utilities and U.S. and Canada oil and 2015, Citi has had a commitment to reduce our gas exploration and production. Various teams within credit exposure to the coal mining industry. The Citi’s risk management function, including our ESRM effort applies globally to companies generating a and credit risk teams, were involved in conducting our 63 Enhancing Our Training majority of their revenues from coal mining activities and to coal-focused subsidiaries of diversified mining companies. To deliver on this commitment, Each year, we train key risk and banking personnel we have conducted corporate-level risk reviews for on our ESRM Policy, including in-depth discussions existing and prospective mining clients who derive on environmental and social risks relevant to certain more than half of their revenues from coal. Over the regions and sectors, Equator Principles implepast three years, we have successfully reduced our mentation and Citi Sector Standards. The training credit exposure. also includes emerging risks and guidance to help Furthermore, in 2018, we updated our ESRM Policy employees recognize environmental and social risk with a new restriction on financing for the construcin transactions — ranging from climate change risks tion or expansion of coal-fired power plants. This to human rights risks to labor concerns and more. includes transactions supporting the supply of all During 2018, we undertook an extensive effort to components, equipment, materials and services revamp and relaunch our online employee training directly required for the construction of such modules related to the Equator Principles and our plants. Exceptions may be considered for proposed ESRM Policy, as well as Citi's new firearms policy ultra-supercritical plants that address situations of in the U.S. In total, more than 900 Citi employees energy poverty (i.e., in countries where the national underwent ESRM training during the year. electrification rate is reported as 90 percent or below in the annual Energy Progress Report). Any exception we may consider financing would go through independent analysis to verify that the What’s Ahead proposed project or expansion aligns with the host Environmental and social risks are constantly evolvcountry’s Nationally Determined Contribution under ing. In response, we will continue our ongoing review the Paris Agreement. and risk analysis at every level — across sectors, clients and individual transactions. We will also In addition, Citi will review our power-sector clients continue to use our Watchlist to further integrate with coal-fired generation annually to evaluate their risk analysis into our day-to-day business processes, GHG reduction strategies and their management of while at the same time staying abreast of evolving risks and opportunities related to a low-carbon tranrisks and enhancing our policies. As the world seeks sition. We will request information about GHG emisto mitigate the impact of climate change and its sions related to owned generation and purchased associated risks, we are continually learning about power; climate-related risks and opportunities emerging best practices for financial institutions to impacting the client’s business strategy, including, evaluate climate-related risks. In support of ongoing if available, a 2°C climate warming scenario impact reporting and risk analysis, we will consider our next analysis; and a description of the company’s current steps in addressing the TCFD recommendations in efforts and future strategic plans to support a consultation with investors and key stakeholders. transition to a low-carbon energy future, including Our ESRM team is also partnering with colleagues in diversification options to shift away from coal-fired Citi’s Technology Group to understand how artificial power sources and quantitative targets for reducing intelligence and machine learning, as well as other GHG emissions. forms of advanced data management, could help expand our capacities and optimize our approach to environmental and social risk management. 64 2018 Projects Covered by the Equator Principles As part of our commitment to the Equator Principles Funded EP Project Funded EP Project-Related (EP), we report annually on our implementation. Finance Loans Corporate and Bridge Loans 1 1 HOW WE DO BUSINESS Category A — Projects likely to have potential A significant adverse social or environmental • impacts that are diverse, irreversible or Category A Category A Environmental unprecedented 5 6 and Social Risk Management Category B — Projects likely to have potenB tial limited adverse social or environmental Human Rights Category B Category B impacts that are few in number, generally Operations and Supply Chain site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures 0 Category C 0 Category C Category C — Projects likely to have minimal Digital Innovation C or no social or environmental impacts. Total = 6 Total = 7 Citi had no EP Project Finance Advisories in 2018. Talent and Diversity Funded Project Finance Funded Project-Related Corporate Ethics and Loans Breakdown and Bridge Loans Breakdown Culture By Sector A B C Total By Sector A B C Total Infrastructure 1 1 Chemicals 1 1 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 1 2 3 Infrastructure 1 1 Power — Gas 1 1 Manufacturing 2 2 Power — Wind 1 1 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 1 1 Power — Wind 2 2 By Region A B C Total By Region A B C Total Asia Pacific 0 Asia Pacific 0 Europe 0 Europe 1 1 Latin America 1 1 Latin America 1 1 Middle East and Africa 1 1 Middle East and Africa 1 1 2 U.S. and Canada 4 4 U.S. and Canada 3 3 By Country Designation A B C Total By Country Designation A B C Total Designated* 4 4 Designated* 4 4 Non-designated** 1 1 2 Non-designated** 1 2 3 By Independent Review A B C Total By Independent Review A B C Total Yes 1 4 5 Yes 1 2 3 No 1 1 No 4 4 * Designated Countries as defined by the Equator Principles are high-income OECD countries. See the Equator Principles website for more information. ** Non-designated Countries as defined by the Equator Principles are all non-OECD countries and all OECD countries not designated as high income. 65 Transactions Receiving ESRM Review The ESRM team is consulted in the early stages of potential transactions. These numbers show transactions screened by the ESRM team, regardless of whether they proceeded to financial close. By Region Total Transactions Receiving ESRM Review 0 / 17 452 Global 35 A 4 / 55 411 Europe 2 / 110 382 59 U.S. and 5 / 103 30 B Canada 113 Asia Pacific 114 7 / 41 148 17 / 126 56 C Middle East Latin and Africa America 58 # of Category A | Total 34 35 | 452 By Sector 212 GR* # of Category A | Total 141 144 Forestry, Palm Oil, Pulp & Paper Forestry, Palm Oil, Pulp and Paper 2 | 33 Infrastructure & Transportation Infrastructure and Transportation 6 | 69 39 36 NOT 26 Manufacturing and Industrials Manufacturing and Industrials 1 | 24 CATEGORIZED 2016 2017 2018 Metals and Mining Metals & Mining 6 | 80 Oil, Gas & Petrochem Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 14 | 117 * General Review (GR) is used for corporate reviews and transactions for general corporate purposes. Power (Including Renewables) Power (Including Renewables) 6 | 73 Other Other 0 | 56 By Product Type Advisories Advisories 1 | 4 Annual Credit Annual credit review Reviews 1 | 85 Corporate or Government CorporateLoans or Govt Loan 6 | 190 Debt and EquityDebt & Equity Underwriting Underwriting 1 | 51 EP Covered Projects and Corporate EP Covered Loans Loans 24 | 46 Letters of Credit and LettersGuarantees of Credit & Guarantees 2 | 35 Other (e.g., equity, derivatives, Project Finance etc.) Loans 0 | 41 0 50 100 150 For more information on our ESRM Policy, including how we categorize loans, visit our Environmental and Social Policy Framework. Citi received external assurance of our Equator Principles data from SGS. For our SGS Assurance Statement, see the Assurance section. 66 Human Rights We conduct human rights risk analysis and due diligence and regularly engage stakeholders to ensure that human rights considerations HOW WE DO are taken into account across our business. Our policies and BUSINESS commitments to respect human rights, such as our Statement on Environmental Human Rights, help protect our employees, provide guidance to our and Social Risk Management suppliers and inform our business decisions — including what we choose to finance and the conditions we place on that financing. Each • Human Rights new transaction or client engagement that raises a human rights risk Operations and allows us to learn more about the challenges different industries face Supply Chain in respecting human rights and gives us an opportunity to enhance Digital Innovation our practices and those of our clients. Talent and Diversity Our Commitment to Citi regularly updates our policies and practices Ethics and to strengthen our human rights due diligence. Respect Human Rights Culture During the development and subsequent updates of our Statement on Human Rights, which we first adopted in 2007, we engaged internal and external Citi is committed to respecting human rights stakeholders to help assess our actual and potential wherever we do business, regardless of the degree adverse human rights impacts and to identify the to which governments are upholding their duty to most salient human rights risks faced by our employprotect, respect and fulfill human rights. We engage ees, workers connected to our supply chain and human rights experts, clients and peers to help individuals who might be impacted by our clients’ implement our respect for human rights in line with operations. We published the most recent update to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human our Statement on Human Rights in November 2018. Rights — a global framework for preventing and Highlights of that update include: addressing the risk of adverse impacts on human • An expanded list of salient human rights risks, rights linked to business activity. The UN Guiding including longstanding issues and emerging risks Principles draw upon existing international human that have grown in prominence over the last rights instruments whose principles we endorsed several years years ago, such as those in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International • Additional information about how we identify and Labour Organization’s Core Conventions regarding prioritize salient human rights risks, our due dilichild labor, forced labor, freedom of association, gence processes and our efforts to respect human the right to organize and bargain collectively, and rights throughout our value chain equal pay and nondiscrimination in the workforce. • Reference to our new policy commitments on To increase transparency, we have prepared our commercial firearms in the U.S., including military Global Citizenship Report in accordance with the UN equipment financing, which prohibits the financing Guiding Principles Reporting Framework for the last or shipment of lethal military equipment, including three years (see this year’s index). cluster munitions 67 • Updated language for our Indigenous Peoples In addition to our formal Statement on Human consultation and consent requirements to reflect Rights, Citi’s ESRM Policy, adopted in 2003 and changes we made to our Environmental and Social summarized in our Environmental and Social Policy Risk Management (ESRM) Policy in 2017 Framework, guides our approach to assessing environmental and social issues related to financing our • Recognition of the importance of human rights clients’ business activities. For more information defenders in due diligence efforts and our aspiraabout our ESRM Policy and related due diligence tion to raise concerns with clients when allegations processes, see the Environmental and Social Risk are made regarding the repression of defenders in Management section. connection with client operations • A new section to address access to effective GRI 102-44 remedy, including as it relates to our operations and role as an employer and as it relates to impacts that occur through our business relationships with clients Our Salient Human Rights Risks Human rights is one of our most material citizenship Our handling of salient human rights risks is reguissues. We have spent more than a decade working larly communicated to senior management and our on the most salient human rights risks related to Board of Directors. For more information about our our business — those that pose the greatest risk governance of citizenship issues, including human to people — including the activities of our clients rights, see the Citizenship Governance at Citi section. Salient Human Rights Risks: Stakeholder Impacts This table illustrates which stakeholders could be impacted by the human rights risks we have identified as most salient to our company, including risks related to our own operations and the activities of our clients. Shaded risks are those that were most recently identified as salient in the 2018 update of our Statement on Human Rights. Additional context about these risks and the due diligence processes we have in place to identify and mitigate human rights risks in our value chain can be found in the Statement. Human Rights Risks Citi's Suppliers’ Customers Those Affected by Employees Employees and Clients Clients’ Projects Conflict risk Indigenous Peoples Labor practices (including discrimination and modern slavery) Resettlement Security practices Adequate standard of living; right to property Discrimination in provision of financial services Diversity and inclusion Information security; privacy 68 Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees Every Citi employee is expected to adhere to our Code of Conduct, which includes a commitment to human rights, and to participate in relevant training. Our Code of Conduct prohibits unlawful discriminaHOW WE DO tion, harassment and other behaviors that infringe BUSINESS on individual rights. This policy applies to all employEnvironmental ees, as well as to suppliers, clients and community and Social Risk partners globally. Management Diversity and inclusion issues are not always • discussed in terms of human rights, but they are Human Rights essential to human dignity, which human rights aim to protect. Respect for diversity and inclusion is a Operations and and other business partners. We identified most of high priority wherever we operate and can become Supply Chain these risks under our ESRM Policy as “Areas of High a particular concern in countries where there is no Caution” several years before the advent of the legal protection against discrimination based on Digital Innovation UN Guiding Principles. To identify these areas, we gender, gender identity, race, ethnicity, age, religion, focused on the most severe potential risks posed to physical or mental disability or medical condition, Talent and people by our clients’ activities, particularly in the Diversity or sexual orientation, in addition to a range of context of project finance. Our work to address these other essential characteristics inherent to identity risks has included helping to found and govern the and personhood. Citi prohibits discrimination and Ethics and Culture Equator Principles framework to enhance and stanharassment of our employees in all forms regardless dardize risk management across the banking sector, of whether or not individual protections are legally establishing an internal ESRM team, and developing mandated in the countries and communities where our risk identification and mitigation policies and we operate. In fact, we know that even in locations procedures. (See page 71 for more about how we where anti-discrimination laws exist, there is still a manage these risks.) need for companies to ensure they are doing their part to respect individual rights. While our formal risk management processes give us more leverage when we are directly financing a In 2018, recognizing a need to increase diversity project, we also identify and address human rights at all levels of our company, we established goals risks that could arise across our value chain. With to increase the percentage of female colleagues the latest update to our Statement on Human Rights, globally and black colleagues in the U.S. in roles we have formally recognized many of those issues ranging from assistant vice president to managing as salient human rights risks for our company, director. Citi also signed the Business Statement including discrimination in employment practices for Transgender Equality, and we began expanding and the provision of financial services; adequate insurance coverage and other benefits, already standard of living and right to property; the need to available to LGBT+ partners in the U.S., to LGBT+ safeguard the privacy of information shared with us partners globally wherever such benefits are permitby our employees and customers; and more. Citi has ted by law. Learn more about diversity and inclusion longstanding policies, procedures and programs to at Citi in the Talent and Diversity section. address these issues. 69 We work to provide a respectful and inclusive work procurement team determine how well potential and environment, and we investigate and take action on current suppliers manage environmental, social and all alleged violations. We encourage our employees governance issues, including human rights issues. with concerns to use Citi’s grievance mechanism, the Ethics Hotline. The hotline is open to external parties In 2018, we released our second UK Modern Slavery and available in several formats and languages. Act transparency statement. The statement summarizes our approach to identifying and mitigating the risks of modern slavery in our operations — including Freedom of Association client transactions — and in our supply chain. It covers information about our governance and poliWhile the financial services industry is not heavily cies related to modern slavery, risk assessment and unionized, we do have unions or work councils due diligence processes, and training. In our latest in many of the countries where we operate. statement, we provided a great deal of transparency Approximately 12 percent of our employee population related to our activities and assessments, including is covered by collective bargaining agreements. We a breakdown by risk level and sector of the findings engage directly with our employees and through of a 2017 risk assessment of our Tier 1 suppliers at these associations to discuss issues such as health certain spend thresholds in the Europe, Middle East and safety, remuneration, work hours, training, and Africa (EMEA) region. In 2018, we followed up career development, work time flexibility and equal on this risk assessment to engage with the suppliers opportunity. Information related to freedom of deemed of greatest risk based on the combination association is communicated to employees through of their sector and geographic location to better various mediums, including employee handbooks, our understand their approach to managing these risks. intranet and employee emails. Our CRQ for the EMEA region, which we send to all GRI 102-41 Tier 1 and Tier 2 suppliers regardless of spend, also now includes questions specific to modern slavery concerns, and we are planning to implement these Extending Respect questions across other regions as well. The work we do to fight modern slavery throughout for Human Rights our value chain, along with our related reporting, policies, due diligence and risk assessments, demonThrough Our Suppliers strates Citi’s commitment to SDG 8, which aims to promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable and Partners economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. In particular, our work in Our nondiscrimination policies extend to Citi’s these areas addresses target 8.7, which includes and the Citi Foundation’s philanthropic activity a mandate to eradicate forced labor, end modern and to Citi’s suppliers. We do not provide funding slavery and human trafficking and end child labor in to organizations that discriminate on the basis of all its forms. personal characteristics, such as gender, race and sexual orientation, among others. Our suppliers are SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth expected to adhere to Citi standards, including those related to human rights, as outlined in our Statement As with our employees, suppliers are encouraged to of Supplier Principles and in our Supplier Standards. use Citi’s Ethics Hotline to raise concerns. For more These expectations are reinforced by our Corporate information on our supply chain, see the Operations Responsibility Questionnaire (CRQ), which helps our and Supply Chain section. 70 Respecting Human adverse human rights impacts is less direct. That complexity may mean we have less leverage, and it Rights in Our diminishes our ability to ensure that on-the-ground outcomes are consistent with Citi’s values. In these Financing Decisions instances, we work to improve our clients’ awareness and business practices. In addition, where a transaction’s financial and legal structure allows it, we put The challenge of effectively evaluating human rights loan covenants in place and monitor mitigation efforts risks related to our clients and the projects we through ESRM systems and corrective action plans. HOW WE DO finance is significant. We work diligently to meet this BUSINESS challenge and respect the human rights of the indiEnvironmental viduals and communities impacted by the projects Human Rights Due Diligence in and Social Risk we finance. Management Client Transactions Our U.S. Commercial Firearms Policy, adopted in Citi has thousands of corporate and institutional • 2018, is one example of how Citi can have an influclients. The UN Guiding Principles acknowledge the Human Rights ence on the protection of human rights. Under this challenges posed by having such extensive business policy, we require clients or partners that are U.S. relationships, and we have adopted the approach Operations and Supply Chain firearms retailers or firearms manufacturers that set out in the Principles of prioritizing our due sell through U.S. retail channels to adhere to a set diligence and risk mitigation first to areas where the of best practices regarding the sale of firearms. risk of adverse human rights impact is most signifDigital Innovation For retailers, these practices include only selling icant from the perspective of people who could be firearms to individuals who have completed a backaffected. We use our ESRM Policy, where applicable, Talent and Diversity ground check, not selling high-capacity magazines or to assess and manage risks consistently and evaluate bump stocks (which modify semi-automatic firearms client projects and activities against a common set Ethics and to fire faster, at rates comparable to fully automatic of environmental and social standards grounded in Culture firearms) and selling firearms to individuals under international best practice, including human rights age 21 only if they have received firearms safety norms and the International Finance Corporation’s training (e.g., as part of active or former military or Performance Standards. In addition, for certain law enforcement employment or via hunter safety qualifying projects, we apply the Equator Principles training). For manufacturers, best practice entails (EP) to assess and manage environmental and social only selling firearms to retailers who are following risks. The EP framework includes an assessment these same practices. of the project sponsor’s stakeholder engagement process, as well as its operational-level grievance Another opportunity we have to thwart human rights mechanisms for affected communities to raise abuses is through our anti-money laundering efforts, concerns proactively with the project developers. which help us prevent criminally sourced funds — including funds associated with human rights abuses, Our ESRM team screens transactions covered by such as human trafficking — from passing through our ESRM Policy during the initial marketing phase our bank. Our ability to disrupt the flow of money to to identify any client activities we believe pose those perpetrating human rights abuses and to deny heightened risks to workers or local communities. those abusers safe harbor for illicit proceeds tied to Our policy prohibits financing any project for which corruption or human rights violations is an effective our due diligence indicates a risk of harmful or way to undermine their efforts. exploitative forms of forced labor or child labor or when the relevant labor forces have been subjected While these two examples illustrate our ability to to human trafficking. In addition, the policy covers proactively avoid business transactions with adverse Areas of High Caution — heightened environmental human rights impacts, there are other situations in and social risks that require closer due diligence and which the link between our financial services and additional risk management. These issues were the 71 initial salient human rights risks we identified related We escalate the most challenging cases with the to our corporate and investment banking clients’ potential for severe adverse impacts to senior busiactivities. They include the following: ness and risk managers for collective discussion on the risks and the client’s commitment and capacity. In • Conflict risk: Certain sectors may present a some cases, senior management will conclude that the greater degree of project-induced conflict risk, likelihood for adverse impacts is too great — posing which may be tied to competition for resources an imminent threat to people or communities — and or land. In such cases, Citi carefully assesses key we will re-evaluate the client relationship or decline conflict factors such as sources of tension and root involvement in the transaction. This is a move we causes of conflict, actors and their interests and take very seriously as we recognize that terminating development needs and incentives to address such the relationship can have a number of ramifications, risk in the project’s area of influence. including removing any leverage we might otherwise • Indigenous Peoples: Various concerns can arise have had to improve practices over time through regarding the extent to which indigenous commuconstructive engagement. nities are consulted during project development and have consented to impacts to their land, liveliAfter the financial close of project-related transachood and cultural heritage. tions that have time-bound environmental and social • Labor: There are risks related to labor forces used action plans, we monitor the project sponsor’s implein the construction of projects or other operations, mentation of those actions through the construction including risks associated with forced labor, child and operation phases of the project — often through labor and human trafficking by project operators the retention of an independent environmental and and their subcontractors. social risk consultant who periodically reports to lenders following on-the-ground audits. For more • Resettlement: The resettlement of local commuinformation, see the Environmental and Social Risk nities, including indigenous groups, can be necesManagement section. sary for project implementation. When this occurs, it should be conducted through carefully designed resettlement action plans that are reviewed by Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s project lenders in advance of implementation and should, where necessary, include efforts toward Statement on Human Rights achieving the free, prior and informed consent of In 2018, the ESRM team screened 452 total transindigenous communities. actions during the initial marketing phase, and of • Security practices: Security concerns relating to those, 37 were flagged as requiring additional due how project sponsors engage with public or private diligence for human rights risks. This screening does security forces protecting project sites can arise. not include other human rights risk assessments In such circumstances, if we decide to proceed the ESRM team undertakes as part of annual client with financing, we will advise project sponsors on reviews or portfolio reviews. The specific types of the implementation of international standards, risks we uncovered are outlined in the table on the such as those in the Voluntary Principles on following page. Of the 37 transactions flagged for Security and Human Rights. additional human rights due diligence, 11 proceeded to close after we confirmed the clients were managIf during our initial screening or more extensive due ing and mitigating the potential risk appropriately. diligence for a transaction we find there is a risk of Transactions may not reach financial close for a adverse impacts, we carefully evaluate the client’s number of reasons, not solely due to ESRM review. current commitment and capacity to avoid, mitigate and/or manage those impacts in accordance with GRI 102-44 international industry best practices and their willingness to engage in continual learning and improvement. 72 Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions* Human Rights Risks Reviewed in 2018 Closed in 2018 Conflict Risk 8 2 Indigenous Peoples 19 5 Labor Risks 7 2 HOW WE DO BUSINESS Resettlement 13 4 Environmental and Social Risk Security Practices 2 0 Management Water 7 2 • Human Rights Total Transactions 37 11 Operations and * One transaction may have more than one human rights risk. Supply Chain Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity < Applying Our Policies to Protect Human Rights and Reduce Risk Ethics and When our due diligence processes uncover the After confirming that the labor ministry agreed Culture risk of human rights violations in potential or that the clients’ practices had improved, we established client relationships, we investigate allowed the transactions for general corporate further and, when necessary, engage with our financing to proceed. clients to better understand their approach to managing such risks. When needed, we work with If proactive management of human rights risks them to identify corrective action in alignment is not possible, we might re-evaluate the client with international best practices. For example, relationship or deny financing or involvement in during our monitoring of continuing relationa particular transaction. Examples from 2018 ships with two clients in Brazil, our local ESRM include the following: Champions discovered that the clients had been placed on the Brazilian labor ministry’s registry • We declined to participate in a natural gas of companies believed to be involved in the use project in South America where we found a of slave labor. After further engagement with the history of violent conflict between compacompanies, we learned that the allegations were nies seeking to develop the area and local related to past practices among subcontractors Indigenous Peoples who expressed clear oppofrom several years prior. Since the initial allesition to development. gations were raised, the companies had, in both • We exited two client relationships in the palm instances, significantly changed their approach oil sector, one in Asia and one in Africa, due to supply chain management and were in the to concerns of forced labor and child labor on process of being expunged from the registry. palm oil plantations. 73 Providing Access to Remedy While in recent years banks have come under increasing pressure to disclose specific findings The UN Guiding Principles call on governments and related to client projects, we are bound by legal companies to play their respective roles in ensuring requirements and business ethics related to confithat victims of human rights abuse have access to dentiality that limit our ability to disclose such inforeffective remedies. Remedy can take many different mation without client consent. Addressing requests forms, including apologies, financial or non-financial for transparency will continue to be a balancing act compensation or efforts to prevent future harm between protecting the confidentiality of our clients’ through policy commitments and changes in information and disclosing information to stakeoperational practice. The purpose of remedy is to holders as appropriate to advance the protection of help make victims whole again or to restore them, human rights. In 2018, we responded both informally as much as possible, to their lives and enjoyment and in writing to a variety of human rights inquiries of their rights before those rights were violated. regarding our financing activities and our general Remedy can also help ensure that they and others due diligence practices. These inquiries came from will not suffer similar harms in the future. nongovernmental organizations such as BankTrack, the Business and Human Rights Resource Centre, As a financial institution, our approach to remedy Earthworks, Friends of the Earth, Greenpeace, usually involves working with clients to ensure they Mining Watch Canada, Oxfam and the Sierra Club. have the right policies in place and channels available to enable victims to lodge grievances. In addition, these companies must follow up on allegations and have established processes to offer remedies or cooperate with authorities to make sure effective What’s Ahead remedy is provided. Building on our existing efforts and feeding into our ESRM Watchlist process, we will identify salient human rights risks in other sectors outside of those Engaging Stakeholders regularly reviewed under our ESRM Policy. We will conduct dedicated reviews of the corporate practices on Human Rights of clients in those portfolios to identify adverse human rights risks, with particular attention to those sectors’ salient human rights risks. To ensure that we are living up to our commitment to respect human rights and anticipate emerging We also plan to expand our engagement with our risks, we regularly communicate our approach highest-risk suppliers on their efforts to identify externally and engage with stakeholders on their and mitigate the risks of modern slavery in their issues of concern. In addition, we pay close attention operations and supply chains and to systematize our to human rights issues raised by stakeholders within training on modern slavery for relevant personnel in specific industries, such as forestry and palm oil. our Enterprise Supply Chain function. We engage with these industries directly through client relationships, stakeholder meetings and active GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43 participation in groups such as the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). By engaging bilaterally with multiple stakeholders connected to a value chain, we are able to enhance our leverage and potentially improve the collective effort of those connected to particular commodities, industries or risks. For more information about our engagement with the RSPO, see the Environmental and Social Risk Management section. 74 Operations and Supply Chain HOW WE DO With operations that span the globe and thousands of suppliers BUSINESS worldwide, Citi has a tremendous opportunity for positive impact and a Environmental and Social Risk significant responsibility to uphold the commitments in our Sustainable Management Progress Strategy,1 which includes Operations and Supply Chain as one Human Rights of its three pillars. We strive to manage these areas responsibly and efficiently by working with suppliers to improve the sustainability of • Operations and their operations, taking steps to support diverse suppliers, including Supply Chain women-owned businesses, and continuing our efforts to minimize the Digital Innovation environmental impacts of our operations — achieving several of our Talent and environmental footprint goals ahead of schedule. Diversity Ethics and Resource Use and Culture three of our goals two years early. We were able to reach these goals ahead of schedule through ongoing, Environmental Impacts strategic efforts to improve environmental performance across our operations, as well as by prioritizing efficiency in our new and existing buildings. We have been measuring our environmental footprint for 20 years and began reporting on our In 2018, we made significant progress on the goal we direct operational impacts in 2002. During 2018, set in 2017 to power all of Citi’s facilities globally with we continued executing on the strategies we put renewable energy by 2020. We own or lease more in place several years ago to meet our 2020 goals. than 52 million square feet of real estate in 95 counAlso, in recognition of the connection between envitries, consisting of over 7,500 properties. To continue ronmental sustainability and employee well-being, our progress toward meeting this ambitious goal, we we continued implementing improvements in our are considering power purchase agreements, approworkspaces to advance progress in both these areas. priate use of energy attribute certificates and on-site power, as well as continuing to focus on energy efficiency. In connection with this commitment, Citi 2020 Goals is a member of RE100 — a global initiative led by The As part of our Sustainable Progress Strategy, we Climate Group and CDP, which are both part of the have set ambitious goals to reduce our environmental We Mean Business coalition. impact and are currently tracking progress against our third generation of goals — our 2020 goals, which Detailed data showing progress toward all of our we first announced in 2015. Our operational goals 2020 goals are included at the end of this section. cover energy use, water consumption, recycling, Our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and enviwaste and green building, and, as of 2017, we also ronmental data are verified and assured by SGS, a have a goal to use 100 percent renewable energy to leading third-party inspection, verification, testing power our facilities globally. In 2018, we achieved and certification company. For our SGS Assurance Statement, see the Assurance section. 1 For performance against our Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard, please see the report Appendices. 75 2020 Operational Footprint Goals: 2018 Progress 100% use of renewable energy for facilities globally 30% reduction in energy consumption (compared with 2005 baseline) PROGRESS PROGRESS 62%* 32% 33% of global real estate portfolio LEED-certified 30% reduction in water consumption (compared with 2005 baseline) PROGRESS PROGRESS 25% 33% 60% diversion rate of waste to landfill (compared with 2005 baseline) 10% of water used coming from reclaimed or recycled sources PROGRESS PROGRESS 63% 5% * Contracted amount of renewable energy for delivery in 2020 76 Sustainable Building Principles at Work of a possible 100. These energy efficiency awards were given by the Mexican Energy Commission in To help meet our energy consumption goal, we coordination with the Energy Minister and GIZ, a prioritize energy efficiency and renovate or retrofit German organization for international trade, coopexisting facilities to minimize our energy needs. As eration and sustainable development. part of our energy reduction efforts for our facilities in North America, we are retrofitting our branches, The renovation of our global headquarters in New offices and operations centers with LED lighting. As York, for which we plan to seek LEED Platinum certifiof the end of 2018, 7.4 million square feet, reprecation, is on track to be completed by 2020. With this HOW WE DO senting 66 percent of the square footage of our renovation, we are implementing systems to improve BUSINESS offices and operations centers, had been retrofitted. indoor air quality and capture rainwater from the Environmental We also completed lighting retrofits at 233 banking building’s roof, installing water-conserving plumbing and Social Risk branches, representing 60 percent of eligible branch fixtures and enhancing the green space outside the Management locations. We expect this retrofit, once complete, to building. In addition, our cogeneration plant, fueled by reduce our energy consumption related to lighting natural gas, will produce heat and electricity on-site, Human Rights by up to 50 percent. Switching to LED lighting also reducing the building’s carbon footprint by 30 percent. helps improve the overall quality of lighting and • reduces maintenance costs. Reducing the carbon footprint of our global headOperations and Supply Chain quarters is critical to meeting our initial commitment In 2018, our Citibanamex branch in San Marcos, to the NYC Carbon Challenge for Commercial Digital Innovation Mexico, became the first Citibanamex facility in Owners, which we joined in 2017. In 2018, we Mexico with solar panels. The photovoltaic system announced our participation in the next phase of the has 34 solar panels that will meet 75 percent of challenge, which focuses on GHG reduction efforts Talent and Diversity the annual electricity needs of the branch. We for retail spaces. Citi is the only company to have have since installed solar panels at three additional joined more than one challenge. Ethics and branches in Mexico. Also during 2018, several Culture Citibanamex branches received awards for excellence in energy consumption, and our headquarters Efficient Travel Options in Mexico City received an efficiency score of 97 out We encourage employees to use video and web conferencing technologies rather than traveling, whenever possible. When business travel is unavoidable, we ask <Citi Uses Solar Power for employees to group trips together to manage costs and reduce the number of trips taken, and we offer employBranch in Nigeria ees the option of train travel whenever feasible. Many In Nigeria, sub-Saharan Africa’s largest economy, rapid of our offices are centrally located near public transporpopulation growth, aging infrastructure and other tation, which reduces the need for employees to drive challenges faced by developing nations make reliable to work. To encourage the use of these options and access to power difficult. Many rely on fossil-fuelreduce the impact of employee commuting, we offer powered generators as an alternative, a burden for the U.S.-based employees pre-tax dollars to cover the cost nation’s 2015 commitment to reduce GHG emissions of commuting by subway, bus, train, ferry and vanpool. as part of the Paris Agreement and its efforts to move We also offer bike storage and bike racks at a number toward renewable energy. At Citi’s newest branch in of facilities and sponsor bike share programs, known Nigeria, opened in 2018, we have installed 20 polyas Citi Bike, in New York City, Jersey City and Miami. At crystalline solar panels with a combined capacity of our car park in the London Citigroup Center, we offer 6.4 kilowatts. Installation of the panels contributes a dozen charging stations for those driving electric to our efforts to transition to 100 percent renewable vehicles. Business travel and employee commuting are energy for our facilities globally by 2020. It has also reported as part of our Scope 3 emissions data. reduced our reliance on backup fossil fuel generators at the branch, reducing GHG emissions and improving air quality in the vicinity. 77 Reducing Our Single-Use Plastic Waste One of our 2020 goals is to increase We are taking action to reduce the Citi employee the diversion rate of the waste we send waste associated with single-use using a bottle-filling to landfill. At the same time, we are plastics in many of our facilities around station at our striving to minimize the overall amount the world. For example, through our New York City of waste we generate. Single-use Drink-Up initiative, we’ve installed headquarters. plastic is one area where we’ve made a bottle-filling stations to encourage concerted effort. Roughly half of global employees in the U.S. and Mexico to 2 consumer packaging is made of plastic. stop using single-use water bottles in However, environmental concerns over favor of reusable alternatives. Based plastics disposal, plastic bans around on the amount of water dispensed the world at the local and national from these stations, we estimate that levels, and China’s decision to stop we’ve avoided the use of 5 million importing plastic waste are disrupting plastic bottles. We have also replaced the plastics industry. In 2018, Citi plastic cups with reusable cups in our Global Perspectives & Solutions (Citi Belfast, Dublin, Edinburgh, London and GPS) released a report titled Rethinking Luxembourg offices; we’ve replaced Single-Use Plastics: Responding to a plastic stirrers and straws with Sea Change in Consumer Behavior. The non-plastic alternatives in the U.S.; report examines various issues related and in Russia, we’ve replaced all plastic to single-use plastics, including envicutlery and plastic bottles with reusronmental impacts, bans, the recycling able alternatives. industry, risks and opportunities for plastic producers, and alternatives to single-use plastics, such as metal, glass and paper. 2 Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions, Rethinking Single-Use Plastics: Responding to a Sea Change in Consumer Behavior (August 2018), page 9, https://ir.citi.com/klrKXyZJnFzVcxKt3M%2B8ZjE95%2B42JwVomCDhiNLwPYpStDlxWT7eLP5gzY382k47r1a%2BFVqkE2U%3D. 78 < Financing Agreement Supports Citi’s Renewable Energy Goal In 2018, Citi entered into an agreement that will supply clean, renewable energy to our operations in Texas. The power and renewable energy credits will come from the 163-megawatt Midway Wind HOW WE DO Project in Texas, adding to our existing renewable BUSINESS energy supply and helping us to source renewable Environmental energy for 100 percent of our operations in North and Social Risk America beginning in 2020 — a significant step Management solutions, and the agreement to source renewable toward our broader goal of powering all of our energy from Midway means that Citi has been facilities globally with renewable energy. The involved in the project at every stage. Human Rights project also meets the requirements of RE100, a global initiative of more than 100 businesses that These financing services also contribute to our • have renewable energy goals. Operations and $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal — a Supply Chain commitment to finance and facilitate a total of Sourcing renewable energy is just one part of our $100 billion over 10 years toward activities that engagement with the project. In 2017, Citi provided Digital Innovation reduce the impacts of climate change and create a comprehensive financing package for the develenvironmental solutions that benefit people and opment, construction and operation of the Midway Talent and communities. Learn more about our $100 billion Diversity Wind Project. This transaction underscores Citi’s goal in the Environmental Finance section. ability to provide multiple sustainable and scalable Ethics and Culture < Supporting Singapore’s Year of Climate Action Citi has a history of fostering environmental During 2018, we met our operational footprint sustainability at our Asia Square Tower and Changi goals for Singapore, including a 5 percent reducCiti Service Centre facilities in Singapore, including tion in energy use, a 2 percent reduction in water LEED certification, use of LED lighting for signage use and a 2 percent reduction in waste compared and the harvesting of rainwater at one of the buildwith 2017. ings for landscaping. In 2018, we pledged to support Asia Square Tower in Singapore. Singapore’s Year of Climate Action, introducing a number of green initiatives, including: • A commitment to replace equipment that reaches its end of life with energy-efficient models • Turning off non-critical lighting and air conditioning during weekday evening hours and using occupancy sensors to illuminate areas only as needed • Converting the roof of one building into a garden for edible fruits and vegetation • Forming a Green/Sustainability Committee to engage and educate Citi employees about climate action and recycling 79 Environmental Sustainability and Employee Well-Being < Managing Climate Risk Wellness is an important aspect of sustainability in in Our Operations building design, alongside more traditional environThe effects of climate change, particularly any associmental considerations, such as energy and water ated extreme weather events, pose a potential risk to our efficiency and the use of green materials. When operations. In addition to mitigating our risks by reducing looking at how our buildings can affect the well-being GHG emissions through the use of renewable energy and of our employees, we consider air and water quality, improved energy efficiency, our Citi Realty Services group opportunities to stay active, healthy food options, and and crisis management and business continuity teams help a work environment that is both flexible and effective. us monitor, prepare for and respond to a range of issues — In 2018, our Phase 6C EON building in Pune, including extreme weather events — that could disrupt our India, received WELL Silver certification from the operations. Because Citi operates in nearly 100 countries, our International WELL Building Institute™. It is the first facilities could be exposed to a range of risks that vary in type building in all of India and the second Citi facility in based on the location of each facility. To increase our resiliency, Asia Pacific to receive WELL certification. The WELL we have invested in climate adaptation solutions in a number of Building Standard is a system for measuring, certifying critical facilities. In addition, our crisis management team has and monitoring building features that impact the developed action plans to address immediate risks and support health and well-being of occupants. Our Pune facility, our employees and customers before, during and after adverse which serves 300 Citi employees, features a design events. Our business continuity team also has plans in place to that encourages well-being through benefits such as help Citi resume business operations as quickly as possible in vending machines with healthy food options, exercise the aftermath of an extreme climate event. programs, workspaces that limit harsh lighting and To avoid the most severe negative impacts of climate change, it disruptive noise, desks that provide the ability to sit is estimated we must limit global warming to no more than 2°C or stand during the day, and a healthy overall environabove pre-industrial levels, an amount that requires significant ment, including air quality and water purity. reductions in global GHG emissions. Citi has established a We’ve also introduced initiatives for our employees goal to transition to using 100 percent renewable energy for that emphasize the intersection of personal well-being our facilities by 2020. In addition, we have set GHG reduction and reduced environmental impact. For instance, our targets and disclosed our emissions for almost two decades. Drink-Up initiative, mentioned previously, promotes Disclosure of Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions is hydration, but rather than stocking our breakrooms a component of the recommendations of the Task Force on with disposable plastic water bottles, we are convertClimate-related Financial Disclosures. Our disclosures can be ing the water fountains at our facilities to also work as found on pages 89 and 90 of this report. In 2018, Citi published bottle-filling stations. Based on the amount of water Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future — a detailed report of our dispensed via the bottle fillers, we have avoided the activities and progress in accordance with the TCFD recommenuse of nearly 3 million water bottles in the U.S. and dations and metrics. We’ve also included a streamlined TCFD close to 2 million in Mexico since the program’s incepindex in this report. tion in 2016. Each year during Citi’s Step Up Challenge, we encourage employees to use the stairs at our buildings as a way to increase daily physical activity and improve their health. Participating employees track how many flights they climb and the number of steps they take during walking breaks at work. During 2018, employees in 50 buildings across 17 countries logged 1.6 million steps and climbed 2,699 flights of stairs. 80 Transparent Reporting of Operational held 247 volunteer and educational events, resulting in more than 5,200 volunteer hours dedicated to Climate Impacts helping communities. Citi reports our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions in both this annual Global Citizenship Each year, our company participates in World Wildlife Report and in our CDP response. We began reportFund’s Earth Hour. In March 2018, more than 2,800 ing on the direct environmental impacts of our Citi facilities in 99 countries turned off the lights operations in 2002 and have submitted data to between 8:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m., local time. Citi has CDP every year since 2003. We follow the GHG participated in this event for 11 consecutive years, and HOW WE DO BUSINESS Protocol Corporate Standard and Scope 2 Guidance during 2018, we achieved record participation rates, for measuring and reporting both market-based with more than 88 percent of facilities joining in. Environmental and location-based Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emisand Social Risk During April, Citi launched an EcoChallenge Management sions. We also report Scope 3 carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions from employee air and train travel and campaign for Green Team members, encouraging project-financed thermal power plants in our Global participants to take simple steps over the course of Human Rights Citizenship Report, and Scope 3 electricity transmistwo weeks to make a meaningful environmental or sion loss and employee commuting data to CDP. In social difference. Close to 900 Green Team members • participated, committing to actions such as reducing Operations and early 2019, Citi received a score of Afrom CDP on Supply Chain our climate change impact reporting and an A for the amount of energy they used, using public transit supply chain reporting, for 2017 data. to get to work and recycling water bottles. In addiDigital Innovation tion, in recognition of Earth Day, Citi hosted environmental and sustainability events during the month Talent and Employee Engagement of April. Employees organized more than 120 events Diversity across all Citi regions, and more than 580 employees We work to engage employees in achieving our enviglobally participated. For example: ronmental sustainability objectives in their day-toEthics and day activities and responsibilities at work, as well as • More than 110 volunteers in Mexico City, Mexico, Culture through volunteer efforts and Green Team activities. collected 630 pounds of garbage and supported the local ecology by helping to plant and maintain Green Teams are employee-led groups that design trees and create fertilizer from compost. and lead positive environmental initiatives tailored • Volunteers in San José, Costa Rica, held a recyto their workplaces and local communities, such as cling drive, helping to collect and divert more than recycling drives, volunteer projects, informative 440 pounds of trash from the landfill. lectures and awareness campaigns. We have 21 • More than 330 volunteers in St. Louis, Missouri, Green Teams, with more than 1,800 employees, operrecycled 80 pounds of holiday lights, 720 pounds ating around the world. In 2018, these Green Teams of paper and 2,300 pounds of personal electronics. The NYC Green Team cleaning up parks for Earth Day. Green Team participating in park revitalization on Global Community Day. 81 Responsible Sourcing Responsible sourcing is a critical part of the Operations and Supply Chain pillar of our Sustainable Progress Strategy, and we set high standards of < Digitizing the Supply Chain performance across our global supply chain. We Innovation/digitization is a material issue for Citi and is also strive to engage a diverse set of suppliers and critical to our ability to remain competitive and deliver provide opportunities for them to partner with us in value to our clients and customers. We also turn to delivering products and services to our clients. advanced technology to continually improve processes and reporting within our supply chain and deliver integrated, accessible solutions for our suppliers. Enterprise Supply Chain Our Enterprise Supply Chain (ESC) team works Citi’s ESC team is using emerging technologies to with our business units to support the supplier transform our supply chain into an integrated, secure selection process, implement sustainable supplier ecosystem that processes transactions efficiently, initiatives and mitigate environmental and social ensures the accuracy of data and automates workrisks in our supply chain. In 2015, we identified flows from sourcing through payments. Our goal is to three priority areas in our supply chain to focus on deliver a state-of-the-art supply chain experience by through our third-party utilities process as part of providing our suppliers with faster, smarter and more our Sustainable Progress Strategy: paper and paper efficient ways of doing business with Citi while mainproducts, information technology hardware and taining strong operational controls. e-waste disposal, and travel and logistics. Position In 2018, we implemented the Citi iSupplier Portal, statements that provide guidance on implemenwhich enables real-time interaction and collaboration tation procedures for each of these topics have between suppliers and Citi, including the ability to been developed and incorporated into ESC’s Global view purchase orders and invoices and check the Operating Procedures. During 2018, we continued status of payments. In addition, we have enhanced our to engage senior leaders and teams across the electronic invoice submission by ensuring that multiple company to incorporate these statements into channels and options for billing and payment are policy, in an effort to build awareness and accountavailable to support our diverse supplier base across ability and establish best practices related to these geographies. focus areas throughout the business. As we move forward, our ESC team will continue to increase efficiencies, leverage automation and Supplier Engagement and Evaluation machine learning, and embrace innovation as a The goods and services that our suppliers provide competitive advantage to fully digitize our supply are critical to our ability to operate. Engaging with chain from end to end. our suppliers on environmental, social and governance issues is essential to operating responsibly, meeting our own sustainability goals and managing expenses. We seek out suppliers that share our values and our commitment to having a positive impact in the communities where we operate. 82 We work to clearly communicate our expectations this area addresses target 8.7, which includes a to suppliers regarding environmental and social mandate to eradicate forced labor, end modern issues, and we leverage a number of standards and slavery and human trafficking and end child labor in policies to provide support for our efforts, including all its forms. the following: • Our Statement of Supplier Principles outlines the SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth ethical, human rights and environmental standards Because of our global footprint, we rely on our we expect from our suppliers. network of Global Champions — Citi colleagues around HOW WE DO • Our Standards for Suppliers provide guidance the world who serve as connections between their BUSINESS across 11 general policy areas, including accessibusinesses and supply chain sustainability and diverEnvironmental bility and diversity, ethical conduct, information sity efforts — to help us implement sustainable supplier and Social Risk security and more. initiatives locally and adapt the CRQ to local cultures Management • Suppliers are also asked to abide by the Citi and business norms. We also translate the CRQ into 14 Statement on Human Rights. For more information languages to make it easier for suppliers to complete Human Rights about our approach to human rights, see the and to enable productive follow-up conversations. Human Rights section. • We typically ask suppliers to fill out the CRQ every two Operations and • Citi complies with the UK Modern Slavery Act Supply Chain years. If a supplier’s CRQ score is below 70 percent, and releases an annual transparency statement we communicate our concerns to the supplier and our summarizing our approach to identifying and Digital Innovation regional sourcing manager and ask the supplier to mitigating the risks of modern slavery in our take action steps to improve and submit a CRQ again operations and supply chain. Talent and the following year. In 2018, 6 percent of suppliers Diversity scored 70 percent or lower on the CRQ. We often find We use our Corporate Responsibility Questionnaire that additional training and face-to-face dialogue can (CRQ) to evaluate suppliers’ adherence to our Ethics and help suppliers better understand the CRQ and our Culture Statement of Supplier Principles and Citi Code of expectations so they can quickly address any issues Conduct and to gauge how well suppliers manage a that we have flagged related to their responses. With range of issues, such as environmental management, this in mind, we meet with suppliers that fall below the human rights, labor practices, diversity, and health 70 percent threshold to review their CRQs, discuss and safety. In 2018, we integrated a wider scope of the factors that led to their scores and outline steps diversity-related questions for suppliers that provide necessary to improve these scores within the year products and services to Citi across multiple regions. when they resubmit. If the necessary improvement is In addition, the CRQ for our Europe, Middle East and not achieved within that year, we escalate review to Africa region includes specific questions intended to determine whether the contract should be discontinhelp in our efforts to identify and contribute to eradiued. To ensure a consistent approach and understandcating child labor and the set of practices known as ing of the CRQ process and supplier evaluation, we modern slavery, including forced or bonded labor provide training for our employees. We also provide and human trafficking. We are continuing to lay the sustainability training and education to suppliers. groundwork to implement these questions across other regions as well. In 2018, we focused on enhancing accountability related to the CRQ across our supply chain, ensuring Integrating these questions into our CRQ and our that it is firmly embedded in the supplier selection broader work to address the issue of modern slavery process and strongly tied to our risk assessment is part of the way Citi supports SDG 8, which aims processes and that we’re taking full advantage of the to promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable opportunity it provides to engage with suppliers to economic growth, full and productive employment help improve performance. and decent work for all. In particular, our work in 83 2018 CRQ Implementation CRQ Surveys Completed Suppliers Scoring 70% or Lower 100% | 6% 90% | 0% Europe, Middle North America East and Africa 14 Languages in which the CRQ is available • Arabic • Portuguese • English • Russian • French • Spanish • German • Turkish • Hungarian • Italian • Simplified Chinese 100% | 1% 70% | 0% (China) Latin America Asia Pacific • Japanese • Traditional • Korean Chinese (Taiwan) Supplier Diversity During 2018, we were able to strengthen our overall planning and strategic focus in this area and increase A key priority within our sustainable supply chain opportunities for diverse supplier inclusion. efforts is ensuring that we source from diverse suppliers where possible. Our ESC organization In 2018, we began a technology upgrade that gives sets clear supplier diversity goals and embeds them all ESC employees access to additional supplier diverin our supplier selection processes. In addition, sity data and analytics. This new tool provides access the Citi Supply Chain Development, Inclusion and to new supplier diversity information, enriches Sustainability Program gives U.S. small businesses and existing data and creates opportunities to consider women-, veteran-, disability-, LGBT+and minorityadditional certified diverse suppliers. The technolowned firms access to business opportunities, educaogy also provides the necessary data to support tion, mentoring and training. Working with a range of measurable, sustainable goals to further advance supplier-focused organizations, we identify diverse our diversity efforts. For every bid over $250,000, suppliers, including small businesses, that can meet we now require the inclusion of diverse suppliers in our supply chain needs and then help build these the bidding process. This requirement ensures that suppliers’ capacity. Our senior leadership strongly diverse suppliers are considered not only for small supports increasing the diversity of our supply chain. engagements, but for large ones as well. 84 Citi has pledged to procure $100 million from womenIn addition to the engagement described earlier as owned businesses, especially from firms located in part of our $100 million pledge, we work collaboradeveloping markets. To support this commitment, in tively with other organizations to help strengthen 2018 we worked with partner organizations — such our own supplier diversity efforts and advance the as WEConnect International, global affiliates of the conversation more broadly. For example, we hosted National Minority Supplier Development Council, “Doing Business with Citi” sessions in Chennai, India, UN Women and local chambers of commerce — to idenand Johannesburg, South Africa, marking the first tify businesses that have registered as women-owned time we’ve offered the sessions outside the U.S. The through these organizations. We engaged directly with sessions included Citi senior leaders and provided HOW WE DO BUSINESS partners to begin the process of reviewing and evaluan overview of Citi to the participating vendors, ating women-owned businesses and their capabilities highlighting key factors that should be considered Environmental in Europe, Latin America, Africa and other regions. when engaging with a company like Citi. In addition, and Social Risk Management During the year, we also worked to clarify which we participated in matchmaker sessions in Costa existing Citi suppliers are women-owned and, of those, Rica and Mexico in conjunction with WEConnect Human Rights which ones are either already members of WEConnect International to expand our network to potential new or might be interested in joining. Businesses that local vendors. register through WEConnect can be more easily • Operations and identified by companies globally that are seeking out Partnerships are critical to expanding our supplier Supply Chain women-owned businesses. In 2018, we procured diversity efforts, particularly outside the U.S. In $185 million from women-owned businesses. 2018, we continued our engagement with Supply Digital Innovation Nation in Australia and maintained our memberIn addition to our procurement efforts in support ships with Minority Supplier Development UK, the Talent and of women-owned businesses, we participated in a Canadian Aboriginal and Minority Supplier Council Diversity gender-equality-focused forum in 2018. Participants and WEConnect International. For each of these generated insight and information important for the partnerships, a designated regional champion from Ethics and integration of women-owned businesses into the Citi oversees and supports the relationship on a Culture sourcing selection process and developed 11 related local basis. recommendations for the G20, including supporting entrepreneurship, trade and procurement. $984.5M Our efforts to support women-owned businesses aligns with SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. In particular, our work in this area helps address target 5.5, which aims to ensure Total amount spent on Tier 1 women’s full and effective participation and equal and Tier 2 diverse suppliers opportunities for leadership at all levels of decisionin 2018 ($703.8 million direct making in political, economic and public life. spend on Tier 1 only) SDG Goal 5: Gender Equality 85 Building the Capacity of Diverse Suppliers Citi works to build supplier capacity through training What’s Ahead and development opportunities. One of our priorities Even though we have met several of our environmenis to ensure that small and diverse businesses have tal goals, we will continue in our efforts to minimize the training they need to compete with more estabCiti’s environmental footprint. We will also continue lished firms. In particular, in 2018, we focused on to work toward meeting our goal to use 100 percent helping to build capacity in the area of sustainability renewable energy for our facilities by securing so that a lack of knowledge in that area doesn’t renewable energy contracts, incorporating on-site become a roadblock to completing our CRQ or other generation and looking for innovative solutions requirements for working with Citi. where renewable power is not readily available. Also in 2018, we began the second round of an In our supply chain, we will continue to bolster in-depth mentoring and training program, called supplier diversity — in the U.S. striving to include AC2A, in partnership with the New York & New diverse suppliers in larger bids, and in developing Jersey Minority Supplier Development Council, markets, where providing opportunities to womenRutgers University, Covenant Business Concepts and owned small businesses can be challenging, working other corporate sponsors. Through our participation to build the capacity of our local colleagues to in this program, Citi continued to work with diverse source these supplier relationships and providing suppliers and other corporate coaches to ensure that support where necessary to help them adopt best diverse suppliers have access to information through practices and grow. workshops about sustainability, leadership development and coaching. Mentoring is also an important As we approach completion of the goals we set aspect that elevates a peer-to-peer approach. This is as part of our Sustainable Progress Strategy, we the fourth year Citi has participated in the program. are looking ahead to define a strategy for the next decade that meets evolving employee needs for a Each year, Citi reserves a scholarship for an emergsustainable workplace, the need for rapid action in ing or established minority business enterprise. In response to climate change and our commitment to 2017, for example, we supported a millennial entremaintain a diverse and responsible supply chain. preneur via the Emerging Young Leaders program. In 2018, we extended this scholarship to our global affiliates, and a diverse candidate was nominated and selected via the Minority Supplier Development UK program to participate in the Minority Business Enterprise Program run by the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College. 86 Environmental Performance for Operations Progress Against 2020 Goals HOW WE DO 2020 Goal Progress BUSINESS 100% use of renewable energy for facilities globally 62.0%* Environmental and Social Risk 30% reduction in energy consumption (compared with 2005 baseline) 32.0% Management 30% reduction in water consumption (compared with 2005 baseline) 32.7% Human Rights 10% of water used coming from recycled/reclaimed sources 5.4% 60% diversion rate of waste to landfill (compared with 2005 baseline) 62.9% • Operations and 33% of global real estate portfolio LEED-certified 24.6% Supply Chain Digital Innovation LEED-Certified Buildings by Region** Talent and Diversity Region Certified Silver Gold Platinum Total North America 26 30 68 1 125 Ethics and Culture Latin America 1 3 5 0 9 Asia Pacific 4 13 40 12 69 Europe, Middle East and Africa 2 4 20 9 35 Total 33 50 133 22 238 LEED-Certified Buildings by Building Type** Building Type 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Data Centers (DC) 0 0 1 1 0 DC File Storage 0 0 0 0 0 Office Buildings 13 14 7 12 10 Operational Centers 3 1 1 3 1 Branches 23 10 23 4 1 Total 39 25 32 20 12 Cumulative Total*** 149 174 206 226 238 * Represents contracted amount of renewable energy for delivery in 2020. ** Based on the active buildings in the portfolio by year-end 2018 and excludes projects for inactive and disposed buildings. *** Includes buildings certified prior to 2014. 87 GHG Emissions (Scopes 1 & 2) by Region Region Scope 1 CO2e Scope 2 CO2e Total CO2e (mt) Location-Based Market-Based† Location-Based Market-Based (mt) (mt) (mt) (mt) North America 15,203 287,441 188,983 302,644 204,186 Latin America 2,081 116,644 89,484 118,725 91,565 Asia Pacific 1,406 175,042 173,212 176,448 174,618 Europe, Middle East 3,617 56,218 45,304 59,835 48,921 and Africa Regional Operational Environmental Performance Region GHG Emissions Total Consumption Total Waste Location-Based Market-Based Energy Water (mt) (mt) (mt) (GWh) (m3) North America 302,644 204,186 772 2,325,379 16,202 Latin America 118,725 91,565 283 1,011,169 10,785 Asia Pacific 176,448 174,618 287 759,690 5,536 Europe, Middle East 59,835 48,921 179 383,601 4,185 and Africa Electricity Consumption Amounts Applied to Market-Based Emission Factor Types Emission Factor Basis Electricity Steam Chilled Water Total % of Total (kWh) (kWh) (kWh) (kWh) Consumption RECs or Other Energy 224,623,546 0 0 224,623,546 16% Attribute Certificate PPA or Source Contract 148,010,707 0 0 148,010,707 10% Supplier Specific 29,686,507 0 6,656,528 36,343,035 3% Steam Default 0 24,877,594 0 24,877,594 2% Residual Mix 458,423,691 0 1,266,874 459,690,565 32% Grid Average 508,011,411 0 19,693,197 527,704,608 37% Total 1,368,755,861 24,877,594 27,616,599 1,421,250,054 100% † The Scope 2 Quality Criteria have been met for the instruments used in the calculation. Figures may not sum to total due to rounding. 88 Environmental Impact Report 2005 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Operating Sq. Ft. 71,978,507 57,689,984 54,888,730 52,399,026 50,354,101 48,051,230 45,137,587 Headcount 344,650 235,054 225,750 224,740 219,056 208,043 199,458 HOW WE DO BUSINESS Environmental and Social Risk Management Absolute Indicators Energy Human Rights Electricity (GWh) 1,952 1,715 1,639 1,564 1,520 1,422 1,369 • District Heating 87 57 60 62 61 58 52 Operations and (Steam & Chilled Water) Supply Chain Energy Purchased 2,039 1,772 1,699 1,626 1,581 1,481 1,421 Digital Innovation (GWh) — Scope 2 Natural Gas (GWh) 145 82 80 73 70 63 71 Talent and Diversity Fuel Oil (GWh) 51 41 37 37 32 29 29 Energy Consumed 196 124 116 110 103 92 99 Ethics and (GWh) — Scope 1 Culture Total Energy (GWh) 2,235 1,896 1,815 1,737 1,684 1,573 1,520 CO 2e Emissions* Direct CO2e (GHG Scope 1) 43,385 28,229 26,380 25,200 23,265 20,937 22,307 (Gas & Fuel Oil) (mt) Indirect CO2e (GHG Scope 2) 1,047,266 860,633 825,160 785,677 713,641 665,298 635,345 (Electricity, Steam & Chilled Water) (mt) Total CO 2e (mt) 1,090,651 888,862 851,540 810,877 736,905 686,236 657,652 RECs or Other Energy 5,953 101,642 67,028 72,947 72,772 102,067 120,424 Attribute Certificate Purchased (CO 2e) (mt) Net CO 2e (mt) 1,084,698 787,220 784,512 737,930 664,134 584,169 537,228 Water Consumption Potable Water (m 3) 6,639,638 5,790,957 5,208,229 5,032,430 4,833,762 4,586,574 4,238,898 Non-Potable Water (m 3) 13,014 20,433 20,784 48,336 233,093 278,933 240,941 Total Water 6,652,652 5,811,390 5,229,012 5,080,766 5,066,855 4,865,507 4,479,839 Consumption (m 3) * For our GHG emissions performance, the base year and the annual performance against the goal are calculated using a location-based method. 89 2005 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Waste Recycled Office Paper (mt) 6,230 16,632 16,378 14,743 26,908 11,709 10,889 Refuse and Other (mt) 57,101 31,049 29,574 28,664 27,717 26,383 25,819 Total Waste (mt) 63,331 47,682 45,952 43,407 54,625 38,093 36,708 Relative Indicators Total Energy Consumed kWh/Rentable Sq. Ft. 31 33 33 33 33 33 34 kWh/Headcount 6,485 8,066 8,041 7,728 7,687 7,561 7,623 Net CO 2e Metric Tons / Rentable Sq. Ft. 0.015 0.015 0.016 0.015 0.015 0.014 0.015 Metric Tons / Headcount 3.16 3.78 3.77 3.61 3.36 3.30 3.30 Scope 3 Emissions Business Travel Business Air Travel NA 150,967 178,694 109,687 135,735 151,112 149,588 CO 2e (mt) Business Train Travel NA 5,335 6,651 1,605 2,125 209 227 CO 2e (mt) Thermal Power 30-Year Plant Life CO 2 NA 9.7 0.0 9.6 7.8 18.1 9.9 (mmt) 60-Year Plant Life CO 2 NA 19.4 0.0 19.2 15.6 36.2 19.8 (mmt) 90 Digital Innovation Technological advancements improve the experience of our clients and customers — increasing ease of access to information, HOW WE DO empowering people to effectively manage their finances, and BUSINESS transforming ways of doing business through innovations such Environmental as real-time payments and advanced supply chain monitoring. In and Social Risk Management addition, innovations in technology can help increase integrity and transparency in financial services and other sectors while Human Rights strengthening data security and ensuring customer privacy. Operations and Supply Chain Customer-Centric • environments to gather quick, authentic feedback Digital Innovation about whether new functionality is effectively solving Solutions those problems. Talent and Diversity In 2018, we introduced Canvas, a beta-testing commuInnovative digital solutions provide significant nity that engages Citi customers to test and influence Ethics and opportunities to empower customers with financial the digital solutions Citi is creating to further empower Culture information and open up access to financial tools for customers to manage their finances and meet their vulnerable and underserved populations. We work to financial goals. Feedback from the Canvas community enable progress in this area and focus our innovation will help us decide which solutions to discard and which on secure digital solutions that meet and exceed to continue refining and testing for eventual release to customer expectations for service and simplicity all Citi customers. while moving our industry forward. Citi also collaborates with outside partners to meet customer expectations for simple, seamless soluEmpowering Customers Through tions. Examples from 2018 include the following: Digital Platforms • Citi works through multiple channels to enable For two straight years, Citi’s Mobile Banking Survey real-time payment functionality, and we are seeing has found that mobile banking provides U.S. customdemand continue to grow as consumers increasers with important information that makes them aware ingly purchase goods and services that require of, and secure in, their financial standing. According immediate payments. In 2018, Citi India introduced to the survey, apps for mobile banking ranked third 24/7, real-time payment functionality, enabling for frequency of use, behind only social media and clients to collect payment from their customers weather apps, and nearly half of consumers increased quickly, securely and cost-effectively. 1 their mobile banking usage in the last year. • Partnering with Digital Risk and Black Knight, Citi integrated its full suite of U.S. mortgage products To make our Citi mobile banking app as useful as into a single digital platform. As a result, our possible, we turn to our customers to help us identify mortgage clients now have a more streamlined, real-world problems our app can help solve. We then efficient tool for mortgage origination. engage with them virtually while they are in their own 1 The Citi Mobile Banking Survey was conducted by Wakefield Research among 2,000 nationally representative U.S. adults ages 18 and above, between February 22 and February 28, 2018, using an email invitation and an online survey. Results are available at https://www.multivu.com/players/ English/8313051-citi-mobile-banking-study-2018/. 91 Mobile Banking Mobile Banking Empowers Customers 3 2018 U.S. Citi Mobile Banking Study 95% of customers who use mobile banking are confident that they know the exact balance of their bank account right now versus 85% of customers who do not use mobile banking. When asked about the benefits of mobile banking, 91% cited additional positive benefits: 62% A greater awareness of their financial situation No Account? No Problem 41% Our mobile banking survey revealed accounts and financial services that consumers trust banks more providers, regardless of whether the than non-banks to handle their individual using the app has a Citi Fewer concerns about managing finances and that they would prefer account. This access allows app users their finances to use one app to have a comprehento gain accurate, meaningful insights 2 sive view of their finances. In 2018, about their spending across all their Citi launched new digital banking capabilities for our mobile app for accounts and the ability to view all their bills, not just those they pay 34% More confident in their abilities to iPhone that answers this need, with a Citi card. Approved customers including a first-of-its-kind offering also have the ability to open a new make sound financial decisions among banks: Non-Citi clients can bank account entirely within the app. create a profile and connect their Reinforcing our commitment to be The results of this survey accounts across financial services responsive to customer needs, these illustrate how mobile banking providers. The mobile app serves as features were co-created with thoupromotes financial capability a single hub for users’ financial lives sands of clients. and reinforce the importance and provides a holistic view across of continuing to enhance Citi’s mobile solutions. 2 “Financial Wellness & Digital Banking,” Citi (website), accessed December 2018, https://www.citigroup.com/citi/news/2018/180326b1.pdf?ieNocache=745. 3 “Mobile Banking One of Top Three Most Used Apps by Americans, 2018 Citi Mobile Banking Study Reveals,” Citi (website), accessed November 2018, https://www.multivu.com/players/English/8313051-citi-mobile-banking-study-2018/. 92 Fostering Innovation • Citi is the first financial institution to partner with Google to pilot a program offering U.S. customers the ability to use the messaging app on their Our Citi Ventures team is at the forefront of innoAndroid mobile devices to obtain account informavation at Citi. The team investigates subtle signals tion and engage with Citi representatives in real of behavior change, new technologies and industry time for further assistance. We introduced this shifts and invests in cutting-edge solutions to meet capability to a small group of customers in 2018. the needs of clients. Citi Ventures partners with Many of our digital solutions and partnerships focus entrepreneurs to help them build their businesses HOW WE DO and scale their solutions. We also look for opportuBUSINESS on helping people manage the money they already have. However, we also see a great opportunity to nities to work with startups interested in partnering Environmental help our customers generate income. During 2018, we with a large, established bank, such as Citi, to bring and Social Risk began designing a tool that analyzes the current occutheir ideas to market. Citi Ventures’ portfolio ranges Management pation, income and skill set of an individual and then from investments in digital infrastructure to fintech, helps that person understand the economic value of commerce and payments. In 2018, for example, Citi Human Rights Ventures announced its investment in Contguard — skills they can develop to boost their income potential in today’s complex and rapidly changing job market. a solution that uses Internet of Things technology Operations and and artificial intelligence to provide companies with Supply Chain greater visibility into their distribution chains and • Designing for Accessibility real-time monitoring of goods that have left their Digital Innovation warehouses. This approach ensures the quality and Citi recognizes the importance of products and integrity of shipped products, enables proactive services that are designed to meet the accessibility Talent and management of potential risks and delays, and needs and preferences of our clients. Citi offers Braille Diversity provides companies with valuable insights to help and talking ATMs, large print and Braille statements reduce costs and maximize efficiency related to and raised line checks for the visually impaired. We Ethics and production and inventory planning. Culture also offer TTY or Text Telephone for the hearing impaired. Many of our services are provided in multiple Citi believes in the power of entrepreneurship and languages to support the diverse populations we serve, will continue to support innovative companies to and our products are tailored to meet the needs of the bring their solutions to scale. At the same time, we individuals in the countries where we do business. want to invest in the passionate, skilled employees within Citi who know our business, know our clients In 2018, we worked to improve the digital experiand have their own groundbreaking ideas that can ence for all users, including those with different benefit customers. D10XSM is a model Citi Ventures abilities. Through our partnership with Deque developed to foster innovation internally and encourUniversity, all Citi employees have access to more age new ideas across our businesses. Through this than 25 digital accessibility courses. The courses model, we engage our employees and partner with aim to help everyone who provides online content, our clients to develop, validate, test and deploy from developers to content creators, consider how innovations quickly and effectively. to make the experience more accessible. < Fast-Tracking Solutions to Support Financial Well-Being In 2018, Citi FinTech launched the Citi Open FinTech Integration Program, where they received Innovation Challenge, a five-week virtual program mentorship to develop their ideas in an accelerated that invites institutions and tech firms to answer path to commercialization with Citi, as well as practhe question: “How can Citi empower customers to tical tools and lessons they can apply to work with manage their debt and improve their overall financial other large organizations. wellness?” Selected applicants participated in the Citi 93 The intent of D10X is to discover and deliver solutions that are exponentially better for clients. Through < Bank of the Future direct contact with clients, employees test their hypotheses and refine their approaches. Sometimes We have identified innovation/digitization as we find that an idea does not solve a legitimate pain one of Citi’s most material citizenship issues, point, but other times these ideas do help to solve a as we believe this issue is critical to our significant challenge. Once the ideas are validated, survival as a global bank. Citi has embraced employees pitch their solutions to senior executives digital innovation as a way to empower our to receive support for their startups, including customers and serve client needs as the rapid funding at various stages, guidance from a team development and expansion of technology of in-house coaches and access to the expertise of change customer expectations. Citi’s businesses and network of global innovation labs. This approach allows us to “fail fast” in order In 2018, Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions to accelerate learning and bring more certainty to (Citi GPS) released a report entitled Bank of where we should — or should not — invest resources. the Future: The ABCs of Digital Disruption in Finance. The report identifies the main areas In 2018, D10X announced a new ideation workshop of digital disruption in finance — from artificial that will focus on developing solutions for the evoluintelligence and digital assets to the emertion of American households beyond the traditional gence of established tech giants into the finannuclear family model. Workshop participants look cial space — and investigates how banks can outside the typical joint-account experience to remain vital and drive their businesses forward consider how best to meet the needs of diverse and in this evolving digital landscape. multilayered families — from blended and multigenerational households to single-parent families — that are looking for innovative ways to collaboratively manage finances in a digital and increasingly mobile world. More than 2,500 employees have been involved with D10X since the program’s inception in 2016, with nearly 100 internal startup ideas currently in various stages of development. Investing in Tech Talent As we continue to expand our digital innovation efforts, we are establishing new teams across our business, further developing the skill sets of our existing employees and looking for new candidates who have a range of expertise and a diversity of backgrounds and global perspectives. In 2018, we established a new innovation lab in London, which will also be the home for Citi Ventures’ We also began building a new digital client experience operations in Europe. This lab is the latest hub in team for our Global Consumer Banking business an expanding network of global Citi innovation labs, in North America. This team is examining how we including sites in Ireland, Israel, Mexico and Singapore. can serve customers in the ways they are naturally A group of developers at our innovation lab in Israel inclined to interact with and manage their finances. is collaborating on projects and making recommenWe’ve established workstreams in the areas of Borrow, dations that can be applied in Latin America. This Pay, Save, Invest, Protect, Acquire, Serve, Secure and partnership is building the skills of our colleagues Enable to help us consider the customer experience in Latin America and expanding the knowledge and holistically as we work to win and retain clients and cross-cultural skills of our employees in Israel. remain competitive in the financial marketplace. 94 An important part of our innovation strategy is interacting with a wide array of diverse and emergDiversity in Student and University ing talent. To further this effort, Citi Ventures Participation Through CUPID launched Citi® University Partnerships in Innovation & Discovery (CUPID) in 2017. Through CUPID, The Citi University Partnerships in Innovation students from leading universities participate in & Discovery (CUPID) program collaborates semester-long projects that are embedded in innovawith a diverse group of students from 21 tion efforts across the company. CUPID emphasizes leading universities to support innovation an interdisciplinary, collaborative approach, seeking efforts across Citi. HOW WE DO BUSINESS out talent beyond business graduate programs to To date, 22 new project ideas and 10 include individuals studying design, engineering and functional prototypes have been developed Environmental public policy. Rather than taking a one-size-fits-all and Social Risk and supported by program participants in Management approach, we match students in the program with four main disciplines: Strategy, Design, innovation-focused internships that fit their interPublic Policy and Technical/Engineering. Human Rights ests, goals and skills. In 2018, we added partnerships 800 with five new universities, including a historically black university, and began establishing relationOperations and Supply Chain ships with universities in additional countries. More than 800 students from 21 universities in the U.S., students with whom the CUPID • the UK and Canada have participated since the program has engaged Digital Innovation program was established. 34% Talent and In 2017, Citi Ventures supported the launch of the Diversity Global LGBTQ Entrepreneur Network by StartOut, the largest national nonprofit organization to Ethics and support, educate and connect LGBT+ entrepreneurs. Culture of participants are women The network’s goal is to inspire entrepreneurs and build global connections through direct access to 132 like-minded professionals in order to accelerate job creation, broaden participants’ networks through referrals to others, including LGBT+-friendly investors, and gain access to new distribution channels to participants are from build powerful businesses. Members, including Citi underrepresented backgrounds employees who opted in, have received access to StartOut’s private global directory, online forums, 61% mentorship program and investor portal. Since the launch of the online directory, members have initiated approximately 6,900 online searches, 5,700 profile views and 2,200 connection requests. In of students are pursuing degrees other than business 2018, eight new partner organizations were added, including the Global Entrepreneurship Network and the Women Founders Network, to expand outreach to the entrepreneurial community. 95 Citi is also working to help close the gender gap directly to target 5.a, which includes helping to give in tech. We bring our commitment to recruiting, women equal rights to economic resources. These retaining and advancing women in technology to life activities also support SDG 8: Promote sustained, through our engagement with a number of organizainclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and tions and events, including the annual Grace Hopper productive employment and decent work for all, Celebration, the Anita Borg Institute, the Flatiron specifically target 8.5, which includes the promotion School’s Women Take Tech Initiative, and Cornell of full and productive employment and decent work Tech and the City University of New York’s Women in for all women and men. Technology and Entrepreneurship in NY initiative. SDG Goal 5: Gender Equality Opening up opportunities for women in the tech field is one way Citi addresses SDG 5, which aims SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth to achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. Citi’s work in this regard contributes < Tech for Integrity Corruption is a global problem that plagues the public corruption; connecting government, business and civil and private sectors, inflating the cost of doing busisociety leaders with technology innovators; sharing ness and taking unfair advantage of people around best practices; and engaging in projects to demonthe world. Though technology is not the only answer, strate the ability for solutions to improve government it can be a powerful force in addressing areas of and business processes related to trust and integrity. corruption and providing systems that support and encourage integrity and transparency. The Citi Tech Initiatives such as T4I contribute directly to SDG 9, for Integrity (T4I) Challenge, conducted in 2017 in which aims to build resilient infrastructure, promote collaboration with partners in the public and private inclusive sustainable industrialization and foster sectors, encouraged technology innovators from innovation. In particular, target 9.5 includes a around the world to create cutting-edge solutions that mandate to enhance scientific research, upgrade the promote integrity, accountability and transparency. technological capabilities of industrial sectors in Through this program, many innovators received all countries and encourage innovation in particular mentoring, support, a platform to showcase their in developing countries, which aligns with the objecideas and the opportunity to work with businesses, tives and outcomes of T4I. In addition to encouraging organizations and governments interested in exploring innovation, T4I seeks to use that innovation to bolster innovative integrity tools. integrity, which also directly contributes to SDG 16, promoting peaceful and inclusive societies, which In 2018, Citi announced a partnership with the World includes effective, accountable and inclusive instituEconomic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption tions. Target 16.5, which aims to substantially reduce Initiative (PACI) to take the T4I Challenge into the corruption and bribery in all their forms, and target future. Through the partnership, PACI will provide 16.6, which encourages the development of effective, a platform that brings together innovators, governaccountable and transparent institutions at all ments, nongovernmental organizations and others levels, are closely aligned with the objectives of T4I. in the T4I network. The future of T4I will focus on fostering communication and collaboration for SDG Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure deeper understanding of how technology can address 96 Customer Satisfaction that proactively identifies emerging issues that arise through multiple channels, including social media, and Feedback phone, chat and email. Using data analytics, we work to understand the root causes of the problems so we can take corrective actions to avoid them in the Across Citi, we use leading-edge tools and resources future. These corrective actions can range from policy to systematically capture customer feedback and changes to improvements in particular customer touch satisfaction and develop processes to quickly points, such as websites or call centers. monitor, diagnose and act upon customer experience HOW WE DO issues. In 2018, we launched a new client experience Since the launch of our enhanced customer complaints BUSINESS initiative that uses real-time customer data and program in the U.S., our customer service agents analytics to predict reasons for customer calls. This have become more engaged in identifying customer Environmental and Social Risk predictive technology helps us anticipate concerns dissatisfaction and have captured details that help us Management and questions so we can address them quickly, reducunderstand why customers are unhappy with a service ing call time and resolving queries during the first or product. This knowledge is instrumental in helping Human Rights call. For instance, if a card is declined and the client us address problems and drive improvements across calls CitiPhone, the customer service agent will see our business. Operations and the declined card as the possible reason for the call Supply Chain along with relevant details, such as the merchant, We also track customer satisfaction through the Net date, time and amount. This helps our employees Promoter Score system, which measures customers’ • avoid time-consuming questions and more quickly Digital Innovation willingness to recommend Citi to others. We use resolve the problem. We’ve introduced this technolstandard metrics and processes across our company ogy in multiple countries across Asia Pacific. to compare regional performance and to surface Talent and Diversity best practices and problem areas from which we can Our customer service team uses a closed-loop learn. We are continuing to build and roll out dashfeedback process to follow up and resolve any issues boards that enable us to review survey results and Ethics and Culture reported by our customers through surveys. In addicustomer feedback in near real time in order to act tion to responding to specific customer concerns, upon customers’ feedback more quickly. we’ve established a “listening command center” 97 Safeguarding Data for implementation and compliance with program procedures and requirements. Annually, we provide and Protecting our employees with training on how to properly handle personal information and how to maintain the Customer Information security and privacy of information when working with companies that provide services to us. Digital solutions are an increasing part of our lives, We invest in, develop and use advanced technology and this constant change brings increased concerns to help safeguard information. In 2018, Citi launched related to privacy and security breaches. Data Citi Secure Authentication Platform (CSAP), a fully security and privacy are top priorities for Citi and for biometrics-based, cross-platform, multi-channel our stakeholders and are among our most material authentication platform to enhance the customer citizenship issues. experience and improve security. Using standard mobile fingerprint and face recognition, CSAP fortifies the authentication process. Personal biometric Information Security information is secured by the phone’s operating Citi’s Global Information Security (GIS) Program system and hardware. Mobile phones only store a couples information gathering and data analysis with biometric template — mathematical representation forensics to inform strategic decisions. Our approach of characteristics of the enrolled user face or fingerrests on having the right technology, systems, poliprint and the biometric templates are not accessible cies, processes and talent in place to prevent, detect, by the mobile applications. Additionally, by having respond to and recover from cyber threats quickly. a multi-channel authentication approach, Citi can leverage more information about the customer’s Citi conducts regular information security risk interactions with Citi to improve the customer expeassessments and has internal controls to prevent rience and reduce fraud exposure. Just one month information security breaches. We have developed after CSAP was released to the Citi mobile app in stringent policies, employ robust technologies the U.S., it had performed over 500,000 biometric to protect our data and systems, and have built authentications. We also use Pindrop Security, which a strong team with deep expertise. Our GIS team combines authentication and anti-fraud technology protects information from data breaches and misuse to analyze phone calls within 30 seconds to confirm by maintaining strong networks to protect our callers’ identity. Use of this technology has led to systems and databases, but we remain vigilant as reduced fraud loss, lower operational costs and such threats persist. Our Information Security Utility improved customer experience. team works with partners across Citi’s businesses to support GIS Program compliance requirements and Citi also collaborates with external stakeholders increase efficiency through standardized processes to raise the level of security of the industry. We and automation. work with our clients, competitors, governments, law enforcement and intelligence agencies to share Our GIS Program is accredited by the British Standards best practices and conduct joint cyber resilience Institution, and we are the first major financial instiexercises. Our security teams also study information tution to have our program ISO 27001 certified. The security challenges across industries to learn how program is also regularly examined by regulators, as to strengthen our internal practices and respond well as by internal and external auditors. to problems quickly. In 2018, Citi became one of three official partners identified to support the The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors Commonwealth Cyber Declaration, an intergovernoversees the development, implementation and mental commitment to cyber security. As an official maintenance of our GIS Program. The program is partner, Citi will collaborate with other organizations managed by the Chief Operations and Technology to lead, develop and manage a project that aims Officer and the Chief Information Security Officer to strengthen resilience in the financial sector and on a global enterprise basis; the Chief Executives develop and share best practices. of each business sector and region are responsible 98 <Global Perspective on New Data Protection Regulation During 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) went into effect in Europe. The GDPR increases individuals’ privacy rights HOW WE DO in Europe and broadly applies to any entity BUSINESS established within, proactively offering goods and services within or monitoring the behavior of Environmental and Social Risk individuals within the European Economic Area. Management In this era of big data and cyber threats, we are committed to complying with all aspects of the Human Rights GDPR and empowering our customers to protect their personal information. Operations and Supply Chain In 2018, Citi GPS released a report entitled ePrivacy and Data Protection — Privacy Matters: • Navigating the New World of Data Protection. This implications as the environment shifts — Digital Innovation report, published just before the GDPR took effect, placing greater value on transparency, giving examines how prepared consumers, companies more power to consumers over their personal Talent and and regulators are for the tightening reguladata and requiring organizations to more Diversity tory landscape. It also considers the potential carefully consider the use of data. Ethics and Culture < “Politely Confrontational” Dialogue and Debate As technological advancements provide opportuentitled “Politely Confrontational,” in partnership nities for a wide range of third parties to access with the FinTech Innovation Lab New York, which consumers’ financial data, there is a need for is run by the Partnership Fund for New York continued focus on balancing convenience and City and Accenture. The event brought together choice with security. In 2018, we hosted a forum, fintech business leaders from across the city to hear various perspectives on an important topic Speakers on a panel at the Politely Confrontational event in New York City. for financial services: data privacy in the age of open banking. The discussion included issues of customer convenience, access to data, security of information, and regulations and controls and featured senior leaders from Citi as well as publicand private-sector stakeholders. Citi CEO Michael Corbat opened the session, noting that we need fresh thinking and collaboration at a time when the financial industry faces an unprecedented period of innovation and disruption. 99 Privacy used (as required by law), including opting out of The fair, ethical and lawful collection, use and marketing or other communications or reviewing and processing of customers’ personal information correcting information. Citi employees are required is essential to build trust, provide best-in-class to take privacy and information compliance training services and achieve our corporate objectives. To that covers these privacy concepts. help meet this goal, Citi has established a dedicated What’s Ahead Chief Privacy Office team led by a global Chief Privacy Off﻿icer. The Chief Privacy Office, part of our Independent Compliance Risk Management team, manages the Citi Global Privacy program, which is To stay relevant, we must innovate and collaborate overseen by the Citi Global Privacy Committee. The to bring convenient, cutting-edge technology to our program provides a framework for managing privacy customers, who expect sophisticated solutions that and confidentiality risks for the company. integrate with their digital lives. As the rapid pace of digital innovation continues and regulations, such as the Citi’s Privacy and Confidentiality Policy articulates GDPR, make an impact on the financial services sector, principles relating to the collection and processing of we will continue to balance consumer expectations with personal information, requiring, in part, that personal demands for data privacy and control. By managing the information only be collected and used as necessary tension between the desire for seamless digital solufor the performance of the services offered and for tions and the need for information security and privacy, the purposes disclosed in a privacy notice. Citi is we will look for new ways to collaborate and to improve transparent in our collection and use practices and our products and services to empower customers while offers customers choices with respect to how their safeguarding their personal information. personal information may be collected or otherwise 100 Talent and Diversity Commitment to diversity is core to Citi’s values. Over the last year, there has been continued momentum to increase diversity at Citi HOW WE DO and to create a transparent and inclusive workplace. While we have BUSINESS more to do, we are proud of where we are headed. Environmental and Social Risk Management In 2017, we were the first U.S. financial institution to disclose and take steps to address equal pay for Human Rights equal work, which we did initially in the U.S., the UK < Diversity at a Glance and Germany. We also committed to completing the While we still have a distance to go, we are proud of Operations and work globally, which we did in 2018. In addition, we many things: More than 50 percent of our colleagues Supply Chain set specific goals to increase representation among globally are female, and 45 percent of our U.S. female talent globally and black talent in the U.S. workforce are minorities; 47 percent of our summer Digital Innovation analysts and associates are female, and 26 percent We continue to use our voice and leverage our poliare underrepresented groups. More than 80 percent • cies as a global company to reaffirm our values and of our colleagues participated in virtual unconscious Talent and our commitment to the rights of all our employees. Diversity bias training by 2018, and an additional 35,000 Our Affinity groups are thriving as senior leaders attended recent in-person sessions by Harvard’s Dr. are engaged with talent at all levels to create new Mahzarin Banaji, who is well-known for popularizing Ethics and Culture models of working to support a culture of inclusion the concept of implicit bias. in all that we do. < Smart Business Research shows that companies with diverse teams average labor productivity to the levels of men make better decisions, mitigate risks and outpercould raise the gross domestic product of nations form other companies. And we know this to be in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and true in our own business. In Citi Private Bank North Development by at least 6 percent to as much as America, the leadership team consists of 40 percent 20 percent over the next two decades. women, and 67 percent of total revenue was generated by regions led by women. At Citi, we believe that diversity is also good for economic value overall. In a 2017 report by Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions (Citi GPS) entitled Women in the Economy II, Tina Fordham, Managing Director and Chief Global Political Analyst at Citi, forecasts that raising women’s average labor force participation, average hours worked and 101 Our Diversity Priorities pay for U.S. minorities is 93 percent of the median for non-minorities. These differences primarily reflect differences in representation at senior levels of the To ensure that Citi is a more diverse and inclusive company, reinforcing the importance of increasing the workplace where all employees can reach their representation of women and U.S. minorities in senior full potential, we’re focused on three key areas: and higher-paying roles at Citi. targeted recruitment, development and retention, and promotion paths and processes. In a short time, work has been done to build internal capability Representation Goals and infrastructure across the company in support In 2018, while working to understand these pay gaps, of a diverse culture and workplace. Our business we implemented representation goals that aim to leaders at all levels are directly involved in and held increase the diversity across the firm. At a minimum, accountable for our collective progress in advancing by 2021, we plan to increase representation of women diversity and inclusion across the firm. We have in assistant vice president to managing director increased the level of transparency around these level roles to at least 40 percent globally, up from 37 efforts, which underscores our commitment to drive percent currently, and to boost the representation of change across our firm. black employees in those same roles in the U.S. to at least 8 percent, up from 6 percent currently. Pay Equity The new representation goals are not an end state; Our initial pay equity review was completed in they are a starting point to drive progress and help January 2018 and included three countries — the us in our efforts to recruit, retain and promote U.S., the UK and Germany, representing 36 percent of diverse talent. Senior leaders at Citi were involved in our workforce. We found that, on an adjusted basis, the development of the goals and are now measured women were paid on average 99 percent of what men on their progress against these goals, just as they were paid at Citi, and U.S. minorities were paid on are for other business priorities. average 99 percent of what U.S. non-minorities were paid. As part of our analysis, we made adjustments to account for a number of factors to make the comparisons meaningful, including job function, “When we set our business priorities, level and geography. Later in 2018 we completed the we focus heavily on the balance of our same assessment globally, releasing the results in business — the importance of not being January 2019. In this broader assessment, we found overly reliant on any one product or that women globally were also paid on average 99 percent of what men were paid at Citi. Based on the geography and the benefits of that findings of these reviews, we made pay adjustments diversification to strong and consistent as part of the 2019 compensation cycle. financial performance. We think about We also released an additional figure, called the raw our people in much the same way. pay gap, which is the difference between median pay for all female employees and median pay for all male To be a healthy, high-performing orgaemployees at Citi. We also compared the median pay nization, we need a well-balanced team for minorities and non-minorities in the U.S. Unlike the pay equity results, the raw pay gap does not account that is representative of the places for differences in factors such as job function, level where we operate, in every part of the and geography. Our unadjusted total compensation world. It’s simply smart business.” review shows that the median pay for women globally is 71 percent of the median for men, and the median — Michael L. Corbat, CEO 102 Pay Equity Review Global figure measuring equal pay, including base salary and bonuses, for equal work, adjusting for appropriate factors such as job function, level, geography, etc. JANUARY 2018 JANUARY 2019 ON AN ADJUSTED BASIS First financial institution to release adjusted Completed pay equity review for global 99% + = HOW WE DO BUSINESS pay gap. Also, made workforce. Made WOMEN PAID MEN appropriate pay adjustments as part Environmental adjustments in the U.S., of this year’s No statistically significant and Social Risk the UK and Germany. compensation cycle difference between Management U.S. VS. U.S. NONMINORITIES MINORITIES Human Rights Operations and Supply Chain Raw Pay Gap Data Digital Innovation First company to disclose aggregate measure of total compensation (all men vs. all women, all U.S. minorities vs. all U.S. non-minorities) across all employees regardless of role. • Talent and MEDIAN PAY FIRM-WIDE Diversity REPRESENTATION GOALS Ethics and 71% Midand seniorlevel female 40% INCREASED REPRESENTATION = talent globally to of women and + Culture WOMEN PAID MEN BY 2020 minorities in highercompensated roles U.S. MINORITIES 93% PAID U.S. NONMINORITIES Midand seniorlevel black talent (U.S. only) to 8% BY 2020 to help close raw pay gaps These initial goals, which are additive to our existing Specifically, we are enabling progress toward target diversity efforts such as diverse slates and interview 5.5, which aims to ensure women’s full and effective panels, will ensure that we learn which efforts are participation and equal opportunities for leaderworking and which are not. We will use what we learn ship at all levels of decision-making in political, through this work to support representation across economic and public life. all diverse groups globally. SDG Goal 5: Gender Equality These representation goals, as well as other work we are doing around gender equality in the workplace, directly contribute to SDG 5 in support of gender equality and empowering all women and girls. 103 Affinity Groups and Senior Leaders in Action Unconscious Bias and Men as Allies With more than 200,000 colleagues in close to 100 Following our Building an Inclusive Culture traincountries, our people reflect the remarkable range of ing in 2017, in which more than 80 percent of cultures and perspectives of our clients. The breadth our colleagues participated, 35,000 employees of backgrounds, experiences and perspectives of our attended in-person seminars with Harvard Professor team is what enables our success. Dr. Mahzarin Banaji in 2018. These trainings help colleagues recognize implicit bias — the social stereoOur Affinity model, built as a complement to our types or attitudes that unconsciously affect our global grassroots Employee Network program decisions — and take actions to support inclusion. that has been in existence for 17 years, is our enterprise approach to setting and reinforcing the We are engaging colleagues in creative ways to company’s diversity priorities and goals. Members address workplace micro-inequities head on, of our CEO’s leadership team, along with other including training our managers and HR teams to senior leaders across the company, co-chair each recognize and call out potential unconscious biases. of our Affinities to help provide accountability for We have created interactive sessions to recognize an equitable and inclusive culture. The Affinity common unconscious biases and hold one another leaders act as public champions for the priorities accountable to calling these out when we see them. and needs of each demographic, both within the company and externally. Our 10 Affinities — Asian With the understanding that creating a diverse and Heritage, Black Heritage, Citi Salutes, Citi Women, inclusive culture is the responsibility of all of our Disability, Generations, Hispanic/Latino Heritage, employees, not just those who identify with a certain Multicultural, Parents, and Pride — are designed to gender, ethnicity or Affinity, Citi is creating opporensure that we understand, appreciate and respond tunities for men to be involved in honest dialogue to the needs of our entire employee base. around female leaders’ experiences in the workplace. These seminars are intended to create male advoIn line with our representation goals, Citi executives cacy and allyship. are incorporating diversity and inclusion into their business priorities and commitments. From creating As an example, one session brought together a group a systematic approach to networking between senior of female and male leaders from our Operations and leaders and diverse talent to one-on-one career Technology (O&T) team to bring to light the experidiscussions with diverse talent, we are focusing ences that female leaders have. The session resulted on more direct engagement and accountability for in several of the male attendees forming a task developing and retaining key talent. force with members of the O&T Women’s Leadership Council to address the issues discussed. Another critical area of focus is ensuring that our talent pipeline is more aggressively managed. As part of our annual, company-wide succession planning efforts, our leaders are working to ensure that we have the right mix of talent who are ready now for promotion and that talent that is two to three years away from their next roles have appropriate development plans in order to facilitate career mobility. 104 < LGBT+ Equality and Rights In late 2018, Citi joined other companies in signing the Human Rights Campaign’s Business Statement on Transgender Equality. We are proud to have reaffirmed our commitment to stand with the millions of people in America who identify as transHOW WE DO gender or gender non-binary or who are intersex. BUSINESS Through this public demonstration of support, we aim to encourage others to treat this community Environmental with the respect and dignity they deserve. and Social Risk Management Citi employees and allies together at the New York In the summer of 2018, we initiated a new City Pride March. Human Rights global badging policy to enable our transgender colleagues to more easily change the name on their “partner” of any sex as an eligible family member. Citi identification badge. In addition, we expanded We recognize that employee benefits are critical to Operations and Supply Chain the demographic questions on sexual orientation ensuring equality and mobility for our colleagues. and gender identity in our Voice of the Employee Digital Innovation survey to 39 countries, reaching 82 percent of In Northern Ireland, where we are one of the our employee base. Responses to these voluntary largest employers, with approximately 2,800 • questions will allow us to better understand the people located in Belfast, Citi joined with other Talent and experiences of all of our LGBT+ colleagues. companies to support the effort to legalize gay Diversity marriage in 2018. Northern Ireland is the only part Additionally, in 2018 we expanded insurance and of the UK that has not made gay marriage legal. Ethics and other benefits available under our U.S. policies to We were one of 29 companies that published a Culture LGBT+ partners globally wherever the benefits are joint statement for reform that acknowledged legal and permitted under local law. In addition the importance of a diverse, outward-looking and to designating a spouse through marriage or civil inclusive society to creating a prosperous future partnership, employees are able to designate a for Northern Ireland. Targeted Recruiting We are also changing how we track and manage candidates who interact with Citi, to ensure we can connect them to appropriate opportunities across We will never make progress in increasing the the firm. Our recruiting team has been building out a representation of female and minority talent at all comprehensive digital dashboard and is testing and levels of the firm without focusing on how we bring validating predictive models that include diversity colleagues into Citi. Our goal is for our analyst and metrics in order to more effectively source and associate programs to include 50 percent female recruit the right talent. The dashboard will be able colleagues globally and 30 percent black and to show current and historical data through the Hispanic/Latino colleagues in the U.S. Female reprelens of region, university, major, gender and other sentation in full-time analyst and associate roles factors, allowing our recruiting team to use data globally increased from 36 percent in 2017 to to drive our strategy with a focus on meeting our 46 percent in early 2019. Likewise, women in representation goals. summer analyst and associate roles have increased from 39 percent to 47 percent over the same time For managing director and director level hires, we period. In the U.S., our black and Hispanic/Latino continue to ensure diverse slates, including at least representation has increased from 12 percent in 2017 one woman in our interviews for global hires and to 19 percent in early 2019, with our summer repreat least one woman or racial/ethnic minority in our sentation increasing from 15 percent to 26 percent interviews for U.S. hires. In 2018, 76 percent of over the same time frame. 105 The Early ID Program pairs each participant with < Driving Diversity in Mexico a mentor from Citi and provides access to a virtual learning tool that includes weekly virtual trainings, In an effort to improve employment opportunities for as well as virtual panels and seminars given by Citi people with disabilities, our Citi offices in Mexico held professionals. In 2018, we aligned the program with the country’s first job fair for people with disabilities. our Affinities, including Black Heritage, Hispanic/ More than 100 people attended the job fair, which Latino Heritage, Citi Salutes, Pride and Citi Women. featured training to help participants develop their The Early ID Program plays a critical role in increasresumes and prepare for interviews. After the training ing the diversity of our summer analyst class. sessions, participants were invited to apply for job openings at the firm. In an effort to expand our reach beyond our traditional target schools to attract a wider variety of applicants, we have begun exploring various proactive sourcing methods. By partnering with companies interview slates for managing director and director such as WayUp, which is a U.S.-based recruiting roles included at least one diverse candidate. We platform for diverse students, recruiters were able to have also continued to use diverse interview panels communicate customized messages to promote our to promote a broader perspective on hiring deciopportunities. This engagement provides an opporsions. In 2018, 80 percent of managing director level tunity to expand our pipeline and be purposeful in hires were interviewed by a panel with at least one our targeting approach. diverse member. In 2018, we expanded the Citi® University In addition, we’re deploying new trainings and Partnerships in Innovation & Discovery (CUPID) technology designed to help us leverage our hiring Program, launched in 2017, to historically black process to drive greater diversity, including new colleges and universities, with the first launch at interview training for all recruiters and hiring Howard University in Washington, D.C. The CUPID managers and new sourcing platforms. program enables us to accelerate innovation projects across Citi by engaging diverse students and developing a robust pipeline of talent from leading Campus Recruiting universities. Learn more about CUPID in the Digital Campus recruiting is imperative to establishing Citi Innovation section. as an employer of choice among early-career professionals. It is also an important entry point into Citi Development for underrepresented groups. We introduced a Freshman Discovery Program to help educate underrepresented minority college freshmen on the various roles in the financial and Retention services industry. This program consists of networkOur best chance of making meaningful improvement ing sessions and trainings that provide firm-wide in diversity at more senior levels is to ensure we foundational concepts to help them understand our cultivate the diverse talent we already have. We also businesses and the impact they have on our clients. know that the development of our talent is critical to After the program, participants are paired with a our success as a firm. At every level, we are explormentor from Citi and have the opportunity to particing ways to support our high-performing talent ipate in recruiting activity. From there, 27 percent outside of biannual development conversations, and of program participants received an offer to join we are expanding our development programs. We our Sophomore Leadership Program, and 13 percent will continue our focus on pay equity for all of our were selected to join Citi’s Early Identification employees and also provide access to a robust range Leadership (Early ID) Program. of career development and learning resources. 106 Affinities and Employee HOW WE DO BUSINESS Networks in Action Our Employee Network chapters serve as local branches of our Affinities and are initiated and led by employees. They offer professional Environmental development, mentoring, networking and community engagement and Social Risk opportunities to members and colleagues. Consistent with our inclusive Management culture, Employee Network chapters are open to all Citi employees, whether or not they identify with a particular Affinity. Human Rights 6 Operations and < Asian Heritage designed and implemented a develSupply Chain opment program called “Investing in You,” which focuses on ensuring career mobility through cross-cultural Digital Innovation awareness and communications seminars, mentoring and Asian Heritage discussions with successful senior leaders. • Talent and 17 Diversity Ethics and 177 Culture Citi Salutes < Citi Salutes, our veterans Affinity, launched Total Employee a speaker series designed to highlight the unique Network Chapters leadership skills of veterans and to foster greater connectivity and engagement across the military veteran community at Citi. 10 Generations < Pride and its 27 chapters around the world were active in supporting the company’s implementation of two employee training modules — LGBT+ Ally Training and LGBT+ Inclusion — and promoting 27 LGBT+ Pride Month in many cities. Citi Hungary was the largest cohort at the Budapest Pride March and marched as the principal sponsor of We Are Open, a Pride European organization promoting diverse and open culture in the workplace. 107 11 < Disability celebrated Disability Employment Awareness Month by partnering with the ReelAbilities Film Festival, the Disability largest film festival in the U.S. dedicated to promoting awareness and appreciation of the lives, stories and artistic expressions of people with different disabilities. The group screened two short films to raise awareness and education about disabilities among employees and hosted a panel discussion. In Japan, Disability hosted a session on overcoming diability with amateur para swimmer Seiji Tanaka. “We have to be 8 < Hispanic/Latino Heritage hosted a fireside chat with Dr. Alfredo Quinones-Hinojosa, in which comfortable being he shared his journey from the tomato fields of Hispanic/Latino California as a migrant worker to his role as a uncomfortable. Heritage renowned neurosurgeon and chair of neurologic That’s the only way studies at the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, Florida. we’re going to change < Citi Women’s Leadership Development things together.” 62 Citi Women Program is offered to high-performing female directors from around the world. To date, the program, which offers four days of networking and learning opportunities, has inspired and  ark Mason, CFO, —M co-lead Black Heritage Affinity motivated more than 800 female leaders globally. By Region 7 99 43 Multicultural 13 North America Europe, Middle East and Africa 15 20 Black Heritage < Black Heritage piloted a new internal development Latin America Asia Pacific program called “Owning My Success,” which is designed 16 to empower colleagues to chart their own career course and grow while strengthening relationships with other talented colleagues. A group of mid-career Parents black colleagues participated in a two-day professional development seminar followed by professional group coaching circles over three months. 108 Developing Diverse Talent focuses on developing a personal skill base, including personal branding, networking, work/life integration Citi has a wide range of programs underway to and communicating with impact. engage and develop diverse talent across the firm as teams test new approaches with potential for scale. Our Finance group continued the second year of its Women in Finance Program, designed to invest In the North America Global Consumer Banking in future women leaders by providing exposure team, for example, our Black and Hispanic Diversity to senior leadership and building a community Leadership Program helps employees progress to of women in Finance. The second cohort in 2018 HOW WE DO leadership and executive levels. The three-month BUSINESS included 15 participants, three of whom were program, launched in late 2018, includes one-onpromoted from director to managing director and Environmental one coaching sessions, peer mentoring circles and two of whom were promoted from vice president and Social Risk assessment tools to support the 30 participants to senior vice president. Of the 2017 cohort of nine Management to accelerate their professional development, individuals, four have been promoted from director expand their business acumen, and increase their to managing director. Human Rights exposure to executives and other leaders across the business. The Women in Risk Program, which was launched by Operations and our global Risk group in 2011, continues to be instruSupply Chain Our Institutional Clients Group (ICG) has been mental in building a stronger pipeline of women for hosting networking breakfasts and once-a-month leadership roles. More than half of the participants in Digital Innovation hourly sessions with black employees at the vice this program to date have taken on new or expanded president level and above to discuss diversity and roles within the firm. • inclusion and provide exposure to senior leadership. Talent and Diversity Citi’s Military Officer Leadership Program is a dediIn Latin America, we launched a new Women’s cated, 24-month development program within North Virtual Development Program, conducted in English America Consumer Operations and Technology to Ethics and Culture and Spanish, for women at the senior vice president identify and support military veteran employees who level and below. In 2018, more than 1,200 female have high potential for future leadership roles. The executives across Latin America participated in program includes rotational assignments, mentora series of trainings on topics such as executive ship and deep immersion in the function. presence, negotiation, barriers to advancement, resilience and leadership. These initiatives are just a few examples of the programs we are developing and implementing Similarly, in our Asia Pacific region, EDGE, our to better understand what works across different women’s leadership development program, aims to businesses and geographies in order to identify best build a strong pipeline of female talent at the assispractices and work toward scale. tant vice president level. This six-month program 109 Learning and Evaluation Digital Learning As our work evolves in an ever-changing world, there Citi employees have access to a range of career is always something new to learn. To help our employdevelopment and learning resources to enhance ees, we offer Degreed, an online platform that delivers their ability to perform in their current roles and information on the topics employees want to learn prepare for future opportunities. We offer flexible about, from artificial intelligence to cyber security to solutions that enable learning when, where and how effective communication skills. Employees can choose it is most effective for employees, and we continue from a series of recommendations that can be personto expand our program offerings. alized for each individual. In 2018, more than 70,000 employees accessed Degreed, with leadership, project We also provide a range of internal development management and business analysis among the skills and rotational programs for leaders at all levels, and most frequently added to individual profiles. we continue to evolve those programs to meet new needs. Our Global Consumer Operations programs help high-performing employees build the skills to Training for Advancement transition to manager and supervisory roles, and 80 Our Global Associate Learning Initiative is a ninepercent of participants have been or are on a path month training program aimed at Institutional to promotion. Client Group employees at the associate level — a critical milestone early in an employee’s career. As we enhance our development offerings, we are The program, which combines digital learning with working to formally capture employee feedback on in-person training, prepares the next generation of programming to better understand the impact on Citi leadership for the future of banking. In 2018, we employees and the potential for further enhancehosted 421 global associates (representing 40 counment. In 2018, all Citi employees received training. tries and 50 cities) at our New York headquarters for the inaugural event. < Voice of the Employee Our annual Voice of the Employee (VOE) survey While we are pleased to see the numbers improvgathers critical input on trends in the workplace ing, we know these surveys touch on increasingly and management practices. The survey serves as important areas for our employees, and, therean important catalyst for implementing valuable fore, for the business. We continually challenge change within the company. All employees are ourselves to do even better across the board. invited to participate in the survey and have their voices heard. In 2018, the Engagement Index, which measures employees’ sentiments regarding opportunities for growth, job alignment with skills, and perception that the company is making the changes necessary to compete, came in at 76 percent, the same as in 2016.1 We also measure sentiments about diversity. One of the items on the survey — related to senior management support for diverse employees and ideas — increased to 81 percent, an increase of 3 percentage points from 2016. 1 We did not make direct comparisons to our 2017 survey because we conducted a different type of survey that year. 110 Evaluation Many employees also have the opportunity to receive multi-perspective feedback (MPF) from Employees receive formal feedback from their direct reports, peers, partners and other colleagues. managers through mid-year and year-end reviews. About 47,600 employees received MPF in 2018. In Our two-rating system evaluates employee perforaddition, approximately 3,800 managers who particmance against their goals and assesses their leaderipated in training programs received a 360-degree ship through the lens of our Leadership Standards. performance review, which is designed to help Citi also provides access for employees and their identify opportunities for development. The goal is managers to create individual development plans to provide a more holistic view of each participant’s HOW WE DO that consider the skills, strategic training opporstrengths and development opportunities to improve BUSINESS tunities and behaviors needed to enhance current their overall effectiveness at Citi. Environmental performance and prepare for future roles. and Social Risk Management Human Rights Global Employee Training 2018 AVERAGE HOURS PER EMPLOYEE TOTAL BY TRAINING FORMAT Operations and Supply Chain Digital Innovation 41.9 41.8 Europe, Middle • North America East, And Africa Talent and 8.6M Diversity Ethics and 41.5 Culture TOTAL TOTAL 44.7 38.7 5.0M Web-Based 3.6M Instructor-Led Latin America Asia Pacific 111 Workforce Well-Being spouses or partners who are enrolled in our medical plans to earn up to $450 ($900 for a couple) in Live Well Rewards just for practicing healthy behaviors Maintaining policies and a culture of well-being for such as tracking their exercise, participating in our employees is critical to our success. We continbiometric screenings or taking an online course in ually evaluate the tools and policies available to how to lose weight or start an exercise program. maintain the well-being of our global workforce. More than 48,000 employees earned Live Well rewards in 2018. Rewards are offered in the form of gift cards to popular retailers. Our locations in the Work/Life Balance U.S. and Mexico are tobacco-free. Citi realizes the importance of being flexible on how, when and where work gets done. We have a variety of We also offer a Health Advocate program in the U.S., programs that help employees balance their work and separate from insurance programs, to aid employees life, including both formal and informal flexible work in resolving insurance claims, accessing medical arrangements that contribute to employee satisfacspecialists and addressing their health needs and tion and retention while increasing productivity. those of their families. We also consider how our buildings can affect our employees. From providing In 2018, we launched Minds at Citi in the U.S., aimed ergonomic furniture to managing air and acoustics, at changing the way our employees think, act and we strive to create an environment that supports respond to mental health. As part of this effort, we the well-being and productivity of our employees. provide access to free and confidential counseling Learn more about how physical space impacts and life coaching sessions. The program enables employee well-being in the Operations and Supply employees to seek support for a wide range of Chain section. Also, our Save Well plans guide our personal issues, such as stress, relationship conflicts employees in building financial stability and saving and financial challenges, as well as workplace chalfor retirement, and we offer a tuition reimbursement lenges, such as communicating with managers and option for certain employees going back to school. dealing with organizational change. As we strive to create a culture in which everyone feels supported and valued, we recognize that mental well-being and physical health must be synchronized. In 2019, we < Citi Parental Program in Asia started offering enhanced mental health benefits for In our Markets and Securities Services (MSS) business employees and their families, including tele-medicinein Asia, we are piloting a program to encourage more based behavioral health options, on-site mental women to stay at the company after they become health professionals at our largest locations, and mothers. We have seen that the post-maternity-leave Sleepio, a cognitive behavioral therapy program period coincides with high female attrition across to help build better sleep habits. And, through our some markets in the MSS business. As part of the learning and development efforts, we offer opportuprogram, returning mothers receive access to maternities to learn about mental health and strategies for nity coaching and peer support. Managers also receive helping others who might be affected. guidance on their role, how they can best support employees during and after maternity leave and how In the U.S., our on-site medical clinics provide healththey can effectively manage with increased flexible care, free preventative screenings and health promoworking options. Both employees and managers tion programs, immunizations and pre-travel health receive toolkits that serve as a one-stop-shop for all guidance to all employees. These initiatives help information relating to the policies and support Citi employees and their families achieve their health will provide before, during and after maternity leave. goals through resources that are free, easy to use and available to employees whether or not they are enrolled in a Citi health plan. Our Live Well Rewards program in the U.S. enables employees and their 112 Citi Benefits and Family Life Supporting employees in their family life is an Volunteerism important part of workforce well-being. We offer We offer our employees the resources and tools family support through a range of programs and to volunteer in the communities in which they live have policies in place to support employees who and work and, in turn, our employees are proud to require paid leave for various reasons, including contribute to helping individuals and families thrive. military leave, family and medical leave and parental bonding/childcare leave, among others. For In 2018, Citi employee volunteers contributed more HOW WE DO than 1 million volunteer hours in communities around example, birth mothers in our U.S. workforce have BUSINESS access to 16 weeks paid leave, including 8 weeks of the world. They used their professional skills, experdisability/recovery and 8 weeks of parental bonding tise and time volunteering with community organizaEnvironmental and Social Risk leave. In addition, we offer 8 weeks paid parental tions to support a range of projects, from traditional Management hands-on activities to skills-based volunteering. bonding leave for all other parents in connection with the birth or adoption of a child, including These employee engagement efforts with community Human Rights organizations often complement financial support foster care placement for the purpose of adoption. Reduced rates are also available for dependent from Citi and the Citi Foundation. For example, 20 Operations and care, and we provide a new parent program for both colleagues at a Citi site outside Chicago had the Supply Chain men and women as they navigate the transition opportunity to assist five nonprofit partners from to parenthood. In addition, we offer the Bright the Citi Foundation’s Community Progress Makers Digital Innovation Fund in a Citi Skills Marathon. Skills marathons pair Horizons Special Needs program, which provides online resources for parents in the U.S. with special teams of highly skilled Citi colleagues with nonprofit • partners for one day, enabling them to use their Talent and needs children and subsidized dependent care when Diversity work-related issues disrupt regular schedules. We professional expertise to address projects that meet also offer a college coach to help families and their critical organization needs. Together, these teams Ethics and children navigate the post-secondary education assess the nonprofits’ projects, strategies, programs Culture admissions process. and approaches, and determine if, where and when improvements can be implemented. In Latin America, we launched a new program called ConnecTeen for daughters of Citi employees While Citi employees volunteer year-round, Global to connect with other teen girls and learn about Community Day, our annual day of service for the strengths and values that can empower them. employees, friends and family, is an important way One of the key objectives of the program is to raise in which we collectively deepen relationships with consciousness around gender stereotypes and our communities. In 2018, more than 100,000 volunself-perception while fostering a culture of awareteers participated in 1,400 events held in more than ness and inclusion. 450 cities across 90 countries. Since the inaugural Global Community Day in 2006, Citi volunteers have contributed nearly 4 million hours of service to projects in hundreds of cities. 113 Service and Skills Among our volunteer opportunities, we provide to work in a strategic role at a nonprofit of their immersive experiences that serve as valuable profeschoice. With a guaranteed return to Citi after their sional and personal development for our employees year of service, participants contribute their skills and important retention tools for Citi. They also and expertise to supporting their communities while contribute to our commitment to engaging with the honing skills that will prove valuable in their careers communities where we live and work. These opportuat Citi. Since the program’s inception in 2016, 17 nities include the following: analysts have participated, with 10 more scheduled to participate in 2019. CariClub: Since 2017, CariClub has been helping Citi bankers engage with their communities and develop Volunteer Africa: Launched in 2016, Volunteer leadership experience by serving on nonprofit assoAfrica connects microentrepreneurs in Africa with ciate boards. Fifty colleagues are now serving on an Citi employee volunteers from select areas of associate board or have joined a young professionals our businesses. In 2018, 27 junior bankers spent committee, and more than 60 colleagues will be five weeks in Uganda working with a group of working through the process in 2019. high-potential entrepreneurs to help grow their businesses and create much-needed jobs in the local iMentor: Since the launch of our Pathways to community. The entrepreneurs are also able to pitch Progress program in 2014, the Citi Foundation and for investment from Citi through a dedicated fund iMentor have worked together to equip high school established by the bank. students with the tools to succeed academically and prepare for post-secondary education and career One Young World: As part of the One Young opportunities. In addition to the Foundation’s grant World program, Citi employees have the opportufunding, more than 200 Citi employees across the nity to mentor young social entrepreneurs from U.S. served as mentors in 2018, helping to develop Yunus&Youth, an organization focused on providing college and career aspirations, assist with the college resources to drive social change. At the end of the application and financing process and coach mentees six-month engagement, program participants travel throughout their post-secondary academic years. to attend the acclaimed One Young World Summit, a unique gathering of young talent from global and Service Year: Through a partnership with Service national companies and NGOs and world leaders. Just Year Alliance, select first-year Citi analysts in New last year, 56 Citi participants traveled to the Hague to York City who have accepted a full-time offer have debate, formulate and share innovative solutions for the opportunity to defer that offer for one year the pressing issues the world faces. 114 Promotion Paths Fair Employment and Processes Practices A critical part of guiding the career progression Our global workforce is our greatest asset, and we of our employees is working to better understand strive to maintain an environment where opportuniwhat works and what doesn’t so we can not only ties to develop are widely available, where people are retain but also promote our talent. Career develhired and advanced on their merits and where our HOW WE DO opment is an important priority, and we promote employees treat each other with respect. We are fully BUSINESS from within wherever possible. In 2018, close to committed to equal employment opportunity and Environmental 40 percent of open positions were filled internally. comply with the letter and spirit of all laws regarding and Social Risk This focus is particularly important for our diverse fair employment practices and nondiscrimination. Management talent as we work to increase representation at more senior levels of the company. For example, For more information on fair employment practices, Human Rights with immense focus and continued investment in see the Human Rights section of this report as well development, more than 25 percent of our Citi as our Code of Conduct. Operations and Country Officers (our country business heads) are Supply Chain female, and our ultimate goal is to increase this to 50 percent. Compensation Digital Innovation We offer competitive salaries based on our In 2018, we also focused on equipping managers Compensation Philosophy, which outlines five • to better anticipate and learn about employee Talent and primary objectives. Our approach to compensation Diversity concerns and to partner to develop solutions that includes ensuring that entry-level employees receive help them retain and promote key talent. Managers competitive wages within the industry. We also Ethics and are being encouraged and supported to look beyond offer employees the opportunity to take advantage Culture formal talent review conversations to have candid of formal or informal flexible work arrangements, conversations, or engagement interviews, with including part-time work and job sharing. direct reports to build trust and better understand employees' career aspirations and morale. We conduct a robust annual review of compensation, which includes multiple layers of reviews of compensation recommendations and pay equity analysis. Learn more about our pay equity analysis on pg 102. < Citi’s Compensation Philosophy We have a comprehensive compensation philosophy anchored by the following five objectives: 1. A  lign compensation programs, structures 4. Reflect regulatory guidance in compensaand decisions with stockholder and other tion programs stakeholder interests 5. Attract and retain the best talent to lead 2. Reinforce a business culture based on the Citi to success highest ethical standards For more detailed information on each of these objec3. Manage risks to Citi by encouraging tives, see our complete Compensation Philosophy. prudent decision-making 115 Citi employees and allies march together in the Pride in London parade. 2018 Workforce Diversity Highlights 51% of our total employees 46% of our U.S. workforce 25% of our managing 28% of our U.S. managing globally are female are minorities directors and directors directors and directors globally are female are minorities (103,243 people) (30,498 people) (2,354 people) (1,341 people) 2018 Consolidated U.S. Employer Information Report (EEO-1) BY RACE BY GENDER 54.2% White 10.3% Black or African 17.7% Hispanic 16.1% Asian 53.1% Female (Not Hispanic American or Latino or Latino) 0.2% Native Hawaiian/ 0.3% American Indian/ 1.2% Two or 46.9% Male Other Pacific Alaskan Native more races Islander 116 Citi’s Global Workforce EMPLOYEES BY REGION HOW WE DO BUSINESS Environmental 68,294 North America 28,013 Europe, Middle East and Africa and Social Risk Management 11,998 8,785 4,426 3,303 Human Rights NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES EMPLOYEE TURNOVER NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES EMPLOYEE TURNOVER (17.6% RATE) (12.9% RATE) (15.8% RATE) (11.8% RATE) Operations and Supply Chain Digital Innovation • Talent and Diversity Ethics and Culture 44,959 Latin America 62,990 Asia Pacific 9,723 5,711 11,777 9,182 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES EMPLOYEE TURNOVER NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES EMPLOYEE TURNOVER (21.6% RATE) (12.9% RATE) (18.7% RATE) (14.6% RATE) Data as of December 31, 2018. 117 BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE 204,256 Total Workforce 201,352 Full-Time Employees 2,904 Part-Time Employees TOTAL BY GENDER 204,256 Total Employees 103,243 Female 101,013 Male 37,924 26,981 19,490 13,763 18,434 13,218 NEW EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE NEW EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE NEW EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE HIRES TURNOVER HIRES TURNOVER HIRES TURNOVER (18.6% RATE) (13.2% RATE) (18.6% RATE) (13.2% RATE) (18.3% RATE) (13.1% RATE) 118 Executive Compensation their managers, another member of the employee’s management chain, Human Resources, or the Ethics We compensate our executives fairly, based on Hotline. Upon receipt of any complaint, Citi promptly individual and company performance, competitive investigates and takes remedial measures up to and benchmarking and support of our Mission and including termination of employment, where approValue Proposition. Our Proxy Statement contains priate. All contacts and investigations are treated as a scorecard with each named executive officer’s confidentially as possible, consistent with the need financial and nonfinancial performance goals, to investigate and address the matter and subject to which are approved by the Board’s Personnel applicable laws and regulations. Citi’s policies also HOW WE DO and Compensation Committee. We seek to design strictly prohibit retaliation against any employee BUSINESS our executive pay program to motivate balanced who has made a complaint or participated in an Environmental behaviors consistent with our focus on long-term investigation. For more on our discrimination and and Social Risk strategic goals. For example, diversity and inclusion, Management harassment policies, see our Code of Conduct. including increasing representation of women and U.S. minorities, and ethics and culture are incorHuman Rights porated into senior executives’ scorecards, which Operations and are a factor in remuneration. Citi incorporates shareholder and stakeholder input on executive pay What’s Ahead Supply Chain into our Compensation Philosophy. We apply our To fully reach our potential, we need a workforce of Compensation Philosophy through our Executive people who represent the places where we operate Digital Innovation and the clients we serve. Citi has a strong record of Compensation Framework, which enables incentive compensation awards to closely reflect our action on important issues related to diversity, inclu• sion and equality. But we know there is much more Talent and pay-for-performance approach. Diversity work to do, as reflected in our recent analysis showing the ongoing median pay gap between men and Ethics and Discrimination and Sexual Harassment women and between minorities and non-minorities. Culture This analysis underscores the importance of our in the Workplace goals to increase the representation of women and Citi strictly prohibits any form of unlawful discrimU.S. minorities in senior and higher-paying roles at ination or harassment, as set forth in our widely Citi by the end of 2021. We are focused on this work disseminated and consistently enforced policies. and empowering teams to implement new programs Employees who believe they have been discrimto increase diversity across the company, to learn inated against or harassed are encouraged to from each other’s successes and to scale these report any incidents that violate Citi’s policies to approaches across the organization. 119 Timeline of Select 2018 Events January 2018 Completed initial pay equity review in the U.S., the UK February April and Germany Signed the CEO Action for As part of our pledge to Diversity and Inclusion Pledge, procure $100 million from committing to driving policy women-owned businesses, changes and practices at Citi that continued our partnership help advance equitable workplaces with WEConnect International July July Initiated a new global April badging policy to enable Expanded insurance and other benefits our transgender colleagues Engaged directly with available under our U.S. policies to LGBT+ to more easily change partners to begin the partners globally, wherever benefits the name on their Citi process of reviewing and are legal and permitted under local law identification badge evaluating women-owned businesses and their capabilities in Europe, Latin America, Africa and other regions August Announced firm-wide August September representation goals Joined forces with the Flatiron School to Participated in the Grace for female talent connect women with up to $1 million in Hopper Celebration globally and black scholarship dollars to attend one of the school’s focused on retaining talent in the U.S. industry-leading software engineering or data and advancing women science courses in technology October Signed the European Diversity Charter, which was launched in 2004 to promote November October the European Union’s anti-discrimination and diversity policies among employers Signed the Expanded the demographic questions on sexual orientation Business and gender identity in the Voice of the Employee survey Statement for to 39 countries, reaching 82% of our employee base. Transgender Responses to these voluntary questions allow Citi to better Equality understand the experiences of all of our LGBT+ colleagues. November Joined #SeeHer, a groundbreaking movement January 2019 launched by the Association of National Completed global pay Advertisers to eliminate unconscious bias against equity review and women and girls in advertising and media released unadjusted pay gap figures 120 Ethics and Culture We have invested in improving controls, including those related to risk, compliance and audit, and our progress in these areas HOW WE DO is enabling us to safely run and grow our business. All of our BUSINESS employees, at all levels, are held accountable to the highest Environmental standards of ethics and professional behavior so we can deliver and Social Risk Management the best possible results for our clients and communities. Human Rights Ethics and Operations and values and principles through our publicly available Supply Chain Code of Conduct, our publicly available Leadership Culture at Citi Standards, various training and development Digital Innovation opportunities, employee engagement initiatives and communications from our senior leaders. In Each Citi employee has made a commitment to doing so, we reinforce that our employees must Talent and Diversity serve as our clients’ most trusted partner, in every apply our values and principles every day to everytransaction and every interaction, by responsibly thing they do and wherever Citi operates. • providing our products, services and expertise. We Ethics and expect our employees to comply with all applicable Culture laws, regulations and Citi policies — including our Code of Conduct. Our Mission and Value Proposition asks our employees globally to ensure that their We ask our colleagues to ensure that decisions pass three tests: They are in our clients’ their decisions pass three tests: interests; they create economic value; and they are always systemically responsible. They are in our clients’ interests These three tests help our employees to deliver on our core activities of safeguarding assets, lending money, making payments and accessing capital markets on behalf of our clients — each of which They create economic value creates an obligation to act responsibly, do everything possible to create the best outcomes and prudently manage risk. They are always systemically The Ethics and Culture Committee of our Board of Directors oversees Citi’s efforts to reinforce and responsible enhance a culture of ethics throughout the firm. At Citi, we establish and communicate our core 121 Ethics Program Code of Conduct Citi’s Ethics Office, a part of Independent Compliance Citi’s Code of Conduct outlines the standards Risk Management (ICRM), is responsible for our Ethics of ethics and professional behavior expected of Program, which includes reinforcing Citi’s values employees and representatives of Citi when dealing through the Code of Conduct, Code of Conduct training with clients, business colleagues, shareholders, and employee outreach efforts such as the Spotlight communities and each other. It also provides an on Ethics (see below). The Ethics Program also includes overview of key legal and regulatory requirements Citi’s Ethics Hotline, works with our businesses and and select global policies. The Code applies to all control functions to identify control enhancements, directors, officers and employees of Citi worldwide. and reports on significant matters to Citi’s internal and In addition, individuals performing services for Citi external stakeholders. may be subject to the Code by contract or agreement. The Code is publicly available in 26 languages As part of Citi’s annual Voice of the Employee survey, at our Investor Relations website. a key culture initiative to gather feedback from our employees, we include an Ethical Culture Index. This Our Code of Conduct illustrates how our employees Index measures five items: comfort with reporting can make ethical decisions using a decision-making unethical practices without fear of reprisal, a feeling guide that identifies key criteria through which a of accountability to identify and escalate issues, confiproposed choice or course of action should pass dence that Citi will act upon reported legal or ethical in order to align with the tests contained in our violations, a belief that colleagues act with integrity, Mission and Value Proposition and our Leadership and manager encouragement of ethical conduct even Standards. Updated in 2017 and approved by our in the face of pressure. Index results have held steady Board of Directors, the Code reinforces for employfor several years, with 89 percent responding positively ees their responsibility to adhere to our core values to the Index items in 2018, the same as in 2017 and up while leading by example, taking responsibility for from 88 percent in 2016. their decisions, and escalating actual or potential misconduct, whether their own or that of others. It also highlights for senior leaders and managers their elevated responsibility to model ethical conduct. < Spotlight on Ethics Citi shares the results of actual ethics investigations with employees through a quarterly communication called Spotlight on Ethics, to show employees that their concerns are investigated while highlighting commonplace areas in which ethical lapses can occur. The Spotlight on Ethics also includes corrective actions to demonstrate that raising concerns leads to meaningful action. In 2018, issues of Spotlight addressed topics such as how to identify and escalate fraud risk concerns, considerations for employees engaging in outside business activities (including potential conflicts of interest), the responsible use of social media and requirements surrounding the acceptance of business gifts and entertainment. 122 Upon joining Citi, employees must acknowledge that investigation, resolution and senior management they have read and will comply with the Code, and we reporting of these concerns and for oversight of ask employees to periodically reaffirm this commitescalation requirements and processes. ment through Code of Conduct training. Violations of the Code can result in disciplinary action up to and The Ethics Hotline provides five channels for employincluding termination of employment. ees and any third party, including members of the general public, to report concerns about unethical The training is required biennially following the issubehavior to Citi’s Ethics Office. A telephone line is ance of an updated Code of Conduct. As such, new available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, with live HOW WE DO BUSINESS training was provided to all employees in 2018. The operators who can connect to translators in multiple training serves as an essential means to connect Citi’s languages. Other reporting channels include a dediEnvironmental values and principles to expected employee behaviors cated email address, fax line, website (both internal and Social Risk and conduct. Through the use of hypothetical workand public facing) and physical mailing address. Management related ethical scenarios, the training enables employees to better recognize when to seek guidance We believe it is essential that individuals feel secure Human Rights or report concerns about their conduct or that of when raising a concern. All contacts and investiothers; it also provides information about the various gations are treated as confidentially as possible, Operations and consistent with the need to investigate and address Supply Chain avenues through which they can do both. Code of Conduct training is offered to new hires globally on a the matter and subject to applicable laws and regurolling basis, as well as to non-employee contingent lations. Concerns may be raised either anonymously Digital Innovation workers who are performing services for Citi. or with attribution, subject to applicable laws and regulations. Further, Citi prohibits any form of Talent and Diversity retaliation against anyone who raises a concern Escalating Business and Ethical Concerns or question in good faith or who participates in a subsequent investigation. Employees who engage • We emphasize to our employees the importance of Ethics and in retaliation against a colleague because he or she Culture escalating issues in Citi’s global Escalation Policy. raised a concern or question in good faith, asked for The Escalation Policy clearly sets forth employa reasonable accommodation, reported a violation ees’ obligation to escalate violations or potential or was involved in an investigation are subject to violations of law, rule or regulation, or breach or disciplinary action, up to and including termination potential breach of Citi policy or procedure or the of employment or other relationship with Citi. Code of Conduct. The Escalation Policy also provides information on the multiple avenues through which Each year, the Citi Ethics Office provides to all employemployees can raise issues, including, among others, ees a summary of the types of concerns received their managers or other members of management, through the Ethics Hotline, to show the use of Citi’s their Human Resources or labor relations represenethics process and demonstrate that raising concerns tatives, internal legal counsel, a designated ICRM to the Citi Ethics Office leads to meaningful action officer, Citi Security and Investigative Service,s and within our organization. Examples of such action can the Ethics Hotline. include disciplinary actions against individual employees and non-employees, the termination of vendor The Escalation Policy was updated in 2018 to clarify relationships, referrals to the appropriate law enforcehow employees are expected to escalate any issues, ment or governmental authorities, communications including concerns about employee misconduct to our workforce, additional training for employees related to sales practices, and to establish requireand non-employees, changes to Citi policy, business ments for prompt reporting of significant matters processes and procedures, and control enhancements. to the appropriate governance committees and the Board of Directors. The policy sets forth requireIn addition, the Ethics Office publicizes an internal ments on what to escalate, when to escalate and the website that provides employees with updates on parties to whom to escalate. It includes roles and Citi’s Ethics Program and initiatives, as well as responsibilities for the identification, reporting, resources for managers and employees to learn more about Citi’s ethical values and principles. 123 Industry Collaboration We have made a concerted effort to partner with Managing key stakeholders on ways that we can collectively improve the culture of the banking industry. In June Compliance Risk 2018, for example, Citi’s CEO, along with other indusThe ICRM team is responsible for helping to drive try leaders and regulators, participated in the Federal a culture of ethical conduct at Citi by establishing Reserve Bank of New York’s annual workshop on policies, programs and procedures that guide and culture and behavior in the financial services indussupport our employees in making ethical decisions try. The workshop explored progress and challenges and adhering to appropriate standards of conduct. in reforming culture and behavior in the financial Through an integrated compliance risk management services industry from a variety of perspectives. framework, this group protects Citi by setting standards; providing guidance, training and advice Citi is also a member firm of the Banking Standards to our businesses regarding compliance risk; and Board (BSB) in the UK. Together with more than 30 driving ownership and accountability for managing other member firms, we support the BSB’s indepencompliance risk in accordance with Citi standards dent role to help rebuild trust and confidence across across the firm. Managing compliance risk is the the UK banking industry by promoting high ethical responsibility of all of our employees and requires and professional standards for behavior and compenot only adherence to applicable laws, regulations, tence. We remain engaged with the BSB directly policies and relevant standards of conduct but also through our UK senior management. Our Chief the promotion of business behavior and activity Country Officer for the UK has been a BSB board consistent with the values and conduct expectations member since its inception. outlined by our Mission and Value Proposition, Leadership Standards and Code of Conduct. Through GRI 102-42, GRI 102-44 the efforts of a range of teams, including AntiBribery, Anti-Money Laundering (AML), Ethics and Risk, we work to counteract the many and varied threats of corruption facing the financial sector. Citi’s global Compliance organization is headed by our Chief Compliance Officer, who reports directly to our CEO and provides regular reports on the performance of the compliance program to our Board of Directors, as well as its Audit, Risk Management, and Ethics and Culture committees. < Leadership Standards Accountability Our culture is not just who we are and what Every manager is responsible for creating a work we believe; it’s how we act in small, everyday environment free of discrimination, harassment moments. We encourage all employees to demonand retaliation. As role models, managers reinstrate the behaviors of our Leadership Standards, force the importance of following our Leadership which are the measurable skills, abilities and Standards, Code of Conduct and Mission and knowledge that all of us at Citi should exhibit Value Proposition, as well as encourage employto be successful leaders. Holding ourselves and ees to raise any concerns about potential legal each other to these high standards is part of our or ethical issues. Managers also ensure concerns culture and our commitment to operating in our are properly resolved or promptly escalated clients’ best interests, driving economic value and through appropriate channels, promote awareminimizing risk. ness of all resources available for reporting concerns and neither engage in nor tolerate We expect managers to lead by example and retaliation of any kind. inspire their employees to live Citi’s values. 124 Anti-Bribery Program communications as needed. We give staff multiple ways, including the Ethics Hotline, to escalate We continually enhance our Anti-Bribery Program bribery-related concerns and to prompt investigawith respect to the areas outlined in the Citi Antitions, where necessary. Bribery Program Statement — which is updated at least annually — and in our Code of Conduct, which summarizes our Anti-Bribery Policy. Sanctions Program Citi complies with all applicable anti-bribery laws Citi conducts business and operations in compliance HOW WE DO and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt with applicable sanctions, laws and regulations, BUSINESS including those of the U.S. and other countries in Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and the applicable local anti-bribery laws of the countries in which which we operate. We maintain a robust, risk-based Environmental and Social Risk we operate. Our Anti-Bribery Program Statement ICRM Sanctions Program that applies globally and Management expressly prohibits bribery in any form for our is commensurate with our global footprint. As a employees, as well as our suppliers. financial institution organized in the U.S., Citi and Human Rights our subsidiaries globally comply with applicable U.S. We have written policies, procedures and internal sanctions requirements, among other requirements. Operations and controls designed to comply with anti-bribery laws. Supply Chain We conduct an annual bribery risk assessment of all Our enterprise-wide Sanctions Program promotes global business lines. The risk assessment addresses compliance with increasingly dynamic sanctions Digital Innovation many areas of risk, including gifts and entertainment, requirements. The program includes policies and hiring practices and third-party relationships. The Antiprocedures, risk category statement and tolerance Talent and Bribery Program is overseen by our Chief Compliance thresholds, enterprise-wide screening, annual Diversity risk assessments and audits of sanctions control Officer, and information on anti-bribery compliance is disseminated to senior management at both the processes, employee training and a diverse team • regional and enterprise levels and to the Board of of Compliance professionals stationed around the Ethics and Culture Directors or a committee of the Board, as appropriate. world. Citi’s Sanctions Program and the associated policy are owned by the Chief Sanctions Officer, and We provide our staff with anti-bribery training annuthe policy is approved by the Audit Committee of the ally and supplement it with targeted training and Board of Directors. < Disrupting Terrorist Financing and Transnational Crimes Through Sanctions Advancements in financial services technology and have an undisclosed nexus to countries such as North increased globalization create opportunities for Korea. They are reviewing open-source and instituinnovations that can improve the lives of people tional sources, collaborating with counterparts in around the world. But they also introduce new risks, Anti-Money Laundering and relevant Citi businesses, including the potential for bad actors to take advanand adopting best practices from peers, think tanks tage. Citi’s Independent Compliance Risk Management and law enforcement agencies. The team, which Sanctions team created a new specialized group that includes former officials of the U.S. Department of the seeks to identify, understand and address emerging Treasury, is leveraging industry-leading subject matter sanctions risks. Through the implementation of expertise in sanctions evasion techniques to identify innovative solutions, this group detects and disrupts transactional activity and relationships that present otherwise unidentified parties that may be engaged heightened risks and to provide colleagues across Citi in the evasion of economic sanctions regimes. ICRM with the tools and knowledge needed to help identify Sanctions is working around the clock to detect and and counter potential illicit finance activities. deter the movement of money through Citi that could 125 Anti-Money Laundering Program • Governance: Our enterprise-wide controls that govern the overall program include global AML Citi’s AML Program works to protect our clients, our policies, processes, testing and training. Citi’s Global franchise and the global financial system from the AML Program Head and Bank Secrecy Act Officer is risks of money laundering and terrorist financing. responsible for overseeing the program, including apprising the Board of Directors and senior manageThe program centers on: ment of AML initiatives, any significant deficiencies • Prevention: Citi’s Global Know Your Customer and the reporting of suspicious activity. Program is the cornerstone of our AML Program, enabling us to effectively evaluate the potential risks Our AML Program includes more than 6,400 employassociated with each client relationship and ensure ees globally, including more than 440 designated that we adhere to globally consistent policies and AML Officers covering every Citi business, function standards, customer risk scoring and onboarding. and geographic area. These specialists partner with various functions, including Compliance, Audit, • Detection: We monitor transactions to identify Technology, and our institutional and consumer unusual or suspicious transactions, behaviors or businesses, to provide effective enterprise AML patterns of activity across our global footprint. Our risk assessment and to meet our AML-related AML investigations unit reviews transactions of new requirements at both the global and local levels. In and existing clients across businesses and regions. 2018, we focused on simplifying and creating more • Reporting: We create, track and file Suspicious efficiencies for Citi’s clients while continuing to build Activity Reports, Suspicious Transaction Reports and execute on an AML Program that protects our and Currency Transaction Reports, as required in franchise, proactively mitigates risk and delivers on many countries. our regulatory requirements. For more information on Citi’s AML Program, visit our website. Number of Employees Who Completed Citi’s 2018 Anti-Money Laundering, Sanctions and Anti-Bribery Training (by region)* 58,590 North America 26,463 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 194,056 Total Employees 43,749 Latin America 65,254 Asia Pacific (including Mexico) * This combined online training incorporates multiple anti-corruption efforts, including AML, sanctions and anti-bribery training. Numbers include all Citi staff who completed the 2018 training as of January 2019. (Employees and non-employee workers have 30 days to complete it.) 126 Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly We have policies and systems in place to make sure we are always treating customers responsibly and fairly, as reflected in our Code of Conduct and our internal checks-and-balances processes when creatHOW WE DO ing new products. BUSINESS Environmental and Social Risk Responsible Marketing Management We are committed to providing clients with the right products and services based on their needs, Human Rights wants and preferences, while adhering to all internal <Combating the Illegal policies and procedures, as well as all banking laws Operations and Supply Chain Wildlife Trade and regulations. We take the time to understand the unique financial requirements of each client In recent years, the illegal wildlife trade (IWT) and offer only products and services that meet Digital Innovation has grown more sophisticated as large profits those needs. We work diligently to clearly disclose have attracted global criminal networks and all the features and terms and conditions, including Talent and Diversity have helped fuel devastating levels of poaching applicable fees and charges, for the products and and other illegal activity. Wildlife and animal services offered so that clients can select and use parts are trafficked much like illegal drugs and the product or service best suited to them. • Ethics and arms and, as a result, financial institutions risk Culture unknowingly facilitating financial flows derived In 2018, as part of our customer-centric approach to from IWT. In 2018, Citi joined the United for communicating in a simple, straightforward manner, Wildlife Financial Taskforce, a collaboration our Global Consumer Banking’s (GCB) Branded Cards between financial institutions and NGOs organibusiness continued to deliver personalized videos to zations to combat IWT. As part of this effort, Citi heighten customer comprehension of key topics. For was one of 30 institutions to sign the Mansion example, we launched a video outlining the beneHouse Declaration, which outlines six commitfits of the Tarjeta de Crédito Costco Citibanamex ments these institutions are making to share (Citibanamex Costco credit card), including how resources and intelligence to disrupt the flow of cardmembers could leverage the annual rebate. Of illegal income generated by these activities. those cardmembers surveyed, 86 percent found the video to be extremely helpful in getting them to Since joining the Taskforce, Citi colleagues have better understand the card's benefits. been working together to enhance awareness among key internal stakeholders, shedding light We deliver innovative, powerful solutions for our on key findings thus far and key risk indicators. customers to drive greater simplicity, convenience, We have also shared the work we are undertakcontrol and insight. In the U.S., for example, GCB has ing to detect and disrupt IWT with others and launched a steady stream of mobile features, includhave identified and acted on Citi touchpoints ing the ability to connect accounts across financial for IWT based on intelligence shared within the services providers within the Citi Mobile app for iOS. Taskforce. Combating IWT is an ongoing effort, This feature provides customers with a holistic view and we are continuing to bring Citi colleagues of their financial lives across their Citi accounts as together to build awareness and share best well as other financial services providers, and elimpractices, while also collaborating with others inates the need for additional financial tracking and in the industry to detect and disrupt wildlife trafficking and mitigate the risks of money laundering and other serious crimes associated with the illegal trade of wildlife. 127 budgeting apps. Our ongoing enhancements to our mobile app helped us to achieve certification in 2019 < Citi’s Fairness Principles from J.D. Power, which cited “an outstanding mobile credit card experience, ensuring ease of navigation, range of services, speed of completing transactions, 1) Works as described clarity of information and appearance.” Citi was one Customers can predict how the product or of only two brands recognized with the J.D. Power service will work. Mobile App Certification as of January 2019. Learn more about how we work to improve the digital experience of our clients in the Digital Innovation section. 2) Appropriate We also provide our customers with timely resources Global Consumer Banking provides products and and information related to safety and security. services that are appropriate for its customers, Recently, Citi launched a redesigned U.S. online and customers can rely on the bank to offer Security Center for customers to learn about what products that match their needs. Citi does to protect them and what they can do to protect themselves against identify theft and other security risks. As a result of this expanded content, 3) Value as well as our efforts to market it prominently across Customers receive value that is reasonably our digital channels, we have seen visits to the related to the cost of the product or service. Security Center increase by more than 450 percent. Further, in an effort to contribute to eliminating 4) Ease of Understanding gender bias in marketing, in 2018 Citi joined Customers understand the terms and conditions #SeeHer, a groundbreaking movement launched by of the products or services (particularly any the Association of National Advertisers (ANA) to limitations or exclusions). eliminate unconscious bias against women and girls in advertising and media. This partnership enables Citi to collaborate with the ANA to increase the accurate portrayals of women and girls in media and Treating Customers Fairly leverage our scale to influence positive change. Citi’s Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) Program and These initiatives are just some examples of our our U.S. and Global Consumer Fairness Policies firm-wide commitment to ensuring that our activities demonstrate that our culture focuses on the fair are in the best interests of our clients. More broadly, treatment of customers and encourages employees new products are approved by cross-functional to view fairness as a key element of delivering a committees that include senior executives from remarkable experience. The aim of the TCF Program Risk, Legal, Compliance and other relevant units, is to deliver products and services that provide supported by specialists from Fair Lending, as value, clarity and dependability, guided by the needed. Citi marketing materials are reviewed by our Fairness Principles that define our standards for our Compliance and Legal departments to ensure that products and services. we communicate clearly and fairly and comply with The TCF Program provides a framework for review applicable laws, regulations and Citi policies. These of consumer fairness concerns and a sustainable teams also provide periodic testing or monitoring of model for managing emerging risks. The U.S. and such materials and disclosures. Each relevant busiGlobal Consumer Fairness Policies cover all aspects ness maintains a compliance management process to of the consumer product and services lifecycle, receive and respond to consumer concerns. including new product development, marketing, sales 128 Taxation Policies (including incentive compensation), underwriting and onboarding as well as all other stages. Citi’s Business and Standards Practices teams have established formalized escalation processes to facilitate consistent, timely and appropriate identification, analysis and escalation Citi operates in nearly 100 countries and strictly of potential consumer fairness and reputational and abides by all tax laws in the U.S. and throughout franchise risk issues. the world. We are a current income taxpayer, both As part of the program, Global Consumer Banking within and outside the U.S. Our tax profile is consisHOW WE DO tent with the locations of our business operations, BUSINESS employees are required to complete annual fairness training to ensure they understand how to identify and our review and escalation processes enable Environmental issues of fairness and how fairness influences realus to adhere to high standards of compliance with and Social Risk world results. In 2018, approximately 100,000 Citi applicable tax laws. Management employees around the world completed the course. We emphasize strong internal controls and transparHuman Rights ency with global tax authorities and share informaFair lending practices are a key component of our commitment to treating customers fairly. In 2017, tion relevant to our tax profile. We supplement this Operations and we updated our U.S. Fair Lending Policy to provide transparency with additional country-by-country Supply Chain clearer and more specific guidance on consumer reporting, which is required under the Organisation protection, including clarifying that the prohibition for Economic Co-operation and Development’s Digital Innovation action plan to address base erosion and profit against discrimination based on “sex” encompasses gender as well as sexual orientation and gender shifting. Our tax policy is overseen by our Chief Tax Talent and Officer, who reports to the Chief Financial Officer. Diversity identity. This policy establishes the guiding principles and minimum standards for fair, equitable Tax policies and related matters are reviewed by the and nondiscriminatory access to credit. Further, it Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. • Ethics and prohibits discrimination against actual or prospecCulture Citi complies with reporting and withholding tive clients on the basis of race, sex, religion or other requirements imposed globally on financial instinon-risk related factors. We provide regular trainings tutions in connection with customer transactions to relevant employees on the policy and fair lending that these institutions intermediate. We have best practices. implemented systems and processes to comply True to our commitment to responsible finance, we with the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, and also hold an annual Fair Lending Offsite with employwe are in compliance with the Common Reporting ees from across the company to ensure that we are Standard in all applicable countries where local at the forefront of serving our clients equitably. At implementing guidance has been issued. Similarly, the 2018 offsite, participants had the opportunity to we have a firm-wide policy applicable to customer complete nine different “accessibility experiences” transactions under which Citi will only engage — demonstrations of how visual, audio and physical in a transaction where there is a high degree of impairments impact various everyday tasks such as certainty that any tax aspects will be accepted by reading numbers, listening to instructions or signing the respective taxing authorities. one’s name — that helped them better understand Beginning in 2018, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 the experience of accessing Citi resources as fundamentally changed the method of taxation of someone with a disability. international income earned by Citi. As we receive As the external fair lending environment and our further interpretive guidance on the provisions of business strategies continue to evolve, we work to the Act, we continue to apply the same consistent, continue to update our understanding of key discrimtransparent and responsible approach to tax compliination risks and our approach to preventing discrimiance and governance outlined in this report. For nation risks in our business strategies and execution. more information on how taxation impacts Citi, see page 114 of our 2018 Form 10-K. 129 Public Policy We engage directly, and indirectly through trade associations, with governments and elected officials around the world to advocate for public policies that support the interests of our company, clients and employees in the countries and regions where we operate. Guided by our Political Activities Statement, which ensures compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, we promote policies and positions on issues such as trade, cyber security, data localization, tax and financial reforms. Our Government Affairs team members complete annual compliance training, conducted by outside experts, on campaign finance, lobbying and gifts/entertainment rules. Under U.S. Federal Election Commission rules, Citi’s Political Action Committee pools the voluntary contributions of eligible employees to support U.S. What’s Ahead political candidates and campaigns that support the Trust will only increase as a key success factor for our financial industry and complementary pro-business business and our industry in the years ahead. And policies. This support allows us to take an active we can only increase the degree to which we are a role in our country’s political process, promote our trusted partner by focusing on our duty to serve our business goals and strengthen relationships with U.S. clients and customers — and by doing so with integrity policymakers. Annually, we disclose our U.S. political and transparency. We will continue to invest in buildcontributions on our Corporate Governance webpage. ing a culture of ethics across the firm that ensures That page also includes extensive disclosure about that accountability for responsible business practices our practices pertaining to political contributions and that are in the best interest of our clients and customlobbying activities, as well as a regularly updated list ers resides with each and every employee. And we will of our significant trade and business associations. ensure that our activities contribute to sustainable Our disclosures and contributions are overseen economic growth, even as institutions like ours face a by the Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs complex geopolitical environment. Committee of our Board of Directors. 130 Appendices IN THIS SECTION pg. 133 Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard pg. 135 GRI Content Index pg. 151 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Index pg. 153 United Nations Global Compact Index pg. 155 United Nations Guiding Principles Reporting Framework Index pg. 160 Assurance 131 FPO photo 132 2018 Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard Environmental Finance Our $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal: To lend, invest and facilitate $100 billion over 10 years toward activities that reduce the impacts of climate change and create environmental solutions Goal Metric By 2018 Progress Environmental $100 billion 2023 $95.3B finance goal Environmental Total annual CO 2e emissions avoided 8.5M (MT) APPENDICES impact tracking* • Social impact Jobs supported by renewable energy project finance and tax 131K jobs Scorecard tracking* equity activity (includes direct, indirect and induced jobs) Annual riders on transit system projects 14B rides GRI Index People serviced by water-quality projects 56M people TCFD Index Families serviced by affordable housing activity 5K families UNGC Index * These potential impacts represent the positive environmental and social benefits of a subset of our environmental finance transactions. UNGP Index Assurance Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) Manage environmental and social risks and impacts associated with client transactions and our financial products and services Goal 2018 Progress ESRM Policy • First major U.S. bank to create a U.S. • Adopted global coal-fired power generation policy continuous Commercial Firearms Policy requirprohibiting project-related finance (except in limited improvements ing applicable clients to follow best cases of energy poverty) and created approach for practices for the sale of firearms sector-wide engagement • Revised and expanded Statement on Human Rights, identifying additional salient human rights risks Internal • Revamped and relaunched our • Trained more than 900 employees on ESRM policies and training ESRM online training modules, procedures, including targeted trainings on the new U.S. including the Equator Principles Commercial Firearms Policy Association’s e-training module Portfolio-level • Screened our portfolio for • Direct ESRM engagement with oil and gas clients in Texas, analysis of clients covered by the new U.S. U.S., and Calgary, Canada, on environmental, health and high-risk sectors Commercial Firearms Policy safety performance; climate risk analysis; decarbonization efforts; community engagement; and transparency Monitoring • Ongoing monitoring of Citi portfo• Tracked developments regarding potential oil and gas of emerging lio using external ESG data providdevelopment in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in risks and trends ers and internal criteria to flag Alaska and met with indigenous and environmental higher-risk names for the ESRM stakeholders to listen to concerns Watchlist Building global • Contributed to the Roundtable • Co-led a training workshop at the UN Biodiversity capacity on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) Conference on effective biodiversity mitigation techniques, Financial Institutions Task Force’s which demonstrated industry support for conservation enhancement of RSPO Principles efforts proposed at the conference; training is being and Criteria, including integration of replicated for hundreds of biodiversity practitioners the No Deforestation, No Peat, No around the world Exploitation standard 133 Operations Minimize our impacts across Citi’s entire portfolio of 7,500 owned and leased facilities Goal Metric By 2018 Progress Environmental 100% use of renewable 2020 62%* footprint energy for facilities globally 30% reduction in energy 2020 32% consumption (compared with 2005 baseline) 30% reduction in water 2020 33% consumption (compared with 2005 baseline) 10% of water used coming 2020 5% from reclaimed or recycled sources 60% diversion rate of waste 2020 63% to landfill (compared with 2005 baseline) 33% of global real estate 2020 25% portfolio LEED-certified * Contracted amount of renewable energy for delivery in 2020 Supply Chain Work with our suppliers to ensure that they meet high environmental and social standards Goal Metric By 2018 Progress Establish supply chain policies: Policies finalized and 2019 • Attached position statements to existing policies or implemented established new policies • Paper and paper products • Working on establishing alignment with sourcing manag• IT hardware and e-waste disposal ers, training, progress metrics and procedures • Travel and logistics Update Statement of Statement updated and 2019 • Formally updated the Statement of Supplier Principles Supplier Principles disseminated and published it on the Citi website Integration of Supplier Principles Supplier Principles inte2019 • Included the Supplier Principles in 100% of master into master contracts grated into 100% of master contracts; working with sourcing leads to integrate the contracts for suppliers Principles into master contracts moving forward Corporate Responsibility 100% of suppliers complete 2019 • 100% of top-tier suppliers have completed the CRQ; Questionnaire (CRQ) rolled out the CRQ continued to systematize the inclusion of the CRQ within to all regions the supplier selection process Internal/external training 100% of Enterprise Supply 2019 • 90% of ESC employees have completed training Chain (ESC) employees complete training 100% of suppliers 2019 • 90% of all suppliers have completed training complete training 134 GRI Content Index We prepared this report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. We also reported on many disclosures beyond the Core reporting option, including disclosures from the Financial Services Sector Supplement. The following index provides readers with references for where they can find information in this report and other public documents addressing GRI disclosures relevant to our business. Please visit the GRI website for the full text of the disclosures and other information on the GRI reporting framework. GRI Disclosure Number Reporting Report Section or APPENDICES Standard and Title Status Other Documentation GRI 101: Foundation 2016 [GRI 101 Does not include any disclosures] Scorecard GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 • 102-1 Name of the Fully Citigroup Inc. GRI Index organization 102-2 Activities, brands, Fully • Citi at a Glance TCFD Index products and • 2018 10-K pages 4-5 services UNGC Index 102-3 Location of Fully 388 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10013 headquarters UNGP Index 102-4 Location of Fully • Letter from Our CEO operations • Citi at a Glance Assurance • Citi Website — Countries and Jurisdictions 102-5 Ownership and legal Fully • 2018 10-K page 4 form 102-6 Markets served Fully • Letter from Our CEO • Citi at a Glance • 2018 10-K pages 4-8 102-7 Scale of the Fully • Citi at a Glance organization • 2018 10-K pages 4-8 102-8 Information on Fully • Talent and Diversity > Citi’s Global Workforce employees and other workers Citi may engage external service providers who may be responsible for performing non-core business activities, or non-employee resources who are employed by an external third party but support Citi processes. These non-employee resources could be working under Citi supervision or be working under the supervision of an external third party in the third party’s facility. Citi may engage external service providers or non-employees for a variety of different business purposes, including project-based work for a defined period of time, specialized/niche skill sets that are not readily available, or professional and outsourced services. There are no significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment). 102-9 Supply chain Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing 102-10 Significant changes Fully • 2018 Annual Report to the organization and its supply chain For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. 135 GRI Disclosure Number Reporting Report Section or Standard and Title Status Other Documentation 102-11 Precautionary Fully As discussed in the respective sections of this report, we evaluate and principle or address risks as part of our Environmental and Social Risk Management approach (ESRM) efforts. Our ESRM Policy prohibits activities we believe pose risks to us, our clients and our stakeholders. This may include taking precautionary actions. 102-12 External initiatives Fully • CDP • RE100 • Equator Principles • Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil • International Finance • Task Force on Climate-related Financial Corporation’s Disclosures Environmental and Social • UN Environment Programme Finance Performance Standards Initiative • International Finance • UN Global Compact Corporation’s Environmental, Health and • UN Guiding Principles on Business and Safety Guidelines Human Rights • International Labour • UN Sustainable Development Goals Organization's Core • UN Universal Declaration of Human Conventions Rights • Natural Capital Declaration • Wolfsberg Principles 102-13 Membership of Fully • Ethics and Culture > Industry Collaboration associations • Ethics and Culture > Public Policy 102-14 Statement Fully • Letter from Our CEO from senior decision-maker 102-15 Key impacts, risks Fully • Letter from Our CEO and opportunities • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context • Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy • 2018 10-K pages 54-63 102-16 Values, principles, Fully • About This Report standards and • Ethics and Culture norms of behavior • Citi Code of Conduct • Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals 102-17 Mechanisms for Fully • Ethics and Culture > Ethics and Culture at Citi advice and concerns • Ethics Hotline about ethics 102-18 Governance Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi structure • 2019 Proxy Statement pages 29-37 • Board Charters • Corporate Governance Guidelines pages 1, 5 • Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter • Board of Directors 136 GRI Disclosure Number Reporting Report Section or Standard and Title Status Other Documentation 102-19 Delegating Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi authority • 2019 Proxy Statement pages 45-49 • Board Charters 102-20 Executive-level Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi responsibility • 2019 Proxy Statement pages 45-49 for economic, environmental • Board Charters and social topics 102-21 Consulting Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi stakeholders APPENDICES • Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi on economic, environmental • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Case Study: Working to Scorecard Improve Habitat Conservation and Labor Conditions in the Palm Oil and social topics Industry • • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights GRI Index • Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders on Human Rights • 2019 Proxy Statement pages 45-49 TCFD Index • Board Charters UNGC Index 102-22 Composition of Fully • 2019 Proxy Statement pages 32-37, 50-64 the highest governance body UNGP Index and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest Fully The Chairman of the Board is a nonexecutive, independent director. Assurance governance body • 2019 Proxy Statement page 29 102-24 Nominating and Fully • 2019 Proxy Statement pages 45-49 selecting the • Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter highest governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest Fully • 2019 Proxy Statement pages 26, 40, 97 102-26 Role of highest Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi governance body • 2019 Proxy Statement page 22 in setting purpose, values and strategy 102-27 Collective knowlFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi edge of highest • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights governance body 102-28 Evaluating the Fully • 2019 Proxy Statement pages 45-49 highest governance • Corporate Governance Guidelines pages 5-6 body’s performance 102-29 Identifying Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi and managing • Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi economic, environmental • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation and social • Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions impacts • Human Rights > Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement on Human Rights • Risk Management Committee Charter • 2019 Proxy Statement pages 26-37 • Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter 137 GRI Disclosure Number Reporting Report Section or Standard and Title Status Other Documentation 102-30 Effectiveness of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi risk management • Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter processes 102-31 Review of Fully At least annually economic, • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi environmental and social topics • 2019 Proxy Statement page 29 102-32 Highest goverFully • Executive Vice President, Global Public Affairs nance body’s role in sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating Fully • Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk critical concerns • Citi Code of Conduct • 2019 Proxy Statement page 42 102-35 Remuneration Fully • Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices policies • Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter • 2019 Proxy Statement page 65-68 102-36 Process for Fully • Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices determining • Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter remuneration • 2019 Proxy Statement page 65-68 102-37 Stakeholders’ Fully • Talent and Diversity > Our Diversity Priorities involvement in • Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter remuneration 102-40 List of stakeholder Fully • Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi groups 102-41 Collective bargainFully • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees ing agreements 102-42 Identifying Fully • Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi and selecting • Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders on Human Rights stakeholders • Ethics and Culture > Industry Collaboration 102-43 Approach to stakeFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context holder engagement • Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi • Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders on Human Rights 102-44 Key topics and Fully • Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi concerns raised • Environmental and Social Risk Management • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights • Human Rights > Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement on Human Rights • Ethics and Culture > Industry Collaboration 102-45 Entities included Fully • 2018 10-K pages 4-5 in the consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context content and topic Boundaries 138 GRI Disclosure Number Reporting Report Section or Standard and Title Status Other Documentation 102-47 List of material Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context topics 102-48 Restatements of Fully Environmental Finance > Impact Data information 102-49 Changes in Fully There are no significant changes from the previous reporting period. reporting 102-50 Reporting period Fully This report covers fiscal and calendar year 2018. 102-51 Date of most recent Fully April 2018 report APPENDICES 102-52 Reporting cycle Fully Annual Scorecard 102-53 Contact point for Fully Global Public Affairs questions regarding Citigroup Inc. • the report 388 Greenwich Street GRI Index New York, NY 10013 citizenship@citi.com TCFD Index 102-54 Claims of reporting Fully This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: in accordance with Core option. UNGC Index the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index Fully • GRI Content Index UNGP Index 102-56 External assurance Fully We secure external assurance annually for data related to our reporting on the Equator Principles, transactions covered by Environmental and Social Assurance Risk Management reviews, and environmental data for our operations. • Assurance Economic performance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic Approach 2016 and its boundary 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi ment approach and • 2018 10-K pages 6-8 its components 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi the management • 2018 10-K pages 6-8 approach GRI 201: 201-1 Direct Fully • 2018 10-K pages 6-8 Economic economic value Performance generated and 2016 distributed 201-2 Financial Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citi’s Support for Global Climate-Related implications and Disclosures other risks and • Environmental Finance > Citi’s $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal opportunities due to climate change • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Climate-Related Risk • Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts • 2018 10-K page 71 201-3 Defined Fully • Citi Benefits Online benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 139 GRI Disclosure Number Reporting Report Section or Standard and Title Status Other Documentation Market Presence GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic Approach and its boundary 2016 103-2 The manageFully • Citi’s Value Proposition ment approach and • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi its components • 2018 10-K pages 4-8 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Citi’s Value Proposition the management • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi approach • 2018 10-K pages 4-8 GRI 202: 202-1 Ratios of Fully We provide competitive levels of compensation that meet or exceed local Market standard entry level minimum wage requirements. Competitive wages and benefit programs Presence wage by gender may vary according to country and/or location. Most employees are 2016 compared to local hired locally. minimum wage 202-2 Proportion of Fully Most employees are hired locally. When hiring for senior management, senior management we may consider qualified candidates from across the globe. hired from the local community Indirect economic impacts GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic • Inclusive and Resilient Communities Approach and its boundary • Environmental Finance 2016 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi ment approach and • Inclusive and Resilient Communities its components • Environmental Finance > Working Toward Our Goal 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi the management • Inclusive and Resilient Communities approach • Environmental Finance > Environmental and Social Impacts Achieved Through Our $100 Billion Goal GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure Fully • Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Infrastructure Indirect investments and • Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Affordable Housing and Economic services supported Homeownership Impacts 2016 • Environmental Finance 203-2 Significant Fully • Citi’s Value Proposition indirect economic • Inclusive and Resilient Communities impacts • Environmental Finance > Environmental and Social Impacts Achieved Through Our $100 Billion Goal 140 GRI Disclosure Number Reporting Report Section or Standard and Title Status Other Documentation Anti-corruption GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic Approach and its boundary 2016 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi ment approach and • Ethics and Culture > Ethics and Culture at Citi its components • Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi the management • Ethics and Culture > Ethics and Culture at Citi APPENDICES approach • Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk Scorecard GRI 205: 205-1 Operations Fully • Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk Antiassessed for • Anti-Bribery and Corruption Statement • Corruption risks related to GRI Index 2016 corruption 205-2 Communication Fully We do not report quantitatively on training for management or business TCFD Index and training about partners. anti-corruption poli• Ethics and Culture > Ethics and Culture at Citi cies and procedures UNGC Index • Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk • Anti-Bribery and Corruption Statement UNGP Index Anti-competitive behavior Assurance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic Approach and its boundary 2016 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi ment approach and • 2018 10-K pages 54-57, 276-282 its components 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi the management • 2018 10-K pages 54-57, 276-282 approach GRI 206: Anti206-1 Legal actions Fully • 2018 10-K pages 54-57, 276-282 competitive for anti-competitive Behavior 2016 behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices Energy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic Approach and its boundary 2016 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citi’s Support for Global Climate-Related ment approach and Disclosures its components • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi • Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts • Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citi’s Support for Global Climate-Related Disclosures the management • Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts approach • Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard 141 GRI Disclosure Number Reporting Report Section or Standard and Title Status Other Documentation GRI 302: 302-1 Energy Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Energy 2016 consumption within Operations the organization • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report 302-3 Energy intensity Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report 302-4 Reduction Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for of energy Operations consumption • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report Emissions GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic Approach and its boundary 2016 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citi’s Support for Global Climate-Related Disclosures ment approach and • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi its components • Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts • Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citi’s Support for Global Climate-Related Disclosures the management • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi approach • Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts • Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations Emissions GHG emissions • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report 2016 305-2 Energy indirect Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations (Scope 2) GHG emissions 305-3 Other indirect Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report (Scope 3) GHG emissions 305-4 GHG emissions Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report intensity 305-5 Reduction of Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations GHG emissions • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report Effluents and waste GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic Approach and its boundary 2016 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi ment approach and • Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts its components • Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts the management • Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard approach GRI 306: 306-2 Waste by Fully Citi did not generate any hazardous waste during the reporting period. Effluents and type and disposal • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report Waste 2016 method 142 GRI Disclosure Number Reporting Report Section or Standard and Title Status Other Documentation Supplier environmental assessment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic Approach and its boundary 2016 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi ment approach and • Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing its components • Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing the management • Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard APPENDICES approach Scorecard GRI 308: 308-1 New suppliers Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation Supplier that were screened • Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard Environmental using environmen• Assessment tal criteria GRI Index 2016 TCFD Index Employment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic UNGC Index Approach and its boundary 2016 UNGP Index 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi ment approach and • Talent and Diversity > Our Diversity Priorities its components Assurance 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Talent and Diversity > Our Diversity Priorities the management approach GRI 401: 401-1 New employee Fully • Talent and Diversity > Citi’s Global Workforce Employment hires and employee 2016 turnover 401-2 Benefits Fully • Talent and Diversity > Workforce Well-Being provided to full-time • Citi Benefits Online employees that are not provided to temporary or parttime employees Training and education GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic • Talent and Diversity > Development and Retention Approach and its boundary 2016 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi ment approach and • Talent and Diversity > Development and Retention its components 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Talent and Diversity > Development and Retention the management approach 143 GRI Disclosure Number Reporting Report Section or Standard and Title Status Other Documentation GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours Fully • Talent and Diversity > Learning and Evaluation Training and of training per year • Talent and Diversity > Global Employee Training 2018 Education per employee 2016 404-2 Programs Fully • Talent and Diversity > Learning and Evaluation for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of Fully • Talent and Diversity > Learning and Evaluation employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees Approach and its boundary • Talent and Diversity > Our Diversity Priorities 2016 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi ment approach and • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights its components • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees • Talent and Diversity > Our Diversity Priorities • Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Talent and Diversity > Our Diversity Priorities the management • Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices approach GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of Fully • 2019 Proxy Statement page 30 Diversity governance bodies • Board of Directors and Equal and employees Opportunity 2016 Freedom of association and collective bargaining GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees Approach and its boundary 2016 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi ment approach and • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees its components • Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees the management • Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices approach GRI 407: 407-1 Operations and Fully • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees Freedom of suppliers in which Association the right to freedom and Collective of association and Bargaining collective bargain2016 ing may be at risk 144 GRI Disclosure Number Reporting Report Section or Standard and Title Status Other Documentation Child labor GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights Approach and its boundary • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions 2016 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi ment approach and • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees its components • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers and Partners • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions APPENDICES 103-3 Evaluation Fully • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees Scorecard of the management • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our approach Suppliers and Partners • • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions GRI Index GRI 408: 408-1 Operations Fully We have not identified any operations as having significant risk for inciChild Labor and suppliers at dents of child labor. Our business overall is not at high risk because of TCFD Index 2016 significant risk the nature of work in the financial services industry. In addition, we do for incidents not directly source high-risk agricultural commodities, conflict minerals UNGC Index of child labor or any other raw materials, goods or services in significant amounts from suppliers in high-risk jurisdictions. UNGP Index Forced or compulsory labor GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Assurance Management the material topic • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights Approach and its boundary • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our 2016 Suppliers and Partners • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi ment approach and • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our its components Suppliers and Partners • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our the management Suppliers and Partners approach • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions GRI 409: 409-1 Operations Fully We have not identified any operations as having significant risk for inciForced or and suppliers at dents of forced or compulsory labor. Our own business operations are Compulsory significant risk for not at high risk because of the nature of work in the financial services Labor 2016 incidents of forced industry; however, we have flagged institutional clients where due or compulsory diligence indicates the possibility of some occurrence of forced labor labor or compulsory labor and have taken appropriate mitigating steps. In addition, while we do not directly source high risk agricultural commodities, conflict minerals, or other raw materials in significant amounts from suppliers in high risk jurisdictions, we have identified EMEA-based suppliers that, based on their sector and geography, are more at risk for the occurrence of forced labor or human trafficking than other suppliers in other sectors and geographies. We have prioritized our engagement with those higher-risk suppliers to further mitigate potential risk. • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers and Partners 145 GRI Disclosure Number Reporting Report Section or Standard and Title Status Other Documentation Rights of indigenous peoples GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights Approach and its boundary • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions 2016 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi ment approach and • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights its components • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions the management approach GRI 411: 411-1 Incidents of Fully • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation Rights of violations involving • Human Rights > Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement on Indigenous rights of Human Rights Peoples 2016 Indigenous Peoples Human rights assessment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic Approach and its boundary 2016 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi ment approach and • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights its components • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers and Partners • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions • Citi Statement on Human Rights • Citi Statement of Supplier Principles • Citi Standards for Suppliers 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees the management • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions approach • Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation GRI 412: 412-1 Operations that Fully • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation Human Rights have been subject • Human Rights > Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement on Assessment to human rights Human Rights 2016 reviews or impact assessments 412-2 Employee Fully • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Enhancing Our Training training on human • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees rights policies or procedures • Citi Code of Conduct 412-3 Significant Fully • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions investment agree• Human Rights > Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement on ments and contracts Human Rights that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 146 GRI Disclosure Number Reporting Report Section or Standard and Title Status Other Documentation Local communities GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic • Inclusive and Resilient Communities Approach and its boundary • Environmental Finance 2016 • Environmental and Social Risk Management • Operations and Supply Chain 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi ment approach and • Inclusive and Resilient Communities its components APPENDICES • Environmental Finance • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Our ESRM Policy Scorecard • Operations and Supply Chain > Employee Engagement • 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Inclusive and Resilient Communities GRI Index the management • Environmental Finance > Environmental and Social Impacts Achieved approach Through Our $100 Billion Goal TCFD Index • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation • Operations and Supply Chain > Employee Engagement UNGC Index GRI 413: 413-1 Operations Partially • Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi Local with local commu• Inclusive and Resilient Communities UNGP Index Communities nity engagement, impact assess• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Monitoring the Changing 2016 ments and developRisk Landscape Assurance ment programs • Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders on Human Rights • Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions 413-2 Operations Fully • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation with significant • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Monitoring the Changing actual and potential Risk Landscape negative impacts on local communities • Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation Financial FS13 Access points Fully • Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Financial Inclusion Sector in low-populated • Digital Innovation > Customer-Centric Solutions Supplement or economically disadvantaged areas by type FS14 Initiatives to Fully • Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Financial Inclusion improve access to • Digital Innovation > Customer-Centric Solutions financial services for disadvantaged people Supplier social assessment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic • Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing Approach and its boundary 2016 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi ment approach and • Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation its components • Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard the management approach 147 GRI Disclosure Number Reporting Report Section or Standard and Title Status Other Documentation GRI 414: 414-1 New suppliers Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation Supplier that were screened • Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard Social using social criteria Assessment 2016 Public policy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic Approach and its boundary 2016 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi ment approach and • Ethics and Culture > Public Policy its components • Citi Political Activities Statement 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Ethics and Culture > Public Policy the management • Citi Political Activities Statement approach GRI 415: 415-1 Political Fully • Citi U.S. Political Contributions Public Policy contributions 2016 Marketing and labeling GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic Approach and its boundary 2016 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi ment approach and • Ethics and Culture > Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly its components 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context the management • Ethics and Culture > Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly approach GRI 417: 417-1 Requirements Fully • Ethics and Culture > Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly Marketing and for product and Labeling 2016 service information and labeling Customer privacy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic Approach and its boundary 2016 103-2 The manageFully • Digital Innovation > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer ment approach and Information its components • Citi Code of Conduct • Citi Online Privacy Statement • Citi Security Center 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Digital Innovation > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer the management Information approach • Citi Code of Conduct • Citi Online Privacy Statement • Citi Security Center 148 GRI Disclosure Number Reporting Report Section or Standard and Title Status Other Documentation GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated Fully • Digital Innovation > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Customer complaints concernInformation Privacy 2016 ing breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Socioeconomic compliance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic Approach and its boundary APPENDICES 2016 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi ment approach and • Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk Scorecard its components • Ethics and Culture > Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly • • 2018 10-K pages 56-64 GRI Index 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk the management • Ethics and Culture > Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly TCFD Index approach • 2018 10-K pages 56-64 UNGC Index GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance Fully • 2018 10-K pages 56-64 Socioeconomic with laws and • 2018 Annual Report Compliance regulations in UNGP Index the social and 2016 economic area Assurance 149 GRI Disclosure Number Reporting Report Section or Standard and Title Status Other Documentation FINANCIAL SECTOR SUPPLEMENT Product Portfolio GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management the material topic Approach and its boundary 2016 103-2 The manageFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi ment approach and • Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Financial Inclusion its components • 2018 10-K pages 6-14 103-3 Evaluation of Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi the management • Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Financial Inclusion approach • 2018 10-K pages 6-14 Financial FS6 Percentage of Fully • 2018 10-K pages 6-14 Sector the portfolio for Supplement business lines by specific region, size (e.g., micro/SME/ large) and by sector FS8 Monetary value Fully • Environmental Finance > Citi’s $100 Billion Environmental Finance of products and Goal services designed • Environmental Finance > Environmental and Social Impacts Achieved to deliver a specific Through Our $100 Billion Goal environmental benefit for each • Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard business line broken down by purpose 150 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Index In 2018, Citi published Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future — a detailed report of our activities and progress in accordance with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). The release of that report and our participation in a UN Environment Finance Initiative pilot project to implement the recommendations related to climate scenario analysis, as outlined in more detail in this report, are important aspects of Citi’s commitment to transparency and strategic management of our risks and opportuAPPENDICES nities. We also continue to highlight relevant climate disclosures in this Global Citizenship Report. Scorecard The following table indicates where readers can find information that addresses the TCFD requirements, either in this report or other publicly available documents. GRI Index • Disclosure Report Section or Other Documentation TCFD Index Governance a) D  escribe the Board’s • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi oversight of climate• Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter, page 3 UNGC Index related risks and opportunities. UNGP Index b) D  escribe management’s • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship and Sustainability Governance role in assessing and managing climate-related Assurance risks and opportunities. Strategy a) D  escribe the climate• Environmental Finance related risks and opportu• Environmental and Social Risk Management nities the organization has identified over the short, • Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy medium and long term. • Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework • Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future b) D  escribe the impact of • Environmental Finance climate-related risks • Environmental and Social Risk Management and opportunities on the organization’s • Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy businesses, strategy • Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework and financial planning. • Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future c) D  escribe the resilience • Citizenship Approach > Citi’s Support for Global Climate-Related of the organization’s Disclosures strategy, taking into • Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario. 151 “Integrating climate analyses into financial institutions’ work is a positive development that will allow for smarter long-term planning and more transparent reporting to stakeholders. We are proud of the hard work that Citi and our industry colleagues have put toward these efforts thus far and look forward to continuing to work with them.” —B  randee McHale, Head of Corporate Citizenship, Citi and Co-Chair of UN Environment Finance Initiative Global Steering Committee Disclosure Report Section or Other Documentation Risk a) D escribe the organi• Environmental and Social Risk Management Management zation’s processes for • Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy identifying and assessing climate-related risks. • Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework b) D escribe the organiza• Environmental and Social Risk Management tion’s processes • Operations and Supply Chain for managing climaterelated risks. • Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy • Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework c) D  escribe how processes • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context for identifying, assess• Environmental and Social Risk Management ing and managing climate-related risks • 2018 10-K pages 71 and 295 are integrated into the • Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework organization’s overall risk management. Metrics and a) D isclose the metrics • Environmental Finance Targets used by the organization • Environmental and Social Risk Management to assess climate-related risks and opportunities • Operations and Supply Chain > 2020 Goals in line with its strategy • Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework and risk management process. b) D isclose Scope 1, Scope • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for 2 and, if appropriate, Operations Scope 3 greenhouse • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report gas emissions, and the related risks. c) D  escribe the targets • Operations and Supply Chain > 2020 Goals used by the organization • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for to manage climate-related Operations risks and opportunities and performance against targets. 152 United Nations Global Compact Index This report serves as our 2018 communication on progress for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Citi joined the UNGC in 2010, and we continue to embed the Compact’s 10 principles across our business and report on activities related to human rights, labor issues, the environment and anti-corruption. UNGC Principle Report Section or Other Documentation Human Rights APPENDICES Principle 1: Businesses should support and • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights respect the protection of internationally • Citi Code of Conduct Scorecard proclaimed human rights; and • Citi Statement on Human Rights GRI Index Principle 2: make sure that they are not • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Our ESRM Policy complicit in human rights abuses. • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation TCFD Index • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Monitoring the Changing Risk Landscape • • Human Rights UNGC Index • Citi Statement on Human Rights Labor UNGP Index Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees freedom of association and the effective • Citi Statement on Human Rights Assurance recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Case Study: Working to forced and compulsory labor; Improve Habitat Conservation and Labor Conditions in the Palm Oil Industry • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers and Partners • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions • Citi Statement on Human Rights • Citi Statement of Supplier Principles • Citi Standards for Suppliers Principle 5: the effective abolition • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Case Study: Working to of child labor; and Improve Habitat Conservation and Labor Conditions in the Palm Oil Industry • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions • Citi Statement on Human Rights • Citi Statement of Supplier Principles • Citi Standards for Suppliers 153 UNGC Principle Report Section or Other Documentation Principle 6: the elimination of discrim• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees ination in respect of employment and • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our occupation. Suppliers and Partners • Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices • Citi Code of Conduct • Citi Statement on Human Rights Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a • Citizenship Approach > Citi’s Support for Global Climate-Related precautionary approach to environmental Disclosures challenges; • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Our ESRM Policy • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Monitoring the Changing Risk Landscape • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Climate-Related Risk Principle 8: undertake initiatives to • Environmental Finance promote greater environmental responsi• Operations and Supply Chain bility; and Principle 9: encourage the development • Environmental Finance and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work • Digital Innovation > Case Study: Tech for Integrity against corruption in all its forms, including • Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk extortion and bribery. • Anti-Bribery and Corruption Program • Citi Code of Conduct “Citi supports the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact as an important part of its business strategy and ethical culture. Our participation in this important initiative, which binds signatories from around the world to a common set of principles of responsibility, reinforces our commitment to corporate citizenship and sustainability.” — Michael L. Corbat, Chief Executive Officer, Citigroup Inc. 154 United Nations Guiding Principles Reporting Framework Index We have included information and disclosures in this report aligned with the United Nations Guiding Principles reporting framework. This reflects our support of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and our commitment to transparency and accountability regarding our human rights-related activities and policies. The following table indicates where readers can find information that addresses the framework requirements, either in this report or other publicly available documents. APPENDICES Section of the Framework Report Section or Other Documentation Part A: Governance of respect for human rights Scorecard Policy A1 What does the company say publicly about its commitment to respect human rights? commitment GRI Index A1.1 How has the public • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights commitment been developed? TCFD Index A1.2 Whose human rights does • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights the public commitment UNGC Index • Citi Statement on Human Rights address? A1.3 How is the public commit• Ethics and Culture > Code of Conduct • UNGP Index ment disseminated? • The following documents, which state Citi’s commitment to respect human rights and our expectations about the commitment of others, are posted publicly: Assurance • Citi Code of Conduct • Citi Standards for Suppliers • Citi Statement of Supplier Principles • Citi Statement on Human Rights Embedding A2 How does the company demonstrate the importance it attaches to the implementation of its respect for human rights commitment? human rights A2.1 How is day-to-day • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi responsibility for human • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation rights performance organized within the • Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions company, and why? • Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing A2.2 What kinds of human • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights rights issues are discussed by senior management and by the Board, and why? A2.3 How are employees and • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees contract workers made • Ethics and Culture > Code of Conduct aware of the ways in which respect for human • Citi Code of Conduct rights should inform their decisions and actions? 155 Section of the Framework Report Section or Other Documentation Embedding A2.4 How does the company • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation respect for make clear in its business • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our human rights relationships the imporSuppliers and Partners tance it places on respect for human rights? • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions • Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing • Citi Standards for Suppliers • Citi Statement of Supplier Principles A2.5 What lessons has the • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights company learned during • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees the reporting period about achieving respect • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our for human rights, and Suppliers and Partners what has changed as a • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing result? Decisions Part B: Defining the focus of reporting Statement of B1 State the salient human • Human Rights > Our Salient Human Rights Risks salient issues rights issues associated • Human Rights > Salient Human Rights Risks: Stakeholder Impacts with the company’s activities and business • Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions relationships during the • Citi Statement on Human Rights reporting period. Determination B2 Describe how the • Human Rights > Our Salient Human Rights Risks of salient salient human rights issues issues were determined, including any input from stakeholders. Choice B3 If reporting on the salient This report provides a breakdown of our human rights due diligence of focal human rights issues for several salient risks at the project level and a separate breakdown geographies focuses on particular of our due diligence of these and other environmental and social risks geographies, explain how at a regional level for purposes of fulfilling the transparency requirethat choice was made. ments of the Equator Principles. • Human Rights > Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement on Human Rights • Environmental and Social Risk Management > 2018 Projects Covered by the Equator Principles 156 Section of the Framework Report Section or Other Documentation Additional B4 Identify any severe severe impacts on human rights impacts that occurred or were still being addressed during the reporting period, but which fall outside of the salient human rights issues, and explain how they have been addressed. Part C: Management of salient human rights issues APPENDICES Specific C1 Does the company have any specific policies that address its salient human rights issues and, policies if so, what are they? Scorecard C1.1 How does the company • Environmental Social and Risk Management > Our ESRM Policy make clear the relevance • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Enhancing Our GRI Index and significance of such Training policies to those who need to implement them? • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees TCFD Index • Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation • Citi Code of Conduct UNGC Index • Citi Standards for Suppliers • Stakeholder C2 What is the company’s approach to engagement with stakeholders in relation to each salient UNGP Index engagement human rights issue? C2.1 How does the company • Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi Assurance identify which stakehold• Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders on Human Rights ers to engage with in relation to each salient issue, and when and how to do so? C2.2 During the reporting • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights period, which stakehold• Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders on Human Rights ers has the company engaged with regarding each salient issue, and why? C2.3 During the reporting • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights period, how have the • Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders on Human Rights views of stakeholders influenced the company’s understanding of each salient issue and/or its approach to addressing it? 157 Section of the Framework Report Section or Other Documentation Assessing C3 How does the company identify any changes in the nature of each salient human rights issue impacts over time? C3.1 During the reporting • Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions period, were there any notable trends or patterns in impacts related to a salient issue and, if so, what were they? C3.2 During the reporting period, did any severe impacts occur that were related to a salient issue and, if so, what were they? Integrating C4 How does the company integrate its findings about each salient human rights issue into its findings and decision-making processes and actions? taking action C4.1 How are those parts • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi of the company whose • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation decisions and actions can affect the management • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing of salient issues, involved Decisions in finding and implementing solutions? C4.2 When tensions arise • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation between the prevention • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing or mitigation of impacts Decisions related to a salient issue and other business • Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation objectives, how are these tensions addressed? C4.3 During the reporting • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights period, what action • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees has the company taken to prevent or mitigate • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our potential impacts related Suppliers and Partners to each salient issue? • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions Tracking C5 How does the company know if its efforts to address each salient human rights issue are performance effective in practice? C5.1 What specific examples In 2018, we identified risks of impacts to Indigenous Peoples, from the reporting period forced labor and child labor in a number of transactions. We took illustrate whether each steps to mitigate the risks of those impacts or otherwise declined salient issue is being involvement in those transactions or ceased our relationships with managed effectively? those clients. • Human Rights > Case Study: Applying Our Policies to Protect Human Rights and Reduce Risk 158 Section of the Framework Report Section or Other Documentation Remediation C6 How does the company enable effective remedy if people are harmed by its actions or decisions in relation to a salient human rights issue? C6.1 Through what means • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees can the company receive • Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions complaints or concerns related to each salient • Ethics and Culture > Escalating Business and Ethical Concerns issue? • Citi Code of Conduct • Citi Standards for Suppliers C6.2 How does the company • Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions know if people feel able • Ethics and Culture > Ethics Program and empowered to raise APPENDICES complaints or concerns? • Ethics and Culture > Spotlight on Ethics • Ethics and Culture > Escalating Business and Ethical Concerns Scorecard C6.3 How does the company • Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions process complaints and GRI Index • Ethics and Culture > Ethics Program assess the effectiveness of outcomes? • Ethics and Culture > Escalating Business and Ethical Concerns TCFD Index • Citi Code of Conduct C6.4 During the reporting period, • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights UNGC Index what were the trends and • Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions patterns in complaints or concerns and their UNGP Index outcomes regarding each salient issue, and what • lessons has the company Assurance learned? C6.5 During the reporting period, • Human Rights > Providing Access to Remedy did the company provide or enable remedy for any actual impacts related to a salient issue and, if so, what are typical or significant examples? 159 Assurance 160 APPENDICES Scorecard GRI Index TCFD Index UNGC Index UNGP Index • Assurance 161 162 APPENDICES Scorecard GRI Index TCFD Index UNGC Index UNGP Index • Assurance 163 164 APPENDICES Scorecard GRI Index TCFD Index UNGC Index UNGP Index • Assurance 165 166 © 2019 Citigroup Inc. Citi, Citi with Arc Design and Citibank are trademarks and servicemarks of Citigroup Inc. (and its affiliates) and are used and registered throughout the world.
