UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT JUNE 2019 communication on progress PREPARED AND PRESENTED BY ADAM AINSWORTH CEO 1 introduction about safelane global I am delighted to confirm that SafeLane SafeLane works with many partners Global Limited (SafeLane) reaffirms its primarily to mitigate the risk of explosive support of the Ten Principles of the United threat; whether that's unexploded mines in Nations Global Compact in the areas of: the Falkland Islands, IEDs in Yemen, or unexploded bombs in post conflict Human Rights, countries including the UK and Germany. Labour, Its partners span the humanitarian, Environment and governmental and commercial sectors, and Anti Corruption. since inception in 1989, SafeLane has delivered over 20,000 projects in more In this, our first annual Communication on than 60 countries on land and in the Progress, we describe our actions to marine environment, integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture At its heart, SafeLane is a people-centric and daily operations. organisation. Not only are its people the most important part of the company, but We will share this information with our remediating contaminated environments stakeholders via our primary channels of to return them to communities globally is communication. what underpins SafeLane's mission. Yours sincerely, The concept of corporate social Adam Ainsworth responsibility is therefore a central theme CEO guiding the company's vision and it is an integral part of SafeLane culture. Becoming a participant in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and pledging ongoing commitment to its principles was a natural path for SafeLane to take. Today, every SafeLane staff member is an active supporter of the company's ongoing commitment to the UNGC as we hope this communication on progress will show. 02 2 human rights ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS SafeLane is passionately committed to ensuring ALL HUMAN BEINGS ARE BORN all staff maintain ethical standards of conduct at all times, and respect the rights of others. FREE AND EQUAL IN DIGNITY Further, it actively ensures it is in no way AND RIGHTS. complicit in human rights abuses. Its working practices and procedures ensure SAFELANE ACTIVELY SUPPORTS consistent and fair treatment for all within the organisation, and it encourages improvement & RESPECTS THE PROTECTION where necessary. OF INTERNATIONALLY SafeLane's commitment to Human Rights is PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS. documented in its codes of conduct as outlined in the Office Staff Handbook and Field Contractor Guidelines. These documents are THROUGH POLICY AND supported by the Sexual Abuse and PROCESS, IT ENSURES IT IS NOT Exploitation Policy, Corporate Social COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS Responsibility Policy and Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy. ` These are provided to ABUSES. everyone during induction; all staff are required to sign a commitment to upholding these policies' principles. 03 implementation SafeLane has a zero-tolerance approach to Line managers must be notified immediately of modern slavery, human trafficking and sexual any risk of conflict to SafeLane's codes of exploitation and abuse. Its procedures and conduct and policies. The company will ensure policies are designed to protect staff from anyone raising concerns under the scope of workplace harassment, including physical, these policies can do so without fear of reprisal, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, safe in the knowledge that they will be taken abuse or threats. In addition, it ensures workers seriously and that the matters will be are guaranteed safe, suitable and sanitary investigated appropriately. facilities. All staff and companies that SafeLane conducts All employees and those under the control of business with undergo a compliance screening the company must read, understand and in accordance with SafeLane's ISO 9001:2015 comply with all associated policies. SafeLane certified Quality Management System (QMS). provides regular staff training and assessment This screening assists in ensuring that all staff, in these critical areas.. and businesses associated, adhere to the high ethical standards set in company policies and The prevention, detection and reporting of that are expected in terms of the conduct of human rights abuses in any area of the SafeLane personnel. A compliance screening is company business or supply chain is the conduced prior to supplier selection and responsibility of all those working for the renewed on a weekly basis. company or under the control of the company. All are required to avoid any activity that could Any Human Rights breaches will result in the be interpreted as, or might lead to, a breach of organisation taking disciplinary action against these codes of conduct and policies. individuals, and/or the termination of its relationship with any organisation or supplier. measurement of outcomes The Staff Handbook illustrates SafeLane's internal system and encourages a culture of openness and accountability which is essential in order to prevent illegal or unethical conduct occurring, or to address matters if they do occur. Any concerns or suspicions about breaches of policies within the business or supply chain are raised immediately in accordance with the company whistleblowing policy. The whistleblowing policy protects staff and encourages them to report suspected wrongdoing as soon as possible, in the knowledge that their concerns will be taken seriously and investigated as appropriate, and that their confidentiality will be respected. If a concern is raised, an initial assessment is conducted to determine the scope of investigation required. The company will keep the member of staff fully informed. Any investigation may result in recommendations for change to enable the company to minimise the risk of future wrongdoing. No such reports have been filed since the system has been implemented. 04 3 labour ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS SafeLane Global Limited supports the UN SAFELANE'S NONGlobal Compact principles on labour standards, and adheres to local laws on DISCRIMINATORY labour rights. SafeLane does not EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES participate in any form of forced or bonded labour, complies with minimum wage EMBRACE DIVERSITY AND standards, and supports the abolition of INCLUSION. child labour. It is committed to promoting equality and THEY HAVE ENABLED THE diversity in its own policies, practices and COMPANY TO ACCESS procedures, and in those areas in which it has influence. SafeLane intends to treat SKILLED, PRODUCTIVE everyone equally and with the same TALENT GLOBALLY AND attention, courtesy and respect regardless DEVELOP AND ENHANCE of disability, gender, marital status, race, racial group, colour, ethnic or national THAT TALENT. origin, nationality, religion or belief or sexual orientation.· 05 implementation Employees ar e infor med of the anti-disc r imi nation SafeLane may be at risk of being held polic y and pr ovided with equ ality and diver si ty responsible for the acts of individual members tr aining appr opr iate to their needs and of staff and will therefore not tolerate any r esponsibilities. All those who ac t on S afeLane ’ s discriminatory behaviour. It takes all reasonable behalf ar e also infor med of the anti-disc r imination steps to employ, train and promote employees polic y and ar e expec ted to pay du e r eg ar d to it on the basis of their experience, abilities and when c ondu c ting bu siness on the c ompany’ s qualifications. Employees have a duty to behalf. cooperate with the company to ensure that this In all its dealing s, inc lu ding those with su pplie r s, policy is effective in ensuring equal c ontr ac tor s and r ec r u itment ag enc ies, S afeLane opportunities and in preventing discrimination seeks to pr omote the pr inc iples of equ ality and or harassment. Employees are required to draw diver sity. T he c ompany makes ever y effor t to the attention of their line manager to r eflec t its c ommitment to equ ality and diver si ty in suspected discriminatory acts or practices. its mar keting and c ommu nic ations ac tivities. All S afeLane tr aining pr og r ams in the UK and in the The company will ensure anyone raising field ar e developed u sing g ender -sensitive concerns can do so through SafeLane's formal lang u ag es to ensu r e no offenc e or har m to any grievance procedures which ensures they are g ender g r ou p. supported without fear of reprisal, that they will be taken seriously and that the matters will All wor ker s have a du ty: be investigated appropriately. T o ac t in ac c or danc e with this polic y Any breaches may result in the organisation T o tr eat c olleag u es, visitor s, c u stomer s and other s with dig nity at all times taking disciplinary action against individuals, Not to disc r iminate ag ainst or har ass anothe r and/or the termination of its relationship with wor ker or per son any organisation or supplier measurement of outcomes Any concerns or suspicions about breaches of labour policies and the Equal Opportunities and Diversity Policy within the business or supply chain must be raised immediately in accordance with the company whistleblowing policy. 52% of personnel at SafeLane head office are In serious cases, such behaviour may constitute female; all recruited on the basis of their skills, gross misconduct and, as such, may result in qualifications, talent and ambition. Women hold summary dismissal. SafeLane will always take a positions from board level to management and strict approach to serious breaches of this policy. beyond and are entirely unrestricted at SafeLane because of gender. No reports have been filed since the system has been implemented. In the field, SafeLane actively pursues an equal opportunities recruitment policy, putting in place solutions to enable any potentially marginalised group better access to employment: e.g., flexible working hours to support primary child-carers. As per new UN standards, all personnel deploying to projects are required to complete the four training modules Prevention of Sexual Exploitation and Abuse, Prevention of Sexual Harassment and Abuse of Authority, Ethics and Integrity and Gender Equality. Copies of certificates are held on personnel files. SafeLane field staff have a 100% pass rate. 06 4 environment ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS SafeLane is committed to mitigating any SAFELANE ENCOURAGES possible negative environmental impact that may occur from operations. It has a 0% to STAFF TO UNDERTAKE landfill ambition globally. INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE Its environmental management follows the GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL guidelines of ISO 14000 and IMAS 10.70 RESPONSIBILITY. Safety and Occupational Health – Protection of the Environment and is reinforced by the corporate environmental policy. Field E.G. STAFF HAVE DONATED management practices also document SafeLane policies on environmental issues I.T. EQUIPMENT TO SCHOOLS such as camp hygiene and refuse disposal. IN AFRICA TO BRIDGE THE In its UK and German offices, 100% recycling DIGITAL DIVIDE, EXTEND is encouraged and enabled through the THE LIFE OF EQUIPMENT utilisation of recycling receptacles and active contracts with environmentally AND REDUCE WASTE AND sustainable waste management companies. CARBON FOOTPRINT. Everything from toner cartridges to confidential waste is recycled appropriately. 07 implementation The management of health, safety, security and SafeLane communicates client environmental the environment (HSSE) at SafeLane is based on policies/procedures to all contractors and site the following principles: personnel and ensures compliance. setting objectives It implements management plans in order to providing and documenting a system to minimise the impact of operations on native realise the objectives flora and fauna, to minimise disturbance to assessing risk cultural/historically significant sites and defining performance standards minimise site environmental damage where monitoring performance evident by using appropriate risk assessment continuous improvement· techniques to reduce environmental risk to ALARP (as low as reasonably practicable). To fulfil its environmental policy, SafeLane implements the following actions: SafeLane also ensures emergency plans are in place to contain any accidental spillage or Ensures all employees and contractors are escape on-site. competent to do their tasks and provide training where appropriate It ensures regular reviews of the environmental Establishes and maintains ‘best practices’ systems are conducted to enable continuous and documented procedures to ensure that improvement. all activities that impact on the environment are managed in a pro-active and It reviews and revises this policy and objectives environmentally responsible manner as necessary at regular intervals and its offices Obtain the necessary licenses, permits and and staff in the UK and Germany lead the way approvals from the appropriate forward for the company as it strives to achieve government/regulatory bodies and ensure its 0% to landfill policy globally. compliance Prepare and rehabilitate working sites in accordance with the relevant environmental regulations measurement of outcomes Saf eLane Gl obal mai ntai ns a system of r ecor ds i n or der to demonstr ate the extent of compl i ance wi th the HSSE Management System. Thi s i s managed and mai ntai ned by i ts of f i ce and compl i ance manager s. Regul ar i nter nal and annual exter nal audi ts ensur e consi stency wi th Saf eLane' s envi r onmental commi tment, Per i odi c r evi ew by seni or management of al l f i el d pr acti ces i s al so under taken, and i f these r esul t i n r ecommendati ons f or i mpr ovement, a f ol l ow up r evi ew i s under taken. Saf eLane r ecycl es 1 00% of i ts of f i ce mater i al s i n the UK and Ger many. 08 5 anti corruption ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS SafeLane's anti-corruption policy is SAFELANE’S WRITTEN ANTIdesigned to ensure business is conducted BRIBERY POLICY SERVES honestly and in compliance with the UK Bribery Act 2010. THREE DISTINCT PURPOSES: No person to whom this policy applies shall use, allow, condone or tolerate corrupt 1 PREVENT CORRUPTION BY practices or acts of bribery to obtain or HAVING ADEQUATE ANTIretain business, to obtain a business BRIBERY PROCEDURES advantage or for any purpose. SafeLane Global attaches the utmost 2 MONITOR AND IDENTIFY importance to this policy and applies a zero-tolerance approach to acts involving CORRUPTION bribery or any other corrupt practices. This includes recognising reasonable steps required to ensure compliance by third 3 RESPOND APPROPRIATELY party representatives (i.e. contractors, IF CORRUPTION IS agents and partners). UNCOVERED 09 implementation Employees are informed of the anti-bribery 1) Evaluate the background, experience, and policy and provided with a copy during reputation of the third party by obtaining induction. references and conducting due diligence where appropriate Additional information regarding common risks is available in the Office Staff Handbook and Field Contractor Guidelines. Where appropriate, 2) Take reasonable steps to appropriately training is provided. monitor the transactions of third parties Third-party representatives including field contractors, agents, partners and consultants 3) Ensure the third party understands and are expected to comply with SafeLane's acknowledges in writing their understanding standards. and compliance with the company’s antibribery policy. Prior to engaging a third party, company employees must: Any breach of this policy is a disciplinary matter that is likely to result in summary dismissal. · measurement of outcomes Each individual has a duty to help detect, prevent and report instances not only of bribery, but also of any other suspicious activity or wrongdoing. It is the responsibility of all company members, officers and employees to report violations or suspected violations of this policy. The company is committed to ensuring that there is a safe, reliable, and confidential way of reporting any suspicious activity. Internal and external audits to ensure consistency with anticorruption commitment, including periodic review by senior management are undertaken. Furthermore, in each office there is a gratuity register which is peer and management reviewed. No breach of policy has been documented since inception of these rules. 10 6 future initiatives SafeLane is an action-orientated organisation; its own sustainable development goals are aligned with those of the UNGC. Over the next 12 months, SafeLane will increase its already active focus on two specific areas: environment and labour particularly environmental sustainability and capacity development. ENVIRONMENT EXAMPLE: SafeLane has pioneered the utilisation of solar energy to power its camps in Yemen, reducing the use of diesel powered generators. This has significantly lowered the environmental impact of its presence in country. The bespoke solution has been robustly tested and proven. It is SafeLane's intention to export the solution to its other international projects, beginning with those in support of the United Nations on the African continent. LABOUR EXAMPLE: SafeLane understands from experience that promoting from within and developing existing talent boosts morale and helps with retention and maintaining productivity. It is critical for SafeLane office and field staff to know there is potential for growth. Its current capacity development initiatives are closely focussed on two specialties, explosive ordnance disposal (EOD) and its explosive detection dog (EDD) teams. EOD assistants are being trained and advancing to become operators, EDD personnel are receiving National Association of Security Dog Users (NASDU) accredited training, kennel hands are advancing to become handlers, handlers to trainers and trainers to instructors. CONCLUSION By incorporating the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact into its strategies, policies and procedures, and establishing a culture of integrity, SafeLane's ambition is to lead by example. It commits to enact the same exacting values and principles wherever it has a presence from Afghanistan to Yemen, from the built environment to the marine environment. It remains fully committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of the company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. 11
