CORP ORATE SUSTAINABILITY REP ORT 201 8 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index CONTENT Corporate sustainability report 2018 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 People. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 Nokian Tyres in a nutshell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 People management and improvements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 We have high ambitions for sustainable growth. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Organization and governance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 This is what we are proud of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 A common safety culture yields results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 Our way to sustainable business. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8 Great people management ensures competence, well-being and equal treatment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 Sustainability management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Change in the working culture started at the Nokia site. . . . . . . . . . . . . 48 Materiality assessment at Nokian Tyres . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Our personnel. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 Nokian Tyres’ value chain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 Economy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52 Good interaction with stakeholders. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 Financial management. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53 Sustainability in procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 Profitable growth benefits everyone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56 The principles and goals of sustainable development facilitate the work on corporate sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 Impact on society and communities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58 World on wheels. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 Planet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 Management of product advancements, product safety, Management of environmental responsibility and improvements . . . . . 61 and product liability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Environmental impacts of production. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65 Fighting global warming: reducing rolling resistance of tires. . . . . . . . . . 31 A tire’s life cycle and recycling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72 Tracking responsibility – from raw materials to premium tires. . . . . . . . . 32 Independent assurance report. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75 Product development for better road safety. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 GRI content index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76 NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index COR P O R AT E S USTA I N A B I L I T Y RE P O RT 2 0 18 Nokian Tyres offers peace of mind. Sustainability is an essential part of our daily work 1. Responsibility in material choices and and leadership, which is guided by the Group strategy promoting the circular economy and values. Nokian Tyres Sustainability Road Map 2. Continuous development of the road safety of tires guides our work on sustainability. The Road Map was established in 2015 and we update it yearly. 3. Fighting global warming: reducing the rolling resistance of tires In 2018, we conducted a sustainability survey, where 4. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions from our most important internal and external stakeholder all operations – Use of renewable energy groups defined their individual material topics and and improving energy efficiency risks and opportunities in Nokian Tyres’ sustainability. 5. Human rights in the supply chain Based on the survey and our own sustainability group’s analysis, we formed nine new material topics: 6. Risk management and good governance 7. Responsible and ethical purchasing policies 8. High level of safety and health at work 9. Profitable growth and indirect economic impact NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 3 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index NOKIAN TYRES IN A NUTSHELL PEACE OF MIND IN ALL CONDITIONS Nokian Tyres develops and manufactures premium tires 4. FORERUNNER IN SELECTED HEAVY TIRE PRODUCTS EXCELLENT PRODUCTION AND for people who value safety, sustainability, and innovative In the development and manufacturing of heavy tires, EFFICIENT DISTRIBUTION products. We offer peace of mind in all conditions and we focus on carefully selected segments with high profit In 2018, Nokian Tyres’ products were sold in 62 countries. instill our Scandinavian heritage in every tire that we make. margins, such as tires intended for forestry, agriculture, Our primary brand is Nokian Hakkapeliitta. Our growth Our company designs tires for passenger cars, trucks, and and material handling. Our premium tires feature unique is supported by the branded distribution network, which heavy machinery and our Vianor chain provides tire and solutions that support the business of our end users, and we includes the Vianor and Vianor Partner chains, Nokian Tyres car services. In 2018, the company’s net sales were EUR 1.6 sell them on both the replacement and original equipment Authorized Dealers (NAD) network and the N-Tyre network. billion and it employed some 4,800 people. Nokian Tyres is markets. We ensure the functionality of our tires by also Vianor’s mission is to maintain Nokian Tyres’ market share listed on Nasdaq Helsinki. You can read about the company’s serving our customers down in the mine or deep in the and to support its brand in the Nordic countries. The ownership structure here. woods. other purpose of our own Vianor chain is to help in the development of concepts for driving our customers’ sales OUR SUCCESS IS BUILT ON SIX DIFFERENTIATORS 5. RESPONSIVE AND EFFICIENT SUPPLY CHAIN and to provide deeper insight about our customers’ business We have some of the most efficient tire factories in the and consumer needs. 1. SAFEST TIRES FOR ALL CONDITIONS world. The high level of automation ensures superior At the end of 2018, the Vianor network included a total We operate within the premium passenger car tire segment productivity and product quality. Our customer-oriented of 1,318 service centers in 24 countries. The NAD network and focus on the replacement tire market. We offer the supply chain ensures excellent customer service capability operated in 26 countries with 2,162 stores, while the N-Tyre world’s best winter tires on all major winter tire markets. As even during high season. network covered 127 stores in Russia and the CIS countries. pioneers in demanding conditions, our competitive summer Between 2008 and 2018 we invested approximately one tires, all-season tires, and all-weather tires take safety to a 6. HIGH-PERFORMING ENGAGED TEAM billion euros in our own factories in Finland and Russia, which new level under all conditions. Our open and participatory company and leadership culture deliver first-class productivity and quality. Our new factory is ensures that we work, develop, and achieve great results under construction in the United States and the commercial 2. CONSUMER-TRUSTED PREMIUM BRAND together. Our motivated and committed personnel have a production is expected to commence in 2020. We have our Our tires are made for people who value the promise of the continuous desire to develop their personal competence as own sales companies in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Russia, Nordic premium: high-tech products that are manufactured well as our company as a whole. Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Germany, Switzerland, the Czech sustainably. We make good on our promise on the road, as Republic, Belarus, Canada, the United States, and China. We our tires offer reliability, performance, and peace of mind have obtained quality and environmental certifications for from winter snowfall to heavy summer rain. our production facilities in Finland and Russia as well as for the Swedish sales company. 3. PREFERRED PARTNER FOR CUSTOMERS Our partners have higher earnings potential selling our products and our customer satisfaction is high. Nokian Tyres Head office: offers premium end-to-end digital customer and consumer Nokian Tyres plc experiences. Our branded retail concepts support strong Pirkkalaistie 7 sell-out and deliver data, which enables us to serve our 37100 Nokia consumers better. Finland Contact: media@nokiantyres.com NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 4 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index WE HAVE HIGH AMBITIONS FOR SUSTAINABLE GROWT H Sustainability has been an integral We had a good year in 2018, achieving improved net sales and operating profit, as well as remaining on track with part of Nokian Tyres Scandinavian our corporate sustainability goals set in 2017. We received values and heritage. Three years recognition for our sustainability improvements when Nokian ago, we integrated it even more Tyres was again selected for the Dow Jones’ DJSI World deeply into our daily work: we sustainability index as well as for the more strictly defined DJSI Europe index. In February, we received the Silver Class created our own sustainability road distinction in the RobecoSAM Sustainability Yearbook 2019. map. We set clear goals and we This international recognition shows how integrated are happy to see some of them sustainability is with our growth strategy. Another concrete achieved ahead of schedule. example of our sustainability is our new factory, which is being built in Dayton, US. We have taken environmental and Currently, only 195 out of 13,475 safety factors into account already in the planning phase. Automobiles & Parts companies The new testing center in Spain, which is under construction, have committed themselves to will be self-sufficient in energy through an environmentally the principles of UNGC. We are friendly solar power plant on site. committed and want Nokian Tyres WE ARE INTEGRATING UNGC PRINCIPLES to be seen as a sustainability AND SDG’S INTO OUR BUSINESS benchmark in the industry. Sustainability is an integral part of our everyday work and leadership, and it is at the core of our business and strategy. We have been members of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) initiative since 2015. At Nokian Tyres, we provide jobs and livelihoods for several thousand people, not just for our own employees, but also for our subcontractors. In 2018, we conducted a survey to assess the most important sustainability factors for our internal and external stakeholders. Human rights in our supply chain was seen to be a key priority. Highlighting the topic is an example of our commitment to UNGC and its objectives, and we have now revised our Code of Conduct to cover sustainability in all of our procurement channels. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 5 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index The use of international indicators, such as UNGC, We have already reached one of these goals in 2017. We OUR VALUES GUIDE US supports our goal of improving sustainability across the reduced the rolling resistance of our product range by 7% IN SUSTAINABILITY tire industry. Currently, only 195 out of 13,475 Automobiles compared to the 2013 baseline. This effectively lowered CO2 We want to act as one global team, working together and & Parts companies have committed themselves to the emissions from traffic by 500 million kg. utilizing all of the expertise within the company to achieve principles. We hope that in the future more tire companies In 2018, we reduced the rolling resistance of our great results. This is the way our Scandinavian values and will sign up to the Global Compact. products even further, by an average of 8% compared to expertise also guides us: toward growth and profitability At Nokian Tyres, we believe that higher transparency 2013, resulting in a further reduction of 128 million kg of ambitions, developing and producing the best possible tires in the industry will help stakeholders to better evaluate CO2. These achievements demonstrate our determination for demanding conditions while inventing new ways to do progress in sustainability. to improve the eco-friendliness of our products, without it in an eco-friendly way. We treasure our good team spirit, compromising on safety. wherever we work. WE AIM TO REACH OUR As part of our efforts to improve supply chain The importance of sustainability will continue to SUSTAINABILITY GOALS BY 2020 sustainability, we have set a goal to audit all of Nokian Tyres’ increase, driven by the requirements of stakeholders as well We are committed to the UN’s Sustainable Development major rubber processor partners by 2020. This relates to at as companies’ own desire to improve their activities and Goals (SDGs) and in 2018 we defined seven SDGs which are least 80% of our natural rubber purchasing volume. products. We have a long-term commitment to sustainability important for Nokian Tyres. These SDGs will provide even In 2018, we audited 4 natural rubber processors, together regarding our own products and operations as well as making better guidance for our sustainable development. with an external auditor, and conducted 4 follow-up audits. a difference within the whole tire industry. We have created a sustainability road map covering seven These audits guarantee that our requirements are followed We want Nokian Tyres to be seen as a sustainability aspects related to climate, environment, people, supply in the best possible way, as well as providing an opportunity benchmark in the industry – creating added value for people, chain, economy, stakeholder engagement and products & for the audited companies to improve their activities and the economy, and the environment. services. We plan to reach the Group’s sustainability goals by occupational safety. 2020. A high rate of waste is utilized in our production facilities: In Finland, we reached 100% utilization of all waste from sites Hille Korhonen (production and offices) and, in Russia, it was 88%. There is President & CEO still room for improvement, but we are heading in the right We want Nokian direction. Our customer satisfaction rates are already at a good Tyres to be seen level and we are happy to state that, in 2018, we achieved more 9 and 10 scores from our various stakeholders than in as a sustainability a similar survey conducted in 2017. Our Net Promoter Score (NPS) also rose further from 40 to 44. benchmark in the You can read more about our sustainability goals and industry. progress on pages 10–12 of the Sustainability Report. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 6 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index THIS IS WHAT WE ARE PROUD OF A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS IN 2018, NOKIAN TYRES WAS CHOSEN TO JOIN BOTH DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY WORLD AS WELL AS DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY EUROPE INDEX. 1 NEW SOLAR 4 FOLLOW-UP AUDITS REDUCING RECYCLING POWER PLANT Reaudited natural rubber GREENHOUSE The on-site recycling We have decided producers have made GAS EMISSIONS rate of our factory in to build a solar significant improvements on In 2018, we committed Finland is 100%. power plant on the weaknesses highlighted ourselves to the strict When possible the site of our during our first sustainability Science Based Targets without weakening new testing audits. We have conducted program to lower the quality, we use center in Spain. sustainability audits at greenhouse gas emissions recycled material in processing factories since 2016. in line with climate science. our tires. CLEANING ILLEGAL 8% LOWER ROLLING ELIMINATING HEALTH ROAD SAFETY TIRE DUMPS IN RESISTANCE HAZARDS We have developed RUSSIA We managed to lower the Nokian Tyres has been excellent gripand Our factory in Russia rolling resistance of our a pioneer in eliminating handling properties started an Ecotires by 8% on average possible health hazards for our tires to prevent Challenge initiative between 2013 and 2018. of raw materials. We were road accidents. to clean illegal tire This decreases the fuel the first in our industry dumps. consumption and exhaust to give up use of the high fumes of millions of cars. aromatic oils. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 7 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index O UR WAY TO S USTAI N A B LE BUS I N E SS Our business is built on entrepreneurship, inventiveness and team spirit. Our company culture lays a solid foundation initiated corrective programs to address the for our success. Hakkapeliitta Spirit comprises shortcomings. 4 reaudited producers made our values, goals, leadership, and everyday significant improvements on the weaknesses work. At the core of the Hakkapeliitta Spirit are highlighted during our first sustainability audits. our values, which drive our success by winning together, enable our business to grow profitably, Our Way to Sustainable Business section and guide our day-to-day operations. covers the following material topics: Nokian Tyres’ business across the Group is • Risk management and good governance guided by the ethical principles presented in the Code of Conduct, which was revised in 2018. • Responsible and ethical purchasing policies We have set a goal to audit all of our major • Human rights in the supply chain rubber processor partners by 2020, comprising at least 80% of our natural rubber purchasing volume. In 2018, we audited 4 locations and NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 8 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Sustainability is a natural part of our business: it means VALUES, STRATEGY AND GOALS sustainable product development, safe and eco-friendly Sustainability is a part of our company’s culture, strategy, and goals. products as well as high standards of quality in everything We manage our sustainability in five areas. that we do. We ensure that our activities do not harm the environment or people. Our tires are easy on the environment and, even under difficult conditions, they will ■ Risk management and good governance ■ Responsible and ethical purchasing policies help you reach your destination. 1. OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS ■ Human rights in the supply chain Our business must be profitable so that we are able The principles that guide our Our Group’s business is guided by our Code of Conduct, to offer security, work and well-being for our personnel, operations throughout the Group whistleblowing policy; Environment, Safety and Quality while also considering investors, customers, and other policy; purchasing and communication policy, SDG’s, GRI reporting and the UN Global Compact initiative. stakeholders. Sustainability is an essential part of our daily work and leadership, which is guided by the Group strategy SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT and values. AREAS OF OPERATIONAL SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT The picture on the right presents our areas of sustainability as well as the essential principles, commitments, and guidelines that guide our business. For more information about the content of the material topics, click here. 2. WORLD ON WHEELS 3. ECONOMY 4. PEOPLE 5. PLANET We develop and Through profitable growth, We develop and maintain We ensure that our OUR VALUES GUIDE US TO SUCCEED manufacture ecofriendly, safe and highwe enable the further development of our a company culture that promotes fair and equal actions do not harm the environment or people; Our company culture, the Hakkapeliitta Spirit, lays a solid quality tires that reach operations and ensure treatment, caring and instead, our objective is their destination safely financial security, work respect. promoting well-being in foundation for our success. Hakkapeliitta Spirit comprises even under demanding and well-being for our general. We guarantee a safe our values, goals, leadership, and everyday work. At the core conditions. stakeholders. working environment We aim to be among the We emphasize the We aim for good dividends for our employees and tire industry pioneers as of the Hakkapeliitta Spirit are our values, which drive our eco-friendliness of our for our shareholders. partners. regards the environmental success by winning together, enable our business to grow products. aspects. profitably and guide our day-to-day operations. THE ESSENTIAL STANDARDS, GROUP POLICIES AND PROCEDURES IN TERMS OF DEVELOPING OUR OPERATIONS NOKIAN TYRES’ VALUES ARE: Tire/vehicle safety (e.g. Rules of the stock Safety and well-being, ISO 14001, environmental type approval tests), EU exchange, IFRS codes, hiring, induction, protection, control of • Entrepreneurship: We set ambitious objectives Tyre Labels, chemical good accounting practice, people reviews, further chemicals, the Responsible and perform our work with persistence. regulation, indoor & Corporate Governance development of personnel Care program. outdoor testing to fulfil system, risk management, competence, travel, social Customer satisfaction is our first priority. internal criteria. objective decision making, media, privacy protection. credits, legal matters. • Inventiveness: We have the skill to survive and excel, even in the most challenging circumstances. LOCAL GUIDELINES AND PROCEDURES • Team Spirit: We work in an atmosphere of genuine joy In addition to the categories of sustainability at Nokian Tyres, the figure visualizes the essential principles, commitments, and guidelines. and action. We work as a team, relying on each other. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 9 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index We set ambitious Would you like to know more about our strategic ambitions? Here you can watch Hille Korhonen, the President Climate risks and adaptation goals and perform Product development and R&D Climate actions and CEO of Nokian Tyres, present at our Capital Markets Day Energy efficiency in 2018... Energy mix our work with persistence. See also our Environmental, Safety, and Quality Policy for Compliance our valued quality and sustainability promises as well as the Other environmental Water efficiency measures for meeting them. actions Materials efficiency Dayton ramp-up SUSTAINABILITY GOALS GUIDE OUR OPERATIONS NOKIAN TYRES’ STRATEGY: ENTERING Our everyday improvement of sustainability is guided by the OHS People Human rights OUR NEXT STAGE OF GROWTH Group’s sustainability goals and the road map plan that we Sustainability culture In November 2018, Nokian Tyres’ Board of Directors decided update yearly. The target time for the road map projects and on new financial targets for 2019–2021. In line with the the Group’s sustainability goals is 2020. strategy update earlier in 2018, Nokian Tyres has entered Risk management the next phase of growth and is looking for faster growth GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY GOALS Supply chain Natural rubber sourcing especially in North America and Central Europe. The table on page 11 shows Nokian Tyres’ sustainability goals for 2020 and their progress. Nokian Tyres’ new financial targets are: Materials • Growing faster than the market: CAGR OUR SUSTAINABILITY ROAD MAP Products and services Micro polymers In 2015, we made the Nokian Tyres Sustainability Road Services above 5% with comparable currencies Map to guide our work on sustainability. The road map • Healthy profitability: EBIT at the level of 22% Governance & Compliance defines seven areas of sustainability and their related Finance, Corporate Board agenda • Good returns for our shareholders: projects. The projects are led by the Corporate Sustainability Governance Risk management Dividend above 50% of net earnings working group, which is headed by the Environmental and Value creation for the society Responsibility Manager. Reporting The financial targets will guide the company in reaching its The progress with the road map processes is tracked on a Communication & Investor relations strategic ambitions, which were set in early 2018: monthly basis. The following graph presents the areas of the stakeholder engagement Climate • We are the market leader in selected segments road map and the related special projects. Vianor communication in the Nordic countries and Russia • We increase our sales by 50% in Central Europe in five years • We double our sales in North America in five years • Our tires are available in all major winter tire markets • We increase the EBITDA of Vianor (own) to +3% by the end of 2019 • We increase the sales of Heavy Tyres by 50% in four years NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 10 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index Nokian Tyres’ sustainability goals for 2020 and their progress Area of sustainability Goal Progress in 2018 OUR WAY TO • We will improve our Dow Jones Sustainability Index assessment. • We were again selected for Dow Jones’ DJSI World sustainability SUSTAINABLE • All of our raw material suppliers will have conducted index and to the more strictly defined DJSI Europe index. BUSINESS a sustainability self-assessment in 2017. • So far 86.8% of our material suppliers have responded General sustainability of into the self-assessment survey (85% in 2017). our business • We will have audited all of our major rubber processor partners (at least 80% of our natural rubber purchasing volume) by 2020. • The audits have progressed according to plan, and we audited • At least two thirds of our raw material suppliers will 4 processors in 2018 and conducted 4 follow-up audits. They have ISO 14001 certification in 2020. showed clear improvement especially in the labor rights. • In 2018, 72% of our raw material suppliers had the ISO 14001 certification, which means that we are heading in the right direction. WORLD ON WHEELS • Reducing the rolling resistance of the product range by • We reached the goal already in 2017. In 2018, we reduced the rolling Safe and ecofriendly 7% from 2013 to 2020, thereby creating a decrease of resistance further, by 8% in average compared to 2013. products 500 million kg in CO2 emissions from traffic. • We have launched new products with a lower rolling • Each new product generation will have a lower rolling resistance than the previous products. resistance compared to the previous one ECONOMY • Our financial target is to earn good returns for our • In 2018, we paid EUR 1.56 dividend per share (EUR 1.53 in 2017). Profitable growth and shareholders: dividend above 50% of net earnings. good dividends. PEOPLE • Occupational health and safety: A 70% improvement in the • Although new safety measures were introduced, the LTIF Safe working LTIF injury frequency rate tracking from 2015 to 2020. injury frequency rate did not improve in 2018. environment and • Everyone gets to go home healthy every day. • No severe accidents occurred in the Group during the year. sustainable company culture • During 2018 the accident frequency in the Heavy Tyres unit was halved: it came down from 9.2 to a 4.4 per million working hours. PLANET • Energy efficient production: decreasing energy • The reduction of energy consumption in production was approximately 2.5% Being a pioneer in consumption annually by 1% from 2016 to 2020. from the previous year, which means that the target was met and exceeded. sustainability • A 20% reduction in CO2 emissions from production (kg CO2 • The actual reduction of CO2 emissions from production was 38% in kg product) from 2013 to 2020 (scope 1 and scope 2). 2018, which means that we are heading in the right direction. • Reducing the use of municipal water by 25% compared • In 2018, the consumption of municipal water was approximately 40% to the 2013 baseline (m3/product ton). lower than in 2013, which means that the target was met and exceeded. • Utilizing 100% of production waste and taking no production • In Nokia, 100% of production waste was recycled and the recycling waste to landfills; Finland 2016, Russia 2020. rate was 88% in Vsevolozhsk, which was slightly less than in 2017. • Zero environmental accidents. • No environmental accidents occurred in 2018. • In 2018, we committed ourselves to the strict Science Based Targets program to lower greenhouse gas emissions in line with climate science. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 11 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index SYSTEMATIC LEADERSHIP OF SUSTAINABILITY Leadership and direction of corporate sustainability IMPROVES THE OPERATIONS AND COMPANY CULTURE within the Nokian Tyres Group The company’s sustainability activities are led by a member of the Group’s management team who is ultimately responsible for meeting the goals of corporate sustainability. All supervisors’ duties include day-to-day leadership of sustainability. Ambitions, targets, and other key topics are discussed by the Management Team and at least once a year by the Board of Directors. Nokian Tyres’ dedicated Corporate Sustainability working group comprises finance, purchasing, communication, environment, quality, consumer, customer service, and HR experts. The working group’s main task is to design and promote measures for improving sustainability. Then, each unit’s management team is responsible for implementing the measures according to their unit strategy. The Safety Management group, which comprises safety experts and management representatives, works on and tracks the safety aspects. Supply chain sustainability is being developed and guided by the Sustainable Purchasing working group. The Energy Efficiency working group promotes the means for improving energy efficiency throughout the group. Product Development creates safer and eco-friendlier products by reducing rolling resistance, for example. Department-specific occupational health and safety groups, environmental representatives and other local working groups focus on improving the practical work in terms of eco-friendliness, safety, and well-being. Each Nokian Tyres’ employee is responsible for working and acting ethically. Furthermore, HR, Communication, and the Risk Management working group support the work for improving the safety culture and implementing changes in the group. The graph on the right describes the leadership of sustainability at Nokian Tyres. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 12 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT AT NOKIAN TYRES In 2018, we conducted a sustainability survey, where our most important internal and external stakeholder groups NOKIAN TYRES: MATERIAL TOPICS 1. Responsibility in material choices and We require all of defined their individual material topics and risks and promoting the circular economy our raw material opportunities in Nokian Tyres sustainability. The survey was conducted as online and personal interviews. The interviews 2. Continuous development of the road safety of tires 3. Fighting global warming: reducing the suppliers to adhere to our Supplier Code of were conducted in eight countries. After the survey, the company’s sustainability team analyzed the results and rolling resistance of tires estimated Nokian Tyres’ environmental, financial, and social impacts. From that process, nine topics were selected as 4. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions from all operations – Use of renewable energy and improving energy efficiency Conduct. material. 5. Human rights in the supply chain In the sustainability survey, the stakeholders raised a proposition to simplify and compact the report in order 6. Risk management and good governance to enhance readability and make it more intelligible. This 7. Responsible and ethical purchasing policies notion as a guide, our new material topics are combined Human rights in the supply chain 8. High level of safety and health at work from our stakeholder’s views and our sustainability team’s Impact: developing an open and analysis. The topics are also based on risks and opportunities 9. Profitable growth and indirect economic impacts ethically sustainable value chain comments that are received in the survey. Wherever we conduct business, we follow the local laws and For more information on how Nokian Tyres’ impacts are MATERIAL TOPICS: FIVE MAIN AREAS regulations as well as good Western business practices and positioned in our value chain, see here. the local customs. In addition to the law, our operations OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS must follow the Group’s internal rules and guidelines. We The Our Way to Sustainable Business category comprises respect the privacy of our personnel, and we handle personal three sustainability principles that are seen throughout our data in line with this principle. Employment in our Group is operations and connected to our company’s strategic goals based on employment contracts in accordance with the and vision. local legislation and any collective agreements. Nokian Tyres’ wages are always equal to or above the local statutory minimum wage. We respect our employees’ right to organize and we cooperate with the appointed representatives of trade unions. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 13 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index Through our commitment to our Code of Conduct, local legislation and external social responsibilities, we ensure equal opportunities for all of our employees and promote fair and equal treatment at each of our locations. As human rights in the supply chain rose for the first time as a material topic, we are committed to finding suitable indicators to better report and manage the topic. Our procurement standards and our Code of Conduct already define the management of human rights in our supply chain, but we are now taking first steps in monitoring them more closely and measuring our impact. Information gathered from our auditing processes forms a base to more transparent reporting: we will generate indicators that represent our approach to the topic. You can read more about our auditing process here. Responsible and ethical purchasing policies Impact: products that support sustainable development, fair conduct in developing economies As a participant in the UN Global Compact initiative, we follow the UNGC’s ethical principles as well as our own, which also address the issues of responsibility in the supply chain. The Code of Conduct establishes a strong Furthermore, we require all of our raw material suppliers foundation and we expect all our employees to adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct. All of the to follow the ethical principles of it. raw material suppliers must, at a minimum, have an ISO 9001-certified quality management system in place. We also prefer suppliers with an ISO 14001-certified environmental management system. One of the basic raw materials of tires is natural rubber. As an agricultural product, it is the livelihood of many families living in countries where the local legislation and working conditions have not been fully developed. We only purchase natural rubber from processors that we have approved. We supervise their activities through audits, among other things. Read more about sustainability in our procurement here. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 14 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index Extreme weather As a public company, Nokian Tyres is bound by the statutory requirements and the rules of the stock exchange making transportation better and safer. We are responding to the changing needs by developing a more comprehensive phenomena caused by on the publicity of information, which is relevant to the range of non-studded winter tires and all-season tires. company’s business. In order to meet our stakeholders’ climate change and varying expectations, we follow the requirements of the Global Fighting global warming: reducing the rolling resistance of tires road conditions increase the Reporting Initiative framework. Based on these requirements, we aim at meeting all of the reasonable requirements that Impact: reduced environmental impact importance of safe tires. our stakeholders have on corporate sustainability. In this respect, Nokian Tyres’ communication on sustainability from traffic, fighting global warming The most significant environmental impacts during the use exceeds the minimum communication requirements for of a tire are caused by the vehicle’s fuel consumption. Lower public companies. fuel consumption reduces the quantities of greenhouse We are a member of various industrial and employer gases released into the air. Tires with low rolling resistance Risk management and good governance organizations. Our participation in such organizations can save fuel, thereby reducing CO2 emissions. Through Impact: ethically sustainable business depends on the current topics and our opportunities to offer determined product development efforts, we have managed The basic functions of every sustainable company include our expertise. We are also a member of various communities to reduce the rolling resistance of our tires, and our current risk management, which involves identifying and prioritizing and organizations that participate in the development of product line includes several products with the EU tyre label’s the applicable risk factors and preparing for the main risks. the legislation and political decision-making. Nokian Tyres best class A rolling resistance rating. We are continuing our At Nokian Tyres, Corporate Risk Management (CRM) also is not involved in political activities, fundraising, or political work on further reducing our tires’ rolling resistance. includes the sustainability aspects. contributions as per our Code of Conduct. Nokian Tyres’ business across the Group is guided by the In addition to trade associations, Nokian Tyres ECONOMY ethical principles presented in the board-approved Code of participates in the activities of various non-profits and Profitable growth and indirect economic impacts Conduct, which was revised in 2018. The document specifies charities. We also offer expert services for communities free Impact: investment opportunities, employee the principles for Nokian Tyres’ business, instructions of charge. In Finland, for example, we provide the police with well-being, and providing added financial for various ethical issues and a procedure for all Group technical assistance in investigations of accidents that may values for shareholders and society personnel. Furthermore, the document discusses the have been caused due to the poor condition of tires and we In industrial operations, the positive development of enforcement and supervision of the rules. While local and produce various training materials on occupational safety productivity is a prerequisite for a company’s success. In international documents provide additional instructions, for the rubber and tire industry together with the Centre for tire manufacture, capacity utilization is crucial in terms of the Code of Conduct establishes a strong foundation Occupational Safety. productivity: the higher the capacity utilization is, the better and we expect all employees to follow them. This ensures the productivity becomes. The automation of machinery and conducting ethical business at all levels of our operations. WORLD ON WHEELS process improvements also contribute to better productivity. An eLearning-course on all aspects of the Code of Continuous development of the road safety of tires Our indicator for measuring production efficiency is kg/ Conduct and the anti-corruption guidelines has been Impact: safer transport effort-hour. prepared and will be implemented on all personnel, including Product safety is the most important special area of top management in 2019. The revised Code of Conduct has sustainability with regard to our company as well as our been published online on the internal company pages and all customers and end users. The development and functional are expected to participate in the course. testing of tires’ safety characteristics requires constant We follow the law in letter and spirit in every country of effort. Extreme weather phenomena caused by climate operation. Our Code of Conduct provides every employee change and varying road conditions increase the importance with instructions on what to do in case they see something of safe tires and drive the demand for all-season and in our operation that may conflict with the applicable all-weather tires. As a leading manufacturer of studded and legislation. non-studded winter tires, we have a special responsibility for NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 15 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index and we are working toward a workplace with zero accidents. With the global water shortage, we also want to reduce Our factory in Nokia Through better working conditions and providing training for water consumption in our production. Tire production uses our personnel and partners, we are continuously aiming to utilizes all of the large quantities of cooling water: our factory in Finland takes improve workplace safety. the cooling water from the nearby river and our factory in generated waste. Our company develops and maintains a company Russia uses a closed recirculating cooling water system that culture that promotes fair and equal treatment and respect. minimizes water consumption. Everyone contributes to our profitable growth and success Quantitatively, waste accounts for our highest regardless of their position. All of our employees have the environmental impact. Our factory in Finland utilizes all opportunity and means to influence their own work and the of the generated waste. The local infrastructure in Russia working environment. Our inventiveness program is one way is not yet on par with our facilities in Finland. We are, to support leadership and the active participation of our therefore, working toward improving the safety of the waste personnel in line with our company culture. management in our Russian factory. Our goal is for all of the Furthermore, we focus our production on core products Producing safe and high-quality products requires a high waste to also be utilized in our Russian factory by 2020. with a good margin and invest in measures for continuously level of professional competence. With the automation of Read more about our life cycle approach in improving quality, productivity, and logistics. Profitable the industrial environment, the work is becoming even more environmental protection and the tire’s circular economy growth requires that we continuously expand our capacity, demanding. This emphasizes the need for the professional process from here. For more information about our and we invest in new production capacity according to our development of employees. In addition, development commitment to recycling, click here. growth targets and the development of the market. Better opportunities improve job satisfaction. We develop productivity supports profitability that, in turn, enables competence in a strategic and proactive manner that Reducing greenhouse gas emissions from higher salaries or dividends for our stakeholders, for example. anticipates future needs. all operations -Use of renewable energy As an internationally expanding company, our impact and improving energy efficiency on our surroundings is increasing and we continue to be a PLANET Impact: improving air quality in local significant job creator and developer of local infrastructure. Responsibility in material choices and environments, improving energy-efficiency We support the development of local communities and the promoting the circular economy We see the regulations established by the authorities as the improvement of working conditions early on in our value Impact: promoting the circular economy, minimum requirements. Therefore, we actively follow the chain, when possible. reducing our ecological footprint development of environmental and safety regulations in In line with the product life cycle approach, our company Finland, the EU and Russia for anticipating the effects of the Risk management and good governance pays attention to the environmental aspects in addition pending legislation. Impact: ethically sustainable business to safety already when buying raw materials and designing Climate change is accelerated by greenhouse gas See the description under Our Way to Sustainable Business our products. We work continuously toward reducing tire emissions, which are an essential issue for companies around on the previous page. noise as well as rolling resistance. Natural materials and safe, the world. We are committed to reducing GHG emissions eco-friendly products that reduce fuel consumption, harmful from our operations in order to combat climate change. We PEOPLE emissions, and rolling noise will also pave the way for us in annually calculate the GHG emissions from our operations, High level of safety and health at work the future. including emissions from the transport of raw materials Impact: arranging a safe working environment Like many other manufacturing industries, we also to us, and aim to reduce them systematically as planned. The health, safety, and well-being of our employees and greatly care about biodiversity, as all the raw materials for Furthermore, an EC directive requires corporations to carry partners are important for everyone at Nokian Tyres. We are our products come from nature. Harm to biodiversity can out energy audits and other energy-efficiency measures. By committed to arranging a safe working environment for our result in the shortage of some raw materials. We also care increasing the proportion of renewable energy sources, we employees and partners and ensuring that they get to go about maintaining the biodiversity of our local environments can reduce our GHG emissions from energy consumption. home healthy every day. Every accident can be prevented, and preserving endangered species. The biomass boiler plant commissioned in 2016 has significantly reduced our GHG emissions in Nokia. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 16 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index Improved energy efficiency has also resulted in cost REPORTING PERIOD, PUBLICATION For us, the most important organizations are: savings. FREQUENCY, AND EXTERNAL ASSURANCE The senior management of the company has approved The contents of the Corporate Sustainability Report for the • Chemical Industry Federation of Finland the list of the special sustainability topics as well as the 2018 reporting period have been verified by an independent • Rubber Manufacturers’ Association of Finland GRI-compliant management system descriptions, topics, and third party. Furthermore, the assurance confirms that the indicators that are based on the material topics. Finnish sustainability report matches the English original. The • National automotive and tire industry conclusions, findings, and recommendations are presented associations in various countries SCOPE AND MEASUREMENT here. The assurance was commissioned by the executive • ETRMA/European Tyre and Rubber METHODS OF THE REPORT management of Nokian Tyres plc. Manufacturers’ Association We publish our Corporate Sustainability Report annually on • ETRTO/European Tyre and Rim Technical Organization our website. This report has been prepared in accordance COMMITMENT TO EXTERNAL with the GRI Standards: Core option. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • STRO/Scandinavian Tire and Rim Organization As the indicators for our Goup’s environmental INITIATIVES AND ORGANIZATIONS • Finnish-Russian Chamber of Commerce responsibility are compiled and calculated by the same In 2018, we were again included in the Dow Jones’ DJSI World • International Chamber of Commerce methods as in our earlier reports, this year’s results are sustainability index and were the second highest-ranking comparable to the previous years’. tire manufacturer. We were also included in the DJSI Europe, • Russian Tyre Manufacturers Association In the social responsibility indicators, the figures for the which has even tighter criteria than the DJSI World. The Dow • AEB (Association of European Businesses) Nokian Tyres’ equity-owned Vianor chain are combined to Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) is an annual sustainability cover all of the companies in the chain, but the indicators • AmCham (American Chamber of Commerce in Russia) assessment for large publicly traded companies, performed are calculated by the same principles as in the previous by the Swiss RobecoSAM. • Tampere Business Campus reports. The reporting covers all the functions of Nokian We are included in the OMX GES Sustainability Finland • Corporate Responsibility Network FIBS. Tyres plc, excluding the environmental responsibility GI index, which provides transparent, objective, and indicators of Vianor service centers. The indicators for reliable information for making responsible investments. economic responsibility are based on our company’s financial The companies are selected for the index based on their statement, which is prepared and presented in accordance compliance with the requirements that focus on the with the IFRS standards. The indicators for environmental management of environmental, social and corporate responsibility are divided between our factories in Finland governance (ESG). We are also included in the STOXX Global and Russia. The EMAS reporting that was previously ESG Leaders and FTSE4Good indices. employed in Finland has generated the current systems for This report is also Nokian Tyres’ Communication On calculation and data collection. Progress (COP) report, which complies with the UN Global Some of the sustainability topics that we identified go Compact (UNGC) requirements. The principles are combined beyond our company’s calculation limits. Such topics include with the materiality analysis and the company’s value chain. human rights questions, whose significance is emphasized For more information about the COP report, click here. early on in the rubber purchasing chain. We do not currently We also participate in various industrial and personnel employ any methods for forming clear indicators in order organizations whose purpose is improving work throughout to track our progress with these special topics. However, the industry. Our activity in the organizations depends on through international organizations as well as our voluntary the topics that they address and our opportunities to offer commitments and conduct, we aim to promote sustainability our expertise. across the functions in our company’s value chain. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 17 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index NOKIAN TYRES’ VALUE CHAIN Tr m at an er sp ia or ls tatio Su n tires bc of on FROM RAW MATERIALS TO TIRES AND ALL THE NOKIAN TYRES’ VALUE CHAIN tr ra w of r G ac m n t WAY TO RECYCLING: THE LIFE CYCLE IMPACTS ru ro or ater ta bb up s ia tio rs er e ra fu ls le s in w A tire is a truly global product whose value chain extends nc Tr lesa C g at ur So tio an on Re al Oth ci ns sp ho su cy throughout the world: the rubber sourced from Indonesian N er et y or W m cl and Malaysian rainforests is merged with industrial Our way to Risk management and good components in our factories, and finished tires are then sustainable governance shipped internationally. Extending a tire’s service life by business 10 10 10 3,6 10 10 10 retreading is one example of the circular economy and how Responsible and ethical purchasing the product life cycle does not end with the first user. policies In the diagram on the right, we have combined our 1,2 1,2 material sustainability topics with our value chain. The Human rights in the supply chain diagram also shows how the ten UN Global Compact (UNGC) 1,2,4,5 1,2,4,5 1,2 principles align with our value chain. The principles are numbered in the diagram. The impacts from the activities World on Continuous development of the of Nokian Tyres and its value chain members are presented wheels road safety of tires after the diagram. Fighting global warming: reducing the rolling resistance of tires 1. RAW MATERIALS (UNGC principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10) The main raw material groups in tire manufacturing are Economy Profitable growth and indirect synthetic rubber, fillers, chemicals, reinforcing materials, economic impacts and natural rubber, which makes up for approximately one fourth of a tire’s raw materials. We use more than a hundred People High level of safety and different raw material suppliers that all follow the same rules. health at work The raw materials for tires come from all over the world, and all of our suppliers are committed to our Supplier Code Planet Responsibility in material choices and promoting the circular economy of Conduct, which requires compliance with international 7, 8, 9 human rights, labor rights, and anti-corruption measures. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions All raw material suppliers must, at a minimum, have an ISO from all operations – use of 9001-certified quality management system in place. We also renewable energy and improving prefer suppliers with an ISO 14001-certified environmental energy efficiency 7,8 management system. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 18 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index In order to improve supply chain sustainability, we started a partnership with an external auditor in 2016. Our separate We have set a goal sustainability auditing process has been developed together to audit all of our with an expert company and it is based, among other things, on Nokian Tyres’ Supplier Code of Conduct and principles major natural rubber that comply with the UN Global Compact goals. We have set a goal to audit all of our major natural processor partners by rubber processor partners by 2020, comprising at least 80% of our natural rubber purchasing volume. Audits 2020. support and facilitate the improvement of occupational safety and the development of activities. In addition to the audits by external parties, we track the sustainability of our raw material suppliers in connection with quality 1.2. Wholesalers audits by our in-house personnel and raw material suppliers’ Family farms sell crude rubber to local wholesalers. Rubber is self-assessments. produced on a day-to-day basis: wholesalers go around small The cultivation of natural rubber, which mostly takes farms to buy their daily production. To get an idea of the place on small farms, and its complex path to becoming a number of these small streams, consider that natural rubber raw material for tires have a significant role in terms of the production in Indonesia exceeded 3 million tons in 2017*. producing countries’ social structure. Wholesalers, in turn, sell the crude rubber to processors. Here is an example of the natural rubber value chain: (* Source: Association of Natural Rubber Producing Countries www.anrpc.org) Natural rubber forms one fourth of a tire’s raw 1.1. Rubber production materials. Most of the natural rubber that we Natural rubber forms one fourth of a tire’s raw materials. 1.3. Processors use comes from Malaysia and Indonesia. As an agricultural product, its production differs from the Processing plants purify the natural rubber, process it as other raw materials. Most of the natural rubber that we specified, and pack it for further use. use comes from Malaysia and Indonesia. Natural rubber is cultivated in forests, often on small farms. More than 85% of 1.4. Traders the world’s natural rubber is produced on farms smaller than From the processors, the rubber is taken to the international two hectares in size whose daily output may be just a couple market via traders from who companies, including Nokian of kilograms of crude rubber. The crude rubber that Nokian Tyres, purchase the rubber. The price of rubber is determined, Tyres purchases from traders comes from family farms and among others, by the Singapore Commodity Exchange. some larger plantations. Nowadays, even family farms are using their mobile phones to check the daily market rate. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 19 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index 2. TRANSPORTATION (UNGC 10) 5. SOCIETY 8. CONSUMERS (UNGC 10) Most of the raw materials for tires are transported by sea Our impact is directly seen in our factory locations of Finland Consumers – the users of our tires – are the most important to large ports in Europe – Hamburg and Rotterdam – from and Russia. There, we are locally a significant job creator and link in our value chain. The purpose of the safety, premium where they are shipped to Finland and Russia. Both of our a permanent part of the surrounding community: in Finland, quality and unique innovations of our tires is to ensure factories use similar raw materials that come from the same we offer work practice and thesis opportunities, and the consumers trouble-free and safe trips under all conditions. sources. This allows us to ensure the quality of our tires Hakkapeliitta Village is a concrete example of our impact in More than 85% of a tire’s carbon footprint is generated regardless of the site of manufacture: we market our tires Russia. The financial stream in the report illustrates Nokian during its use, which means that our product development everywhere in the world, and we can only guarantee the Tyres’ economic impact. Our purchases, salaries, and taxes as efforts for improving the tires’ safety and reducing their same high level of quality to consumers anywhere in the well as the dividends to shareholders contribute to wellenvironmental impacts are measured during their use by world through consistency in terms of the raw materials and being throughout the world. consumers. manufacturing methods. 6. TRANSPORTATION (UNGC 10) 9. RECYCLING 3. SUBCONTRACTORS (UNGC 1, 2, 10) The requirements of the car market and expansion of A part of recycled tires is utilized for their material; they are We work globally with several subcontractors in various the Vianor chain have led us to change our tire logistics shredded or granulated to replace rock materials in various fields, such as construction, security, cleaning, data and consumer insight. We used to deliver tires to large road construction and civil engineering applications. Rubber administration, maintenance, and logistics. Especially our wholesalers but, nowadays, distribution is divided more into chips are light, insulate moisture and maintain their form. factories in Finland and Russia are frequented by dozens smaller product lots and smaller warehouses. As the number They support the road surface and make asphalt quieter. The of subcontractors. All of our subcontractors agree to of individual transport operations grows, logistics planning flexible properties of rubber are put to use once more when comply with our sustainability policy and ethical principles. becomes increasingly important. it is reused as a base material for sports venues, including Furthermore, before subcontractors’ employees are allowed horseriding arenas. to start working in our factories, they must pass induction 7. WHOLESALERS (UNGC 10) Retreading is one of the best recycling methods. If the training on safe working practices. We compare and select Nokian Tyres’ products are sold globally via our branded carcass of a tire is undamaged, it can be retreaded – bus and our subcontractors carefully. Close partnership with our distribution network as well as through car dealerships truck tires can be retreaded up to two or even 4 times. subcontractors ensures strong relationships that benefit and tire stores. Nokian Tyres’ growth is supported by the Another way to utilize recycled tires is to combust them everyone. branded distribution network, which includes the Vianor for energy, as the heating value of tires is close to that of and Vianor Partner chains, Nokian Tyres Authorized Dealers oil. The use of recycled tires as an energy source has been 4. GROUP FUNCTIONS (UNGC 3, 6, 7, 8, 9) (NAD) network and the N-Tyre network. Vianor’s mission is growing for years and, today, approximately half of the tires We produce tires in two locations: Nokia, Finland and to maintain Nokian Tyres’ market share and to support its recycled in Europe are used in waste-to-energy applications. Vsevolozhsk, Russia. In addition, we have sales companies brand in the Nordic countries. The purpose of our own Vianor As one of the original founders of Finnish Tire Recycling in our key markets, such as the Nordic countries, Central chain is to help in the development of concepts for driving Ltd we are involved in their work of looking for new ways to Europe, and North America. Every day, our approximately our customers’ sales and to provide deeper insight about recycle and utilize tires. 4,800 employees contribute to our continuous development our customers’ business and consumer needs. At the end efforts with their competence and ideas according to our of 2018, the Vianor network included a total of 1,318 service way of conducting sustainable business. centers in 24 countries. The NAD network operated in 26 countries with 2,162 stores, while the N-Tyre network covered 127 stores in Russia and the CIS countries. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 20 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index GOOD INTERACTION WITH STAKEHOLDERS Today, with sustainability still developing in civil society Stakeholder expectations in the order of and social media enabling immediate feedback and public Stakeholder group importance Company measures discussion, stakeholder engagement is more important than ever. Stakeholder engagement is part of our business, CUSTOMERS • Energy efficiency • We constantly develop new, safe, and it is guided by our internal instructions on stakeholder • Responsibility in material choices state-of-the-art products engagement as well as our ethical guidelines. Business unit • Continuous development of • We provide personal service managers, the Corporate Communications and, ultimately, the road safety of tires and communicate openly the President and CEO are responsible for managing • Promoting the circular economy • We conduct business in a reliable stakeholder engagement. and sustainable way • Human rights in the supply chain Our stakeholder engagement follows the principle • We respect the cultures and values of openness and the special requirements for public of individuals and groups and companies. We aim to address the expectations of all promote equal treatment stakeholders, in particular concerning sustainability. We do understand, however, that different stakeholder groups may have conflicting requests, especially for corporate social EMPLOYEES • Responsibility in material choices • We promote the well-being of our responsibility. personnel by providing a safe working • Continuous development of In 2018, we conducted a sustainability survey, where environment that motivates them the road safety of tires our most important internal and external stakeholder • Reducing the rolling resistance of tires • We commit our personnel to groups defined their individual material topics and risks • Energy efficiency operational planning and opportunities in Nokian Tyres sustainability. The table • Human rights in the supply chain • We develop the personal on pages 21–22 shows the survey results with the topics competence of our personnel prioritized by stakeholder group. We have used the results for improving our sustainability efforts and defining • We respect the cultures and values our material sustainability topics. Read more about the of individuals and groups and materiality analysis here. promote equal treatment • We regularly develop our leadership and supervisor work NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 21 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index Stakeholder expectations in the order of CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Stakeholder group importance Company measures Customer satisfaction covers Nokian Tyres’ direct customers as well as the end users of our products. We aim for the SUBCONTRACTORS • Continuous development of • We offer strong, long-term partnerships continuous improvement of customer satisfaction through AND SUPPLIERS the road safety of tires • We conduct business in a reliable innovative new products, flexible and smooth logistics, • Energy efficiency and sustainable way regular product testing, safe and high-quality products, • Promoting the circular economy • We contribute to ensuring a safe working and excellent service. Among other things, we measure our • Responsibility in material choices environment for subcontractors in our units success with customer satisfaction surveys and use their results for developing our operations further. • Good governance We aim at continuously improving customer satisfaction • Human rights in the supply chain in the annual customer satisfaction index by one percentage point, at a minimum. Our customer satisfaction survey was AUTHORITIES • Good governance • We comply with the laws and regulations conducted over the phone in 15 markets and 297 customers • Energy efficiency • We maintain active, regular and open responded. • Responsibility in material choices communication and reporting In 2018, overall customer satisfaction was 8.3 on a scale • Reducing greenhouse gas emissions • We support decision making of 0 to 10 (8.3 in 2017). 77% of the respondents gave us an • We provide up-to-date information on • Responsible and ethical purchasing policies overall score of 8, 9, or 10. The Net Promoter Score (NPS), corporate social responsibility on our website which tracks customer loyalty, grew from 40 to 44 in 2018. This year, 57% of the respondents gave us a 10 (compared to MEDIA • Continuous development of • We communicate openly and actively 50% in 2017). We will improve our operations further based the road safety of tires • Our experts are available for comments on the feedback. • Responsibility in material choices on road safety and our products Along with our annual customer satisfaction survey, we • Reducing the rolling resistance of tires • We provide up-to-date information on have introduced an online survey that focuses on our supply • Reducing greenhouse gas emissions corporate social responsibility on our website chain, logistics, and customer service performance. The purpose of this survey is to track customer satisfaction • Energy efficiency with our service, wherein delivery reliability is one essential component. We will continue developing our operations further based on the results. Going forward, we will conduct the survey two times per year, after each peak season. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 22 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index SUSTAINABILITY IN PROCUREMENT EXTERNAL AUDITS HELP PARTNERS The long and complex journey from raw materials to finished premium tires involves the effort and quality assurance of IMPROVE THEIR SUSTAINABILITY In order to improve thousands of professionals. It is, therefore, justified to say that all of our personnel are linked to product responsibility. One of the basic raw materials of tires is natural rubber. As an agricultural product, it is the livelihood of many families supply chain FROM RAW MATERIALS TO PREMIUM TYRES living in countries where the local legislation and working conditions have not been fully developed. We only purchase sustainability, we started a The work of Nokian Tyres’ own procurement unit is guided by natural rubber from processors approved by Nokian Tyres. partnership with an external the internal purchasing policy, which establishes the general We supervise their activities through audits, among other principles of sustainable procurement. As a participant in the things. auditor in 2016. UN Global Compact initiative, we follow the UNGC’s ethical In order to improve supply chain sustainability, we started principles as well as our own, which also address the issues of a partnership with an external auditor in 2016. Our separate responsibility in the supply chain. sustainability auditing process has been developed together Furthermore, we require all of our raw material suppliers with a consulting company and it is based, among other to adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which was things, on Nokian Tyres’ Supplier Code of Conduct and revised in 2018. All raw material suppliers must, at a minimum, principles that comply with the UN Global Compact goals. have an ISO 9001-certified quality management system in We have set a goal to audit all of our major rubber place. We also prefer suppliers with an ISO 14001-certified processor partners by 2020, comprising at least 80% of our environmental management system. In 2018, 72% of our raw natural rubber purchasing volume. The audits enable the material suppliers had the ISO 14001 certification. processor companies to improve their occupational safety and develop their operations further. In 2018, we audited 4 more locations and initiated corrective programs to address the shortcomings identified in the process. Four reaudited producers have made significant improvements on weaknesses highlighted during our first sustainability audits. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 23 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index Here are some highlights of successful improvements: • 3 out of 4 companies have a Health & Safety system implemented, 4th company in progress (one in 2017) • 3 out of 4 have legal working hours, 4th company in progress (one in 2017) • All 4 companies have created an ethical policy and 1 has trained employees accordingly (none in 2017) • Metal scrap management implemented in all locations (one in 2017) • In 2 companies, employment contracts translated to indigenous languages (one in 2017) • Enhanced first-aid training • Amended employee dormitory cleanliness AUDITS HELPED IMPROVE LABOR RIGHTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN SELF-ASSESSMENTS AND QUALITY AUDITS FOCUS THE ATTENTION ON OCCUPATIONAL Nokian Tyres has conducted social governments still lack a proper recycling SAFETY, QUALITY, AND HUMAN RIGHTS sustainability audits at natural rubber program for hazardous waste. In addition to the audits by external parties, we track the processing factories since 2016. In 2018, we made 4 new audits and 4 follow-up audits. Business practices also showed sustainability of our raw material suppliers in connection with They were carried out externally by a third improvement: education on code of quality audits by our in-house personnel and raw material party. conduct had been arranged and one suppliers’ self-assessments. The supplier self-assessments factory owner had also visited his suppliers In our sustainability audits, five different to educate them on safety issues and discuss sustainability topics important to Nokian Tyres, areas are being investigated: human rights, discuss ethical business practices. including human rights and occupational safety. The labor rights, health & safety, business No critical risks were found concerning assessments also seek to determine whether the supplier practices, and environment. human rights. However, the high has set targets for developing their operations, the progress After the initial audits, a commonly agreed recruitment and work permit fees for of the goals is tracked, and they are supervising their own corrective plan is drawn. The follow-up the foreign workers in Malaysia remain suppliers’ activities. audits in Malaysia and Indonesia showed problematic. Workers are forced to loan During the quality audits, we review the supplier’s significant improvement especially in labor money, which creates the pressure to rights: workers no longer did grueling 12–14 work excessive hours. Revisited factories production and evaluate the company’s quality management hour-shifts and had resting days required are in the process of defining whether a system. The audits specifically focus on the quality of the by the law. government-run recruitment agency would activities and raw materials. The need to perform quality be a solution to the problem and one has The follow-up audits also showed significant helped a worker with the fees. audit is based on our supplier evaluation. Furthermore, our improvement in creating health & safety purchasing personnel conduct smaller-scale supplier visits systems as the factories have arranged that include an assessment of the working conditions, education on safety issues. The recycling among other things. of metallic waste was also well organized after the initial audits. However, some NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 24 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index THE PRINCIPLES AND GOALS OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT FACILITATE THE WORK ON CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY In late 2015, we joined the United Nations Global Compact KEY CHANGES IN 2018 TO THE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS THAT GUIDE THE GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES This was the first (UNGC) initiative as a supporting member. The initiative’s principles on human and labor rights, environmental In 2018, we conducted a sustainability survey, where our time that human rights were selected protection, and anti-corruption measures help us further most important internal and external stakeholder groups improve the sustainability of our business and evaluate our defined their individual material topics and risks and activities annually. Our company’s commitment to international sustainable opportunities in Nokian Tyres sustainability. After the survey, company’s sustainability team analyzed the results as one of the principle development goals helps us improve our corporate sustainability and support sustainable development globally. and estimated Nokian Tyres environmental, financial, and social impacts. From that process, 9 topics were selected topics in Nokian Tyres. as material and one of them is “Human rights in the supply COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS chain”. REPORT FOR 2018 This was the first time that human rights were selected With the Communication on Progress (COP) report, we as one of the principle topics in Nokian Tyres. This describes communicate how the Global Compact principles have been our commitment to the subject in a world of long supply joined with the group’s business. We have integrated the chains and natural raw materials with its labor intense COP report in the annual Corporate Sustainability Report in production mechanisms. line with the GRI and UNGC instructions. We estimate that this COP report meets the requirements of the “GC Active” level. In the message from the President & CEO, you can read more about the importance of the UNGC principles and our commitment to their continuous development and integration with our business. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 25 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index Nokian Tyres’ business across the group is guided by the In 2018, the most important areas of focus in human Our Seven Sustainability Development Goals ethical principles presented in the board-approved Code of resources were the development of a leadership and work Conduct, which was revised in 2018. culture, strengthening of safety culture, and steps toward In order to improve supply chain sustainability, we started global leadership practices. a partnership with an external auditor in 2016. Our separate To enhance our employee equal rights and sustainability auditing process has been developed together non-discrimination, we introduced the Workday HR with a consulting company and it is based, among other information system throughout the Group in early 2018. With things, on Nokian Tyres’ Supplier Code of Conduct and the new system, we can harmonize our employment life cycle, principles that comply with the UN Global Compact goals. reward policies, global workforce mobility management, and We have set a goal to audit all of our major rubber development discussions. processor partners by 2020, comprising at least 80% of our natural rubber purchasing volume. The audits enable the COP AND NOKIAN TYRES’ GRI REPORTING processor companies to improve their occupational safety In the report, the GC principles are combined with our and develop their operations further. In 2018, we audited 4 materiality analysis and value chain. This enables using more locations and initiated corrective programs to address the GRI Standards reporting indicators for tracking the the shortcomings identified in the process. Four reaudited completion of the GC principles and highlighting the areas producers have made significant improvements on the in our business where the principles have the largest impact. weaknesses highlighted during our first sustainability audits. The GRI Standards table presents the indicators that also In 2018 we determined seven In environmental sustainability, we committed to set up track our progress with the GC principles. You can read more SDG’s out of the 17 defined Science Based Targets (SBT) to our operations. SBT initiative about the materiality analysis here and about our value chain by the UN. These seven is collaboration between CDP, the United Nations Global here. sustainability development Compact (UNGC), World Resources Institute (WRI), and goals are important for Nokian the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and one of the We SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Tyres and provide a tool to Mean Business Coalition commitments. The targets provide PROVIDE A LONG-TERM PERSPECTIVE examine sustainable business companies with a clearly defined pathway to future-proof In 2016, the United Nations published 17 Sustainable in the long term. growth by specifying how much and how quickly they need Development Goals (SDGs) for 2030 to address the to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions in order to meet global challenges that we face all around the world. They requirements of limiting GHG emissions to keep global are created to promote prosperity while protecting the temperature increase below 2 degrees Celsius. environment. In Russia, we have actively participated in discussions In 2018, we determined 7 SDG’s, which are important for for improving tire recycling. In 2017, together with some Nokian Tyres. These seven sustainability development goals other major tire manufacturers, we established the Eco tire provide a tool to examine sustainable business in the long association that manages tire recycling for actors in the tire term. industry. Our goal in 2018 was to achieve a 20% recycling percentage of all our tire sales in Russia, which we attained. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 26 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index OUR SEVEN GUIDES IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SDG Targets by the UN Our actions 3 Good health and well-being By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents. By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water, and soil pollution and We improve road safety through continuous development of wet and ice grip. We were the first in our business to stop the use of high aromatic oils. contamination. 5 Gender equality End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere. Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making. We have several women in high decision-making posts, for instance our CEO, Hille Korhonen. We have updated our Code of Conduct and do regular audits to ensure our policies are followed in the supply chain as well. 8 Decent work and Protect labor rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment. The follow-up audits that we conducted in 2018 showed significant improvement especially in labor rights. economic growth 9 Sustainable industry, By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes. We have managed to reduce our yearly energy consumption by 2,5% per production ton. A scrubber was installed in the power plant that provides our energy in Nokia, Finland. Three months after the installment it had already innovation and infrastructure reduced the need for fuel by 20 GWh, which equals approximately 185 truckloads of fuel. 11 Sustainable cities By 2030, provide access to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport systems for all, improving road safety. By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying special We have reduced the rolling resistance of our tires by 8% in average compared to 2013 levels, which brings lower CO2 emissions and thus improves air quality. and communities attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management. We improve road safety by producing tires with enhanced wet grip and handling. 12 Responsible consumption By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources. Almost 100% of used tires are recycled in the Nordic countries and around 95% in Europe. By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and In Russia our factory launched an Eco-Challenge to empty illegal tire dumps. all wastes throughout their life cycle and significantly reduce their release to Waste management is also being developed in the natural rubber processing air, water and soil in order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health plants that we audit. and the environment. By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation. 13 Climate action Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries. Improve education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, In 2018, we committed ourselves to set Science Based Targets and we aim to achieve approval by 2020. We continuously improve energy efficiency in our operations and exceeded our target of reducing our yearly energy impact reduction and early warning. consumption by 1% per production ton, with a 2.5% reduction versus the previous year. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – OUR WAY TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 27 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index WOR L D ON W HE E L S As a tire manufacturer, we are responsible for the safety of our products. We improve our products through continuous In 2015 we set a goal to lower the rolling resistance product development and testing because we want of our tires by 7% compared to the levels of 2013. to improve road safety. We also work for better Our aim was to do this by 2020, but we achieved eco-friendliness through lowering our tires’ rolling our goal ahead of schedule in 2017. In 2018, we resistance. succeeded in lowering it further and our tires now have an 8% lower rolling resistance on average Our goal each year is to produce a new product compared to the 2013 levels. generation with a lower rolling resistance compared to the previous one. This reduces the World on Wheels covers the following material fuel consumption of the car and the CO2 emissions. topics: • Fighting global warming: reducing The use of fossil fuels accounts for most humanthe rolling resistance of tires generated carbon emissions. Fuel consumption • Continuous development of during driving is the single most significant the road safety of tires environmental impact over a tire’s service life. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – WORLD ON WHEELS 28 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index MANAGEMENT OF PRODUCT ADVANCEMENTS, PRODUCT SAFETY, AND PRODUCT LIABILITY As a tire manufacturer, we must ensure that the tires that For information about the effects of the material topics • Our research and development functions comply with we develop, produce, and market are verifiably safe to use, on the Nokian Tyres’ value chain and their scope, see the the legislation that guides our industry, regulations and and that they meet the quality requirements as well as materiality analysis. instructions by the authorities and the principles described expectations of our customers and end users. Our product in our ethical guidelines. Our activities are supervised by development is guided by the principle of sustainable safety: The management of product advancements, product safety the authorities in various countries. Everything that we do the tire must be safe throughout its life cycle. and product liability is guided by the following principles, is guided by the legal and regulatory requirements whose We are committed to continuous improvement. We operating models and policies: primary purpose is to ensure the safety and environmental develop advanced solutions for our products, for instance aspects from production to the use of final products. in terms of rolling resistance that impacts fuel consumption • Our leadership and product development are guided by • Our activities are directed by work instructions and and CO2 emissions or soil compaction in agriculture and our ethical guidelines, the Environmental, Safety, and operating models, which apply to processes and work forestry. Quality Policy, and testing policies. We also comply with stages as well as individual tasks. Individual employees, We ensure the technical quality of our products several requirements concerning noise, studs, chemicals, supervisors, unit managers and top management are all by testing and studying each raw material used in tire testing, and tire markings, among other things. responsible for our activities. We revise our instructions as manufacture and by continuously improving our rubber • The basic principles of quality in our supply chain follow necessary, e.g. the Code of Conduct was revised in 2018. compounds. We are actively looking for and testing best practices based on the UNECE and EU regulations, sustainable raw materials, such as recycled materials. • Product responsibility is connected to unit-specific and efficiency, and functionality of the processes, safety and personal performance targets. Unit-specific targets Product responsibility is connected with everything consistency of products as well as delivery reliability. we do, including product safety, quality, and compliance. are tracked in real time, whereas personal targets Responsibility covers our processes from research are discussed annually during People Reviews. and product development to testing, production, and procurement and purchasing as well as all of the stages and functions of our supply chain. Our product responsibility also includes product marketing and communication to consumers. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – WORLD ON WHEELS 29 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index Our product development is also guided by the following SNAPSKAN REVEALS THE DANGERS TO ROAD SAFETY policies, procedures, and regulations: SnapSkan is the world’s first tire scanning service that is fully • UN/ECE E regulations 30, 54, 106, 109 and 117 automatic and available at a public location to everyone. The free-of-charge digital service was developed with one goal in mind: to • EC/661/2009; General Safety Regulation improve road safety for millions of people worldwide. • TP TC 018/2011; Technical regulation on Tires directly impact a car’s safety, but they only work if they are in the safety of wheeled vehicles good condition. Unfortunately, many drivers neglect to check the condition of their tires, and thousands of dangerous vehicles are on • Decree 408/2003 as amended by the roads every day. SnapSkan makes tire condition checking simple Decree 466/2009; Stud Decree without any extra cost: by using a drive-over ramp, it scans the tread • U.S. DOT NHTSA Standards 571.119, 571.139, 575.104 depth of the tires and sends the information to the driver’s mobile device as an easy-to-read report. The service points are located in • CCC Chinese Compulsory Certification places where drivers visit frequently, such as parking lots. standards GB/T 9743, GB/T 4502, GB/T 521 The feedback from the drivers has been positive, with 80% of the • GSO Standards 51, 52, 53, 645, 646, 647, 1783, 1784 customers interviewed willing to recommend the service to others. Many people have commented on how they didn’t have any idea of how bad the condition of their tires was. If we get even one set of Following product responsibility dangerous tires off the roads, we feel that SnapSkan has proven its We use the following indicators for tracking leadership and efficiency as a safety-inducing service, says Ville Nikkola, the Program product responsibility development: Manager responsible for the SnapSkan service at Nokian Tyres. • 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety SnapSkan was first introduced in 2016. In 2018, the SnapSkan network impacts of product and service categories expanded by five new service points in Finland and opened one in Oslo, Norway. In 2019, SnapSkan service is expanding further and aims • Extent of mitigation of the environmental to enter completely new markets too. impacts of products and services (non-GRI) In 2018, over 700,000 vehicles drove through the SnapSkan service • Reducing the rolling resistance (non-GRI) point or were scanned at Vianor. Out of all the measured cars, almost 11% drove with tires that are not safe on the roads. 4% of the cars measured from June to August still had winter tires on, although Tire labels they are not safe during the summer months. In December, 4% of the • EC/1222/2009; European Tyre Labelling Regulation drivers had not changed from summer tires to winter tires. • GSO These numbers remind us why we need to educate people on the importance of ensuring they use appropriate tires and the impacts of their condition on road safety: some may simply not know, and we Chemicals Decree want to change that, Nikkola says. • EC/1907/2006; REACH Directive Product testing • ISO 17025 accreditation • Agreement on production consistency with EU Directive 2007/46/EC and the UN/ECE 1958 Agreement NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – WORLD ON WHEELS 30 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index FIGHTING G LOBAL WARMING: REDUCING THE ROLLING RESISTANCE OF TIRES A wise choice of We improve the safety of our products through continuous traffic. Fuel consumption during driving is the single most product development and testing as we want to improve significant environmental impact over a tire’s service life. road safety. We also work for better eco-friendliness through lowering our tires’ rolling resistance. Our goal is that each Rolling resistance may vary greatly between different tires: tires with low rolling resistance may save more than 0.6 tires and a careful new product generation will have a lower rolling resistance compared to the previous one thereby lowering the fuel liters of fuel per 100 kilometers and reduce CO2 emissions by 14 g/km. driving style significantly consumption of the car and the CO2 emissions. The tire’s deformation and the amount of energy it reduce the CO2 emissions In 2015, we set a goal for 2020 to reduce the rolling requires can be influenced with structural and material resistance of our product range by 7% compared to the 2013 choices in tire design. Examples of factors that affect energy from driving. baseline, thereby creating a decrease of 500 million kg in CO2 consumption include the temperature of the tire, inflation emissions from traffic. We reached this goal clearly ahead of pressure, wheel load and tire wear as well as drag and schedule. We also made progress in 2018 and have reduced turbulence due to the driving speed. the rolling resistance by 8% on average since 2013. Improving the fuel economy of tires is one of our most The proportion of tires that reduce fuel consumption significant product development targets in the near future. through low rolling resistance, tires that are in the rolling Through determined and long-term product development, resistance category A, B or C, was 91% (90% in 2017), which we have managed to reduce the rolling resistance of our new translates to an annual decrease of approximately 100 million tires even further. We have achieved this by improving tire kg in CO2 emissions. The rolling resistance category of the constructions and compounds, among other things. We are most common passenger car tire label in the market was E also utilizing the latest functionalized polymers to reduce (ETRMA analysis, October 2018). hysteresis losses and rolling resistance. The EU tyre label reports fuel efficiency on a scale THE LOWER THE ROLLING RESISTANCE IS, THE from A to G. At the moment, class C is the most common LOWER THE FUEL CONSUMPTION WILL BE fuel economy rating for Nokian Tyres’ passenger car tires The use of fossil fuels accounts for most of humanaccording to the EU tyre label. Class B is the second most generated carbon emissions. Carbon dioxide is the most common class. A difference of approximately 40% in rolling significant greenhouse gas generated by traffic. When a tire resistance results, on average, in a difference of 5–6% in fuel rolls against the road surface, the generated friction is called consumption. Such a difference may occur, for example, the rolling resistance. The higher the rolling resistance is, between tires with a class A a CO2 and class F fuel efficiency the higher the fuel consumption will be. The tire, therefore, rating. A wise choice of tires and a careful driving style has a direct effect on fuel consumption and emissions from significantly reduce the CO2 emissions from driving. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – WORLD ON WHEELS 31 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index TRACKING RESPONSIBILITY – FROM RAW MATERIALS TO PREMIUM TIRES The journey from raw materials to finished premium tires involves the effort and quality assurance of thousands of professionals. It is, therefore, justified to say that all of our personnel are linked to product responsibility, which starts from raw material purchasing. The work of our procurement department is guided by the internal purchasing policy, which provides an overview of sustainable procurement. Based on our ethical guidelines, we have prepared the Supplier Code of Conduct. It was revised in 2018. Among other things, the document addresses human rights, working conditions, and environmental protection. Suppliers of natural rubber are a special target group of our procurement. All of the raw materials we use in production go through an approval process. We also use process controls during production for ensuring the quality of tires. RENEWABLE ENERGY POWERS OUR NEW TESTING We have approved a plan to build a solar photovoltaic power Each finished tire passes through the production quality CENTER IN SPAIN plant inside the area of the testing center. In the first stage, the control, which includes the tire’s force variation, out-ofOur new testing center is currently under construction in Santa installed power capacity will be 500 kW. The construction of the round and run-on measurement as well as visual inspection. Cruz de la Zarza, Spain. The center will be used for testing summer photovoltaic plant will imply relevant energy savings to the testing When we release a new product for dispatch, we use our tires with a high speed rating as well as winter tires. center. A number of 1,600 photovoltaic panels are installed to provide the site with energy. The solar panels are oriented to internal quality requirements that are in some ways stricter The testing center is scheduled to be completed by 2020. The maximize the energy production and will provide the testing than the authorities’ requirements, for ensuring compliance. center employs 200 people at the construction stage and will center with all of the power that it needs. The plant has the Safety is connected to understanding and managing employ some 40 employees after it is finished. It will also have capacity to sell surplus energy to the local electrical company. This a significant indirect employment impact on the transportation, will most likely happen during the weekends when there is little the risks related to tires. We track the safety of our service and logistics industries. The potential environmental activity on the site itself. tires throughout the product life cycle. During product impacts at the construction stage are minimized, among other development, our tires go through wear and performance things, by taking the nesting of birds into consideration, planting We have also installed solar panels to help power our distribution testing, for example. We wear tires completely out in trees, and landscaping the area. facility located in Colchester, Vermont, USA. Currently, the total annual output of the facility is approximately 427,500 kWh, which order to understand their wear and any changes in their covers over 110% of the facility’s annual usage. This allows the characteristics. solar array to send excess energy to the renewable power grid. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – WORLD ON WHEELS 32 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index The assessments and measures are carried out by specialized and trained experts. Our activities are based on that the tires we put on the market meet the applicable requirements. The best progress has our procedures in line with our quality management system and the requirements by the authorities. We agree with the The national regulatory authorities on tires and authorities regulating methods and equipment carry out been made in the use of authorities on any measures that we take. periodic inspections in order to supervise and evaluate renewable raw materials with bio-based oils. Nokian Tyres’ research and work on ensuring the quality and PROMOTING THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY safety of our tires. Furthermore, we use internal controls for Our product responsibility continues until the tires are ensuring the high quality and compliance of our operations. recycled for material. If tires are not appropriately recycled, We systematically conduct internal audits and management they will end up in the environment or pile up in garages. reviews and continuously improve our procedures. In Europe, tire manufacturers have arranged for tire Our ability to comply with the regulations and take care recycling as a joint effort. In Finland, nearly 100% of all tires of our contractual obligations is also evaluated each year by are recycled, whereas in Europe the figure is approximately our customers and partners. Their own audits verify whether 95%. In Russia, the recycling rate of tires has been quite low. our tire manufacturing processes and R&D functions are We have actively participated in the discussions for appropriate. driving recycling. The discussions led to the completion The annual FINAS (Finnish Accreditation Service) audits of relevant legislation in 2015. Together with other large of our ISO 17015 accredited Testing Laboratory ensure that manufacturers, Nokian Tyres has established a recycling we can conduct part of the regulatory testing. The type association, the EcoTyresUnion, in Russia for tire companies. approvals of the relevant national authority are issued based In 2017, a tire recycling organization was put to use for the on these audits. Part of regulatory testing is ordered from collection and utilization of end-of-life tires. The goal set in external, accredited laboratories. We also carry out other the recycling regulation is to achieve a 25% level in 2019 in audits at our factories, for instance in connection with our recycling of used tires in Russia. quality and environmental management system and the One challenge is the lack of tire recycling stations in Chinese CCC Certification. Russia, which is why there are many illegal tire dumps. Our Our internal audits focused on product quality and factory in Russia has launched an Eco-Challenge to empty safety. This was done in preparation for the new version of some of these illegal dumps and to spread awareness of the the automotive industry’s IATF 16 949 quality management problems that they pose for the environment. system, which includes product safety. The internal audits reviewed the entire manufacturing process and identified AUDITS ENSURE THE QUALITY OF OPERATIONS the risks and the required measures. The possibility of Our company’s operations are annually audited by our materials mixing up was identified as the most significant risk customers, car manufacturers, and the parties behind to product quality. To address this, we implemented a system various standards. In connection with the permit procedure, that prevents the possibility of human error in choices of regulatory authorities have verified that we have the materials. We also created a new product safety procedure necessary prerequisites for conducting business and that covers manufacturing in both of our factories. In the NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – WORLD ON WHEELS 33 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index future, our factories will have appointed people responsible compound with a bio-based softener that improves the tires’ for product safety. safety characteristics. In addition to our own activities, we supervise the For the new products of 2018, we developed new kinds of quality of operations and compliance concerning our grip particles, whose raw material comes from a secondary subcontractors, suppliers and partners. In addition to flow in bio-industry. We conduct research in order to assessments based on written surveys, we also carry out investigate the use of recycled rubber sourced from used our own audit visits in order to ensure that the other parties tires as a replacement for fossil carbon black. involved in the production and the development of tire The use of renewable raw materials has not required us components also meet the prerequisites and the obligations to change our production processes or had any significant set in the partner agreements. We follow up on and effects on the energy consumption in production. However, supervise the implementation of any necessary corrective renewable raw materials often increase the raw material actions. By the end of 2018, The Nokian Tyres has made 4 costs of tires. audits and 4 follow-up audits. Want to read more about our processing factory audits? FINDING REPLACEMENT FOR NATURAL RUBBER Click here. A new testing center is currently under construction in Santa Cruz de la Zarza, Spain. We also sponsor a project by a local WE RESEARCH RENEWABLE RAW university and farmers in Santa Cruz de la Zarza that tests MATERIALS AND MATERIAL EFFICIENCY growing guayule, a possible replacement for natural rubber in In line with our strategy, we actively look for and test tire manufacture. The EU has included natural rubber on the renewable raw materials. Our aim is to find bio-based list of critical raw materials. Guayule is an opportunity not raw materials for various raw material groups, create only for Nokian Tyres but also for the local agriculture and eco-friendlier tires, and replace fossil raw materials. We industry. will also reduce the use of harmful substances, thereby 27 different species of guayule that can withstand improving occupational safety in production. We were the drought, cold, and heat are cultivated in a half-hectare area. first in our industry to give up the use of high aromatic oils. For the local farmers, the new crop, which can survive in Renewable raw materials are also used for improving tires’ harsh conditions, is a suitable alternative for the unprofitable properties and performance by modifying the compound cereal farming. The cultivation of guayule will also develop property balance at varying temperatures. The use of new local seedling production and the use of biomass by industry, raw materials requires a great deal of product development improve logistics and create parallel industries. efforts and testing in order to find the best combination of properties for a tire. In materials development, the use of renewable materials must not alter a tire’s safety characteristics. The best progress has been made in the use of renewable raw materials with bio-based oils. They are used in order to replace synthetic oils that are based on crude oil. The winter tires that we launched in 2017 use a rubber NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – WORLD ON WHEELS 34 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT FOR BETTER ROAD SAFETY At the beginning of 2018, we moved the product These three functions are supported by the testing Every product that we launched in 2018 has some management and product development functions under department and tire technology department: innovation to improve safety and eco-friendliness. We set the new Products and Technologies unit. The unit facilitates The testing department tests the high-speed durability, the targets for safety features such as wet and ice grip closer collaboration between the functions and brings the wear durability and rolling resistance of tires in laboratory already at the concept stage. innovations and product development closer to consumers. conditions. Only the best tires pass through to track testing The head of the unit is a member of the company’s under actual conditions. Our test drivers test the selected RAW MATERIALS ENTER PRODUCTION management team and reports directly to the President & tires several times in order to gain as much information as THROUGH THE LABORATORY CEO. possible about their performance. In addition to rubber compounds, we use steel, textiles, The product development organization comprises three The tire technology department tests new ideas for tires, and other reinforcing materials in tire production. Rubber key functions and their support departments: provides feedback to the product development departments compounds contain natural rubber, synthetic rubber, oils, and takes new products to production. and fillers, such as carbon black and silica as well as sulfur 1. Materials development focuses on tires and retreading The work related to product responsibility is also carried and various chemicals. A tire typically contains 50% polymers, materials. New raw materials and innovations out by cross-organizational working groups, which enable us 30% fillers, and 20% reinforcing materials, softeners, and are developed through research projects, often to ensure extensive competence at the development of a chemicals. in collaboration with raw material suppliers. tire as well as during commercial production. In our production, we only use raw materials that have 2. Structural design focuses on the different tire been approved by our laboratory. Before raw material KEY MEASURES IN 2018 batches can be used in rubber compounds, they must wait components that affect, among others, handling, tire noise, and rolling resistance. Reducing the • In 2018, Nordic winter tires that deliver high until our laboratory clears them for production. rolling resistance is one of our key goals in product ice grip amounted to 53% of our entire development as low rolling resistance reduces the fuel winter tire range (53% in 2017). PROCEDURE IN CASE OF A FAULT consumption of vehicles and therefore CO2 emissions. • The proportion of tires that are in the rolling resistance We employ a quality management system for tracking our category A, B or C was 91% (90% in 2017). products over their entire life cycle and ensuring that all 3. Tread model design creates the tread models for new of the tire lots that are cleared for sale comply with the tires. The tread model affects the tire’s aquaplaning • Of our summer tire products, 100% were in the applicable decrees and regulations. We systematically track properties, grip, and handling, for example. wet grip category A, B or C (100% in 2017). product quality and our quality assurance results and swiftly • Our premium tires with low rolling resistance and take the necessary measures for ensuring safety. high wet grip correspond to categories A, B and Our group has not had any major product recalls in more C of the EU tyre label. The share of ABC tires than 18 years. Furthermore, Nokian Tyres has not been was 66.6% of all our tires with EU labeling. involved in any legal proceedings regarding product liability. • We reduced rolling resistance by 8% on average from 2013 to 2018 (7% from 2013 to 2017). NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – WORLD ON WHEELS 35 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index Lighter rolling saves RIGOROUS STANDARDS GUIDE OUR INNOVATIONS Nokian Hakkapeliitta R3 and Nokian Hakkapeliitta R3 SUV fuel and extends the The principle of sustainable safety in our product development includes a promise of developing eco-friendly We launched the Nokian Hakkapeliitta R3 and R3 SUV range of electric vehicles. products and production technologies. The development process of a new tire takes 2 to 4 years. Consumers’ tire non-studded winter tires for passenger cars and SUVs in Spring 2018. Their rubber compound contains particles that choice should be based on the tire’s suitability for their optimize the safety of the tire and are made of renewable use scenario and driving style. For example, a contractor biomaterial. The Cryo Crystal 3 particles are designed to who operates heavy machinery requires a different type of boost optimal lateral and longitudinal grip on ice. tire than someone who drives a passenger car. In line with our global product policy, we offer tailored products and Low rolling resistance impacts the precision innovations for various circumstances and markets. environment and the society Our tires undergo several tests to examine the tire’s Lighter rolling saves fuel and extends the range of electric behavior in a range of conditions as well as its durability and vehicles. According to the KPMG Report 1/2018: “Nokian eco-friendliness. Communities, regions, and organizations Tyres: True Value pilot study on low rolling resistance tyres”, Our systems enable us to initiate a tire recall process (such as EU and UN) have all specified standards that a tire cars using the Nokian Hakkapeliitta R3 consumes 2% less and communicate quickly and accurately. The procedure must meet before entering the market. Our large markets fuel compared to similar premium winter tires. In Finland, for taking tires off the market is specified in our quality use a total of 28 tire tests that examine the properties of for example, in four years a driver can save on average of instructions and internal instructions, which cover both finished products. The amount of testing is increasing as up to 35 liters of fuel, which decreases CO2 emissions by customer complaints and dangers caused to customers. more tests and more stringent requirements are being put approximately 80 kg. Four years is the estimated life cycle of The essential instructions apply to handling customer in place. a winter tire. complaints, limitation of sale, and recalling a sales batch. We The wet grip requirement in the European market Low rolling resistance tires also have a positive impact on have the capability to recall the products from the wholesale tightened in 2018 and applies to all van and light truck tires society. If, for example, all passenger cars in Finland, Sweden and retail level or, in addition, from end consumers and to on the market. In addition, stricter rolling resistance limits and Norway used the Nokian Hakkapeliitta R3 tires over the immediately report all such events to the authorities in for passenger car, van, and light truck tires became effective product’s life cycle, the fuel savings would be 297 million the countries where the affected tires are being sold. Our in 2018. We were well prepared for them all and reached our liters and carbon dioxide emissions would decrease by some instructions also cover country-specific guidelines, such as target in lowering the rolling resistance ahead of schedule. 710,000 tons according to the abovementioned KPMG report. the reporting required by the NHTSA in the United States. Benefits to the society of this carbon dioxide reduction All group personnel are instructed to report any quality THE MOST SIGNIFICANT PRODUCT INNOVATIONS IN 2018 is estimated at 28.4 million euros based on the estimated deviations that they become aware of. The tires that we launched in 2018 are designed to deliver social cost of carbon of EUR 40 per ton. We follow the EU product safety database that records better safety, driving comfort, eco-friendliness and precise all of the recall events in the industry. The data helps us handling. We also pay constant attention to ensuring that anticipate the likelihood of similar risks in our own processes. our studded winter tires cause minimal road wear. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – WORLD ON WHEELS 36 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index Dynamic Grip compound of Nokian Powerproof maximizes safe grip on wet and dry roads. The functional molecule chains and polymers form a dense and flexible mesh-like structure that ensures reliable grip even at high speeds. The multi-layered structure also reduces the rolling resistance. Aqua Hybrid compound is a new-generation rubber compound, which provides high wet grip and lower fuel costs due to low rolling resistance for Nokian Wetproof. INFLUENCING THE INDUSTRY AND RAISING DISCUSSION Nokian Tyres is involved in furthering the tire industry by participating in the work of relevant organizations and discussions in the industry. For example, we have promoted the demand for an ice grip marking in public discussion. In northern conditions, ice grip is the most important property for winter tires. Currently, consumers in the market for new winter tires do not have any means of comparing tires in terms of ice grip, as the current markings only include a wet grip rating. Nokian Tyres has called for a mandatory ice grip marking for winter tires. The growth of online tire sales, used car imports, Reduced rolling resistance enhances fuelincrease in low-cost products and emergence of new tire efficiency and supports eco-friendly driving. categories (all-season and all-weather tires) make it more difficult for consumers to know what kind of ice grip their winter tires provide. New summer tires: Nokian Wetproof As a result of years of work, the inclusion of the ice grip and Nokian Powerproof marking into the EU Tyre Label is currently being prepared Our new summer tires have innovations that are designed to in the European Union. The new regulation should be improve safety and are more environmentally friendly. The ready by summer 2019. The International Organization for Dual Zone Safety concept ensures balanced road contact. Standardization (ISO) is also finalizing the standardized ice The driver can feel how the tire grips, adapts to surface grip test method. roughness, and immediately reacts to steering especially on wet and dry roads. This safety zone technology offers security and driving confidence in all conditions while reduced rolling resistance enhances fuel-efficiency and supports eco-friendly driving. The Silent Groove Design is an innovation on the tire walls that improves driving comfort, controlling both the interior and exterior rolling noise. The Silent Sidewall technology filters noise and vibration from the road surface, which makes driving more comfortable. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – WORLD ON WHEELS 37 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index PEO P L E As a global company, we will strongly focus on making our working culture more flexible. Our goal is to be an attractive employer globally Our aim is to improve safety in the workplace every that is known for its sustainability, leadership, and year. Unfortunately, the positive improvement from truly international working community with diverse the previous year had a setback, as our KPI did not teams around the world. improve. However, there were differences between the sectors. In 2018, the Heavy Tyres unit managed We implemented a new global HR system to halve the accident frequency: it came down from throughout the Group in early 2018. The new 9.2 to a 4.4 per million working hours. system enables us to harmonize our processes concerning the employee life cycle, rewarding, Safety is a priority to us, and we keep implementing global mobility, and People Reviews. The new system new ways of working and training for our managers makes data management safe, simple, and fast. to improve safety in the workplace. Nokian Tyres has a Group wide hazard notification The People section includes the following material system, which is open to all employees. During 2018 topic: our employees made more than 4,300 hazard or • High level of safety and health at work near miss observations. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PEOPLE 38 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index PEOPLE MANAGEMENT AND IMPROVEMENTS The main goal of People management is to create a working The company’s People management is based on the As part of developing our leadership and working culture, community and teams where the employees feel well, are following principles and operating models: we launched a project for renewing our working environment committed, and constantly improve their competence. • Our leadership is guided by the strategy, which and tools. Our modern activity-based solution will result in Our principles in all of our operations are equality, is the President & CEO’s responsibility as well an environment that promotes collaboration and sharing fairness, and respecting human rights, whether we are as our values and leadership principles. of information and talent, thereby improving user comfort, dealing with our personnel or other stakeholders. Equal • Leadership is also guided by the Code of Conduct, human employee well-being, innovation, and efficiency. The new treatment and inclusion are essential elements of our rights principles, and international and local legislation. digital tools will facilitate efficient working, collaboration, and operations. Our diversity management grows out of the idea engagement. of fair treatment and equal working conditions. Diversity is • For the leadership of people, we have defined In 2018, 86.2% of our global personnel responded to important for the company’s international success as people guidelines, e.g. for safety and recruitment, onboarding, our Drive! personnel survey (in 2017, the response rate was with various backgrounds and competence play an essential People Reviews, and People development. The 91.3%). We implemented manager training sessions in order role in developing the company and new innovative solutions. guidelines apply across the entire organization, and to ensure that the survey results were reviewed throughout In our internationally growing company, leadership they are reviewed and revised as necessary. the organization. We also arranged workshops on the Drive! that aims at top results and strategy implementation is results to engage teams in planning improvements. founded on a strong company culture – the Hakkapeliitta KEY MEASURES IN 2018 The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Spirit – which is built on our values of entrepreneurship, In 2018, our key focus areas were improving our leadership became effective in May 2018 and, during the year, we inventiveness, and team spirit. We are bringing our and working culture, strengthening our safety culture, implemented the required practices and created the leadership, working environment, and practices up to speed and taking steps toward global leadership practices. The necessary documentation. With these actions we aim to with today’s global working and operating culture. This will development of safety culture continued, and more than ensure safe and appropriate processing of the personal data be visible on our premises and in our digital tools, which will 12,000 safety actions were created. A number of technical of our customers and employees alike. In addition, we drove strengthen our internal collaboration as well as sharing of improvements were carried out to improve the safety of the awareness of data protection and data security among information and developing of competencies. This will boost the operators. However, the main KPI on safety success did our personnel in 2018. employee motivation and engagement, thereby improving not improve. Accident frequency (LTIF) was 8.3 in 2018 (7.5 in We implemented a new global HR system, Workday, innovation and productivity. 2017). throughout the Group in early 2018. The new system enables Our goal is to be an attractive employer globally that is Several training events focused on better manager work us to harmonize our processes concerning the employee known for its sustainability, leadership, and truly international by discussing team development and the People Reviews, life cycle, rewarding, global mobility, and People Reviews. working community with diverse teams around the world. We among other things. Trainings influence manager skills, The system enables the use of real-time data and analytics also want to set an example in occupational safety as a tire occupational well-being and safety, employee engagement, to support business decisions. The new system makes data industry pioneer. and harmonized leadership practices. management safe, simple, and fast. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PEOPLE 39 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index GOALS IN 2019 During 2018, we revised our long and short-term HARMONIZED GLOBAL HR PROCESSES rewarding and the models for determining base pay and the AND A GLOBAL HR SYSTEM related development and market benchmarking, which will In line with our company’s global operational model, be introduced as of early 2019. We will communicate to our we have defined the harmonized global HR processes: personnel about the goals and elements of overall rewarding, Employee Life Cycle, Rewarding and Global Mobility, including non-monetary compensation which has a clear and Talent Management. In the course of 2019, we will impact on employee engagement. We are focusing on things continue developing our harmonized practices concerning such as manager work and leadership approach, competence recruitment, induction training, and performance development, career opportunities, and working culture as management, among others, in order to promote fair and these are important elements that contribute to long careers. equal treatment and the enforcement of human rights in all of our locations. MAKING OUR WORKING CULTURE MORE FLEXIBLE The Workday HR system that we implemented in 2018 Our global operating model requires employees to be able to supports the development and application of harmonized work more flexibly than before: independent of a specific time and transparent leadership practices, thereby promoting the or place. Improving the prerequisites for such flexible work is equal treatment of employees across our organization. one of our priorities in 2019. In 2019, we will continue to develop our harmonized Work will increasingly take place as teamwork across tracking and reporting of employee KPIs and promote organizational borders and time zones; without physical well-being at work. This will help us ensure the desired presence, the sharing of work and interactive communication development across our organization even better. become basic requirements. In order to support the development of our working RENEWED REWARDING SYSTEM: culture, we will be introducing new digital tools in 2019 that IMPLEMENTATION AND COMMUNICATION will enable us to work even more flexibly. At the same time, We are in the process of ensuring that fairness and the supervisors and managers will get access to new channels incentive effect are present in all the elements of the for keeping in touch with their working community more rewarding system. Our rewarding system is based on work actively and openly than ever before. Our employees will be complexity assessments, consistent goal setting, and able to do work on our premises wherever they come from, relevant comparisons of rewarding practices in different which will contribute to flexibility, a sense of belonging, and markets. We will apply them globally in a consistent and the experiences of fairness. We are aiming at higher flexibility system-supported way. in terms of working hours, which will be first piloted at our headquarters in Nokia. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PEOPLE 40 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index For many years, our culture has been based on our Our rewarding philosophy Hakkapeliitta values, which are strongly built around succeeding together and our will to win and overcome the impossible. They will lay the foundation for the future development of our culture. At Nokian Tyres, we want to drive, recognize and reward high performance and As part of our engaging communication about strategy, value based behavior to ensure successful long-term execution of our strategy we will carry out an assessment of our values’ practical implementation in 2019. This will help us determine the relevant focus areas for the coming years regarding the Strategic Performance & value based Competitive Transparent & consistent company values. We want our values to guide our company further through our everyday choices. REDUCING INJURIES THROUGH HIGHER SAFETY AWARENESS Drive and reward Strive for We encourage our employees to make safety observations Ensure successful group, business unit, Attract, motivate transparency and and carry out safety actions with the goal of 2 safety team and individual and retain talent by consistency in reward execution of Nokian performance and offering competitive program design, actions per employee on average – resulting in 10,000 Tyres strategy customer & value total reward packages implementation and safety observations in 2019. Driving safety observations based behavior communication helps everyone focus on safety in order to keep themselves and their colleagues safe every day. Increased awareness prevents accidents from occurring. In addition to safety awareness, our focus areas include strengthening managers’ and teams’ safety competence, analyzing injuries even more carefully, and ensuring the implementation of corrective actions at the team level. Our goal is to reduce the number of workplace injuries by 35% compared to the 2018 level. GLOBAL TALENT MANAGEMENT PRACTICES PAVE THE ROAD FOR FUTURE SUCCESS The continuous development of professional skills and competence is still strongly linked to on-the-job learning, and we support it by developing a multi-skilled workforce and introducing new technology, among other things. In 2019, we will further reinforce our global talent management practices, focusing on identifying talent and the development of future leadership. We will bring together our experts working in global roles in order to create even stronger shared practices and a shared vision for leadership. At the same time, we are developing their competence to better suit future needs. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PEOPLE 41 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index ORGANIZATION AND GOVERNANCE At Nokian Tyres, our need to develop leadership processes Nokian Tyres’ people management organization and governance and practices always arises from a business perspective, and their implementation is based on our strategy and organizational culture. Our aim is to establish consistent and truly global HR operations that are based on efficient STRATEGIC H R MA NAG EMENT decision-making and project management as well as open interaction and information sharing. These elements help us M ission: Leadi ng the gl o ba l H R org a n i zat i on a n d e n s u r i n g t h at implement fair, transparent, clear, and need-based People HR management practi ces a re a l i g n e d w i t h bu s i n es s n e e ds a n d management in our different units and locations. Good co m pa ny s t rate g y People management enables us to ensure that energized Memb ers: SVP HR , BA/BU H R M a n a g e m e nt , Gl oba l H R proces s and competent people are committed to the company’s goals and, in turn, to its successful business. ow n e rs HANDLING ISSUES AND COMPLAINTS We handle any issues and complaints locally within our company. Our aim is to maintain a leadership culture that G LO BA L H R P RO C ESS ES STR ATEGIC H R PROJ EC TS makes it very easy to raise concerns. & H R SYST E M & PROGR A M S The primary channel for raising issues goes from managers and experts up to the top management, as necessary. Any questions and observations are handled as appropriate in accordance with the law and our company’s guidelines. All reports are investigated, and each case is handled based on the results of the investigation. OPERATIONA L H R MA NAG EMENT O perat i on a l cou nt r y H R Lo c al H R proces s ow n e rs Management a n d l i n e m a n a g e r s u ppor t NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PEOPLE 42 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index As part of our Code of Conduct, we have issued a TRACKING SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY reporting procedure that instructs all of our employees We use the following indicators for tracking leadership and to report any identified or suspected internal or external HR development: misuse or violation. It also describes the communication channels established for this purpose. The purpose of the • 102–8 Total number of employees by instructions is to encourage our personnel to report any employment type and employment contract, potential violations of ethical guidelines and laws that they with a breakdown by region and gender encounter, so that we can investigate and handle each case. It is also possible to make an anonymous report through • 102–41 Percentage of total employees covered the Whistleblow channel. The same channel is available to by collective bargaining agreements external stakeholders by email at whistleblow@nokiantyres. • 102–10 Significant changes to the organization’s com. size, structure, supply chain, or ownership We also employ protocols, e.g. for bullying and • 401–1 Total number and rate of new employee harassment. There are subject-specific instructions that hires and employee turnover, with a breakdown specify who to contact and how to deal with the situation by age group, gender, and region with the appropriate sensitivity. We encourage everyone to make safety observations • 403–2 Number of lost days, absentees, injuries & types that they can direct to whoever they want inside the of injury, occupational disease rate, lost days, and workorganization. After the root cause is identified, the matter is related fatalities, with a breakdown by region and gender communicated to the relevant person. The entire process is • 404–2 Programs for upgrading employee documented in order to ensure it follows the protocol. skills and transition assistance programs All of our employees have the opportunity to raise issues • 404–3 Performance reviews or give feedback about important matters through our company intranet. We will respond in a transparent manner • 405–1 Percentage of individuals within the organization’s through the same channel, and everyone in the organization governance bodies and percentage of employees per can see the dialog. employee category, with a breakdown by gender, age group, minority group, and other diversity categories. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PEOPLE 43 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index A COMMON SAFETY CULTURE YIELDS RESULTS In 2018, Nokian Tyres introduced a new Group wide risk assessment tool to identify work related hazards. During 2019, this safety project will continue to have updated risk assessments in place for all of our workplaces and tasks. Openness is the driving force to ensure the quality of the hazard assessments as well as corrective actions. The factory managers make repeated safety walks to address the importance of safety at workplace. In 2018, managers reported 1,901 safety walks. Nokian Tyres has a Group wide hazard notification system in place. The system is open to all of the employees. During 2018, our employees made more than 4,300 hazard or near miss observations. Every observation is assigned to a person responsible for coordinating the investigation and corrective actions, if needed. This person forms an investigation team based on the type of hazard or accident. Our incident investigation process will guide the person to take the right approach to the investigation. HEALTHY NEWS FROM HEAVY TYRES: SICK LEAVES of determined development and increased awareness of safety In our reporting tool, close to 3,300 separate corrective DECREASED BY 50% issues, says the Heavy Tyres plant director Pasi Antinmaa. tasks were created. Altogether, more than 12,000 safety The Nokian Heavy Tyres unit is one of our most challenging The presence of occupational health care and health care actions were created by our employees. environments: it involves a considerable amount of manual labor coordinators in everyday work helped create a safe sense of Every employee has a right to stop their work if they and lifting heavy objects. By the occupational safety numbers, working. Also listening to employees and regularly measuring Heavy Tyres used to be among the most poorly performing units, work satisfaction are important factors when trying to decrease come to a point where they believe that the task requested but management development through education has elevated it sick leaves. or the situation at hand will create a hazard for their safety to the top of the safe working environments at Nokian Tyres. or health. Factory workers are now encouraged to speak up about all of the From 2016 to the end of 2018, the rate of work related accidents possible health hazards. As a result, a bit over 1,600 safety actions has decreased by over 90%. During the last four years, sick leaves were reported by the end of the year in the Heavy Tyres unit. have decreased by 50% in the unit. During 2018 the accident frequency was halved: it came down from 9.2 to a 4.4 per million It has been great to see how all of the personnel are motivated to working hours. improve safety issues and the long-term work is paying off. Safety first is a phrase that we all know, but I feel that it excellently The biggest change has happened in people’s attitudes. Now, describes the attitude of our entire personnel toward work now, everybody thinks that safety is important and they are ready to Antinmaa says. work on further improving it. The positive trajectory is a result NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PEOPLE 44 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index Accident rate (more than 1 day absence/million working hours) Nokian Tyres Finland 2016 20.2 2017 8.6 2018 5.3 The accident rate in Nokian Tyres Russia 3.0 3.2 5.0 Nokian Tyres Finland was 74% lower than in Vianor 15.2 12.6 15.0 The ratio of all listed companies 11.2 7.5 8.3 2016. Absenteeism by company Nokian Tyres Finland Nokian Tyres (FI) Nokian Heavy Tyres NT Tyre Machinery* A number of technical Sick absences % (total) 2.93% 3.95% 5.93% improvements were Nokian Tyres Russia carried out to improve the Sick absences % (total) 4.32% safety of the operators. However, the main KPI on safety success did not Nordic Vianor Vianor Nordic Wheels Holding Oy Vianor Oy Vianor AB Vianor AS Sick absences % (total) * Information of absenteeism by gender is not available 1.57% 0.17% 5.15% 4.55% 6.0% improve. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PEOPLE 45 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index GREAT PEOPLE MANAGEMENT ENSURES COMPETENCE, WELL-BEING, AND EQUAL TREATMENT WE SUPPORT OUR EMPLOYEES’ DEVELOPMENT People reviews (realization, %) Great people management helps us ensure the competence, well-being, and equal treatment of our committed, 2016 2017 2018 motivated, and professional personnel. This way, we are Nokian Tyres Finland 97.4% 99.7% 89.4% implementing our company and leadership culture in our Nokian Tyres Russia 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% everyday work in a natural and consistent way. Sales companies 75.1% 87.0% 72.3% We support our employees’ development with an internal job rotation, on-the-job learning, and various talent Vianor 69.8% 56.3% 59.5% development solutions following the 70–20–10 principle Nokian Tyres Group 86.0% 83.4% 82.2% (70% of the development comes through the current position, 20% through learning from others, and 10% through traditional training). Personal People Reviews play a key role The further development of manager work and We are in the process of planning online training on in personnel development and performance management. leadership is a priority in 2019. In 2018, we particularly the company strategy for all of the personnel, and its We have revised and harmonized our People Review focused on change management. To support manager work, implementation will begin in early 2019. In addition to the practice across the company. We go through the goals we developed a harmonized, global change management online training, we will discuss the strategy in teams by for the upcoming year with each employee and agree with model that can be applied to various situations involving utilizing a gamified assignment. them on their personal goals and competence development change. We have also used this model for improving If necessary, we can also tailor our training content plans. This way, we can ensure that all of the employees managers’ change management skills. The implementation based on individual units’ development needs, the know our company strategy and understand their role in of the model was supported with training. business strategy, and business goals. For example, when its implementation. The People Reviews assess how well Our work for changing the operational model and implementing our marketing processes, we implemented a the previously set goals have been reached and look at the implementing the strategy continued in 2018. In early 2018, global training program for the marketing function personnel overall performance in line with our values. As of early 2019, we organized a global event for our managers and middle in order to drive awareness of the recently introduced global we also started to use the global HR system Workday for the managers from various countries. The essential content processes that guide our marketing activities and to improve documentation of People Reviews. This way, we can better of this event included the company strategy, operating the related competence. Based on engaging team learning, track and support the goals and development plans. model, and renewed brand. Later in the fall, we organized an the gamified training program challenged the participants At the turn of 2018 and 2019, we organized manager event for key personnel in global functions with the aim of to actively solve assignments derived from practical training on the revised People Review process and tool. continuing the implementation of our strategy and providing situations. The training supported the transformation of our Furthermore, we offered all of the personnel a new People tools for the new kind of leadership. marketing into a more process-driven activity. Review training session and supported the use of the new tool with various support materials and measures. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PEOPLE 46 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index LEADERSHIP PRINCIPLES AS THE Despite a slight decline, our Group’s results remained WORKDAY BRINGS HR PROCESSES BASIS FOR SUPERVISOR WORK even higher compared to benchmarked companies. Our TO THE DIGITAL ERA Our leadership principles will continue to function as a employees believe in our future success and consider our The new global HR system, Workday, was implemented practical tool for all managers, and they are used as a basis company values worth pursuing (91% of all employees). throughout the Group in early 2018. The different processes for developing and tracking leadership. This way, all managers 90% of all employees feel that the manager trusts their concerning the employee life cycle, rewarding, global know how we are assessing manager work, how they should team. This lays a good foundation for building a future mobility, and People Reviews, are integrated into our new improve as managers, and how they should develop their together. Out of all the respondents, 89% considered that global HR system. This harmonization of practices is part of own team. our company handles corporate social responsibility and the new operating model that we launched in 2018. environmental responsibility well. 87% believed that we can The new system helps us harmonize our HR processes, Lead by example. Be a role model who promotes the reach zero accidents in the following 6-month period. and it will support business decision-making with real-time Hakkapeliitta culture! Managers have discussed the results with their own data and analytics. It is in this way we can support the Develop your team. Seek and offer your team opportunities units and departments. HR has also actively supported the formation of global teams and international rotation as well to develop! process of reviewing the results. We identified teams that as business management. Show the way forward. Set engaging goals and support your need special support. All of the managers have received After its implementation, Workday will promote equal team’s will to win! training on the survey and the discussion of the results. treatment and transparency in our company. Workday Encourage continuous improvement. Contribute to an Teams have designed concrete improvements together, compiles all of the employee data into a single location, innovative and open atmosphere! agreed on the responsibilities and schedules, and recorded which simplifies data management and speeds up the flow Take responsibility for quality and results. Inspire your team the appropriate actions on the shared Cixtranet platform. of information. Each employee can check and update their toward an entrepreneurial mindset! A shared tool will facilitate tracking and supporting information in the system. Furthermore, we have trained the progress of the plans. The identified improvements managers on using the system and processes. We have linked these mutually agreed leadership were particularly focused on information flow and decision principles to managers’ 360-degree assessments, which we making. continue to use in order to develop manager work further. We also apply coaching and other solutions for improving manager work. Result of Drive! Personnel survey (overall result measured with People Power index 1–100) THE DRIVE! PERSONNEL SURVEY IS A CHANCE TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE Drive! 2015/2016 Drive! 2017 Drive! 2018 The Drive! personnel survey in May was very well received. Global Functions 66.2 71.1 68.2 At 86.2%, the response rate remained good overall in the Nokian Tyres Americas 72.7 74.6 68.9 Group (compared to 91.3% in 2017). The questions in this Nokian Tyres Europe 78.0 78.3 77.7 year’s survey were particularly geared toward our important Nokian Tyres Russia and Asia 73.7 74.9 73.7 strategic themes. The survey mapped out how the company Nokian Heavy Tyres 61.9 64.3 65.8 personnel feel about their own work, immediate working Vianor 72.8 70.3 70.3 community, leadership, and the functionality of the Nokian Tyres Group 70.8 71.8 71.0 organization. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PEOPLE 47 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index CHANGE IN THE WORKING CULTURE STARTED AT THE NOKIA SITE In late 2017, we communicated the changes in our company’s THE FIRST STEPS OF THE WORKING The participating teams and their managers have operating and leadership models. Accordingly, our leadership CULTURE CHANGE AT NOKIA received coaching on the new working and leadership and working culture has undergone changes throughout culture as well as new working time practices. It is essential the year. In Nokia, we renovated the employee cafeteria to CLEAN DESK PROJECT AND PILOT FACILITIES to establish transparent communication practices and match our new brand and started to use the space for work Many departments have cleaned their cabinets and desks. principles within teams and to collect feedback on the as well. We are also trying out modern workspaces with a new The principle behind the Clean Desk project is to clear employees’ experiences. The different ways of leadership pop-up office. Many departments have carried out a Clean out the clutter in order to make room for thoughts. One and teamwork have been discussed within teams. Desk project for cleaning out clutter from workspaces. Desks essential part of it is keeping the workspace tidy by cleaning are kept tidy by clearing them at the end of the day. your desk at the end of each day. We will also be renovating Both the large and small changes are part of Nokian our office premises in accordance with the new concept Tyres’ growth and change process. In addition to efficiency during 2019. and profitability, we want our company to be even more caring, easily approachable, casual, and open. The changes POP UP OFFICE improve our leadership and working culture and promote our Last Fall, pilot teams from various departments tried out a desired employer brand, thereby supporting our business & pop up office. The teams have shared their experiences in brand goals. discussions and through a survey, and we have used their feedback when developing the workspace concept further. OUR WORK IS GUIDED BY THE PRINCIPLE OF We received positive feedback for the open and modern ONE COMPANY – ONE PURPOSE premises as well as for the versatile workstations and – ONE GLOBAL TEAM soundproof workspaces. Our internationalization emphasizes the importance of effortless interactions, functional virtual meetings, and WORKING TIME PILOT PROJECT closer collaboration. Furthermore, global operations require In 2018, we launched a pilot project relating to the time and common operating models and tools as well as flexibility in workplace. It was designed together with our personnel, and terms of the time and workplace. Our aim is to create a more the aim is to guide goal-driven work rather than focus on the open, flexible, and versatile working environment by using working time. In the project, each person has more freedom new workspace solutions and digital tools that make working to decide when to complete their daily working hours within easier. For example, when planning the upcoming facilities in an agreed window in a way that is appropriate for their work. Dayton, TN, we are already addressing the future needs for The pilot project brings us one step closer to a modern engaging and open work. and flexible working and leadership culture, which is also a requirement for our increasingly international business. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PEOPLE 48 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index OUR PERSONNEL End-year headcount reporting is based for the first time Total workforce by employment type, employment on the data in our new global HR system Workday. Unlike contract, and region, broken down by gender previous years, we are now reporting the number of all employees including also those on a long leave of absence. CE and Eastern Due to the change of system and more accurate Nordic Russia and Asia Europe Americas Total absence reporting, our 2018 headcount numbers aren’t Total number of own employees 2,719 1,640 217 191 4,767 fully comparable with previous years’ numbers. Women 435 276 90 23 824 At the end of the year 2018, we employed a total of Men 2,284 1,364 127 168 3,943 4,767 (+3%) own employees. 154 (3.2%) of those were on a long leave. Taking the part-time work into account, our FTEs (full-time equivalent) were 4.719 at the end of 2018. Permanent 2,437 1,559 196 186 4,378 The external workforce is mainly used for ad hoc Full-time 97.3% 100.0% 95.9% 97.8% 98.2% workforce needs. At the end of 2018 we had 35 external Part-time 2.7% 0.0% 4.1% 2.2% 1.8% workers, most of them working in Finland. Women 15.8% 14.5% 38.8% 12.4% 16.2% During 2018, we employed a total of 936 seasonal Men 84.2% 85.5% 61.2% 87.6% 83.8% employees in Vianor. 52.9% of our employees are covered by collective 98.2% of our bargaining. During 2018, we employed permanent employees a total of 936 seasonal work full-time. employees in Vianor. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PEOPLE 49 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by gender, age group, and region CE and Russia Eastern Nordic and Asia Europe Americas Total Total number of new employees 430 241 42 33 746 Our new hires rate in 2018 was Number of women 87 55 19 8 169 Number of men 343 186 23 25 577 Number of those under 30 years old Number of those 30–50 years old 203 194 163 77 12 24 8 19 386 314 15.7% Number of those over 50 years old 33 1 6 6 46 New employee hires rate (Total) 15.8% 14.7% 19.4% 17.3% 15.7% Of our new hires Percentage of women 3.2% 3.4% 8.8% 4.2% 3.5% 42% were Percentage of men 12.6% 11.3% 10.6% 13.1% 12.1% Percentage of under 30 years old 7.5% 9.9% 5.5% 4.2% 8.1% Percentage of 30–50 years old 7.1% 4.7% 11.1% 9.9% 6.6% Percentage of over 50 years old 1.2% 0.0% 2.8% 3.1% 1.0% 30–50 years old CE and Russia Eastern Nordic and Asia Europe Americas Total Total number of terminated employees* (fixed terms not included) 267 135 17 37 456 Number of women 26 23 8 3 60 Number of men 241 112 9 34 396 Number of under 30 years old 77 76 2 12 167 Number of 30–50 years old 129 58 14 15 216 Number of over 50 years old 61 1 1 10 73 Turnover rate (Total)* 9.8% 8.2% 7.8% 19.4% 9.6% Percentage of women 1.0% 1.4% 3.7% 1.6% 1.3% Percentage of men 8.9% 6.8% 4.1% 17.8% 8.3% Percentage of those under 30 years old 2.8% 4.6% 0.9% 6.3% 3.5% Percentage of those 30–50 years old 4.7% 3.5% 6.5% 7.9% 4.5% Percentage of those over 50 years old 2.2% 0.1% 0.5% 5.2% 1.5% *Our voluntary turnover in 2018 was 8.2% NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PEOPLE 50 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to the gender and age group CE and Russia Eastern Nordic and Asia Europe Americas Total Number of individuals within the top management* 12 1 1 1 15 Composition of the Board 8 Number of women 5 0 0 0 5 Number of women 2 Number of men 7 1 1 1 10 Number of men 6 Percentage of women 41.7% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 33.3% Percentage of women 25.0% Percentage of men 58.3% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 66.7% Percentage of men 75.0% Number of those under 30 years old 0 0 0 0 0 Number of under 30 years old 0 Number of those 30–50 years old 6 1 1 0 8 Number of 30–50 years old 2 Number of those over 50 years old 6 0 0 1 7 Number of over 50 years old 6 Percentage of those under 30 years old 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Percentage of under 30 years old 0.0% Percentage of those 30–50 years old 50.0% 100.0% 100.0% 0.0% 53.3% Percentage of 30–50 years old 25.0% Percentage of those over 50 years old 50.0% 0.0% 0.0% 100.0% 46.7% Percentage of over 50 years old 75.0% Number of white collar employees 1,134 550 216 105 2,005 Number of women 281 227 90 23 621 Number of men 853 323 126 82 1,384 Percentage of women 24.8% 41.3% 41.7% 21.9% 31.0% Percentage of men 75.2% 58.7% 58.3% 78.1% 69.0% Number of those under 30 years old 101 160 37 17 315 Number of those 30–50 years old 710 371 147 52 1,280 Number of those over 50 years old 323 19 32 36 410 Percentage of those under 30 years old 8.9% 29.1% 17.1% 16.2% 15.7% Percentage of those 30–50 years old 62.6% 67.5% 68.1% 49.5% 63.8% Percentage of those over 50 years old 28.5% 3.5% 14.8% 34.3% 20.4% Number of blue collar employees 1,573 1,089 0 85 2,747 Number of women 149 49 0 0 198 Number of men 1,424 1,040 0 85 2,549 Percentage of women 9.5% 4.5% 0.0% 0.0% 7.2% Percentage of men 90.5% 95.5% 0.0% 100.0% 92.8% Number of those under 30 years old 421 390 0 19 830 Number of those 30–50 years old 806 667 0 41 1,514 Number of those over 50 years old 346 32 0 25 403 Percentage of those under 30 years old 26.8% 35.8% 0.0% 22.4% 30.2% Percentage of those 30–50 years old 51.2% 61.2% 0.0% 48.2% 55.1% Percentage of those over 50 years old 22.0% 2.9% 0.0% 29.4% 14.7% *Includes only members of Nokian Tyres Management Team NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PEOPLE 51 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index ECO N O MY Sustainability improves our competitiveness. For us, profitable growth, good HR management, Nokian Tyres has set up a donations committee and environmental aspects along with product in each of the company’s office locations. safety and quality are important for the development of sustainable business operations. Nokian Tyres’ financial targets for 2019–2021 are: • Growing faster than the market: CAGR In 2018, we were again included in the Dow above 5% with comparable currencies Jones’ DJSI World sustainability index and were • Healthy profitability: EBIT at the level of 22% the second highest-ranking tire manufacturer. • Good returns for our shareholders: We were also included in the DJSI Europe, which Dividend above 50% of net earnings has even tighter criteria than the DJSI World. The Economy section covers the following material As a good corporate citizen, we focus on topics: supporting special community and environment • Profitable growth and indirect economic impacts projects in the areas where we operate. In the US • Risk management and good governance NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – ECONOMY 52 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT Our financial responsibility is based on our company’s financial success and ability to create value for stakeholders. The Corporate Governance Statement has been prepared pursuant to the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2015 Good financial Nokian Tyres conducts active and result-oriented financial for listed companies and the Securities Markets Act (Chapter management management. Our Finance function collects extensive 7, Section 7) and it is issued separately from the Board of information on the operating environment as well as the Directors’ report. The Board of Directors has reviewed the enables planned activities and forecasting. different stages and results of our company’s business Corporate Governance Statement, and the auditor KPMG processes to analyze it and with obtained knowledge has verified that the Statement has been issued and that the instigate better business practices into company operations. description of the main features of the internal control and Good financial management enables planned activities risk management systems relating to the financial reporting and forecasting. In 2018, Nokian Tyres performed well in all of process is consistent with the financial statements. its key business areas. You can read more from our Corporate Governance Product and customer profitability guide our operations, –section. which we develop in a cross-organizational way, together with the business units. Following our growth, our Finance RISK MANAGEMENT function is actively involved in developing common processes Nokian Tyres’ business and financial performance may be and systems that enable the best possible service for Nokian affected by several uncertainties. The Group has adopted Tyres’ customers and other stakeholders. a risk management policy, approved by the Board of Major investments are discussed by the regularly Directors, which supports the achievement of strategic convening Investment Board. goals and ensures the business continuity. The Group’s risk management policy focuses on managing both the risks CORPORATE GOVERNANCE pertaining to business opportunities and the risks affecting In its decision-making and administration, Nokian Tyres the achievement of the Group’s goals in the changing adheres to the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act, operating environment. At Nokian Tyres, Corporate Risk the Finnish Securities Markets Act and the rules issued by Management (CRM) also includes the sustainability aspects. Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd, Nokian Tyres’ Articles of Association, The risk management process aims to identify and evaluate and the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2015 for listed the risks, and to plan and implement the practical measures companies. Nokian Tyres complies with the code without for each risk. exceptions. The code is published at www.cgfinland.fi/en/. Nokian Tyres detailed the overall business risks and risk management in the 2018 Corporate Governance Statement. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – ECONOMY 53 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index For example, the following risks could potentially have an • Foreign exchange risk consists of transaction risk and translation risk. The most significant currency risks arise Nokian Tyres’ impact on Nokian Tyres’ development: from the Russian ruble, the Swedish and Norwegian krona, and the US and Canadian dollar. Approximately 60% of the success is • Nokian Tyres is subject to risks related to consumer Group’s sales are generated outside of the eurozone. dependent on its ability confidence and macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions. Political uncertainties may cause serious disruption and • In May 2017, the Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority filed a request for investigation with the National Bureau to innovate and develop new products and additional trade barriers and affect the company’s sales of Investigation regarding possible securities market and credit risk. Economic downturns may increase trade offences. The National Bureau of Investigation has customers’ payment problems and Nokian Tyres may need to recognize the impairment of trade receivables. initiated a preliminary investigation into the matter. services. The risk analysis conducted in 2018 also focused • The tire wholesale and retail landscape is evolving to special attention on corporate social responsibility risks, meet the changing consumer needs. New technologies the most significant of which are related to the company’s are fueling this with increasing digitalization. A failure to reputation and product quality. Analyses and projects related adapt to the changes in the sales channel could have an to information security, data protection, and customer adverse effect on Nokian Tyres’ financial performance. information were a special focus area. • Nokian Tyres’ success is dependent on its ability to innovate and develop new products and services RISKS RELATED TO CLIMATE CHANGE that appeal to its customers and consumers. Despite Climate change is accelerated by greenhouse gas (GHG) extensive testing of its products, product quality issues emissions, which is an essential issue for companies around the and failure to meet demands on performance and world. We are committed to reducing GHG emissions from our safety could harm Nokian Tyres’ reputation and have operations in order to combat climate change. We calculate the an adverse effect on its financial performance. GHG emissions from our operations annually and we reduce • Nokian Tyres’ production facilities are located in them systematically as planned. Finland and Russia. Any unexpected production or In May 2018, Nokian Tyres joined the Science Based Targets delivery breaks at these facilities would have a negative initiative. The new climate goals will be linked to the company’s impact on the company’s business. A new factory is value chain as well as the environmental impacts of products. under construction in the US in order to diversify the manufacturing footprint. Interruptions in logistics could COMMUNICATION PRINCIPLES have a significant impact on peak season sales. Nokian Tyres has a Disclosure Policy that describes the key processes related to Nokian Tyres external communications • Significant fluctuations in raw material prices may impact as well as the main principles that Nokian Tyres follows when margins. Nokian Tyres sources natural rubber from communicating with the capital markets and media. The producers in countries such as Indonesia and Malaysia. purpose of the disclosure policy is to ensure that appropriate Although Nokian Tyres has policies such as the Supplier procedures are set up to properly identify, process, and make Code of Conduct, and established processes to monitor decisions regarding the information required to be disclosed, the working conditions, it cannot fully control the actions and, in this way, ensure the fair disclosure of information to of its suppliers. The violation of the laws, regulations, or the public in a consistent and timely manner. Nokian Tyres’ standards by raw material producers, or their divergence website (www.nokiantyres.com) is the main channel for up-tofrom practices generally accepted as ethical in the date information (financial, strategic, other investor relations European Union or the international community, could have a material adverse effect on Nokian Tyres’ reputation. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – ECONOMY 54 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index In 2018, we were information), providing all of the market participants equal access to it. annual sustainability assessment for large publicly traded companies, performed by the Swiss RobecoSAM. again included To ensure the fulfillment of the Company’s disclosure obligations, a Disclosure Committee has been established We are included in the OMX GES Sustainability Finland in the Dow Jones’ DJSI GI index, which provides transparent, objective and to monitor and set guidelines for preparing stock exchange reliable information for making responsible investments. World sustainability index. releases. The Disclosure Committee addresses the general The companies are selected for the index based on their content of stock exchange releases and corporate level compliance with the requirements that focus on the press releases issued by the Company as well as the timely management of environmental, social, and corporate delivery of these releases and their compliance with the governance (ESG). We are also included in the STOXX Global regulatory requirements. ESG Leaders and FTSE4Good indices. Nokian Tyres’ management regularly meets investors, analysts, and the media. All investor, analyst and press We track financial management with the following indicators: meetings are solely based on information Nokian Tyres has • 102-18 Governance structure of the organization previously disclosed or that is otherwise publicly available. • 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed SUSTAINABILITY IMPROVES • 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts OUR COMPETITIVENESS • 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement In addition to our corporate sustainability goals and road maps, our externally assured GRI Standards-compliant Corporate Sustainability Report guides the development of sustainability in our company. For us, profitable growth, good HR management and environmental aspects, along with product safety and quality, are important for the development of sustainable business operations. In 2018 we were again included in the Dow Jones’ DJSI World sustainability index and were the second highestranking tire manufacturer. We were also included in the DJSI Europe, which has even tighter criteria than the DJSI World. The Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) is an NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – ECONOMY 55 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index PROFITABLE GROWTH BENEFITS EVERYONE Nokian Tyres’ ambition is to continue to be the market leader Key figures, EUR million in the Nordic countries and Russia and to grow faster than CC* the market in other main markets. Over a five-year period of Change Change 2018–2022, the target is to grow by 50% in Central Europe 2018 2017 % % and double sales in North America. Net sales 1,595.6 1,572.5 1.5 5.7 Heavy Tyres’ ambition is to grow by 50% in four years. With own Vianor, we wanted to increase the EBITDA to Operating profit 372.4 365.4 +3% by the end of 2019. This target was reached ahead of Operating profit % 23.3 23.2 schedule in 2018. Profit before tax 361.7 332.4 In November 2018, Nokian Tyres’ Board of Directors decided on new financial targets for 2019–2021. They are: Profit for the period 295.2 221.4 • Growing faster than the market: CAGR Earnings per share, EUR 2.15 1.63 above 5% with comparable currencies ROCE, % 23.3 22.4 • Healthy profitability: EBIT at the level of 22% Equity ratio, % 71.0 78.2 • Good returns for our shareholders: Cash flow from operating activities 536.9 234.1 Dividend above 50% of net earnings Gearing, % -21.2 -14.2 You can read more from our Financial Review 2018. Interest-bearing net debt -315.2 -208.3 Capital expenditure 226.5 134.9 * Comparable currencies NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – ECONOMY 56 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index The previous financial targets for 2016–2018 were: • Growing faster than the market: Average annual sales growth of 4–5% at a minimum (at stable currency exchange rates) GENERATION OF ADDED VALUE • Healthy profitability: The best operating profit CUSTOMERS level in the industry, a minimum of 22% Sales MEUR 1,595.6 • Good returns for our shareholders: Dividend of at least 50% of net earnings. SUPPLIERS Cost of goods, materials, and services In 2018, net sales increased by 5.7% with comparable purchased MEUR 679.1 currencies. Operating profit percentage was 23.3%. For 2018, Nokian Tyres Board of Directors proposes a dividend of EUR ADDED VALUE 1.58 per share, representing 73.9% of net earnings. MEUR 917 NOKIAN TYRES AND THE CASH FLOW BETWEEN STAKEHOLDERS Nokian Tyres’ objective is to create value for its various stakeholders: shareholders, customers, and our personnel. We aim to meet the stakeholder expectations. Through sustainable business practices, financial success and profitability we can also offer security, work and well-being DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE for our personnel and contribute to the well-being of local communities. EMPLOYEES The graph on the right shows Nokian Tyres’ economic Wages and salaries MEUR 217.5 footprint in terms of its stakeholders. PUBLIC SECTOR Direct taxes MEUR 66.5 SHAREHOLDERS Dividends MEUR 214.2 GROSS INVESTMENTS MEUR 226.5 FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS Net Financing Payments MEUR 1.8 ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED IN THE COMPANY MEUR 190 NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – ECONOMY 57 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index IMPACT ON SOCIETY AND COMMUNITIES We donated the Nokian Tyres contributes to society and communities 1. ROAD SAFETY through the payment of salaries and taxes. We directly As an expert in challenging conditions and premium tires, we employ around 4,800 people around the world. When we include all of our subcontractors, our role as a job creator believe it is our responsibility to promote safe and smooth transportation. profits of our becomes even more significant. Our tire factories are significant employers. The salaries and taxes that we pay 2. LOCAL COMMUNITIES office Christmas-sale to support the structures of society and improve the quality of As a good corporate citizen and a global company, we focus a local branch of Hope, a Finnish charity that life for thousands of people. on supporting special community and environment projects Corporate philanthropy is our company’s way of giving in the areas where we operate, including together with our back to our community locally, regionally, nationally, and internationally. Donating our time, products, services, and employees. In Christmas 2018, we sold our stock of leftover business presents in our headquarters and donated the provides support to money to charities and nonprofits helps us to build trust with our communities, consumers, and other companies as well as profits to a local branch of Hope, a Finnish charity that provides support to underprivileged children. underprivileged children. to improve our employee engagement. Our mission is to offer peace of mind in all conditions. 3. INVENTIVENESS & ENTREPRENEURSHIP Our approach to philanthropy mirrors our mission, For improving the equal opportunities for youth, we support entrepreneurial and inventive company culture, and entrepreneurial and inventive projects with educational sustainable way of doing business. We do not support any institutions of various levels, in line with our company culture, governmental, political, or religious entities. the Hakkapeliitta Spirit. We offer our resources (finances, employees’ time, We choose the focus areas and the number of projects facilities or our own products and services) to selected that we support annually based on our strategic focus. By projects based on the following three categories: selecting a limited number of projects, we ensure better results. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – ECONOMY 58 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index The company has As a life driven company, Nokian Tyres is also committed Nokian Tyres became the title sponsor for the first ever Finnish IRONMAN race. The Nokian Tyres IRONMAN set up a donations to supporting the local communities in North America through product donations, employee volunteerism, or 70.3 Finland -event took place in Lahti, Finland on June committee in each financial contributions. The company has set up a donations 30, 2018. This high-energy sport matches our values that committee in each Nokian Tyres office location in the US and promote mobility and an active lifestyle while supporting the Nokian Tyres office has called for support requests on the company website. Preferential consideration will be given to organizations company’s brand visibility in Finland as well as internationally. Succeeding under exceptionally demanding conditions location in the US that promote road safety, support local sustainability or organizations where our employees are active. through cleverness and relentlessness is also something found in the Swamp Soccer World Championships, which take place in Hyrynsalmi, Finland annually. Nokian Tyres has PARTNERSHIPS AND SPONSORING been the title sponsor of the championships for more than We locally assist and support organizations and events that 10 years. suit our company culture and brand. We continuously work Our brand ambassador Mika Häkkinen, the two-time with various organizations in places where we employ people. Formula 1 world champion, participated in a number of our Many small actions – from our dialog with our neighborhood customer events and also in the Nokian Tyres IRONMAN 70.3 and work with educational institutions to minor contributions Finland race as part of the “Turvassa tiellä” youth road safety for local sports clubs – have an effect on individuals and action team. communities. As a registered participant in the UN Global Compact We continued our local support for the global FIA Initiative, we annually support the initiative and its efforts to Action for Road Safety in Finland, where it is organized by promote corporate sustainability. Finnish AKK under the name of “Turvassa tiellä”. We also continued our long-term partnership with the International Orienteering Federation. Our agreement with the International Orienteering Federation provides us with high visibility during the annual World Orienteering Championships and World Cup events. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – ECONOMY 59 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index PL A N E T Our goal is to manage the environmental impacts of our products over their entire life cycle. When developing the functions that affect The biomass power plant that supplies our our environmental responsibility, we want to factory in Finland with electricity had a new go beyond the minimum requirements of scrubber installed in Fall 2018. In three months, the legislation and applicable standards. it saved approximately 185 truckloads of fuel thereby helping us reduce CO2 emissions. Our Energy Savings working group continued its activities in 2018. We clearly met our Planet-section covers the following material topics: target of reducing our yearly energy • Responsibility in material choices and consumption by 1% per production ton, with promoting the circular economy a 2,5% reduction from the previous year. • Reducing greenhouse gas emissions from all operations – Use of renewable energy and improving energy efficiency NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PLANET 60 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index MANAGEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY AND IMPROVEMENTS The outset of our operations includes uncompromising Our activity management system is based on the respect for the environmental and safety aspects as well ISO 9001, IATF 16949, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, and ISO as ensuring high quality and a good customer experience. 17025 standards and meets the applicable regulations and They are an integral part of the Scandinavian way of doing customer demands. We are also committed to following the business and our company culture, and they apply globally UN Global Compact principles. throughout our Group. We want to be an international industry leader also in MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS terms of environmental matters. The awards and good Our goal is to manage the environmental impacts of our reviews that our company and products have received products over their entire life cycle and address the safety demonstrate that the environmental aspects, quality, and and quality aspects of our operations in a comprehensive safety are important for our customers and stakeholders. and systematic manner. The activity management system Our successful development projects, therefore, guide that covers the environmental aspects, safety, and quality improvements across the industry. serves as a key tool for this purpose. Our operations manual When developing the functions that affect our is ISO 14001 compliant in terms of the environmental environmental responsibility, we want to go beyond the aspects and ISO 9001 compliant as regards quality. The key minimum requirements of the legislation and applicable document that guides our environmental protection efforts standards. Our activities aim for continuous improvement is the Environmental Protection procedure. Our production and are based on the corporate social responsibility that we facilities and Swedish sales company Nokian Däck are also recognize as well as our strategic business goals. We also covered by the joint environmental and quality system and consider the entire product life cycle and all of our functions included in our ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 certifications. in terms of environmental responsibility. Our environmental and quality targets are specified Environmental management is guided by the following in the company’s quality and sustainability strategy, policies: The Environmental, Safety, and Quality Policy guides which is drawn up for a period of five years and updated Nokian Tyres considers the entire product environmental aspects in our Group. The policy has been annually. Vice President, Quality & Sustainability is involved life cycle and all of our functions in terms approved by the President & CEO, and it was revised the in drawing up the strategy along with the Environmental of environmental responsibility. previously in Spring 2017. The environmental aspects are also and Responsibility Manager, who reports to the vice discussed in our Code of Conduct that we updated in 2018. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PLANET 61 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index In production, we audit CONTROL OF CHEMICALS AUDITS Regular audits are an important part of our environmental, Control of chemicals aims at ensuring the safest possible the environmental use of chemicals for our employees, the environment and safety and quality efforts. Their purpose is to ensure eco-friendliness in production and a safe working aspects and chemical safety end users. Our company meets all of the requirements of the European (the REACH and CLP regulations) and local environment that meets high standards of quality. The audits through regular Safety Walks. chemicals legislation. aim to verify if our operation complies with the legislation, In our production, we never use carcinogenic chemicals Environment, Safety, and Quality policy as well as the or SVHC chemicals (Substances of Very High Concern) as per instructions in the activity management system. the EU’s REACH regulation. Our products do not contain any We carry out internal environmental and quality audits so-called “conflict minerals”. Moreover, all of our products according to an annual plan such that each area of the president. Working together with environmental experts, meet the EU REACH requirements concerning PAHs. We activity management system is audited at least once every the Environmental and Responsibility Manager prepares also intend to ensure that no products sold in Vianor service three years. We draw up the annual plan on the basis of an annual environmental program for the factories. The centers now or in the future contain any such chemicals. a five-year plan, taking into account the findings of the program specifies the detailed targets, actions, schedules New raw materials for rubber compounds are tested in previous audits. In production, we audit the environmental and responsible persons for the goals presented in the Nokia for quality assurance and suitability for production aspects and chemical safety through regular Safety Walks strategy. This leadership covers all the aspects of the both in laboratory and production conditions. We maintain a at individual departments and every six months through environmental management system. In addition, individual list of raw materials that are approved for the manufacture inspection rounds by chemicals experts. units have their own projects for developing the operations of rubber compounds, and our procurement personnel Internal audits also include the audits carried out by and processes. are only allowed to purchase these raw materials for our our customers and partners, such as automotive industry The development of environmental aspects and quality production plants. representatives. The audit conducted in connection with the is reviewed each quarter at the management meetings. No auxiliary chemical is taken into use at the Nokia weekly management review is also considered an internal The senior management provides direct feedback to the factory before our chemical control team has issued a audit. responsible persons, as needed. department-specific usage permit for the substance An external auditor performs an audit once a year in AUTHORITIES AND PERMITS in question. The team includes the Environmental and order to assess our activities’ compliance with the relevant Responsibility Manager, an environmental engineer, a chemist standards. Legal and regulatory compliance is supervised Our production facilities have valid environmental permits as from the R&D laboratory and an occupational physician. The by the authorities and insurance companies annually or as well as chemical handling and storage permits. These permits purpose of this practice is to harmonize the use of chemicals required. and other environmental and safety activities are supervised by several authorities according to the local laws. We throughout the company and, whenever possible, to replace harmful chemicals with safer ones. ORGANIZATION FOR ENVIRONMENTAL maintain continuous dialog with various authorities in order We require all of our chemicals suppliers to provide MANAGEMENT to take any official requirements and requests into account us with chemical safety data sheets (SDS) in compliance Our Group’s sustainability efforts are coordinated by the in a timely manner. We immediately notify the authorities with valid legislation prior to the purchasing of chemicals. Environmental and Responsibility Manager. Environmental of any disruptions, accidents and deviations from permit The SDSs of the chemicals that we use are registered in a and chemical safety and sustainability aspects belong requirements. database that all personnel can access. We also organize to the Quality and Sustainability unit, and the overall We see official permits as minimum requirements and regular trainings on chemicals for our employees. efforts are coordinated globally by Vice President, Quality consider eco-friendliness to be much more than simply & Sustainability together with Senior Vice President complying with the permit limits. We are committed to being Supply Operations. The goals of quality and sustainability a part of genuinely sustainable development. We actively management are accident prevention, uninterrupted monitor the trends in environmental and safety regulations production, ensuring high quality and good corporate in the EU and all of the countries where we have or are citizenship in all areas of operation. going to have production: Finland, Russia, and the US. We also anticipate the effects of pending regulations on our operations. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PLANET 62 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index Environmental engineers take care of practical Object Target in 2018 Status in 2018 environmental coordination and training, for instance regarding chemicals, emissions, and waste. Furthermore, in STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS Implementation according to the Nokian Completed according to plan. Nokia, the environmental representatives and supervisors Tyres’ environmental permits and legislation Nokian Tyres recognizes that the VOC of individual departments address environmental at the factories. emissions are over the total emission limit of the European VOC Directive. responsibility alongside their other duties. The environmental The issue is being handled in close corepresentatives act as their departments’ environmental operation with the local environmental experts and points of contact in the interaction between authorities. departments. They also coordinate the appropriate handling VOC EMISSIONS Compliance with VOC-directive at the Nokia Incinerator in use, operating faultlessly. of chemicals and waste in their departments. factory, finding new solutions for achieving Still exceeding total emission limit of target level. VOC directive, emission 29% (limit 25%). KEY MEASURES IN 2018 A summary of the essential goals of Nokian Tyres’ 2018 ENERGY Implementing energy saving actions. Implemented. environmental program and their completion is presented in Decrease in energy usage by 1%/production ton at the factories. the table on this page. ODOR Investigating new odor reduction possibilities Implemented as planned. Investments ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS for factories, including smelly ingredients in odor reduction equipment during In addition to personnel and technology, we allocate financial in rubber mixtures and their possible future extension projects. replacements. resources to environmental responsibility. In the fiscal period, our environmental management costs amounted CHEMICAL SAFETY Two factory audits concentrating on the use Implemented. to approximately EUR 450,000. Other environmental costs of chemicals done by chemical specialists. amounted to approximately EUR 1,000,000. This figure includes the expenses and investments that are related to MATERIAL EFFICIENCY Pilot material efficiency audit done at the Not implemented. Nokia factory. air, soil, and water protection and waste management. MATERIALS DEVELOPMENT Ensuring that no Substances of Very Implemented. COMPLAINT MECHANICS IN High Concern as referred to in REACH are No Substances of Very High Concern ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY contained in the products. are used in production. We document the annual environmental impacts of our tire factories and report them to the local authorities as required INCREASING ENVIRONMENTAL Regular trainings and environmental Implemented. AWARENESS AMONG THE communication. in each country. We record feedback to a register and take PERSONNEL the necessary corrective actions. We quickly assess and respond to all complaints and address them as appropriate. BUILDING PROJECTS US factory and Spanish testing center Implemented. Our factories’ environmental experts are responsible for permissions and assuring chemical and environmental safety. these records. The purpose of this practice is to collect the feedback on the status of our environmental aspects and consider our stakeholders’ related requests and opinions. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PLANET 63 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index We have taken a two-tiered approach to the Object Target in 2019 management of environmental complaint procedures. If the STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS Implementation according to the Nokian Tyres’ environmental permits and legislation at the complaint is minor in the scope of Nokian Tyres’ production, factories. an environmental expert can handle it independently and/ or the manager decides on the necessary course of action. VOC EMISSIONS Compliance with VOC-directive at the Nokia factory, finding new solutions for achieving target In case of a larger event, the decision to escalate the matter level. is taken in Nokia by Vice President, Quality & Sustainability and in Vsevolozhsk by the production manager and then, if ENERGY Implementing energy saving actions. necessary, by the line management. Decrease in energy usage by 1%/production ton at the factories. Nokian Tyres has had zero non-compliance situations during the fiscal year. CLIMATE Setting Science Based Targets for approval. TRACKING ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY We track our environmental responsibility with the following CHEMICAL SAFETY Two factory audits concentrating on the use of chemicals done by chemical specialists. indicators: • 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume • 301-2 Recycled input materials used MATERIALS DEVELOPMENT Ensuring that no Substances of Very High Concern as referred to in REACH are contained in the products. • 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization • 302-3 Energy intensity INCREASING ENVIRONMENTAL Regular trainings and environmental communication. AWARENESS AMONG THE PERSONNEL • 303-1 Water withdrawal • 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, BUILDING PROJECTS US factory and Spanish testing center: assuring chemical and environmental safety. products and services on biodiversity • 305-1 Direct GHG emissions • 305-2 Energy indirect GHG emissions • 305-4 GHG emissions intensity • 305-7 Nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides and other significant air emissions • 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination • 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method • 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PLANET 64 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index ENVI RONMENTAL IMPACTS OF PRODUCTION Our goal is to manage the environmental impacts of our products throughout their life cycle. We take a Nokia Vsevolozhsk comprehensive and systematic approach to environmental EMISSIONS EMISSIONS aspects in our activities. The environmental impacts from tire production Solvent emissions VOCs 41 t/a Solvent emissions VOCs 62 t/a include odor, dust emissions, noise, waste, energy Particle emissions 1,4 t/a Particle emissions 9 t/a consumption, and solvent emissions (VOC emissions). The most significant of these impacts are VOC emissions and CO2 370 scope 1+2 kg CO2 eq/ CO2 530 scope 1+2 kg CO2 eq/ production (t) production (t) locally odor. We constantly strive to reduce these impacts Noise <50 dB Noise < 50 dB in the best possible ways: we improve our operations and find efficiencies, track emissions, and correct identified INPUT INPUT deviations. In accordance with our Environmental, Safety, and Quality Policy, we aim for zero defects in our environmental, Energy 640 TJ Energy 1,600 TJ health, safety and quality activities. Municipal water 61,000 m3 Municipal water 303,200 m3 River Nokianvirta 7,587,700 m 3 Raw materials 170,500 t Raw materials 57,100 t PRODUCTS PRODUCTS Tires and materials 53,200 t Tires 161,000 t WASTE WASTE Landfill 0 t Landfill 1,100 t Utilized 5,300 t Hazardous 1,200 t Hazardous 180 t Water into the sewage 272,100 m3 Water into the sewage 100,900 m3 Storm water 111,200 m3 Water into the 7,547,700 m3 Nokianvirta river NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PLANET 65 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index CONSIDERING BIODIVERSITY Energy consumption Energy intensity We have always considered biodiversity as part of our within the organization environmental efforts. We have assessed our factories, test tracks and retreading plants in terms of biodiversity. TJ GJ/production t Our company has little direct impact on biodiversity. 2,000 15 Nevertheless, we make an effort to track and minimize the impact of our operations on our immediate surroundings. 12 1,500 ENERGY 9 We purchase energy for our factory in Finland from an 1,000 6 external supplier. The required energy can be divided into electricity, heating and steam. Renewable energy sources 500 3 account for approximately 13% of the electricity that we purchase. 0 0 We use biomass and natural gas as the energy sources 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 for heating and steam generation. A biomass power plant Nokia Vsevolozhsk Nokia Vsevolozhsk that supplies our factory in Finland started its full production in April 2016. The new plant reduces the use of fossil fuels – natural gas – in favor of local energy sources in the region. Energy usage In Nokia, Finland about 47% of all used energy is produced with renewable energy sources. Our Russian factory uses natural gas as an energy source. TJ We buy the electricity from an external supplier but we use Vsevolozhsk Vsevolozhsk Vsevolozhsk 2,000 our own power station for the energy required for heating and steam. Our Energy Savings working group continued its activities 1,500 in 2018. We exceeded our target of reducing our yearly energy consumption by 1% per production ton, with a 2.5% 1,000 reduction from the previous year. Nokia Nokia Nokia 500 EMISSIONS 0 EMISSIONS FROM ENERGY PRODUCTION 2016 2017 2018 An independent company annually measures the nitrogen Steam and sulfur emissions from energy production at our factory Heating in Russia. Our nitrogen and sulfur emissions are below the Electricity set emission limits. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PLANET 66 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index CARBON DIOXIDE (CO2) NOx and SOx emissions, Direct greenhouse gas We calculate our tire production GHG emissions from Vsevolozhsk emissions, Scope 1 raw material purchasing to the disposal of the product in compliance with the ISO 14064 standard. Our Russian t CO2 eq t factory uses its own power station for generating most of 80 80,000 the energy it needs. Therefore, the factory’s direct GHG 70 70,000 emissions exceed those of the factory in Finland. 60 60,000 We are seeking a 20% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2020 and a 30% reduction by 2030. The point of reference 50 50,000 comprises our 2013 Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in 40 40,000 relation to production. The actual reduction from 2013 30 30,000 was 38% in 2018, which means that we met and clearly 20 20,000 exceeded the target. In 2017, our market-based Scope 2 10 10,000 emissions were approximately 47,600 tons CO2 eq. The 0 0 emission calculations are based on Finland’s residual mix of 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 electricity production, the emission data provided for us by NOx SOx Nokia Vsevolozhsk Nokianvirran Energia and location-based emission factor of Russian factory’s energy consumption. We could not access market-based (source and/or supplier-specific) emission factors related to our Russian factory. Indirect greenhouse gas Greenhouse gas emissions Nokian Tyres wants to contribute to tackling climate emissions, Scope 2 intensity ratio, change by setting ambitious science-based climate targets. Scope 1 + Scope 2/production ton In May 2018, Nokian Tyres joined the Science Based Targets CO2 eq t CO2 eq t/t initiative with the aim of setting more precise targets that 20,000 0.6 are assessed and approved by an external organization. Nokian Tyres reached its previously set targets to reduce 0.5 CO2 emissions well ahead of schedule. The new climate goals 15,000 0.4 will be linked to the company’s value chain as well as the environmental impacts of products. The company targets to 10,000 0.3 achieve approval for Science Based Targets by 2020. 0.2 Scope 3 emissions has partly been included in our 5,000 previous CO2 emission calculations. In order to set SBTs we 0.1 need to understand and manage all CO2 emissions in all 0 0.0 our operations. In 2018, we started screening downstream 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 emissions and, in 2019, we will calculate our scope 3 Nokia Vsevolozhsk Nokia Vsevolozhsk emissions. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PLANET 67 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS, VOCS PARTICLE EMISSIONS (DUST) Solvents, or volatile organic compounds (VOCs), form Particle emissions are caused by the processing of powdery NEW SCRUBBER SAVED 185 TRUCKLOADS OF FUEL our most significant emissions into air. As the legislation chemicals in our compound mixing department. The mixing concerning VOC emissions is country-specific, our equipment is fitted with effective ventilation and dust The energy company Nokianvirran energia installed a new scrubber in its power plant in Fall 2018. The Nokian Tyres is the calculation and reporting of VOC emissions varies by country. collection devices, and the best separation rates achieved by second biggest owner of the company, which provides all of In Finland, we follow the European VOC Directive, water cleaners exceed 99%. We measure particle emissions the steam and hot water energy to our factory in Finland. which stipulates that emissions are calculated based on with particle concentration and differential pressure gauges. The installment of the scrubber was a successful investment the used solvents. We use solvents in our factory only in In addition, outside experts carry out regular concentration in saving energy and reducing CO2 emissions. According to the production of heavy tires and retreading material for measurements. calculations of the energy company, it saved approximately 185 improving adhesion. The VOCs from retreading material The measured particle concentrations have complied truckloads of fuel in the three first operating months alone. production and the assembly of heavy tires are collected with the permit limits at both of our factories. The dust that Altogether the scrubber has been estimated to save up to 50,000 MWh of energy in a year. and conveyed to a catalytic incineration plant. Collecting passes through the filter system mainly causes an aesthetic solvent emissions from the production of heavy tires poses a inconvenience and poses no harm to the environment or In the scrubber system the gas stream is brought into contact with a water-based liquid allowing the heat to pass from the challenge. In the production of heavy tires, it is not possible health. gas to the liquid. The liquid is then forwarded into the district to seal the emission sources such that all emissions could be heating system. collected and conveyed for incineration. ODOR The energy company invested around 3 million euros in the In Finland, we aim to comply with the total emission limit According to surveys that we have commissioned, odor scrubber. It reduces the low levels of the emissions even of the European VOC Directive, which is 25% of the solvents emissions are momentary. The mastication process for further and saves the company an estimated 400 fuel used. In 2018, the total solvent emissions was 29% of used softening natural rubber causes discharges of compounds truckloads in a year. This also means less heavy traffic and solvents. during the precipitation and dehydration phases of emissions from fuel trucks. No solvents are used in tire manufacture at our Russian rubber milk that results in an unpleasant odor in the near The new scrubber confirms the importance of sustainable factory. According to the local legislation, emissions surroundings. We use droplet separators for reducing the choices in everyday work. It is an investment in cleaner air and are calculated based on emission measurements. VOC odors from mastication. We have also managed to lower the energy, says Vice president, Quality and Sustainability Teppo Huovila. emissions are generated due to the raw materials used in the number of separate mastication processes, thereby reducing processes. the related odors. The power plant of Nokianvirran energia is a new biomass Some odors are generated during the tire curing process. plant, which began operating in 2016. It has been estimated to reduce CO2 emissions up to 60,000–80,000 tons a year. The The quantity of the curing fumes released in the process VOC emissions new plant enabled the company to give up the use of natural is directly proportional to the amount of cured rubber. The gas and to use domestic bioenergy sources. It also utilizes the t concentrations of individual substances in the fumes are secondary flows of the Essity Finland paper factory. 80 very small. 70 In the past two years, our factories have introduced new 60 odor control equipment that represents the best available 50 technology (BAT). In Vsevolozhsk, the technology covers all the mixing lines, whereas in Nokia the technology is being 40 implemented gradually. 30 In 2018, we were contacted twice concerning odor 20 emissions in our Russian factory. Investment plan for 10 more comprehensive odor reduction equipment is under 0 evaluation. 2016 2017 2018 Nokia Vsevolozhsk NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PLANET 68 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index NOISE Cooling water, Water discharge, Nokia Sewage Our production facilities have noise limits subject to their environmental permits. We regularly track and measure noise emissions. According to the measurements, we are below the 1,000 m3 m3 noise limits. 8,000 300,000 7,000 250,000 WATER AND WASTEWATER 6,000 Our tire manufacturing processes use large quantities of 5,000 200,000 cooling water. In Nokia, we take cooling water from the 4,000 150,000 nearby Nokianvirta river and discharge it back into the river 3,000 after use. The Russian factory uses municipal tap water for 100,000 2,000 cooling and then conveys it to a wastewater treatment plant. 50,000 1,000 The cooling water has no contact with production chemicals at any stage and, therefore, does not become contaminated. 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 In Nokia and Vsevolozhsk, we take annual samples from the cooling water and from the wastewater conveyed to the Withdrawal, Nokianvirta river Nokia Vsevolozhsk municipal treatment plant in order to verify the water quality. Discharge, Nokianvirta river The wastewater conveyed into the municipal sewage system and the cooling waters have been practically clean. We aim to reduce the consumption of municipal water by 25% by 2020 compared to the 2013 baseline. In 2018, our consumption of Total water withdrawal Municipal water municipal water (m3/ton of products) was approximately 40% lower than in 2013. 1,000 m3 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2016 2017 2018 Nokia Vsevolozhsk NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PLANET 69 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index MATERIALS Raw materials Raw materials, Raw material composition of rubber Our production uses high-quality raw materials that Non-renewable raw materials Percentage of materials used compound of passenger car tire contribute to the safety and high quality of our tires. We are that are recycled input materials continuously exploring the utilization of recycled materials kt % but, in general, recycled materials contain impurities that 150 10 would degrade our products’ safety characteristics. This is why we primarily use virgin raw materials in our production. 120 Protective agents 1% 8 Booster chemicals 4% WASTE 90 6 Vulcanazing agents 3% Waste is generated both in our actual production and Plasticizer 8% 60 4 support functions. The generated waste can be roughly Filler substances 35% divided into three categories: landfill waste or non-recyclable Rubbers 49% 30 2 waste, recyclable waste, and hazardous waste. We weigh all production waste and record the 0 0 department-specific volumes on a monthly basis. For other 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 types of waste, we prepare reports annually. The waste Nokia Vsevolozhsk Nokia Vsevolozhsk volumes are determined in weighing by waste management companies. We sort the generated waste at our factories in accordance with separate waste management instructions. Most of the production waste is taken directly to be utilized. Raw materials, Amount of wastes, Amount of wastes, We store hazardous waste separately at the collection points Renewable raw materials Nokia Vsevolozhsk in containers that carry warning labels. RECYCLABLE WASTE kt t % t % The utilization rate of our production waste has been 40 7,000 100.2 14,000 90 growing for years. 35 6,000 100.0 12,000 89 Scrap tires, or tires that do not meet our high standards 30 5,000 99.8 10,000 88 of quality, are taken to recycling directly from production. 25 Non-vulcanized scrap rubber is generated in the production 4,000 99.6 8,000 87 20 stages preceding vulcanization or curing. These material’s 3,000 99.4 6,000 86 15 reuse applications include impact padding, conveyor belts, 2,000 99.2 10 4,000 85 and other rubber products that do not have as critical 5 1,000 99.0 2,000 84 material requirements as tires. Other generated recyclable waste categories include combustible waste, plastics, scrap 0 0 98.8 0 83 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 iron and steel, wood, paper, biodegradable waste, cardboard, glass and electrical and electronic equipment. Nokia Vsevolozhsk Utilization, % Utilization, % Landfilling, t Landfilling, t Utilized wastes, t Utilized wastes, t NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PLANET 70 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index LANDFILL WASTE Wastes by disposal method, Wastes by disposal method, Mixed waste that cannot be utilized or recycled is taken to Nokia* Vsevolozhsk* a landfill. We aim to further reduce the amount of landfill waste by sending the waste that we generate to recycling Reuse 7.9% Reuse 8.7% and utilization. Our goal for 2020 is that no waste generated Recycling 74.8% Recycling 75.7% in production is taken to a landfill. In 2018, 100% of factory Composting 2.5% Composting 0% waste in Nokia and 88% in Vsevolozhsk was sent to utilization, Recovery as energy 14.8% Recovery as energy 3.5% so we are heading in the right direction. Landfill 0% Incineration (mass burn) 1.2% HAZARDOUS WASTE Landfill 10.9% We take all hazardous waste to an authorized processing plant. Roughly a third of this waste is seal oil from compound mixing machines, whose consumption is directly proportional Hazardous wastes by disposal method, Hazardous wastes by disposal method, to the manufactured rubber compound volumes. All Vsevolozhsk* Nokia* hazardous waste generated in our Nokia factory is utilized for energy or as materials. Recycling 17.5% Recycling 2.2% OTHER LOCATIONS Incineration (mass burn) 0% Incineration (mass burn) 10.3% Our sales companies and Vianor stores always comply with Recovery as energy 82.5% Recovery as energy 31.1% the local regulations. We sort the waste and deliver it for Landfill 0% Landfill 56.2% reuse whenever technologically and economically feasible. The most significant environmental impacts of our locations come from waste and energy consumption. In connection with our group’s energy-efficiency audits, we carried out energy efficiency assessments in two Vianor service centers during 2018. Furthermore, our sales companies and Vianor Hazardous wastes* Total waste by disposal method service centers pay attention to the efficiency of product Nokia + Vsevolozhsk* transports. kg/t 2016 2017 2018 10 Disposal methos t % t % t % Reuse 1,736 12.2 1,611 10.8 1,330 8.4 8 Recycling 10,056 70.9 10,884 73.1 11,898 75.4 6 Composting 26 0.2 42 0.3 131 0.8 Recovery as energy 830 5.9 862 5.8 1,162 7.4 4 Incineration (mass burn) 128 0.9 317 2.1 122 0.8 2 Landfill 1,398 9.9 1,180 7.9 1,132 7.2 0 2016 2017 2018 Nokia Vsevolozhsk *Information of waste disposal methods are provided by the waste disposal contractors. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PLANET 71 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index A TIRE’S LIFE CYCLE AND RECYCLING We use “life cycle” to refer to the different stages a product Most of the environmental impacts during a tire’s Carbon footprint over a tire’s life cycle undergoes from manufacture to use and, ultimately, life cycle are generated during its use. The single most recycling. The life cycle of a tire begins with a rubber tree important factor is the vehicle’s fuel consumption. Fuel in the southern hemisphere, for example in Indonesia consumption can be decreased by reducing the tire’s weight Transportation 0.4% or Thailand. The following stages of life cycle include the and rolling resistance, thereby cutting the exhaust gas Raw materials and tire manufacture of raw materials and products, storage and emissions and the formation of greenhouse gases. However, production 10.8% several rounds of transportation. The tire’s actual life cycle the most significant factor affecting the level of exhaust gas In-use phase ends, for instance, when the tire is crushed and used as emissions is the driving style. Economic driving can lower fuel (including end of life tires) 88.8% construction material. consumption by 10–20%. Since the most significant environmental impact over a The life cycle can be roughly divided into four parts: tire’s life cycle comes from fuel consumption during use, the 1. Purchasing and manufacture of production inputs, such as following diagram presents a tire’s environmental impacts as raw materials and energy the carbon footprint. 2. Tire manufacture 3. Use of tire WE PARTICIPATE IN THE RESEARCH 4. Utilization of used tires. ON THE POTENTIALLY HARMFUL EFFECTS OF MICRO POLYMERS The outset of our environmental protection is the life Motor vehicles have been brought up as one of the sources cycle approach. This means that we take responsibility of microplastics that are ending up in seas and other bodies for the environmental impacts of our activities and of water. In the context of tires, the term “microplastics” is products throughout their life cycle. In accordance with somewhat misleading because tires contain rubber rather our purchasing policy, our product procurement process than plastic. However, plastic and rubber are both polymers. includes determining our suppliers’ commitment to the Many publications include the dust created during tires’ environmental aspects. In 2018, 72% of our raw material contact with the road – i.e. wear particles from the tire and suppliers had the ISO 14001 certification. We require all of road surface – under micro polymers or microplastics. Out our contract partners, including suppliers and contractors, to of the particles that are generated, roughly one half comes commit to our principles. from the tire and the other half from the road surface. As the particles are quite heavy, most of them settle along NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PLANET 72 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index roads, a small fraction of them remains airborne and only 2% Environmental impacts during a tire’s life cycle to 5% of released particles may reach the estuaries. As a tire manufacturer, we are responsible for the safety of our products. The friction between the tire and the INPUT PRODUCTION USE END OF LIFE road is a significant safety factor and it is required for a tire to grip properly. Friction also causes tire and road wear, Raw materials VOC  Fuel consumption  Impacts on scenery  resulting in wear particles. In tire design, we aim for the best combination of wear durability, on the one hand and grip Energy  Particles  Tire noise  Tire incineration  and safety characteristics, on the other hand, in order to optimize the tire in terms of road safety and eco-friendliness. Water  Odor  Impacts on terrain  Utilization of used tires ADDITIONAL RESEARCH IS REQUIRED Noise  Road erosion  Retreading  The current research has noted that, in fresh water areas, particles in sediments may pose a low risk to some aquatic organisms. However, additional research is required in order Low CO2  Tire particles to determine whether the particles that enter bodies of Moderate Substantial water pose harm to the ecosystem or human health. Utilized waste  One important aspect of reducing the harmful impacts Global of driving is how we can prevent particle emissions from Regional Hazardous waste  traffic or control them in an eco-friendlier way from the Local infrastructure perspective. Such areas for improvement Landfill waste  could include sewer systems, ditch embankments or water purification. Cooling water  We are actively following the studies on this topic and participate in external studies ordered by ETRMA and other organizations. Reliable field and laboratory tests for understanding the nature, harmful impacts and routes of entry of the particles are required because many of the current estimates are based on mathematical models and calculations. We are committed to continuous improvement and are developing our products and functions to be even more eco-friendly. We take human safety and health very seriously. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PLANET 73 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index If future research indicates that micro polymers are harmful, recycling applications. Among other things, the tires can be we will react accordingly and look for new solutions. used in noise barriers along motorways or as an elastic base material in horseback riding arenas. RETREADING OFFERS ECO-FRIENDLY DRIVING If tires are not appropriately recycled, they will end up The Nokian Noktop retreading complements our service in the environment or pile up in garages. The recycling rate range and brings cost savings and more ecofriendly of tires in Finland is high compared to many other countries. kilometers to professional driving. Tire retreading allows the In 1995, Nokian Tyres and other companies in the tire operator to save money, resources, and the environment. A industry established the Finnish Tire Recycling Ltd in order good tire carcass can easily be retreaded two times, which to promote the centralized collection and utilization of tires cuts tire costs by approximately 30%. nationally. In Finland, nearly 100% of tires are recycled. In all CO2 emissions are generated during tire production as of Europe, for example, the figure is 95%. The rest of the well as driving. Retreading has a significant impact on the tires are taken to landfills. In Russia, the tire recycling rate is carbon footprint of tires: manufacturing a new tire results in low. According to local legislation, in 2018, our tire recycling approximately 220 kg of CO2 emissions, whereas the figure had to be equivalent to 20% of our total sales in Russia, and for retreading is only approximately 40 kg. Furthermore, we met that target. Our tire recycling rate was 81% of our each retreading operation saves 40 kg of rubber and 70 total sales in 2018. liters of oil per tire compared to new tires. Our new Nokian Part of recycled tires is utilized for material; they are E-tread product family provides even higher raw material shredded or granulated to replace rock materials in various and energy savings. As a result of our product development road construction and civil engineering applications. Rubber efforts, we are able to recycle our tires’ excellent chips are light, insulate moisture, and maintain their form. tread rubber compound even more efficiently without They support the road surface and make asphalt quieter. The compromising on quality. flexible properties of rubber are put to use once more when Our winter tires for trucks and buses and our Noktop it is reused as a base material for sports venues. retreading materials use a Cap/Base structure that is Retreading is one of the best recycling methods. If the optimized for the seasons in the north. Its tread is composed carcass of a tire is undamaged, it can be retreaded. Bus and of two layers. When a tire is fitted in the Fall, the softer top truck tires, for example, can be retreaded up to 2–4 times. layer (Cap) provides winter grip. The top layer will wear out Another way to utilize recycled tires is to combust them by the spring, revealing the harder rubber compound (Base), for energy, as the heating value of tires is close to that of which ensures that the tire delivers sturdy performance in oil. The use of recycled tires as an energy source has been the following summer. growing for years and, today, approximately half of the tires recycled in Europe are used in waste-to-energy applications. WHERE DO TIRES END UP AFTER USE? As one of the original founders of Finnish Tire Recycling Approximately 3.3 million tons of used tires are discarded Ltd we are involved in their work of looking for new ways to each year in Europe. Luckily for the environment, discarded recycle and utilize tires. tires are not worthless and can serve various reuse or NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – PLANET 74 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT TO THE MANAGEMENT OF NOKIAN TYRES PLC We were engaged by the Management of Nokian Tyres plc We have complied with the independence and other The procedures performed in a limited assurance (hereafter Nokian Tyres) to provide limited assurance on ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less corporate sustainability information presented in Nokian Tyres’ Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Corporate Sustainability Report 2018 (hereafter the Corporate Board for Accountants IESBA, which is founded on Consequently the level of assurance obtained in a limited Sustainability Information) for the year ended Dec 31, 2018. fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional assurance engagement is substantially lower than the competence and due care, confidentiality and professional assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable Management’s responsibilities behavior. assurance engagement been performed. The Management of Nokian Tyres is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Corporate Sustainability Procedures performed Inherent limitations Information in accordance with the GRI Sustainability A limited assurance engagement on Corporate Sustainability Inherent limitations exist in all assurance engagements due Reporting Standards, and the information and assertions Information consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons to the selective testing of the information being examined. contained within it; for determining Nokian Tyres’ objectives responsible for the preparation of information presented Therefore fraud, error or non-compliance may occur and not in respect of sustainable development performance and in the Corporate Sustainability Information, and applying be detected. Additionally, non-financial data may be subject reporting, including the identification of stakeholders analytical and other evidence gathering procedures, as to more inherent limitations than financial data, given both and material issues; and for establishing and maintaining appropriate. These procedures included for example: its nature and the methods used for determining, calculating appropriate performance management and internal control • Interviews with members of Nokian and estimating such data. systems from which the reported performance information is Tyres senior management; derived. • An assessment of conformity with the reporting Conclusion principles of GRI Standards in the presentation Based on the procedures performed and the evidence Our responsibilities of the Corporate Sustainability Information; obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance us to believe that the information subject to the assurance • An assessment of coverage of the material aspects engagement and to express a conclusion based on the work engagement is not prepared, in all material respects, in selected for the Corporate Responsibility Information performed. We conducted our assurance engagement on accordance with the reporting criteria GRI Sustainability and the definition of reporting boundaries in the context the Corporate Sustainability Information in accordance with Reporting Standards. of Nokian Tyres’ business operations and sector; International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements other than Audits • An assessment of data management processes, or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by information systems and working methods used to gather Helsinki, 8 March 2019 the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board and consolidate the Corporate Sustainability Information; KPMG OY AB IAASB. That Standard requires that we plan and perform the • A review of the presented Corporate Sustainability engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Information with an assessment of information Corporate Sustainability Information is free from material quality and reporting boundary definitions; Lasse Holopainen Tomas Otterström misstatement. • Assessment of data accuracy and completeness Authorised Public Accountant Partner, Advisory KPMG Oy Ab applies International Standard on Quality through a review of the original documents Control ISQC 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive and systems on a sample basis and; system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, • A site visit conducted to one of Nokian Tyres´ sites. professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT 75 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index GRI CONTENT INDEX All Standards according to 2016. Disclosure Omissions/ more Number Disclosure Title Page Number UNGC SDG information 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 5 102-1 Name of the organization 4 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 4 102-3 Location of headquarters 4 102-4 Location of operations 4 102-5 Ownership and legal form 4 102-6 Markets served 4 102-7 Scale of the organization 4 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 49–51 6 8 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 49 3 8 102-9 Supply chain 18–19 1, 2, 4, 5,10 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain No changes. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 14–15, 54 7 415-1 Political contributions 15 10 102-12 External initiatives 17 102-13 Membership of associations 17 The Financial All units of the Group 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Review 2018 are included. 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 17 102-47 List of material topics 13 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 18, 9–12 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 102-48 Restatements of information 17 102-49 Changes in reporting 17, 49 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 21–22 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 21 NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – GRI CONTENT INDEX 76 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index All Standards according to 2016. Disclosure Omissions/ more Number Disclosure Title Page Number UNGC SDG information 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 21–22 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 21–22 102-50 Reporting period 17 102-51 Date of most recent report 17 2018 Report is published 102-52 Reporting cycle 17 annually. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 4 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 17 102-55 GRI content index 76–78 102-56 External assurance 75 The Financial 102-18 Governance structure Review 2018 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 9–10, 43 10 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 18, 28–30 5, 8 103-2 The management approach and its components 18, 28–30 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 18, 28–30 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 56–57 8, 9 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 59 8 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 18, 39–42 1, 2 , 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9 103-2 The management approach and its components 18, 39–42 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 18, 39–42 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 69–70 7, 8 8, 12 301-2 Recycled input materials used 70–71 7, 8 8, 12 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 65–66 7 8, 12, 13 302-3 Energy intensity 66 8 8, 12 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 69 7, 8 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 67 7, 8 3, 12, 13 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 67 7, 8 3, 12, 13 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 67 8 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions 67 7, 8 3, 12, 13 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 69 8 3,12 NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – GRI CONTENT INDEX 77 Corporate sustainability Our way to World on wheels People Economy Planet Independent GRI content report 2018 sustainable business assurance report index All Standards according to 2016. Disclosure Omissions/ more Number Disclosure Title Page Number UNGC SDG information 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 70–71 8 3 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 63, 64 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 18, 53–55 6 103-2 The management approach and its components 18, 53–55 6 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 18, 53–55 6 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 50 6 8 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work403-2 related fatalities 11, 45 8 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 46, 48 3, 8, 13 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 46 6 3, 5, 8 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 51 Training percentage will be reported in 2019 when the new training programme of personnel will be fully 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 15, 23 10 applied. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 18, 29–30 7, 8, 9 13 103-2 The management approach and its components 18, 29–30 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 18, 29–30 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 35–37 7 The material topic does not represent the GRI standards and therefore its indicators cannot be presented. The company will develop measurement and management of NT1 Extent of mitigation of the environmental impacts of products and services 35 7, 8, 9 11, 13 the topic. The material topic does not represent the GRI standards and therefore its indicators cannot be presented. The company will develop measurement and management of NT2 Reducing the rolling resistance of tires 31, 36 7, 8, 9 11, 13 the topic. NOKIAN TYRES PLC – CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 – GRI CONTENT INDEX 78 www.nokiantyres.com
