UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Contents Letter of Commitment 2 About PT Rimba Makmur Utama 3 Ten Global Compact Principles Implementation 4 Employee Health and Safety 6 Investing in Local Communities 7 Letter of Commitment To our stakeholders: I am pleased to reaffirm PT Rimba Makmur Utama's support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress (COP), we describe actions we have taken to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations for the period August 2018 to July 2019. In addition, the last couple of years, PT Rimba Makmur Utama took steps to contribute to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that align with our business. Recognising the importance of the UN SDGs to the world, and as well as to our mission, we are committed to contributing to nine of the 17 goals. I am very pleased and honoured to announce that in 2018, PT Rimba Makmur Utama was selected as one of the recipients of Sustainable Business Awards. The award highlights the importance of business sustainability and recognises organisations that embed it into their principles, practices, and operations, as well as those achieving positive social and environmental impact. Receiving this prestigious award has been a major milestone as we continue our journey. We, PT Rimba Makmur Utama, are committed to continue embracing and implementing the ten United Nations Global Compact Principles through our daily professional activities. Sincerely yours, Dharsono Hartono CEO, PT Rimba Makmur Utama Page | 2 About us PT Rimba Makmur Utama develops and manages the Katingan Mentaya Peatland Restoration and Conservation Project. The project is located between the Mentaya river to the west and the Katingan river to the east, in Central Kalimantan, Indonesia. Covering 149,800 hectares of relatively intact peat swamp forest, the project is based on the premise that we can save large areas of peat swamp forest, offer local people sustainable sources of income, tackle global climate change and base this on a solid business model. Our project is defined by a result-oriented, bottom-up and transparent approach to land use and conservation in a part of the world where this is urgently needed. Protecting tropical forest from deforestation and degradation is critical to preventing further climate change. The project is currently the biggest Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) approved REDD+ project in the world. It generates an average of 7.5 million triple-gold certified carbon credits anually; equivalent to taking 2 million cars of the road each year . Page | 3 How we implement the Ten Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE COMMITMENT 1. Businesses should support and PT Rimba Makmur Utama recognizes respect the protection of that human rights are an integral part internationally proclaimed human of corporate citizenship and we respect HUMAN rights; and support the Universal Declaration RIGHTS of Human Rights and the Guiding 2. and make sure that they are not Principles on Business and Human complicit in human rights abuses. Rights. PT Rimba Makmur Utama has a zero tolerance workplace violence policy and prohibits all kinds of violent behaviour including, but not limited to, physical assaults, fighting, threatening, and intimidation. There have been zero incidents of human rights violations, including child labour, slavery, or violations of the rights of indigenous people. 3. Businesses should uphold the PT Rimba Makmur Utama does not use freedom of association and the forced, compulsory or child labor. Our LABOR effective recognition of the right to company supports freedom of collective bargaining; association and, where applicable, STANDARDS recognizes the right to collective 4. the elimination of all forms of bargaining. forced and compulsory labor; PT Rimba Makmur Utama institutes a 5. the effective abolition of child non-discrimination and equal labor; opportunity policy within our Code of Business Conduct. We support equal 6. and the elimination of opportunities through fair and discrimination in respect of consistent methods of recruitment, employment and occupation. retention, training and compensation. Our recruitment is based on merit, and promotions and transfers are awarded based on performance. We do not discriminate against any applicant for employment or any employee because of age, race, religion, caste, sex, disability, sexual orientation, social or economic status, pregnancy, or origin. Our policy encourages employees to submit any discrimination-related grievances they witness or experience to our HR department. All employees are given a written contract, regular performance reviews, above market wages and benefits. PT Rimba Makmur Utama has never violated any national labour laws. Page | 4 How we implement the Ten Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE COMMITMENT 7. Businesses should support a Our project area encompasses 149,800 precautionary approach to ha of land with a total perimeter of ENVIRONMENT environmental challenges; 254.12 km. The project area stores vast amounts of CO2, and plays a vital role in stabilizing water flows, preventing 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental devastating peat fires, enriching soil responsibility; nutrients and providing clean water. During 2010-2018, the project avoided the emission of 29,866,604 tonnes 9. And encourage the development CO2. and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The project is expected to avoid an average of 7,451,840 tonnes of GHG emissions annually; equivalent to 447,110,760 tonnes of CO2 over the project's first 60 years. Our project is fully validated and verified by the Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) and the standards of the Climate Community and Biodiversity Alliance (CCB). It has achieved triple-gold status under the CCB standards on account of its exceptional benefits. ANTI10. Businesses should work against PT Rimba Makmur Utama is corruption in all its forms, including committed to achieving high standard CORRUPTION extortion and bribery. of ethical behavior in everything that we do. Integrity is one of our Core Values Page | 5 Employee Health and Safety Worker's safety remains a priority which conforms with the recruitment of the labor law, UU No. 13/2003. We apply a strict Health and Safety Management System as an essential working condition at all levels of our business units. Occupational safety and health are stipulated in the company safety regulation and include: Providing workers with a first aid kit including anti-venom cream and insect repellent Providing navigation and communication equipment such as GPS, compass and handheld transceivers Enforcing a buddy system (minimun two persons in a group for all field activities) Providing standard safety equipment such as microfiber mask, rubber boots, heavy-duty gloves, uniform, hat, harness, survival kit, portable water bottles/bags, and life jacket Providing additional logistics such as fuel, propeller for a boat, and water and meals enough for three extra days Providing proper training on safety procedures, evacuation, communication equipment use and shelter making in order to ensure worker safety and mitigate potential risks inherent to certain field activities such as fire suppression and surveys PT Rimba Makmur Utama has and will continue to provide safety training and equipment as describe above. Training is provided prior to the start of any activity so that it can be specific to the risks associated with that activity. Page | 6 Investing in local communities Local communities are active participants in the project: as decision makers, employees, and through a broad range of sustainable development initiatives. We hold regular meetings with community, on a wide variety of subjects. We have held 350 meetings in a year, attended by over 5,500 people. The subjects of the meetings ranged from the very general (project plan, publication of monitoring report, project legal basis) to the very specific (individual village participatory plans, fire management, agroforestry development, etc). Our project runs a community development program across 34 villages that is intended to encourage people to take part in the development of ecosystem restoration plans. The program optimises benefits for the community and other local stakeholders that are expected to have an impact on increasing the income of the target groups. This could eventually reduce activities which are not environmentally-friendly such as logging and conversion for plantations and will contribute to poverty reduction. In our cooperation with communities, we use three principles: responsibility, transparency and equity. We draw an agreement with the community institution, ensuring that both parties are equally positioned. The cooperation program is based on the village plan drawn up by the communities themselves and accompanied by an independent agency. The program selection is based on the agreement with the community using Pentagonal Livelihood methods, which consider five access that exist in society, namely human capital, natural resources, financial resources, physical resources and social resources. After the program is agreed, negotiations are conducted and then legalized in a MOU and Work Agreement. In general, community development programs consist of : 1. Inside the concession: Implementation of social management area using adaptive agroforestry systems and the development of non-timber forest products 2. Outside the concession area: 2.1). The development of community livelihood program which is based on the potential of the village (fisheries, livestock, crops and agriculture 2.2). Programs related to community resilience (such as participatory mapping and village planning, microfinance, education, health and development of alternative energy. Page | 7 Page | 8 Page | 9
