challenges values skills innovation team responsability service profitability trust DRAWING NEW ROADS Integrated Annual Report 2018 2018 Defining new meanings For 25 years, in Quálitas we have traced our own path, adapting to a changing environment with innovation and talent to solve the challenges of today and tomorrow, providing security and confidence to all our stakeholders, while generating economic, social and environmental value. Content 04 Letter from 28 Corporate 77 Prevention Strategy and and road the Chairman Business Model safety culture 08 Leave a trace 44 Quality service 82 Economic to policyholders performance over time Highlights Road to the 25 years 48 Value chain 92 Corporate Governance Our contribution to global development challenges SDG 101 About our report 106 GRI content index 21 Organizational 54 Employee development Download Financial Statements Identity 114 Contact 67 Innovation and operational efficiency Letter from the Chairman 4 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Letter from the Chairman GRI 102-14, 102-15 Dear Shareholders, 2.0% 2018 was a year of considerable currency instability due to events during the year, such as the re-negotiation of the free trade agreement with the United States and Canada, as well as the federal elections in Mexico. The exchange rate increase affected us due to a decrease written premiums in new car sales. On the other side we were benefited in the investment portfolio by the interest rates hikes. CONTENT Letter from the Chairman 5 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS In 2018, the written premiums increased want to improve our support to these 2% reaching $34,495 million pesos. operations so that in the future they also Although the trend is positive, the lower improve their contribution to the results increase compared to other years was due of the holding. to the 7% drop in the sale of new vehicles in Mexico; the mix of our portfolio has been The results of our non-insurance changing by reducing the participation subsidiaries were positive and aware of of the special business that is generated their potential, we will work during the by the financial institutions and we have year to strengthen their structure and significantly increased the segment of management. the individual and fleet policies, which has helped us to increase the number of In a context of increasing risk for the insured vehicles, ending the year with 3.8 security of information, we deepened million insured cars. its protection. We obtained the PCI (Payment Card Industry) certification 29.9% The earned premiums had a very healthy for our security for transfers through our increase of 11%, which allowed us to have website, after perfecting our processes sufficient resources to face our risks and and standardizing security procedures. We expenses. Operating result increased seek that technology contributes to the 123% and, by adding the financial result of efficiency of processes and strengthens market share in Mexico our investments, we reach a net profit of the attention to the policyholder, thanks $2,428 million; 18% higher than 2017 and to the potential of mobile connectivity 28.5% an excellent ROE of 28.5%. and artificial intelligence, among other aspects. In Mexico we continue to be market leaders and, on the other hand, insurance Our workforce continues to grow and operations in the rest of the countries we already exceeded 5,000 employees, where we operate are still being whose well-being and professional ROE successfully developed; however, we development we support every day. We CONTENT Letter from the Chairman 6 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS provide them with an extensive training Committed to road safety, we continue to program through Quálitas University, develop alliances to spread the importance with options also for agents, suppliers of responsible driving behavior and the and employees of the service offices. We importance of respectfully sharing the road. also generate employment opportunities, We bring young people testimonies and supporting the incorporation through a messages to become agents of change. talent incubator or seedbed. On the other hand, in Mexico City we implemented a Road Safety Management We promote living the values of Quálitas System for our claims adjusters, which together, setting an example in aspects includes training for the attention of claims such as equal opportunities, with more under a culture of prevention. than half of the managerial positions held by women. We are guided by criteria of sustainability, in a close dialogue with our stakeholders. We are committed to the 10 Principles of 92.5% the United Nations Global Compact and we work to maximize our contribution to the Sustainable To facilitate the attention Development Goals. For the second combined ratio of breaches of the Code year in a row, we are part of the Dow Jones Sustainability MILA Pacific of Ethics and Conduct, Alliance Index, which encourages 5,028 us to continue to mature in the we have Q Transparencia management of environmental, (Q Transparency) social and corporate governance issues. whistleblowing platform. When you read these words, we will employees be completing the first 25 years of CONTENT Letter from the Chairman 7 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS the company. The result describes a story of success, not only because of the size of the business and profitability, but also because of the lives and assets that we help protect, because in Quálitas, we insure cars, we take care about people. With the same vitality of this moment we approach the future, we hope to continue to grow thanks to the effort and commitment of all of us who are part of this great company. Best Regards, Joaquín Brockman L. Chairman of the Board of Directors CONTENT Leave a trace over time 8 our achievements Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Dra • wing Alt. of Old English dragan. Give motion to by the act of pulling, (action.) Leave a trace over time. More than two decades ago we began to create our story, today we are proud to take a look at the past and see what we have accomplished. 12 years as market leaders in Mexico CONTENT Leave a trace over time 9 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Outstanding figures GRI 102-7 Infrastructure Performance 418 $34,495 $2,428 service offices and ODQs million in written premiums million of net profit 190 service offices 228 $31,810 92.5% Quálitas Development Offices (ODQs) million in earned premiums combined ratio 5,028 29.9% 28.5% employees market share in Mexico ROE 1,234 3,877,470 $28.9 claims officers insured vehicles billion Invested Assets, float 13,709 1,508,801 agents assisted claims Mexican Peso CONTENT Leave a trace over time 10 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Road to the 25 years GRI 102-2, 102-4 twenty-five years ago we believed and created a business model based on quality service and the availability of insurance through a network of reliable agents to protect the assets and the physical integrity of our policyholders. Throughout this road, we’ve relied on the talent of our employees and a network of suppliers that have allowed us to grow and be what we are today. In those 25 years we have managed to consolidate our leadership in Mexico, as well as extend our operations to the USA and Central America. This has been possible thanks to the trust of our policyholders and the passion and commitment of all of us who work supplying this service. CONTENT Leave a trace over time 11 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS QUÁLITAS IS SYNONYM OF TRUST IN Road to the 25 years AUTOMOTIVE INSURANCE Let’s take a look at our story and the milestones that have paved this road which we want to continue travelling alongside all of you. 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 First office Operation was Launch of fleet 72 offices 91 offices extended outside the segment 115 agents metropolitan area: 2,190 agents 5,500 agents 10 service offices 38 employees 205 employees 3.4% market share in Mexico 4.7 million pesos of +725 million pesos of written premium written premium +2 billion pesos of written premium 150,999 insured units 392,405 insured units CONTENT Leave a trace over time 12 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Road to the 25 years 2005 2007 2008 2010 2011 Listing in the Mexican 19.4% market share in Beginning of Beginning of +2 thousand Stock Exchange Mexico operations in operations in employees (Bolsa Mexicana de El Salvador (Q ES) Costa Rica (Q CR) Valores, BMV) We reach the first Almost 8 thousand position in Mexico agents Strategic alliance with Opening of first ODQ automotive financing (Quálitas Development companies Office) +8.5 billion pesos of written premium 1,356,108 insured units CONTENT Leave a trace over time 13 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS WE BUILD LONG TERM RELATIONSHIPS THAT DELIVER VALUE TO ALL OF OUR Road to the 25 years STAKEHOLDERS. TOGETHER WE SEEK THE BEST SERVICE AND PROMOTE INSURANCE CULTURE AND ROAD SAFETY, WHICH CONTRIBUTES TO THE COEXISTENCE OF CITIZENS. 2012 2014 2016 2018 Constitution of Beginning of 31.5% market share in +5 thousand Quálitas Controladora operations in USA Mexico employees (QC) (QIC) +52% growth written +400 offices (Service premium Offices and ODQs) +12 thousand Nearly 14 thousand agents Adoption of agents Solvency II in Mexico Strengthening of corporate governance CONTENT Leave a trace over time 14 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Victoria Bravo agentsince 1994. “ Something that attracted me when I began working with Quálitas was its specialty and since then, I have been a team player because I believe in what we do together. It is a company you can trust, where communication is feasible, and that is priceless. Trust and communication are key in this trajectory” Agencia EXSE agents – since 2002. “ Since we began operations with Quálitas we’ve seen that it has met all the requirements to offer our prospects and policyholders the best coverage, as well as awareness regarding the liabilities and the risks of a transportation service company. We consider it to be the best company in terms of service and professional relationship with agents; this close treatment is what sets Quálitas apart, a relationship in which we communicate person to person. Due to all this, plus the fact that it is 100% Mexican, it makes us proud to work together and it is an example to follow as a company.” CONTENT Leave a trace over time 15 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Transportes Monroy Shiabon S.A. de C.V policyholder – since 2009. “ Insuring our fleet with a company that provides trust and security is basic, and we’ve found that in Quálitas. It is not only an insurance company, but our business partner, since it is very interested in adapting to our needs, becoming aware of the liabilities and the risks of a transportation company and reducing the claims levels.” Patricia Gaytán employee since 1997. “ When I joined Quálitas, there were times of uncertainty, but what motivated me to not jump out of this ship was my trust in Don Joaquín, when one has the opportunity to work with him, he transmits security and trust. For me, the Quálitas brand stands for success, growth, a lot of love, tranquility and, honestly, a lot of happiness. Joining was the start of a path that made me go forward to achieve many things.” CONTENT Leave a trace over time 16 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Anaid Alavez employee – since 2016. “ Since I started to work at Quálitas, I have been witness of their close relationship with employees and that there are professional development possibilities. I feel fulfilled with the knowledge and experience that I have acquired here, thanks to Quálitas University. I am proud to be part of Quálitas because it is a prestigious company and the number 1 automobile insurer of the country.” Auto Ruedas Navarro-Castillo S.A. DE C.V. “ – supplier – since 2001. We feel we have grown together with Quálitas, from our previous company to our current corporation, having been one of the first companies to which they channeled claims. Quálitas has been our best business partner this whole time; it accounts for 60% of the repairs we make. I would widely recommend other workshops or suppliers to have Quálitas as an ally. I like working with Quálitas and it is the best decision I could have made.” CONTENT Leave a trace over time 17 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Our contribution to global challenges SDGs GRI 102-12, FS16 the 2030 agenda for sustainable development is the international guide for working on the main challenges that we face as a society and it includes the sustainable development goals (sdg), promoted by the united nations, in whose definition the business sector participated; the sdg promote a change in the understanding on how companies contribute to development. The business sector plays an important role in the achievement of the SDG, especially through the initiatives related to their business models and operational impacts. At Quálitas we have joined this global effort and carried out a first analysis of the SDG and goals to which we contribute, which we present below. CONTENT Leave a trace over time 18 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS We have identified the SDG 3 as strategic, aimed at Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure. For innovation, promoting Good Health and Well-Being of the population, how we promote high standards of operation in our to which we contribute by promoting road safety, through business partners is also key. On the other hand, our a prevention culture and responsible conduct. efforts on road safety, also contribute to the SDG 11, of Sustainable Cities and Communities, facilitating the We also contribute to SDG 4, which seeks to encourage coexistence on the road and the inclusion of the different Quality Education for all. In this case, we promote the users. professionalization of our employees and key partners1, through training and delivery of operational tools; our Our contribution to the SDG is detailed throughout this contribution to financial education also stands out. report2. Next, we present an advance for the main SDG. With the impact of our financial education programs and the economic development around the commercialization of insurance through the ODQs, we support the achievement of the SDG 8, on Decent Work and Economic Growth, and the SDG 9, regarding the 1 We understand our key partners to be members of our value chain, those 2 For reference to the SDG and goals, the analysis on the strategic who make the insurance offering and assistance to the policyholder contribution and the guidelines of the Business Reporting on the SDG possible: agents, service offices’ directors and their teams, and suppliers. initiative are considered. CONTENT Leave a trace over time 19 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS SDG 3 ENSURE HEALTHY LIVES AND PROMOTE WELL-BEING FOR ALL AT ALL AGES At Quálitas we contribute to the decrease of traffic accidents and deaths through the promotion of responsible, safe and conscious driving, guided by the “Quálitas Road Safety Program”, whose objective is to protect the integrity of drivers, cyclists, pedestrians and 1,445,644 pesos other users of the public road3. To achieve this, we work invested in road safety.4 together with different associations such as nonprofit organizations, educational institutions and other companies. +35 million people In addition, we provide counseling on routes and driving safety to the policyholders in the fleet segment, who are subscribed to the road safety newsletters. especially exposed due to the time they spend on the road and the dimensions of the vehicles they drive. +1 0 thousand insured fleet businesses, During 2018 we began to redesign how to contribute to which represent +940 thousand insured units. road safety matters in order to incorporate the different actions and develop new initiatives to contribute in a personalized manner to other road users, beyond 3 More information regarding this in the chapter on Prevention and Road Safety Culture. 4 Does not include investment of the fleet segment. CONTENT Leave a trace over time 20 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS motorists, motorcyclists, and shippers. SDG 4 ENSURE INCLUSIVE AND QUALITY EDUCATION FOR ALL AND PROMOTE LIFELONG LEARNING We promote, in a strategic way, the development of our employees, putting Quálitas University at their disposal, which is a platform of knowledge and learning, directed toward employees, agents, service offices’ workers and 8.0 million suppliers, with specific contents to reinforce quality investment the Quálitas University. service. We develop talent incubators to offer indispensable knowledge on the subject of insurance for certain 31 0 participants positions5. in the talent incubators. We also train on financial education, as part of the 81 ,830 hours prevention culture, included in our well-being program for employees and in the campaigns we developed alongside the National Commission for the Protection and Defense of Users of Financial Services (Comisión of training in Universidad Quálitas. Nacional para la Protección y Defensa de los Usuarios de Servicios Financieros, CONDUSEF). 5 For more information go to chapter Employee development. CONTENT Organizational Identity 21 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Organizational Identity GRI 102-16 at quálitas we aim to protect the assets and physical integrity of vehicle owners, as well as their liability incurred in relation to third parties, through a business model based on quality service and cost control. We are an ethical, efficient, financially solid company who is committed to our different stakeholders, besides being a regional benchmark in the automotive insurance market. These are the values that guide our actions and are expressed in out Code of Ethics and Conduct. You can consult our Mission, Vision, and Identity at: http://qinversionistas.qualitas.com.mx/portal/about-qualitas/?lang=en CONTENT Organizational Identity 22 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS QUÁLITAS CONTROLADORA GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-45 Quálitas Controladora, S.A.B. de C.V. is constituted Quálitas México (Q MX) Quálitas by different insurance subsidiaries, that offer a 99.99% El Salvador (Q ES) comprehensive and specialized service in the automotive 99.99% field; non-insurers are added to these which are linked to Quálitas Costa Rica (Q CR) the process of claims assistance which we’ve established 99.99% together with strategic partners that are responsible for the operation and are specialists in their field. In this Quálitas Financial Services Quálitas way, we are able to comply with our promise of service to 100% Insurance the policyholder through an efficient operation and the Company (QIC) creation of tailor-made solutions in order to always live Subsidiary Scheme Easy Car Glass 100% up to their expectations. 75.25% In 1994 we started operations in Mexico, where since Quálitas 2007 we are leaders in the industry; over time we’ve QUÁLITAS CristaFácil Premier Insurance (QPI) expanded our operations to El Salvador, Costa Rica and CONTROLADORA 56.00% 100% the United States. At the end of 2018, negotiations began to acquire an automobile insurance company in Peru, Autos y Salvamentos offering high quality services for the Peruvian market 53.OO% and increasing our international presence. Quálitas Controladora is listed in the Mexican Stock Outlet de Refacciones Exchange (Bolsa Mexicana de Valores, BMV) with a floating 99.99% capital of 42.3%1. Since March 2018 Q* is considered a high liquidity stock. Due to the efforts we have made, Optimización y Talento since 2017 we are part of the Dow Jones Sustainability 98.00% MILA Pacific Alliance Index, which recognizes leading companies in sustainability in the region (Mexico, Chile, Activos JAL Colombia and Peru). 99.99% 1 Last figure reported to the Institute for Securities Deposit (Instituto para el Depósito de Valores, INDEVAL) CONTENT Organizational Identity 23 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS QUÁLITAS MÉXICO Quálitas México (Q MX) In accordance with the information published in 2015 ∆ 18-17 2018 2017 2016 by the Mexican Association of Insurance Institutions Insured Units 1.4 % 3,793,178 3,739,614 3,415,084 (Asociación Mexicana de Instituciones de Seguros, Written premium (MM MXN) 2.1% 32,821 32,141 28,737 AMIS), only 30% of the number of vehicles in the country have insurance, even though it is now mandatory in the Market share (%) (1.4) pp 29.9 31.3 31.5 majority of the States in Mexico. Which is why, there is a Employees +61 4,860 4,799 4,287 great effort to be made to extend the insurance culture Service offices +5 178 173 171 and as a company, we are working on it.2 ODQs +8 227 219 197 We continue to be leaders in the automobile insurance Quálitas México offers insurance for: market with a 29.9% market share according to the figures published by AMIS on December 2018. During 2018 the Automobiles and pickups sale of new cars decreased by 7.1%, according to figures (domestic, foreign and with cross from the Mexican Association of Automobile Dealers border registration) (Asociación Mexicana de Distribuidores Automotores, AMDA), financial institutions, where insurance is sold in Motorcycles alliance with the financial. Quálitas México Trucks and Trailers (Q MX) represent close Nevertheless, we experienced an increase in the to 95.1% of Quálitas individual and fleet segments, distributed mainly through Emergency Services Controladora’s our network of non-exclusive agents. Quálitas Controladora’s Public Service transportation underwriting. Passenger Transportation 2 More information in the chapter on Prevention and Road Heavy equipment Safety Culture. CONTENT Organizational Identity 24 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Service offices and ODQs FS13 These are the States in which our Service offices and ODQs are located. Sonora Chihuahua Durango Nuevo León TOTAL SERVICE 8 7 1 11 OFFICES 7 8 2 Coahuila 8 190 5 Baja California 2 TOTAL ODQS Tamaulipas 7 1 7 2 228 CENTRAL MEXICO Baja California Sur 3 2 Sinaloa State 5 Yucatán Ciudad de México 19 2 Zacatecas 5 San Luis Potosí 2 Estado de México 12 20 1 7 4 11 9 Guanajuato 8 14 Aguascalientes Nayarit Hidalgo 5 9 1 1 3 Morelos 2 1 3 Jalisco Puebla 7 10 10 20 Quintana Roo 12 Colima Veracruz Querétaro 3 6 5 20 Michoacán Tlaxcala 2 3 2 5 1 7 Guerrero OTHER COUNTRIES 10 Campeche costa rica, el salvador and united states 4 2 5 10 Oaxaca Chiapas Tabasco 7 6 2 4 11 6 CONTENT 12 1 Organizational Identity 25 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS QUÁLITAS INSURANCE COMPANY (QIC) Our operation is concentrated mainly in Arizona, California Quálitas Insurance Company (QIC) and Texas. We began with insurance designed for the ∆ 18-17 2018 2017 2016 Mexican driver with cross border routes, and we have Insured Units (1.6% ) 15,560 15,816 16,161 been adding products for resident vehicles in the USA. Written premium (MM MXN) 2.2% 961 940 835 Employees +6 57 51 41 Due to the particularities in the regulations in the insurance sector, in 2018 we created, Qualitas Premier Insurance Service offices +2 4 2 2 Services (QPI) in order to distribute our insurance to different agents, who in turn are responsible for selling it Quálitas Insurance Company (QIC) offers insurance for: to the policyholder. • Mexican trucks with cross border operations (Texas, During the year we launched our individual car insurance Arizona and California). in Texas, for which we foresee significant growth in 2019. We already offer this product in California, where • Trucks with license plates from Texas, Arizona or we exceeded this year, the scope of those vehicles with California, and mobility within the USA. United States license plates that stay overnight in Mexico. • Third party liability for personal automobiles and We have coverage that protects truck cargo in the three pickups that travel on US routes, but have license states where we operate. plates from Mexico. • Borderless insurance for automobiles and pickups with California license plates; also those that reside in Mexico as well. • Personal automobiles and pickups with Texas license plates. CONTENT Organizational Identity 26 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS QUÁLITAS COSTA RICA The market is still in development after the opening of Quálitas Costa Rica (Q CR) previously existing monopoly, a fact that allowed our ∆ 18-17 2018 2017 2016 entry 8 years ago. In this sense, we have been focusing Insured Units 6.8% 52,842 49,441 43,365 on the development and loyalty of a network of agents, Written premium (MM MXN) (2.0%) 456 465 407 as well as the preparation of a team of claims officers on Market share (%) (0.6) pp 7.7 8.3 7.2 staff. We have service offices to assist the agents and the policyholder, with our own staff whose training we invest Employees +4 62 58 48 in an outstanding manner. We reached a market share of Service offices = 4 4 4 7.7%, being the leading private company. Quálitas Costa Rica offers insurance for: Due to the environment of financial uncertainty that affects the country, with tax adjustment and currency depreciation, the economy shrank and with it, the sale of Automobile and pickups new automobiles. Despite this context, we had a increase regarding the number of insured vehicles. Motorcycles Trucks Within the insured portfolio in the country, vehicles that come from a collective financing system hold an Public Service Transportation outstanding weight; we work with 250 of them. Heavy equipment 7.7% of market share. CONTENT Organizational Identity 27 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS QUÁLITAS EL SALVADOR In El Salvador, mandatory automotive insurance does not Quálitas El Salvador (Q ES) exist, only 20% of vehicles have insurance. In this sense, ∆ 18-17 2018 2017 2016 promoting insurance culture and being innovative in the Insured Units 16.2% 15,890 13,671 12,438 strategies for attracting the policyholder is key. We have a Written premium (MM MXN) 10.8% 146 132 117 market share of 7.3%, differentiating ourselves thanks to Market share (%) (0.2) pp 7.3 7.9 7.9 the quality in service and the incorporation of technology, Employees (2) 49 51 35 together with our business model; our interest specially stands out in the case of public service vehicles or those Service offices = 4 4 4 acquired abroad and nationalized. ODQs = 1 1 1 During 2018, we strengthened risk management and Quálitas El Salvador offers insurance for: together with our principles of efficiency and cost control, we managed to decrease the claims rate 11.1 percentage points in regards to 2017, reaching 70.9%. Automobile and pickups We have a network of service offices, operated by Motorcycles specialists who trust Quálitas, we also explore the ODQ model, which has produced excellent results in the Cargo Pickups country. Public Service Transportation Heavy equipment 7.3%market share. Daily Rents CONTENT Corporate Strategy and Business Model 28 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Corporate Strategy and Business Model GRI 102-15, FS13 quálitas is a solid company that has been in the market for almost 25 years maintaining its drive over time. we offer auto insurance and our level of specialty is unmatched in the market, which has allowed us to count on the trust of millions of policyholders. We are an international, prestigious company who still has the same vitality and values we had on the first day. CONTENT Corporate Strategy and Business Model 29 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS 1 BUSINESS MODEL, CORPORATE AND Service Excellence SUSTAINABLE STRATEGY • Close through a network of service offices and agents with personalized GRI 103-2, 103-3 attention. • Dynamic due to the structure of the team and the organization of the Our business model is built on 4 basic fundamentals processes. • Agile and efficient through technology. that guarantee financial success, delivery of value • Demanding in terms of the quality of our suppliers. 2 to our stakeholders and our permanence in time. we are Cost Control • Efficient in the use of resources. • We maximize investment performance. • Comprehensive in monitoring operation and expenses indicators. 3 Within auto insurance, we work in three segments: • Individual: automobiles and motorcycles hired by Specialization unit. • Experienced in the auto insurance sector. • Fleets: automobiles and trucks hired on a large • Flexible in adapting our model to different countries where number scheme. we operate. • Financial Institutions: insurance provided with the • Innovative regarding the needs of the policyholders. automotive financing companies at the time of 4 purchasing a vehicle. Decentralization • Diverse in terms of the commercialization channels that we offer to the policyholder. • Reliable when hand in hand with the agent. • Fearless when introducing insurance to new areas through the Quálitas Development Offices (ODQ). CONTENT Corporate Strategy and Business Model 30 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS We place an extensive and specialized network of agents Being aware of the needs of our policyholders, agents and who sell insurance from the company in the individual and suppliers, we innovated and incorporated technology in fleet segments at the service of policyholders. These order to be more efficient, as it in the case of an “Ajuste agents have service offices and Quálitas Development Exprés” (express adjustment), where we remotely assist Offices (ODQs) at their disposal, who advise them on a claim that complies with specific conditions such as products, rates, processes and other elements required there being no third party involved in the accident or for commercialization and assistance to the policyholder. damage to a public road, among others. In the case of the financial institutions segment, the commercialization is done directly from Quálitas. We also seek to contribute to the development of all who participate in our business model, especially by The service offices are also available for direct assistance offering training through the Quálitas University. POLICYHOLDERS to the policyholder and they operate exclusively for The company’s performance and adherence Quálitas products and services. We establish them with corporate strategy and the fundamentals in partnership with local entrepreneurs specialized in of excellence in service and cost control, is the industry; they also have our own specialized claims monitored through a series of indicators assistance teams. On the other hand, the ODQs are our defined for each department which ON strategic offices in those places where infrastructure are monthly evaluated by the General AGENTS ATI L around auto insurance is still emerging1. In both cases, Management and the Strategic Planning ORM TRO INF CON they rely on the support of the Quálitas Operation Center, area. D AN which is integrated by different specialized teams, and ICE also available to assist agents. RV SE SERVICE OFFICES AND ODQs In case a claim is reported by a policyholder, our claims officer intervenes and puts the repair and medical suppliers at their disposal, who are selected and supervised by Quálitas based on their quality. OPERATIONS CENTER 1 More information regarding the ODQs and their impact in the Chapter on Prevention and Road Safety Culture. CONTENT Corporate Strategy and Business Model 31 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY GRI 102-19, 102-20, 102-21, 102-22, 102-31 At Quálitas we have the purpose of creating value for all of our stakeholders, as shown by the excellence in service, • Innovation and the development of the value chain, cost control and the • operating contribution to a prevention and road safety culture. • efficiency This approach has guided the design and implementation of different initiatives. The maturity we’ve reached • Development of has led us to carry out an analysis at all levels in the organization to define our Sustainability Strategy, • the members of aligned with the business model and which includes the • the value chain priorities. • Ethics and For the design of the Sustainability Strategy, we took • corporate • Employee into consideration the performance and the topics that • transparency • development resulted from our study of relevant topics as a basis2. From there, we established a group of pillars and lines of work to organize the efforts. With the support of different areas of the company, we integrated the already existing • Prevention and initiatives and defined new ones, as well as prioritized the • Road Safety work to be done. The initiatives have a plan of action, that • Culture include the indicators to monitor the progress. 2 More information in the chapter About Our Report. CONTENT Corporate Strategy and Business Model 32 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Ethics and corporate transparency Development of the members of the value chain We seek to enhance the commitment and practice of our values, as well as adherence to the guidelines We work together with our business allies such as: of conduct and relationship with stakeholders. agents, teams at the service offices and suppliers, to offer excellent services and products to our We integrated sustainability criteria in the decision clients. making process. We provide training and operational support that We continued strengthening the corporate allows us a joint performance with high standards government and transparency. of quality. Innovation and Operational Efficiency Employee Development We offer products and services of added value and Our team is key in excellence for the policyholder offer excellent assistance to the policyholder in and in the relationship with agents, service offices accordance with our business fundamentals. and suppliers. We have strict cost control that allow us to be We acknowledge diversity, we form leaders highly competitive in the market. through the development of skills and we promote professional growth. We incorporate state of the art technological innovations in our operation, seeking to be efficient We encourage internal communication and the in the use of resources and in attending to our well-being of our employees. impacts (i.e. environmental). We strengthen internal control in order to make processes more efficient and minimize risks. CONTENT Corporate Strategy and Business Model 33 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Prevention and Road Safety Culture We spread the prevention on road safety culture through our The advances monitored of the strategy are reported on a experience in auto insurance, we also promote financial education quarterly basis by the president of the Social Responsibility through the different initiatives. Committee to the Board of Directors. We contribute to improving the coexistence of citizens; which is complemented by social investment in order to tend to other needs that we identify in our environment. The Sustainability Strategy integrates the actions we have for the different stakeholders and the commitments we have been establishing with them3. Follow-up of the progress made in the strategy corresponds to the Social Responsibility Committee, in which representatives of the areas* that have social responsibility initiatives participate. In addition, we have designated as representatives of the stakeholders those who have a closer relationship with each one. We therefore have a double system of spokesperson: 1) At an area level, to report the team’s initiatives. 2) At a stakeholder level, to point out the expectations of their representatives. 3 Consult the following section Development of the Value Chain. * General Managment, Human Resources, Corporate communication, Finance management, Commercial Managment, Comprehensive risk management, Corporate Legal, Treasury, Relations with Investors, , Claims service, Under Raiting and operational assistance, Claims Operations, National medical manager, Sales customer service manager. CONTENT Corporate Strategy and Business Model 34 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS GRI 102-21, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 Our organizational culture guides the relationships we have with our different stakeholders which has allowed us to create value for them all. We identify our stakeholders considering those that could be affected directly or indirectly by our activities, as well as those who are key for the implementation of our corporate strategy and business model. We place at their disposal different channels and platforms for a open dialogue, involving the areas of the company who are more closely linked by type of activity. In this way, we can know and give answers to the stakeholders’ expectations, involve them in the operation and strengthen our relationship. We bet on growing together, as every commitment we have made with the stakeholders show and which served as the basis for defining the Sustainability Strategy. CONTENT Corporate Strategy and Business Model 35 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS POLICYHOLDERS AND CLIENTS Value Proposal Commitment Channel Topic We protect people and their assets • Personal and asset protection, as • Comprehensive Service Survey • Information availability on products in a comprehensive and personalized well as responsibility in relation to after claim. and services. manner, we listen and attend the third parties through an efficient • Customer Relationship • Quality of products and services. needs of our policyholders. service provided at a competitive Management System (CRM). • Personalized assistance. price. • Service Offices. • Relationships and interaction with • Honesty and transparency in our • Quálitas Development Offices suppliers (repair shops, tow trucks, service relationship. (ODQs) doctors and lawyers). • Open communication to ease the • Website • Complaint and suggestions service to our stakeholders. • Q 360° Portal. follow-up. • Achieve their total satisfaction. • Q móvil app. • Data protection. • Quálitas Contact Center (Telephone and radio operators in call center). • Claim officers and lawyers. • Comprehensive Claims Executive. • E-mail. • Q Agencies Portal. • Business area • Assistance in meetings and conventions. CONTENT Corporate Strategy and Business Model 36 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS AGENTS Value Proposal Commitment Channel Topic Together we build a business • Efficient, equal, fast and cordial • Service offices. • Ease and automation of the model that allows us to deliver business relationship. • Q Agents Portal. administrative processes and the experience and service of • Support in the events of their • Service survey for agents. customer management. a specialized company to our professional activity. • Exclusive chat and contact center • Claims assistance and relationship policyholders and the closeness and • Fast and transparent compliance in (01-800 number) for agent with service suppliers. trust of their reference advisor. We the payment of their commissions assistance. • Policyholder’s experience and work for a long term and efficient and bonuses. • Quálitas Contact Center. satisfaction. relationship. • Agile and fast communication in the • Annual breakfasts and other • Continuous training. We support their professional professional relationship. reunions. development. • Support in technical training. • Qualicom dashboard. • Notiquálitas (Qualitas’ news). • Personalized assistance. • E-mail. CONTENT Corporate Strategy and Business Model 37 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS EMPLOYEES Value Proposal Commitment Channel Topic We create employment and • Competitive and fair wages based • Annual work environment survey. • Training and career development professional development on the responsibilities of their • “Qualinet” Quálitas internal page. perspectives. opportunities, as well as training. position and performance. • “Q Transparencia” whistle blowing • Service commitment and excellence We look for committed people who • Priority in the promotion to higher mailbox. to the policyholder. are part of a team that allows them positions based on merit. • Training sessions. • Ethics and corporate culture. to give the best of themselves, • Possibility for comprehensive • “Qualiclic” performance evaluation • Employee satisfaction. with constructive leadership and training through skills, technical tool. • Social involvement. safekeeping of their well-being. training and ethical values, to • Team meetings. • Well-being. contribute to personal development. • “Qualicom” dashboard. • Support upon emergencies caused • Promote a state of physical well• “Valores Boletín” quarterly bulletin. by natural disasters. being through sports activities and • “Notiquálitas” (Qualitas’ news). activities related to health, including • “Ajusta tus emociones” (Adjust Your the employees’ family. Emotions) (phone number) within • Collaborate with personal savings the Quálitas Well-being Program. efforts. • Internal communications e-mail. • Avoid any kind of discrimination, • Internal communications with full respect of the person’s campaigns. dignity. • Achieve permanence and loyalty of our employees. • Have an open and fluid communication channel between personnel and senior management. CONTENT Corporate Strategy and Business Model 38 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS SHAREHOLDERS Value Proposal Commitment Channel Topic We drive investment performance, • Reliable and timely information on • Annual Mexican Stock Exchange • Publication of financial and nonwith the strength of a prudent the development of our company. Report and Integrated Annual financial results to promote the management and the solidity of a • Efficient, consistent, ethical and Report comprehensive understanding of successful business model, adhered transparent Management. • Quarterly reports (earnings, industry, the company. to a discipline of cost control. We • Transparent and honest corporate and corporate presentations). • Communication and transparency. make the decision making process government practices. • Quarterly earnings results • Compliance of regulatory transparent as well as the company’s • Achieve complete trust of the conference calls. information requirements. results. stakeholders in the management of • Investor Relations Department • Promotion and dissemination of the the company through a professional (face-to face meeting, phone and via company. management with a long term email meetings). • Share Buyback Program operation. vision. • Sending of press releases. • Biannual performance survey. • Investor Relations Website. • Shareholders meeting. • Periodic meetings with analysts. • Social media and press. CONTENT Corporate Strategy and Business Model 39 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS SUPPLIERS Value Proposal Commitment Channel Topic We offer relationships based on • Selection processes based • Q Suppliers Portal • Operational efficiency. trust, with conditions that benefit on tenders which allow free • Public bidding (tenders). • Contractual relationship both parts, fair treatment and competition in a strictly transparent • Telephone support line requirements. transparency. We seek quality and honest environment. (01-800 number) • Quality criteria. services, commitment, and efficiency • Compliance of the mutually • Perception and satisfaction survey • Economic results. in the operation, combining our established obligations to build a • Training. principles of excellence in service and relationship of trust and loyalty. • Effective communication. cost control. • Regular acknowledgments • Acknowledgment. for suppliers, considering the • Feedback through presenting compliance of their obligations, service indicators. quality and enhancement of services and products. CONTENT Corporate Strategy and Business Model 40 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS COMMUNITY Value Proposal Commitment Channel Topic We contribute to the development • Support the development of the • Corporate volunteering initiatives. • Social investment initiatives. of communities in our environment, most vulnerable communities in • Meetings, phone calls and e-mail • Financial education, promotion of through initiatives that tend to their terms of education, health and with non -profit organizations insurance and road safety culture. main needs and where we promote conservation of the environment (donation recipients). • Support upon emergency situations the prevention culture. through the support of effective caused by natural disasters. and efficient civil nonprofit organizations. • Prioritize our collaboration in communities where our offices are located. • Support duly established associations, which have features of permanence, ethics and efficiency, which will be evaluated through the measurement of the social impact achieved. • Encourage the participation of our employees and agents to fulfill the objectives of this stakeholder. • Actively participate in the conservation of the environment, particularly in the areas related to Quálitas’ activities. CONTENT Corporate Strategy and Business Model 41 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS AUTHORITIES AND PEERS Value Proposal Commitment Channel Topic We comply with applicable laws • Strict compliance with laws and • Industry and business associations • Legal Compliance. and thus promote conditions of fair regulations committees. • Ethics and anti-corruption practices. competition, in addition to protecting • Proactive collaboration practices • Compliance and institutional • Economic results. the rights of the policyholders. with authorities and business and relations teams. • Financial education and insurance professional associations. culture. • Relationships with peers based upon • Accessibility to insurance products. ethics, respect and transparency. • Support and education on road safety. CONTENT Corporate Strategy and Business Model 42 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS ALLIANCES AND MEMBERSHIPS GRI 102-12, 102-13, FS16 At Quálitas we are committed to a safer society, that We have the Quálitas Road Safety campaign, aiming to incorporates the prevention and road safety culture. reach different audiences5. It is also part of the Decade We are aware that in order to achieve it, it is key to work of Action for Road Safety, declared by the United Nations together with other agents, seeking synergies between in 2011, which calls for the collaboration of governments, our initiatives and the development of joint proposals. companies and non-profit organizations to promote a culture of respect. We continue working with the Comisión Nacional para In addition, we are involved in the development la Protección y Defensa de los Usuarios de Servicios and improvement of the insurance industry in Financieros, CONDUSEF (National Commission for the Mexico, through the exchange of good practices and the joint work of common challenges, Protection and Defense of Users of Financial Services), as members of the Asociación Mexicana de publishing messages of financial education and the Instituciones de Seguros A.C., AMIS (Mexican promotion of insurance for society, with special emphasis Association of Insurance Institutions) and the on our policyholders. Oficina Coordinadora de Riesgos Asegurados S.C., OCRA (Coordinating Office for Insured Risks). In addition, at Quálitas we support the UN Global Compact, working in the implementation of the 10 Principles that In the United States, we participate with National it promotes, on employment, environmental, human Association of Insurance Companies, NAIC; Insurance rights and anti-corruption practices. To these, we add Accounting & Systems Association, IASA; Pacific our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals Association of Domestic Insurance Companies, PADIC; (SDG), that are part of the 2030 Agenda and represent Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, IIHS. the global map to address society’s main challenges4. 5 More information regarding this in the Chapter on prevention and road 4 More information in the Chapter Marking Tracks. safety culture. CONTENT Corporate Strategy and Business Model 43 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS In Costa Rica we are part of the Private Insurance Benefited Organizations 2018 Companies Association, while in El Salvador, we Cadena de Ayuda contra la Fibromial gia A.C. contribute as partners in the Chamber of Commerce and Casa Hogar Kamami, A.C. Industry of El Salvador. Casa Santa Clara, A.C. Comer y Crecer A.C. SOCIAL INVESTMENT Comedor Santa María, A.C. Comunidad de Desarrollo Infantil Copilco A.C. We are part of the communities where we operate; Doctor Sonrisas A.C. besides contributing our activity of insurance provision, we also lend assistance to the social needs that exist. El Buen Samaritano I.A.P. Fondo para la Paz, I.A.P. Our efforts of social investment are focused on the main Fundación Casa Alianza México, I.A.P. problems in the community; specifically, we contribute Fundación Hermanitas de los Ancianos Desamparados I.A.P. to the improvement of health, education, as well as Fundación John Landgon Down A.C. sustainable development. We contribute economically Fundación Owen I.A.P. through organizations that address those gaps, that are Fundación Pro-niños de la calle, I.A.P. specialists and generate a greater impact. Fundación San Ignacio de Loyola A.C. Hogar Gonzalo Cosío Ducoing I.A.P. Infogen A.C. Instituto de Ayuda Humanitaria A.C. Internado Infantil Guadalupano A.C. Kardias A.C. Metamorfosis Global A.C. Nocaltzin A.C. Proeducación I.A.P. Refleacciona con Responsabilidad A.C. Renovación, Unión de Fuerzas, Unión de Esfuerzos, A.C. Servicio Educación y Desarrollo a la Comunidad I.A.P. Unidos Asociación Pro-Trasplante de Médula Ósea Francisco Casares Cortina A.C. CONTENT Quality service to policyholders quality 44 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Dra • wing Design or create a plan or project. (mission.) Service excellence for the policyholder. Supported by technology we have created a strategy that allows us to offer the best service and to satisfy the needs of our current and future policyholders. + 1 .5 million assisted claims CONTENT Quality service to policyholders 45 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Quality service to policyholders at quálitas we build GRI 103-2, 103-3, 416-1, 417-1, FS15 long term relationships with our policyholders, experiencing and transmitting the values that define us as a company. We are always committed with offering clear and timely information to agents and policyholders, including the policy conditions and the rights of the parties. At the time of contracting an insurance, the policyholders receive the policy documentation alongside a glossary of terms to facilitate the understanding of the clauses, coverages, restrictions and deductibles. CONTENT Quality service to policyholders 46 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Our employees follow the Commercialization Policy guidelines for the set of policies that we offer, as well as the operational norms of the Code of Ethics and Conduct. At Quálitas we make insurance available to everyone through different channels. During 2018 we experienced important growth through our network of agents, who have the support of our service offices. We also offer direct contracting options at the service offices, in the ODQs and through our website. Quálitas policies can be contracted at the automotive financing institutions, which will have the same duration as the acquired credit. In order to establish the fees, we take into consideration variables that affect the costs of operation and service, such as the cost of supplies, the exchange rate and the price and quotation rate. From this, we create profit scenarios, in order to continue offering an excellent service to our customers, maintaining low cost rates. Furthermore, we incorporate local factors in each one of Quálitas makes insurance the countries where we operate; in Mexico, for example, we consider the area where the vehicle travels as a component to set accessible for everyone. the rate. In case of an accident, our assistance personnel both in call center as well as claims officers, are duly trained to ensure the integrity and safety of the people, as CONTENT Quality service to policyholders 47 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS well as to answer to the needs in each situation. The collision and theft, what to do in case of a claim and to policyholders receive information by the claims officers comply with the transit regulations. on the process to follow, a Claims Attention Guide which includes information on the indemnification process and The transparency toward the policyholder is accompanied a brochure including the rights as policyholder. by reciprocity on their part on the appropriate use of the service. We have a solid structure on fraud prevention, Aware that the claims officer intervenes at a key in addition to the follow up and electronic analysis of moment in the relationship with our policyholder, we the policies and claims information. We also promote began the design and implementation of a Road Safety vehicle inspection prior to contracting, as a prevention Management System (RSMS)1. This way, we seek to mechanism. reduce the claims officers’ the accident frequency and protect the policyholders during assistance on the road. We continue strengthening our position in the market We want the policyholder to feel supported during the thanks to our strategy which focuses on policyholder repair time of their vehicle and so we offer a substitute satisfaction, which we monitor monthly through car as an additional coverage. the Comprehensive Service Survey. We work on opportunities for improvement that produce results, As part of the search for added value for the insured fleets, especially for post claims processes, including the we facilitate different safety tools such as electronic relationship and operation of the workshops. devices for tracking the units in case of theft, a problem which is specially growing for trucks in Mexico, as well as to prevent accidents2. Thanks to the information given 81.5% by the devices, we are able to present a periodic claims analysis with details of the units, which are compared to similar fleets and other timely information to reduce accidents. Additionally, we offer training on road safety, accident prevention and periodic inspection of the units. generalized satisfaction average in 2018, We create strategies together to reduce the risk of highlighting assistance by the call center and claims officers. 1 More information in the chapter Prevention and road safety culture. 2 More information in the chapter Innovation and operational efficiency. CONTENT Value chain development 48 our allies Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Draw • ing Finding the means to achieve a goal. (principle.) Value chain development . We have a unique business model that allows us to generate value and strengthen our relations with our stakeholders. +5,000 +13,000 suppliers agents CONTENT Value chain development 49 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Value chain development our business model is based on collaboration with the agents that sell insurance and maintain a relationship of service and trust with the policyholders. CONTENT Value chain development 50 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS AGENTS GRI 103-2, 103-3, 417-1 The relationships the agents have built with the policyholders are a result of transparent marketing and the counsel they offer. At Quálitas, we seek for them to exercise our Code of Ethics and Conduct, aligning with the commitment of service and honesty. We promote a close relationship which allows us to create long term bonds with the agents; we provide support through the service offices and the Quálitas Contact Center, that manages the phone line at their disposal and the Q Agents portal. In this way, we tend to their inquiries regarding policies and the established conditions, claims and repair status, among other information that may be required. We contribute to the development of our agents through actions directed toward their education and empowerment. Since 2016, the Agents School is available at Quálitas University1, and we added regional seminars in order to update them on different subjects, in addition to facilitating the relationship between them. On the other hand, we offer training on financial health, in order to raise awareness on the importance of saving and responsible management of income. 1 More information about Quálitas University in the section, Training and Career Development at Employee Development chapter. CONTENT Value chain development 51 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS In order to know the perception and satisfaction of the For an open communication, we placed the Agents agents, we carried out the service survey, which seeks to Q Portal at their disposal, which facilitates policy obtain feedback on the way in which we operate together. management, rate updates, as well as collection and During 2018, we worked to improve the attention of the commission payment processes, among others. account executives, as well as the issuing and policy management process, resulting in a generalized increase in agent satisfaction. Regularly doing this exercise has helped us in the process of continuous improvement. With a close relationship based on trust, an efficient operation and specialized attention, the agents are key in the relationship with the policyholder, in the spreading of a prevention and road safety culture and in the design of the future of automotive insurance. AUTOMOTIVE FINANCING INSTITUTIONS In the commercialization of insurance, we have the car leasing companies, automotive financing companies and agencies as our allies. Together, we build a relationship that delivers value to those who acquire a new owned or leased vehicle. CONTENT Value chain development 52 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Breakdown of the expense in suppliers per category 2018 SUPPLIERS Construction company 2% GRI 102-9, 102-10, 103-2, 103-3, 204-1 Others 1% Glass Vendor 5% At Quálitas we seek a long term relationship with our suppliers, who are fundamental in our operation, through Medical Services 6% the provision of services such as tow trucks, repairs, medical and legal attention to the policyholders. Repair Shops Agencies 10% We destined 11.2 billion pesos to 5,137 suppliers, a 46% contribution that grows each year and especially Tow Trucks contributes to developing the service industry associated 11% with automotive insurance; 99.9% of it is destined for local suppliers. Workshops 19% Our commitment with suppliers include the development of bidding processes that guarantee transparency and Breakdown of the number of suppliers per category 2018 free competition. At Quálitas we seek for suppliers to perform with high ethical, social, and environmental Legal 1% criteria, including that they are compliant and aligned with Fees 3% our Code of Ethics and Conduct, in addition to compliance Others 1% Construction company 3% with applicable regulations. We have a selection process that evaluates these aspects. Repair Shops 7% Agencies 28% We destined 11.2 billion pesos Tow Trucks 16% to 5,137 suppliers Workshops Medical Services 20% 21% CONTENT Value chain development 53 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS We developed Q Supplier portal, so that suppliers have the pertinent information available and are able to carry out the invoice process through it. In addition, they have the phone line available for counsel and consultations. Online Q portal Services (valuation) The development of our suppliers is key and since 2017 Our Company we have placed the Suppliers School at Quálitas University at their disposal. This way, we train on the work tools with Q electronic Deductible the company. Automobile Insurance invoice emission We also have a network of 24 certified workshops, based Q electronic Q suppliers on compliance with some quality standards in the service invoice sign in established by Quálitas. We continue to promote the Online Services strengthening of their operation and efficiency, and we encourage encourage them to use a fast lane, that can Proof of withholdings help to reduce the repair time2. In order to respond to the concerns of our suppliers and know their opinion, in 2018, we launched the perception survey, where 95.5% of participants showed a general good to excellent satisfaction level. 2 More information in the chapter on Innovation and operating efficiency. CONTENT Employee development our team 54 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Draw • ing To sketch the features of a person or object. (want or will.) Employee development. Our path to success wouldn´t have been possible without the talent of our people, this is the reason why we boost their development, seeking to improve their life quality. 7,0 1 9 participants at Quálitas University CONTENT Employee development 55 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Employee development WORKFORCE DESCRIPTION GRI 102-8, 102-41,103-2, 103-3, 401-1, 405-1 At Quálitas we are convinced that our employees are our most important asset, which is why we encourage the development of their abilities and we deliver optimal work conditions which contribute to their well-being. At the end of 2018, our team is made up by 5,028 employees, 1.4% more than the previous year. Each one of their performances allows us to maintain a close relationship with agents, suppliers, and policyholders, as well as with the teams in the service offices in the four countries where we operate, Mexico, United States, Costa Rica and El Salvador. CONTENT Employee development 56 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Work demographics QUÁLITAS CONTROLADORA support training and professional development so that with the experience, they gradually can occupy positions of higher responsibility. Number of Employees 5,028 work demographics by age and gender quálitas controladora 4,959 Between 30 and <30 years old >50 years old Total 50 years old 2018 2017 2016 4,411 Country F M F M F M F M Mexico 4,860 4,799 4,287 Mexico 719 689 1,164 2,018 68 202 1,951 2,909 United States 57 51 41 United States 8 5 16 20 0 8 24 33 Costa Rica 62 58 48 Costa Rica 31 11 15 4 1 0 47 15 El Salvador 49 51 35 El Salvador 7 9 14 18 1 0 22 27 2018 2017 2016 Total 765 714 1,209 2,060 70 210 2,044 2,984 employees by professional category, age and gender quálitas controladora We have a diverse workforce, that enriches our Between 30 and organizational culture and the decision making process, <30 years old 50 years old >50 years old Total by integrating different perspectives that allow us to Professional category F M F M F M F M understand the market and our stakeholders. Specifically, in terms of gender, we stand out for supporting the Director 0 1 4 1 7 11 11 13 professional development of women in the company. Assistant Director 0 0 13 21 4 10 17 31 The team is made up by 41% women; among the work Manager 6 5 63 72 2 16 71 93 categories, it is especially noteworthy that 46% of Coordinator/ 31 60 194 335 17 39 242 434 the management positions are occupied by women. Supervisor Furthermore, we promote the inclusion of young talent, Analyst 488 589 788 1,577 33 124 1,309 2,290 which already represents 29% of the workforce, mainly Assistant 240 59 147 54 7 10 394 123 as analysts and assistants. Which is why, at Quálitas we Total 765 714 1,209 2,060 70 210 2,044 2,984 CONTENT Employee development 57 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS The Quálitas Mexico workforce makes up 96.6% of 92% of our personnel in Mexico have indefinite the total, due to the magnitude of our operations in the employment contracts; in addition, all the employees country and the size of its market. Next, we present the work on a full time scheme and are directly have a demographics of its workforce in detail. direct contract with the company. Our workforce is complemented by 203 external company workers for auxiliary services such as cleaning, valet parking and Summary of work demographics QUÁLITAS MÉXICO 2018 security. Age group We support communication among all Quálitas’ employees guaranteeing compliance with labor rights and obligations and considering the expectations and Under 30 years old 29% interests of employees. Between 30 and 50 years old 65% It is vital for the company to attract and keep talent which Over 50 years old 6% helps us strengthen the teams and have high talented professionals. In 2018, 1,034 people joined us in Mexico, through a first temporary contract in three-month trial Women 40% Men 60% periods. At the end of the year, 592 of them remained on the workforce with an indefinite contract and 349 still within their trial period1. Type of contract We drive the development of our employees; during the year, 38% of vacancies were filled by internal candidates. 92% Indefinite 8% Temporary 1 The difference is due to those employees that left the company either during their trial period, at the end of it or at the indefinite contract stage. CONTENT Employee development 58 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS new recruitments and discharges 2016 Summary of new recruitment QUÁLITAS MÉXICO Between 30 and < 30 years old Over 50 years old 50 years old Hires Gender F M F M F M Total Recruitment 346 298 232 343 3 9 1,231 Discharge 165 123 178 263 6 22 757 2016 1,231 2017 1,534 new recruitments and discharges 2017 2018 1,034 Between 30 and < 30 years old Over 50 years old 50 years old Gender F M F M F M Total Recruitment 446 396 291 390 4 7 1,534 By gender and age Discharge 238 156 248 329 8 17 996 Over 50 years old Over 50 years old Women 1% Men 2% new recruitments and discharges 2018 Between 30 and < 30 years old Over 50 years old 50 years old Gender F M F M F M Total Recruitment 294 286 200 242 3 9 1,034 Discharge with indefinite 126 119 162 231 8 20 666 contract Between 30 Between 30 Discharge with and 50 years and 50 years temporary 82 76 55 66 2 3 284 old 40% old 45% contract2 Total Discharge 208 195 217 297 10 23 950 2 Refers to the three-month trial contract Under 30 years old Under 30 years old 59% 53% CONTENT Employee development 59 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Our commitment with employee development, through training hours per employment category – quálitas méxico their training, benefit packages, and attention to the 2018 2017 2016 work environment, allows us to count on a committed Face-toFace-toFace-toTotal Virtual Total Virtual Total Virtual team. Our turnover at Quálitas Mexico in 2018 was employment category face face face 14.8% of employees we already have on the workforce Directors 503 202 301 683 356 327 266 252 14 with indefinite contracts, after the trial period3. Assistant 3,321 1,715 1,606 2,854 2,193 661 684 651 33 Directors TRAINING AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT Managers 9,824 1,770 8,054 7,564 4,782 2,782 678 566 112 GRI 102-35, 102-36, 102-37, 103-2, 103-3, 404-1, 404-2, 404-3, 405-2 Coordinators 31,557 4,016 27,541 12,571 5,257 7,314 593 270 323 Analysts 193,383 94,558 98,825 194,194 149,742 44,452 55,542 53,440 2,102 At Quálitas we trust in the development of our employee’s Assistants 16,669 406 16,263 11,907 3,763 8,144 460 107 353 abilities, through face-to-face and virtual programs to strengthen their knowledge and skills. Our efforts translated TOTAL 255,257 102,667 152,590 229,773 166,093 63,680 58,223 55,286 2,937 into 255,257 hours of employee training in 20184. As a sign of our interest in the digital transformation, 60% of the hours were imparted virtually, managing to reach more We offer training to all employees in all professional employees. categories, tending to the needs associated with their responsibilities and activities. Throughout the year, each employee received an average of 52 hours of training. training hours per employee per employement category quálitas mexico 3 Unlike the previous annual reports, this year we showed the turnover in employment category 2018 2017 2016 the group of employees that are already a part of the fixed workforce, with an indefinite contract, thus eliminating the bias that came with the Directors 30 40 14 discharge of those employees who did not fulfill the 3-month trial period in a satisfactory manner (with a temporary contract). The turnover was Assistant Directors 79 73 18 calculated as Discharge of employees with indefinite contract / Active Managers 64 51 5 employees as of December 31st for those with indefinite contracts. Coordinators 49 20 1 4 The information on training only applies to Quálitas Mexico, except for the data that makes clear reference to operations in other countries. Analysts 55 55 19 Assistants 35 25 1 CONTENT Employee development 60 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS The Quálitas University makes up our main training number of participants in quálitas university in mexico program, which leverages technology to train remotely, 2018 2017 with the goal of developing the skills required by our Number of Number of Number of Number employees. From its beginning, we are progressively Group participants6 hours participants of hours expanding its contents and scope. By the end of the year, we had imparted 101 courses, 31 of them were new; we Quálitas Employees7 5,434 147,950 5,125 68,975 had 5,434 participants5. Agents 182 1,906 702 1,542 Service Offices 1,095 25,296 901 11,302 We extend the development of training contents at the Employees Quálitas University to our allies in the implementation Suppliers 398 599 11 11 of the business model, who participate in the provision TOTAL 7,109 175,751 6,739 81,830 of service to the policyholder: agents, suppliers and employees from service offices. dimensions of quálitas university – other subsidiaries 2018 2017 Number of Number of Number of Number of Group participants hours participants hours United States 4 8 Costa Rica 62 2,040 56 308 El Salvador 57 516 40 115 5 This number is greater than the number of employees since it includes 6 An employee who finishes at least one course is considered a participant. employees who stopped working at the company during 2018. 7 This number is higher than the number of employees since it includes employees who stopped working at the company during 2018. CONTENT Employee development 61 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS The contents of the University cover different topics related to our operation, which we present organized by schools and recipient profile. In 2018 we reinforced the content; reinforcing the prevention of money laundering in the Business School stands out. Schools at Quálitas University: * Quálitas School * Commercial School * Agents School * Claims School * International School * Technical School * Leadership School * Suppliers School We have a talent incubator, an initiative to prepare new employees in those profiles that we demand the most. This year, we provided 47,953 hours of training under this scheme, increasing the variety of incubators and the number of developed editions. The rate of participant incorporation into the company after their training through the incubator was 77%. Through this initiative we empower young talent and we incorporate employees who are committed to their responsibilities. CONTENT Employee development 62 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS INCUBATORS FOR EMPLOYEES Train lawyers in the competences for addressing claims according to the accusatory criminal system 37 participants Lawyer Incubators and the service philosophy of Quálitas. duration of 115 hours Call Center Develop excellent phone assistance abilities for the policyholders, resolution and/or internal 50 participants Incubator management of requirements. duration of 126 hours Train the radio operator in competences for the correct and timely assignment of tow trucks in collision 21 participants AVQ8 Incubator8 or AVQ according to policies and procedures. duration of 141 hours Claims Officers Develop the abilities for claims assistance according to our internal guidelines and applicable 47 participants Incubator regulation, including the service philosophy of Quálitas. duration of 382 hours Claims Coordinator Train in the monitoring of the claims assistance work, the coordination and the attention of the 17 participants Incubator employees involved in the process. duration of 206 hours Train the ODQ employees to obtain the A2 document, which allows them to sell the company’s 63 participants ODQs Incubator insurance9. duration of 92 hours Customer Service 57 participants Executives Train employees who sell insurance directly to the policyholder, to obtain the A2 document. duration of 59 hours Incubator 16 participants Valuator Incubator duration of 214 hours Train in the competencies that allow them to carry out an appraisal of damages, according to service and cost policies and standards. Heavy Equipment 2 participants Valuator Incubator duration of 210 hours 8 Asistencia Vial Quálitas, AVQ (Quálitas Roadside Assistance) 9 Authorization issued by the Comisión Nacional de Seguros y Fianzas, CNSF (National Insurance and Bonding Commission) in Mexico to CONTENT intermediate in transactions with personal and family risk insurance and damage insurance. Employee development 63 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Our interest in promoting the development of capabilities, technical and service excellence, resulted in an investment of $34.6 million pesos in 2018. Our employee’s activity is evaluated periodically through The remuneration at Quálitas is established by complying a process of performance evaluation, whose result is with our Salary Administration Policy, based on three decisive for the proposal to update the remuneration. factors: In 2018, we structured the process through Qualiclic, a technological platform that facilitates its operation; each 1. The average of the insurance sector. employee can manage their evaluation. 2. The analysis of the internal profiles in the company, guaranteeing equality among similar positions. All of our employees are evaluated, if they have been at 3. The adjustments associated with the result of the the company for more than three months. The process performance evaluation. is composed by three phases, which happen throughout the year: We safeguard equity in remuneration between men and women for the same profile of position and seniority. 1. Defining the goals to accomplish. Next, we present the ratio for each professional category. 2. Regular feedback on the progress of the achievement. salary relationship women/men 2018 quálitas mexico10 3. Final evaluation with a grade assignment. Employment Category Fixed Fixed + Variable5 Directors 0.88 0.95 We are proud to share that in less than a year of launching this platform, we reached a participation of 67% of Assistant Directors 0.82 0.93 employees. Managers 0.89 0.92 Coordinators 0.91 0.93 In the case of the directors, this evaluation is complemented by their balance scorecard which is based Analysts 1.39 0.88 on the objectives to be achieved by the area under their Assitants 0.78 0.74 charge, on which the annual bonus depends on. TOTAL 1.10 0.86 10 Variable income does not include the amount for Employee Profit Sharing (PTU) CONTENT Employee development 64 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS WORK ENVIRONMENT family members to obtain discounts to study at the GRI 401-2, 401-3, 404-2 University of Valle de México (UVM, Universidad del Valle de México) and the TecMilenio University. At Quálitas we At Quálitas we care about the life quality of our employees, work for the welfare of families through the collaborator, by offering a series of benefits complementing their seeking direct benefits for their environment. remuneration, including the development of a well-being program with a comprehensive approach on the person11. Equal opportunity, equality and respect for the people’s dignity are a fundamental for our team management. The entire workforce has life insurance from the moment We are a diverse company, with presence in different they join the company. We also provide all our employees countries in the region, that is enriched thanks to the with a medical insurance which they can extend to collaboration of the different profiles and ages. their immediate family members. In the case of those employees who already have an indefinite contract, we give out preferential discounts for contracting auto insurance policies. Likewise, we seek to facilitate their We have a Policy of Respect of the Person finance management, by placing at their disposal a savings account, which 73% of the employees made and their Diversity, as framework for a use of during the year; in addition to offering them agreements with investments platforms, to which we respectful work environment. add financing facilities for housing and automobile. During the year, we offered different courses on topics In 2018, 131 employees went on paternity/maternity on financial education12. leave, 64% being women. The totality of employees who went on leave, returned to their activities within the In 2018, we complemented our study scholarship year in which they requested the leave. We encourage program for employees with the possibility for their them to reconcile their responsibilities, however, 23% of collaborators who during 2018 would have been at the 11 The data presented correspond to the operation in Quálitas Mexico. company for a year after their return, had already left the 12 More information regarding financial education in the chapter on company. Prevention and Road Safety Culture. CONTENT Employee development 65 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Our employee well-being is comprehensive, it promotes We have 315 volunteer brigade members, who are physical, financial, social, labor and emotional health. part of our workforce who, as their main responsibility, Regarding physical health, the medical service stands safeguard the integrity of all employees at Quálitas in out for first time consultations and preventive care we case of there being a risk in the facilities. offer in our centers with the larges number of employees, as well as awareness days that focus on healthcare. We During the year, the brigade members received 974 hours complement it with the Ajusta tus Emociones (Adjust of face-to face training, that included the following topics: Your Emotions) program, in which, through a third party, first aid, protection and fire fighting and evacuation and our employees can receive legal and psychological communication. among other advice over the phone, and if necessary, they can request a face-to-face session with a specialist. Our different efforts are shown in the following health and safety indicators. Health and safety indicators 2018 QUÁLITAS MEXICO13 Number of accidents 215 Number of work illnesses 0 Number of fatalities 0 Accident Rate 4.7% Work Illness Rate 0% Absenteeism Rate 1.5% 13 Accident Rate = (# of accidents/average employees in the year) x 100 Absenteeism Rate = (Lost hours/ year work hours) average workers) x 100; the rate shown only includes absences due to accidents and work illnesses. CONTENT Employee development 66 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Our employees exposed to greater risks are the claims officers, due to the time spent behind the wheel and the type of emergencies they serve while being exposed to traffic. Concerned for their safety, we want to extend the best practices in safekeeping and operation to reduce accidents and protect them as well as the policyholders during claims assistance. Which is why, we are working to develop and implement a Road Safety Management System, in accordance with the ISO 39001 Standard14. The different subjects we have been pointing out, together with training and career development, determine the company’s work environment. From Quálitas we strive to create satisfactory work environments for our employees, who can give their best and feel supported by the strength of a team. We perform a work environment survey once a year, in which 82% of our employees in Mexico and 79% of the rest of the countries participated in; it also extends to our service offices15. Based on the results, we identify the improvement opportunities and establish a work plan. 92% of employees are identified with the mission, vision and values of ​​ the company according to the Work environment survey. 14 More information regarding this in the Chapter on Prevention and Road Safety Culture. 15 Participation of the group of recipients: Quálitas employees and service offices was 81%, 13 percentage points more than in 2017. The participation expressed in the 2017 report corresponds to the 2016 performance although the results were published this year. CONTENT Innovation and operational efficiency our challenges 67 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Draw • ing Think and design something. (objective.) Innovation and operational efficiency. Thanks to our clients’ and shareholders trust we transmit stability in a year full of challenges and opportunities. 190+228 service offices + ODQ CONTENT Innovation and operational efficiency 68 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Innovation and operational efficiency we work permanently to offer a service that adds value to our policyholders, agents, teams at the service offices and suppliers. CONTENT Innovation and operational efficiency 69 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS INNOVATION GRI 103-2, 103-3, 416-1 Through our experience in the auto insurance industry, In the year, the express adjustment was extended our relationship with the different stakeholders, the to almost all the States in Mexico this service allows closeness with the policyholder and our commitment remote assistance during claims attention, decreasing to continuous improvement, we manage to identify the response time, as long as they comply with certain opportunities to continue providing an excellent service. conditions. Solutions such as this one, favor the efficiency In addition, technology helps us safeguard the safety of of the process and the convenience of the policyholder, people and their assets. besides, it allows for better allocation of claims officers and resources for more severe claims. This scheme also At the company we have driven innovation under strategic has a positive impact by reducing traffic of claim officers guidelines marked by Management and enriched by the on the roads and decreases CO2 emissions. contribution of the different areas, who are in charge of designing and implementing the ideas and improvements. During 2018, the claims area carried out an especially We have specific channels and platforms significant job, by launching a temporary application, available during the claims process, so that claims per recipient, which allows us to streamline officer can provide digital and safe assistance. In 2019 an application will be launched so that clients can be in the operational processes and facilitate closer contact with the claims officer during each stage of claims assistance, as well as another application for communication. an express adjustment. Likewise, we are incorporating artificial intelligence solutions, such as chatbots, to assist policyholder’s general consults. CONTENT Innovation and operational efficiency 70 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS CHANNELS AND PLATFORMS Q Móvil App App for claims officers Q Agents Portal • Claims report, request for road • Communication between claims • Quotation without the need of Internet assistance and emergency officer and call center for first • Tariff update • Consultation and information on the information on the claim • Issuance of polices online policy and payment receipts • Receipt of claim information and the • Report Consultation • Tracking the claims officer’s location policyholder’s file via GPS • Locating stolen vehicles through Encontrack • Status of vehicle repair • Service offices directory Q Suppliers Portal and Q Agencies Portal Profile synchronizing Quotation without the Issuance of Rate update and quotation with Report Consultation need of Internet polices online Portal Q 360° CONTENT Innovation and operational efficiency 71 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Quotations Newsletter Task and notice calendar Cancelation Index Consultation of Portal Q 360 ° Production report policies E-invoice Consultation of claims Police payment CRM consultation Renewals CONTENT Innovation and operational efficiency 72 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS One of our great differentiators consists of incorporating state of the art technology in our processes, operations and insured units. The devices we offer to fleets for the prevention of accidents and to facilitate the recovery in case of theft, has allowed us to decrease claims costs, offer competitive prices and create long term relationships. Encontrack Mobileye Guardian Octo Telematics MDAS • Tool for the recovery • Devise for the • Alert system for • Telemetry devise to • Advanced of a vehicle in case prevention of the driver and the evaluate the driving monitoring system of theft accidents monitoring center habits and state of and support to the • External team • Warns the driver prior that allows the timely the vehicle driver to prevent specialized in to a possible collision detection of fatigue • Devise in testing collisions recovery and distraction stage • Devise in testing • Reduction of • Devise in testing stage deductible in case of stage theft Out of the total amount of stolen cars insured by Quálitas in 2018, 42% were recovered. We offer coverage that provides the Out of the stolen vehicles that had the Encontrack device, we recovered 78%; both figures ares higher than the total recovery rate of the industry in Mexico which was possibility of repairing a damaged 38%, according to data from the Oficina Coordinadora de Riesgos Asegurados, OCRA vehicle through an automotive agency (Coordinating Office of Insured Risks). for units up to 9 years old. In order to speed up the repair process of vehicles with minor damage, we have the express lane in certified repair shops; in 2018, we extended this alternative to other repair shops, speeding up delivery of cars in one or two days. CONTENT Innovation and operational efficiency 73 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS EFFICIENCY IN THE OPERATION AND SERVICE GRI 102-48, 103-2, 103-3, 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 Technology has allowed us to improve processes for associated Greenhouse Gas emissions (GHG). This way, more agility and efficiency. we seek to be responsible regarding climate change, by encouraging an operation that respects the environment. We seek to optimize the commercialization of our products and services from approaching the client to Electricity Consumption Quálitas Controladora (kWh)1 the post-claim followup. We have the Comprehensive 2018 2017 Service Survey, so that the policyholder who was involved in a claim can assess the attention and service at Quálitas. Mexico 6,448,185 6,583,297 This survey has allowed us to improve the assistance Electricity United States 13,073 11,1342 time and quality of service. Costa Rica 113,119 103,012 From our work with suppliers, opportunities for El Salvador 147,534 140,981 improvement in assistance and service times have arisen, TOTAL 6,721,911 6,838,424 as in the case of the network of certified repair shops. Innovation in the processes of valuation of our staff and the coordination with the repair shops, have significantly In the year, we consumed 6,721,911 kWh of electricity in reduced repair times. In addition, we are encouraging the offices of all the countries, 1.7% less than in 20173; that repair shops have an express lane to assist claims this implies an energy intensity of 0.19 Wh per weight of with minor damages and to deliver the repaired vehicle written premiums at the Quálitas Controladora level. in 2 days. We have 24 certified repair shops throughout Mexico and 42% of them have an express lane service. In the case of Mexico, the total energy consumption was 216,874 GJ, including electricity and fuel; 89% Regarding our consumption of energy, we developed corresponds to fuel for Qualicoches (Quálitas’ vehicles to initiatives in order to be more efficient and reduce assist claims) and other utilities Quálitas manages. 1 For the comparison with fuel consumption, 1 kWh=0.0036 GJ 2 There is a restatement of electricity consumption in the U.S. in 2017 in respect to what was indicated in the Integrated Annual Report 2017, due to an adjustment in the calculation methodology. 3 The consumption of the offices, including ODQs is considered within the calculation of electricity consumption of Quálitas. CONTENT Innovation and operational efficiency 74 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS We continue to work in order to be more efficient in our Qualicoches and other utilities in charge of the company, consumption, through substituting lighting for LED. For and the associated treatment plants (Scope 1). In addition, the work of our claims officers, the Qualicoches, require the indirect emissions due to generation of electricity the use of fossil fuels. required by Quálitas were included (Scope 2) and this last scope we also extend to our operations in the rest Fuel Consumption – Quálitas Mexico (GJ)4 of the countries where we operate. Finally, we included the emissions associated with the fuel for business trips Fuel 2018 2017 both in Mexico and abroad (Scope 3). L.P. Gas 229.68 269.97 Diesel 1,352.63 NA Gasoline 192,078.64 196,626.86 LP Gas Direct Fixed sources TOTAL 193,660.95 196,896.83 Diesel Scope 1 Mobile sources Gasoline In addition, we calculated our Greenhouse Gas emissions (GHG) inventory, based on the ISO 14064-1 Standard and the methodology established by the Registro Nacional Indirectas de Emisiones, RENE (Mexican authority for the National Electric energy GHG EMISSIONS Scope 2 Emissions Registry). We included in the inventory the emissions from our operations in Mexico. On the one hand, we considered National the emissions of LP Gas and diesel consumption at the Otras emisiones Flights work centers, as well as those due to gasoline from the indirectas International Scope 3 4 It includes LP Gas from the dining halls at the San Jerónimo and San Ángel facilities; diesel from the auxiliary equipment at the Ajusco, San Jerónimo, San Ángel, Cuajimalpa, Maguey, Polanco, Guadalajara and Monterrey facilities (in 2017 only Monterrey was considered); gasoline consumption from the Qualicoches and other utilities managed by Quálitas; and emissions at the wastewater treatment plants at the San Jerónimo and Maguey facilities. CONTENT Innovation and operational efficiency 75 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS GHG Emissions Quálitas Controladora (tCO2e) Subsidiary Type of Emission 2018 20175 Scope 1 14,518.04 14,302.15 Direct due to fuel combustion Scope 2 Mexico 3,398.19 3,831.48 Indirect due to the generation of the electricity consumed Scope 3 456.09 692.19 Other indirect ones U.S., Costa Rica, Scope 2 114.91 24.59 El Salvador Indirect due to the generation of the electricity consumed Our GHG emissions in 2018 for Mexico were 18,372 tCO2e, Other environmental initiatives that we developed at 2.4% less than the previous year; it implies 0.56 gCO2e Quálitas focus on reducing the use of paper. For claims per each weight of written premiums in the country. documentation management, electronic formats are used which the policyholder fills out on a tablet that the In order to reduce emissions, we also invest in energy claims officer carries. efficient initiatives, we added solar panels for the supply of renewable energy in some of our facilities in Mexico. In Regarding waste, we carried out a differentiated 2019 our program to incorporate hybrid vehicles to the collection of paper, aluminum, PET, and others in Qualicoches fleet will begin, by integrating at least 100 our facilities, for recycling. The electronic waste we units in the year and will progressively advance until the generated as a result of our activity is managed so that renovation of the vehicular fleet is complete. it is recycled by a third party, the same goes for the associated consumables such as toner cartridges. 5 There is restatement of the emissions outside Mexico for 2017 in respect to what was indicated in the previous integrated report, due to a calculation adjustment of the consumption of electricity in the U.S. offices. Incorporated hybrid vehicles to the Qualicoches fleet. CONTENT Innovation and operational efficiency 76 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Recycled Material (Kg) – Quálitas Mexico6 2018 2017 2016 Paper and 4,095 1,599 2,599 carton PET 185 187 206 Aluminum 37 41 21 Others 480 237 489 Regarding water consumption, we promote responsible use among all of our employees. In the year, our offices in Mexico consumed 12.3 million liters of water. On the other hand, we have water treatment plants at two of our facilities in Mexico, at the San Jerónimo and Maguey offices. We encourage the environmental sensibility of our employees and their families, by inviting them to participate as volunteers in reforestation activities, strengthening ties among the participants. In 2018 we carried out reforestation days in Mexico City, Guadalajara and Monterrey, with 1,439 participants and 11,450 trees that were planted. In addition, the initiative was extended to the agents and their families like in previous years. 6 Ajusco, San Ángel and San Jerónimo Offices. CONTENT Prevention and road safety culture our culture 77 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Draw • ing To make a plan and take action. (initiative.) Prevention and road safety culture. Our goal is to contribute to generate awareness of the importance of driving with care and caution. CONTENT Cultura de prevención y seguridad vial 78 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Prevention and road safety culture at quálitas we work to extend the prevention culture in the places where we operate. mexico is among the countries with least insurance contracting at an international level, according to studies from the oecd1. 1 OECD Insurance Statistics 2017 https://read.oecd-ilibrary.org/finance-and-investment/oecd-insurance-statistics-2017_ins_stats-2017-en#page1 CONTENT Cultura de prevención y seguridad vial 79 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS FINANCIAL AND INSURANCE CULTURE GRI 103-2, 103-3, 401-2, FS13, FS16 In relation to automotive insurance, the authority advances in establishing the mandatory insurance for vehicles that travel on federal roads, according to statistics published in the Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Geografía, INEGI (National Institute of Statistics and Geography); only a third of the total vehicles have some sort of insurance. It is important to highlight that, in practically all of the States in Mexico, vehicle owners are required to have civil liability insurance that covers damage that may be caused to third parties and/or their property. We seek to go further not only by making our insurance portfolio available for the population, but by generating awareness on the importance and value of insurance. We know that collaborating and team work are fundamental in meeting this challenge, which is why we joined forces with the teams of the 190 service offices and agents, to be close to those who may require insurance. In addition, at Quálitas we reach places with less penetration of automotive insurance, through the 228 Quálitas Development Offices (ODQs). With the ODQs model we drive the development of an insurance culture in communities with less penetration, thanks to the trust that Quálitas’ experience generates and the proximity of our employees in the locality. Through our business model we contribute to the socioeconomic development of the environment. CONTENT Cultura de prevención y seguridad vial 80 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Associated with the prevention culture, we promote financial education between our stakeholders, including the importance of saving and the income responsible management. Thus, we followed up on the collaboration with the Comisión Nacional para la Protección y Defensa de los Usuarios de Servicios Financieros, CONDUSEF (National Commission for the Protection and Defense of Users of Financial Services), through a campaign that reached more than 375 thousand agents and suppliers. We offer a course on financial education for our agents at the Quálitas University. We have a health and well-being program for our employees that includes topics on financial education, which is complemented by benefits such as the savings account. ROAD SAFETY Due to our operation and the services we offer, we are aware of the risks behind the wheel. We have the Quálitas Road Safety program, consisting on a website with information +131,000 users Qualitas on the subject and the monthly delivery of informative e-mails to our network of agents, Road Safety webpage employees, and the subscribed public, reaching an audience of 131,933 users. To this, we add the broadcasting of contents through the social network profiles of the service offices. We want to strengthen our impact by collaborating with civil society organizations, educational centers and other companies. CONTENT Cultura de prevención y seguridad vial 81 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS In 2018, we established an alliance with the foundation México Unido reduce accidents, providing them with telematic devices that register Libre de Lesiones Infantiles, MUNLI (Mexico United for Children free driving conducts². of Injuries), to broadcast messages on road safety in the press, which added to the content we published directly from Quálitas, it reached an During this year, we worked on the development of a Road Safety estimated 2 million people. Management System (RSMS) which includes guidelines to be followed by our claims officers during road assistance to the policyholders, meeting We collaborated on the preparation of the driving manuals for the the requirements of ISO 39001. In this way, we seek to strengthen the university public together with the Consejo Nacional Ciudadano de safety of our policyholders during their roadside assistance, reduce the Cultura Vial A. C., CNCCV (National Citizen Counsel for Road Safety) and claims rate of the claims officer’s fleet, and be an example of road safety. 6,000 informative copies were distributed. As part of the RSMS we established our Road Safety Policy, which Together with the Roadshow initiative of the International Road Safety establishes the commitment to raise awareness among our employees, Academy (IRSA) and in collaboration with the Alianza Nacional para la making vehicles in optimal conditions available to the claims officers and Seguridad Vial, ANASEVI (National Alliance for Road Safety), we raised facilitate their maintenance, in addition to complying with the law. The awareness in 3,280 young people through the testimonies of traffic development of the system is comprehensive and has the participation accident victims. Also, together with ANASEVI, we participated in the of different areas of the company. Mobility and Road Safety Week in the State of Mexico, and presented the way in which technology can help prevent accidents. The RSMS started as a pilot program in Mexico City and all the claims officers where given the training on road safety that certifies them. We followed up on the alliance with Cinepolis and Cinemapark for the We also made available to them a network of internal communication presentation of a video on driving and responsible alcohol consumption, so they could share their experiences and strengthen the adoption of presented in 5 States throughout Mexico with a reach of 979 young best practices. We also work with call center staff who participate in the people and adults. Newsletters were distributed with an estimated assistance of claims, who were trained on the new protocols of action, so reach of 13 million people. that they too are certified. In a second phase, we will extend the scope of the system to our claims officers in other regions. Shipping drivers are specially exposed to accidents due to the amount of time they spend on the road, which is why as part of the service we offer to fleets, we give training on road safety and we developed initiatives to 2 More information in the chapter on Quality service to policyholders. CONTENT Economic performance 82 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Economic Performance thanks to our solid business model, we maintained growth in a complex economic context. three years into operating under solvency ii regulation, we continue to have good financial strength and optimizing our reserve calculation. Our business model based on cost control, an excellent service to the policyholder and solid operational performance based on processes, has allowed us to be a successful company. CONTENT Economic performance 83 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Key inancial highlights GRI 102-7, 103-2, 103-3 INCOME STATEMENT 2018 2017 Δ 18 17 2016 Written premium 1 34,495 33,820 2.0% 30,190 Retained Premium 34,183 33,604 1.7% 30,086 Earned Premium 31,810 28,668 11.0% 23,825 Acquisition Cost 7,464 7,851 (4.9%) 7,257 Claims Cost 21,048 19,184 9.7% 14,710 Technical Result 3,298 1,633 101.9% 1,858 Operating Expenses 1,568 855 83.4% 751 Operating Result 1,734 778 122.8% 1,107 Comprehensive Financial Result 1,717 1,829 (6.1%) 826 Taxes 1,023 544 88.1% 633 Net Result 2,428 2,064 17.7% 1,301 BALANCE SHEET Investments 29,514 26,735 10.4% 21,575 Total Assets 56,642 51,059 10.9% 41,233 Technical Reserves 36,173 32,843 10.1% 26,922 Total Liabilities 47,537 43,108 10.3% 35,156 Stockholders' Equity 9,104 7,951 14.5% 6,077 COST INDICATORS Acquisition Ratio 21.8% 23.4% (153) 24.1% Claims Ratio 66.2% 66.9% (75) 61.7% Operating Ratio 4.5% 2.5% 202 2.5% Combined Ratio 92.5% 92.8% (26) 88.3% PROFITABILITY INDICATORS Return on Investments 4.6% 6.5% (186) 3.2% ROE 12m 28.5% 29.5% (96) 23.5% figures in millions of mexican pesos (mxn) CONTENT 1 The total written premium of Quálitas Controladora includes those of auto insurance subsidiaries and the sales of the other non-insurance subsidiaries related to the insurance processes or claims assistance. Economic performance 84 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS The written premium showed an annual growth of 2%, compared to the previous year. The Mexican market had 2018 a deceleration in the sale of new cars, which affected 3,877,470 the growth of sales through the financial institutions segment. As a result, the company focused its efforts to 2017 promote growth through the traditional channels offered 3,818,542 by agents. During the year, we followed a strategy of cost adjustment on the premiums with the purpose of improving profitability. 2016 3,487,048 The insured units increased 1.5%, reaching 3,877,470 vehicles 2015 2,803,019 Diagram with the number of insured units CONTENT Economic performance 85 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Quálitas Mexico, our main subsidiary, grew 2.1% in written premiums; in 2018 it had 29.9% market share based on written premiums according to AMIS as of December 2018. growth of the written premium in millions of pesos (mxn) of the insurance subsidiaries Subsidiary 2018 2017 ∆ 18 17 2016 Q MX 32,821 32,141 2.1% 28,737 Q ES 146 132 10.8% 117 Q CR 456 465 (2.0%) 407 QIC 961 940 2.2% 835 WRITTEN PREMIUMS BY SEGMENTS FS6 We have a business strategy that includes insurance offers in different segments, attending the needs of each one of them. written premiums (millions of pesos) Written Premium1 2018 2017 ∆ 18 17 2016 Individual 9,057 7,450 21.6% 4,861 Fleets 10,662 9,294 14.7% 8,034 Financing Institutions 12,994 14,733 (11.8%) 15,273 Subsidiaries outside of Mexico 1,563 1,537 1.7% 1,352 Others2 218 806 (73.0%) 670 Total 34,495 33,820 2.0% 30,190 1 The figures of 2017 and 2016 vary from the figures previously reported due to accounts reclassifications. 2 Includes road segments and other non-insurance subsidiaries. CONTENT Economic performance 86 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS The decline in written premiums in association with the financial institutions in Mexico is observed, linked to the 7.1% decrease in the sale of new vehicles in the country. Nevertheless, the performance in the individual and fleet segments was excellent, with a double digit growth. Insured units 2018 2017 ∆ units Δ 18 17 % In Mexico, the market share for written Mexico 3,793,178 3,739,614 53,564 1.4% El Salvador 15,890 13,671 2,219 16.2% premiums is 47.7% for trucks; 21.7% for cars Costa Rica United States 52,842 15,560 49,441 15,816 3,401 (256) 6.9% (1.6%) and 17.5% for tourists Insured Units 3,877,470 3,818,542 58,928 1.5% COSTS AND BUSINESS RESULTS The acquisition cost, which includes the commissions we give our intermediaries, decreased by $1,734 million pesos 4.9% compared to the previous one, the main reason is the decrease in the commercialization of insurance in partnership with the auto financing companies that imply larger commissions. On the other hand, the claims cost increased 9.7% compared to 2017. That is due to a series of factors: perating income • Increase in repair costs, both in spare parts and labor. • Increase in inflation, as reflected in the evolution of the National Consumer Price Index (INPC for its acronym in Spanish). • Volatility in the exchange rate, in a renegotiation context of international economic agreements. • Increase of 3% in the theft of vehicles in Mexico, according to OCRA data. 5.5% operating margin • Adverse meteorological conditions, which cause accidents. CONTENT Economic performance 87 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS FINANCIAL RESULT GRI 412-3 Our investment strategy adheres to the regimen established by the regulation for the sector and it also considers the criteria established by our Investments Committee. We are analyzing the option of incorporating environmental, social and corporate government (ESG) criteria at the time of investment. We currently have instruments within our portfolio that consider these factors. At Quálitas, the investment portfolio is distributed as follows: Portfolio by type of risk Portfolio by type of emission Nominal Rate Inflation Protected 7% Securities Banking 2% 0.1% Fx 2% Development Bank’s Bonds 4% Equity Quasi-government 17% 12% Equity Short Term 16% Government Bonds 43% 47% Floating Rate Corporate Bonds 33% 17% CONTENT Economic performance 88 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Profitability (MXN) Cash per Share 13.89 Book Value 4.55 17.15 5.72 21.03 7.96 The evolution of the investments generated a growth 23.04 8.35 of $8.84 pesos in the profitability per share, up to 27.32 $66.52 pesos. 9.71 33.34 The portfolio reached $28.9 billion pesos, with a 11.05 Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 24.5% 46.39 compared to 2015. The return on investments was 4.6%. 13.50 57.68 17.67 66.52 20.93 Return on Investments (%) 6.7 7.6 Quálitas 5.5 Cetes (Treasury 6.5 4.2 Bond) 28 days 4.6 3.0 3.2 CONTENT Economic performance 89 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS NET RESULT Both the operating and financial profitability helped to reach a net result of $2,428 million pesos, which is 17.7% more than last year. The ROE 226% was 28.5%. SOLVENCY MARGIN 206% We recorded a solvency margin of $4,585 million pesos and a solvency margin ratio of 226% which implies an excess of $2,768 million pesos 172% Surplus above the objective of having an additional 50% of the regulatory capital 2,768 requirement. 136% 4,585 3,606 Objective 1,817 1,245 2,260 Regulatory Capital Requirement Solvency Margin 3,479 3,151 3,386 3,634 Solvency Margin % 2015 2016 2017 2018 CONTENT Economic performance 90 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS SHARE’S VALUE DISTRIBUTION OF ECONOMIC VALUE GRI 102-7, 103-2, 103-3, 201-1, 201-4 Quálitas Controladora is listed in the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV: Q*), with a variable capital of 42.3% of At Quálitas, we generate value for our different the shares. The company’s market capitalization was stakeholders, through the operating performance for $17,996 million pesos. the commercialization of insurance and provision of the associated services, as well as the dividends derived During the year, the share price increased 13.3%, in from the management of the investment portfolio. contrast to the 15.6% decrease experienced by the set of values of the Índice de Precios y Cotizaciones (IPC) (Price We generate a volume of revenue that we distribute and Quotation Index) of the BMV; therefore, it is one of among our employees and suppliers as remuneration the highest performance shares. In addition, the share for their activity; we also allocate to the payment of rose 6 positions in the Stock Index of the BMV, up to the capital to suppliers and of taxes to the authority; likewise, 48th position and since March, it has been classified as we have a part for social investment in the community, high liquidity stock. The annual volume of Q* was above complementary to our social responsibility programs the 152 million titles, a 31% increase compared to 2017. and the socio-economic development that our activity generates. The Share Buyback Program performed 26.2% of Q* operations in 2018; its function is to give liquidity to the Our solid performance allows us to retain part of the stock, buying and selling at market value. The balance at economic value generated with the purpose of continuing the close of 2018 was 12.3 million shares. to grow and ensure our permanence over time. It is worth mentioning that Quálitas does not receive any sort of financial support from the government. As of September, Quálitas began to be a part of the Institutional Securities Exchange. CONTENT Economic performance 91 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS generated economic value (figures in million pesos) Concept 2018 2017 ∆ 18 17 2016 Total Revenues (GEV) 33,527 30,497 9.9% 24,651 Revenue by insurance operations 31,810 28,668 11.0% 23,825 Financing Revenues (Investment portfolio and others) 1,717 1,829 (6.1%) 826 distributed economic value (million pesos) Concept Recipients 2018 2017 ∆ 18 17 2016 Expenses (DEV) 31,413 28,714 9.4% 23,575 Acquisition Agents, automotive financing 7,464 7,851 (4.9%) 7,257 institutions, suppliers, employees Claims Suppliers, employees 21,048 19,184 9.7% 14,710 Operation Service offices, suppliers, employees 1,238 637 94.4% 538 Profit Sharing Employees 329 218 51.1% 213 Dividends Shareholders 304.5 270 12.8% 225 Donations Community 6 10 (39.0%) 5 Taxes Government and authorities 1,023 544 88.1% 633 Retained (GEV-DEV) 2,114 1,783 18.6% 1,076 CONTENT Corporate governance 92 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Corporate Governance at quálitas we have a corporate governance system that operates transparently, ethically and according to our values and is key for our leadership in the market. STRUCTURE GRI 102-18, 102-19, 102-20, 102-22, 102-23, 102-24, 102-25, 102-26, 102-27, 102-28, 102-33, 102-35, 102-36, 102-37, 205-2, 405-1 The Shareholders Meeting designates the members of the Board of Directors, at the proposal of the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee; they must have the skills and abilities necessary to fulfill their functions and responsibilities, free from conflicts of interest. Likewise, approves the strategy and decisions of the Board of Directors, that is evaluated therefore in its performance. The Board of Directors, in accordance with the bylaws, defines the long term strategy and promotes a socially responsible management of the business and must prevent conflicts of interest; it should be noted that the members must comply with the Directors’ Suitability Assessment Policy. It also has the power to name the high management of the company, including the CEO. CONTENT Corporate governance 93 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS It is composed by 13 Board members, 11 proprietary members and 2 alternate board members, 8 of which are independent¹. The term for board members are annual and renewable, the average current seniority in the exercise of the position of Board Members is 7 years. It is worth mentioning that the board members receive remuneration proposed by the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee and is approved by the Shareholders Meeting2. The presidency of the Board is carries out by Joaquín Brockman Lozano, founding shareholder of the company, and is Chief Executive Officer of Quálitas Controladora. The board members, besides having experience and knowledge of the industry, receive training on those topics of special importance to the operation of Quálitas and that are newer, from legal regulations to business tendencies. In addition, the new board members incorporated this year received an introductory session to the company. In the Board meetings, the earnings result, financial projections, reports from the Chief Executive Officer and the committees are reviewed, as well as the main current issues of the business are discussed. As support to the Board of Directors, Quálitas Controladora has 4 committees, including the corresponding Audit and Corporate Practices Committee that the law demands. Each committee has independent faculties and reports on a quarterly basis to the Board of Directors. 1 Detail of the members of the Board of Directors is available at http://qinversionistas.qualitas.com.mx/portal/board-of-directors-committees/?lang=en 2 Detail of the retributions payed to board members can be consulted in the Annual Report presented to the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV). http://qinversionistas.qualitas.com.mx/portal/annual-report/?lang=en CONTENT Corporate governance 94 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Board of Directors Committees AUDIT AND INVESTMENTS, QUÁLITAS SOCIAL CORPORATE FINANCE OPERATIONS REINSURANCE1 CONTROLADORA RESPONSIBILITY PRACTICES AND PLANNING Joaquín Brockman Lozano Wilfrido Javier Castillo Sánchez Mejorada María del Pilar Moreno Alanís Madeleine Marthe Claude Brémond Santacruz Mauricio Domenge Gaudry José Manuel Rincón Gallardo Juan Marco Gutiérrez Wanless Juan Enrique Murguía Pozzi Juan Orozco y Gómez Portugal Alfonso Tomás Lebrija Guiot Christian Alejandro Pedemonte del Castillo Wilfrido Javier Castillo Miranda Olea José Antonio Correa Etchegaray Proprietary Proprietary Alternate President Vice President Related Independent Related 1 Reinsurance committe applies only to Quálitas Mexico. CONTENT Corporate governance 95 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS COMMITTEE DESCRIPTION Audit and Corporate Only composed by 3 independent board members with extensive accounting and financial experience. Meets monthly. Practices Committee • Supervises the management, conduction and execution of the matters that correspond to it in accordance to the Securities Market Law. • Supervises that the managing director complies with the Meeting’s agreements. • Evaluates the external auditor’s performance. • Analyzes the company’s financial statements and the financial information. • Investigates possible non-compliance of the guidelines, operation policies, and internal control systems. • Informs the Board of Directors of operations with related parties. • Evaluates the remunerations of the CEO and other relevant officers. Social Responsibility Composed by 14 members, 4 board members, 1 of which is independent, who presides; meets bi-monthly. Committee • Defines the scope of the social responsibility for Quálitas. • Defines strategies and activities to implement social responsibility practices. • Defines mechanisms to measure the social impact of the functions and activities. Investment, Finance and Composed by 6 members, all board members, 2 of which are independent; meets monthly. Planning Committee • Evaluates and suggests investment policies in accordance with the organizational vision. • Proposes guidelines for the strategic planning of the company. • Maintains a balanced investment portfolio under the investment regime established by the authority. • Comments, recommends and follows up on the budget. • Identifies risk factors and evaluates policies to manage them. CONTENT Corporate governance 96 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Operations Committee Composed by 9 members, 6 of which are board members, 2 of which are independent; meets monthly. • Advises the general management, in the establishment of strategies and actions to optimize the efficiency and operational quality of the company. • Helps establish the annual business plan and the comprehensive strategy, guaranteeing the continuity and better development of the holding. Reinsurance Committee Composed by 8 members, 2 of which are board members. Its scope only includes Quálitas Mexico. • Proposes objectives and policies to contract, monitor, assess and manage reinsurance operations. • Proposes mechanisms to monitor and evaluation of the reinsurance policies and regulations. • Periodically assesses the achievement of the strategic reinsurance objectives established by the Board of Directors. • Informs on the results of the operation and of the corrective measures implemented to correct deviations. CONTENT Corporate governance 97 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS At the Quálitas Controladora level there is a management team Investment and with the best expertise in their fields of work, who live the values Investor Relation of the company and perform by following the corporate strategy. Management These characteristics are also extensive to the management that Wilfrido Castillo integrates the different subsidiaries. CEO QC BOARD OF DIRECTORS Joaquín Brockman Finance Management On a weekly basis, the main executives of the company, alongside the José Antonio Correa members of their teams, get together to followup on the operation and study those topics that are gaining relevance and may have an impact in the achievement of the objectives and goals established. General Management Q MX José Antonio Correa President of the Board ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Joaquín Brockman GRI 102-16, 102-17, 102-25, 102-26, 103-2, 103-3, 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, 412-1, 412-2 General Management Q IC Eduardo Pedrero At Quálitas we follow appropriate to our Code of Ethics and Conduct, which includes the values that represent us and the guidelines for the behavior of employees, board members and personnel at the General Management Q CR service offices; the code was approved by the Board of Directors. Vice president of the Board Rosa María Morales We disseminate it as well to agents and suppliers, so that it may Wilfrido Castillo guide the execution of their activities. General Management Q ES We have a Manual of Polices, Principles and Anti-Corruption Luisa Fernanda Mechanisms with the purpose of preventing related practices, as Albarracín well as a Conflict of Interest Policy. They apply to our employees and Other Subsidiaries CONTENT Corporate governance 98 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS everyone they establish a relationship with, safeguarding Continuing the efforts to disseminate and live the Quálitas DNA a behavior of integrity and honesty. On the other hand, campaign, this year we extended an invitation to our employees through the Ethical Business Principles, that focus on the through social media to join the proposal and live day by day, as relationship of our employees with agents and service offices, we can ensure they work together, aligned with “Quálitas Citizens”. our culture of ethics. We would like to inform that Quálitas did not made Courses Money Laundering Prevention contributions to political parties and representatives. 4,917 Q-Transparency is the complaint channel for nonCode of Ethics and Conduct 4,667 compliance of the Code of Ethics and Conduct. It guarantees access to the general public, through a web Conflicts of Interest Policy portal, e-mail or phone line where they can anonymously Q Certification – 4,603 make their complaints and the platform is managed by an Quálitas Personnel external third party. The supplier channelling the cases Confidential Information Protection to our experts in Fraud Detection and Internal Auditing, 4,557 who then internally assign the corresponding teams for their analysis and resolution. The Ethics Committee is in charge of following up on the cases through quarterly Courses meetings. Anti-corruption 1,034 To the complaints, which are treated by safeguarding Code of Ethics and Conduct the due guarantees, we add those cases that we identify 977 through the internal audit area. Currently we are in the process of investigating a possible case of corruption. Conflicts of Interest Policy Training service office 954 personnel CONTENT Corporate governance 99 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Our efforts to strengthen the Quálitas culture based on Practices Committee, who present the results to the values, also include training programs. Since 2017 we are Board. Each insurance subsidiary, in the different promoting employees to have the Q Certification, which countries where we operate, have their own team who can be obtained by taking the following four courses: coordinates with corporate. 1) Code of Ethics and Conduct With the analysis of internal specialists, we have built 2) Conflicts of Interest Policy matrices with the most significant risks. From this we 3) Confidential Information Protection carry out periodic monitoring to take the necessary 4) Prevention of Money Laundering (PML). prevention measures and response. These risks can be grouped in four main categories: financial, technical, We extend the training to agents and the service offices operational and counterparty. Each one has a particular personnel. management process, with the participation of the related areas. RISK MANAGEMENT Risk Categories GRI 102-11, 102-15, 102-29, 102-30, 103-2, 103-3, 201-2, 206-1, 307-1, 416-2, 417-2, 417-3, 419-1 Financial Technical Operational Counterparty Market Risk Technical Risk Operational Risk Credit Risk The solidity of a company is based on its policies and Liquidity Risk Technological Risk operating regulations, operational management and Credit Risk Legal Risk delivery of results, but also on the identification and Concentration Risk Reputational Risk response to risks and opportunities. Strategic Risk At the Quálitas Controladora level, the Comprehensive Risk Management Area is responsible for the management, by delegation of the Board of Directors and following the guidelines of the Policy Manual for the Corporate Governance System. Such area reports to the General Management and the Audit and Corporate CONTENT Corporate governance 100 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS The management of the aforementioned risks includes whole of the measures taken have meant an investment of the reinforcement in Mexico of the creation of financial $27,622,881 MXN, including the acquisition of reference reserves, to accomplish with the requirements derived technology. form the implementation of the Solvency II regulation in the country. In this regard, we updated our Comprehensive The risks and opportunities associated with climate Risk Management Manual. The Investment Committee change are also emerging. The alteration that the weather is informed on a monthly basis on the status of the generates, with events such as torrential rains, hurricanes, company, and we annually issue the Auto-assessment and hailstorms, impact the state of the cars and the safety of Risks and Institutional Solvency (ARSI). From our of the drivers. Governments encourage electric or hybrid insurance subsidiary in Mexico, we are also working with vehicles and penalize those older fossil fuel ran vehicles. the risk matrices of the rest of the insurance subsidiaries, Quálitas recognizes this as an opportunity to reduce its to reinforce their structures and processes in these Greenhouse Gas emissions (GHG)2. aspects. Our prevention and mitigation efforts, together with the In the digital transformation context in which we find provision of guidelines for behaviors in operation, are ourselves, technological risks become relevant. This completed with the performance of internal audits. In year we obtained the PCI (Payment Card Industry) this way, we adhere to the applicable legislation and to Certification by meeting the requirements of the PCI our own policies and procedures. In the year we only had Council standards on web transaction safety. With the an open legal process regarding the payment of benefits purpose of providing security to all policyholders, we to the policyholder, which is in the process of litigation. perfected our policies and processes for payment with credit card, and we standardized the security standards. In addition, we included training content at Quálitas University. We find ourselves continuously improving information security, with the annual PCI re-certifications and our goal of continuing to increase the level of certification. The 2 More information in the chapter on Innovation and operating efficiency. CONTENT About our report 101 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS About our report 3rd consecutive year presenting the Integrated Annual Report CONTENT About our report 102 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS GENERAL CRITERIA GRI 102-32, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-54, 102-56 For three consecutive years we have been rendering our Likewise, convinced about the implementation of the 10 Integrated Annual Report which reveals our operating Principles of the United Nations Global Pact; this report performance for 2018. The financial results included constitutes our Communication on Progress (COP). correspond to the group of Quálitas Controladora, as well as to the description of the corporate governance, the In the same manner, we boost our contribution to strategy and the business model. Regarding operation, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), through we described the evolution of the business and the diagnosis, maximization of the identified opportunities workforce in the different countries where we perform therein and associated with our strategy and business operations1. model, as well as the social responsibility initiatives set out over our operation impacts. Such contribution The report has been prepared pursuant to the is in addition to that of our own nature as a company, Contact Information Global Reporting Initiative Standards (GRI): which includes, for example, employment creation and GRI 102-53 comprehensive option. business development with the value chain. We establish this information in this report, observing the reporting For more information about our processes, products and In addition, we continue keeping the status of the GRI guidelines of the Business Reporting on the SDGs. performance visit our page supplement for the financial services regarding those www.qualitas.com.mx cases corresponding to matters classified as relevant and for any comment regarding the information for the report. As evidence of the render please feel free to maturity we are achieving in sustainable For the second consecutive year, the report has contact: development in the three dimensions (economic, social and environmental), been submitted for external verification by an Investor Relations/ as well as structure and operation of independent third party, the scope of which is Corporate Social Responsibility our corporate governance, we have shown in the GRI’s Index of Contents and in the decided to go further and report under corresponding statement of the team in charge. Call to: the comprehensive option. +5255 1555 6056 +5255 5481 8547 1 The report does not include, regarding operating data, the additional companies targeting the insurance and asset management business (CristaFácil, Easy Car Glass, Outlet de Refacciones, Autos y Salvamentos, Optimización y Talento), since Quálitas has no operating control over the same and which are managed by our partners. CONTENT About our report 103 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS The content of this report is validated by the Social Responsibility Committee and by the Executive President to guaranty we share information about the important matters from a double perspective, the stakeholders and the company’s strategy. DEFINITION OF CONTENTS AND COVERAGE GRI 102-46, 102-47, 102-4, 103-1 The contents of the report has been prepared addressing some of the relevant matters determined in the analysis performed in the process of our first comprehensive report, corresponding to performance of 2016. Continuity of our strategy and business model and the close relation we have achieved with our different stakeholders, provides us with the list of significant matters and limits of the same. CONTENT About our report 104 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Here below is an attachment of the significant matters2. 5 SUBJECT SUBJECT STRATEGIC NOTEWORTHY N° 1 Support and education regarding traffic/road behavior 2.5 2.7 8 2 Financial education and insurance culture 3.1 3.1 3 11 4 3 Operational innovation and efficiency 4.0 3.9 19 Relationship with suppliers (physicians, workshops, legal and 12 4 3.5 3.6 16 4 cranes) 2 10 6 5 Insurance availability for all of the population 2.6 2.3 18 15 6 Relationship with agents/brokers 4.2 3.3 3 7 17 7 Data Protection of the Insured 2.7 2.8 1 24 9 8 Customer Service 4.4 4.4 14 23 9 Accurate and relevant information about insurance conditions 2.7 2.7 20 13 5 10 Legal compliance 3.5 3.2 2 21 22 11 Ethics, transparency and anticorruption 4.1 4.0 12 Risk management (financial, operational..) 4.1 3.9 IMPACT ON STAKEHOLDERS 13 Corporate Governance (management bodies of the company) 2.9 2.4 1 14 Involvement in the preparation of the public policies 2.9 2.4 15 Economic results 3.4 3.2 16 Market and Brand positioning 3.5 3.1 17 Attracting and retaining customers 3.0 3.0 18 Labor atmosphere and employee satisfaction 3.0 3.0 1 2 3 4 5 19 Career training and Development (employees) 3.8 3.8 INFLUENCE ON THE COMPANY’S STRATEGY 20 Diversity and equal opportunities (employees) 2.4 2.2 21 Wages and benefits (employees) 2.5 2.1 22 Labor Security 2.5 2.1 23 Community support and donations 2.6 2.3 2 You can access a detailed description of the process performed for determination of the significant matters, its result and coverage limits 24 Environmental management (energy, wastes, releases, ect.) 2.9 2.7 per matter in page 53 of the Comprehensive Report for 2016 and pages 99 and 102 of the Comprehensive Report for 2017. CONTENT 105 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS CONTENT GRI Index of Content 106 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS GRI INDEX OF CONTENT GRI 102-55 GRI 102: GENERAL CONTENT1 UN Global GRI Subject Content Standard Page Omission SDG´s / Goals Compact 102-1 22 102-2 10, 22 3.6, 9.3 102-3 Back cover 102-4 10, 22 3.6, 3.13, 9.3 102-5 22 102-6 22 Organization profile GRI 102: General Contents 2016 102-7 9, 83, 90 102-8 55 Principle 6 8.2, 8.5, 10.3 102-9 52 8.2 102-10 52 8.10 102-11 99 102-12 17, 42 102-13 42 102-14 4 Strategy GRI 102: General Contents 2016 102-15 4, 28, 99 8.10 102-16 21, 97 Principle 10 16.3 Ethics and integrity GRI 102: General Contents 2016 102-17 97 Principle 10 16.3 1 The correlation of GRI contents with the ODS and the goals has been established by integrating the reference framework Business Reporting on the SDGs: An Analysis of the Goals and Targets, and a strategic analysis of contribution to the SDGs by Quálitas. CONTENT GRI Index of Content 107 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS UN Global GRI Subject Content Standard Page Omission SDG´s / Goals Compact 102-18 92 102-19 31, 92 102-20 31, 92 102-21 31, 34 16.7 102-22 31, 92 5.5 y 16.7 102-23 92 16.6 102-24 92 5.5 y 16.7 102-25 92 16.6 102-26 92 102-27 92 102-28 92 102-29 99 16.7 Governance GRI 102: General Contents 2016 102-30 99 102-31 31 102-32 102 102-33 92 Confidential, due to internal 102-34 guidelines of the company. 102-35 59, 92 102-36 59, 92 102-37 59, 92 16.7 Confidential, due to internal 102-38 guidelines of the company. Confidential, due to internal 102-39 guidelines of the company. CONTENT GRI Index of Content 108 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS UN Global GRI Subject Content Standard Page Omission SDG´s / Goals Compact 102-40 34 102-41 55 Principle 3 8.8 Stakeholder engagement GRI 102: General Contents 2016 102-42 34 102-43 34 102-44 34 102-45 22 102-46 103 102-47 103 102-48 73 102-49 103 102-50 102 Reporting practice GRI 102: General Contents 2016 102-51 102 102-52 102 102-53 102 102-54 102 102-55 106 102-56 102 CONTENT GRI Index of Content 109 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS GRI INDEX OF CONTENT CONTENT BY MATERIAL SUBJECT Page / UN Global Material Subject Quálitas Content Standard Omission SDG´s / Goals Statemenet Compact 103-1 103 Principle 6 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 55 103-3 55 5.1, 8.5, 8.6 y Hiring and retention of 401-1 55 Principle 6 10.3 employees GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-2 64, 79 3.2 y 5.4 401-3 64 Principle 6 5.1, 5.4 y 8.5 405-1 55, 92 Principle 6 5.1, 5.5 y 8.5 GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 2016 405-2 59 Principle 6 5.1, 8.5 y 10.3 103-1 103 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 59 103-3 59 Employees training and career development 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 5.1, 404-1 59 Principle 6 8.2, 8.5 y 10.3 GRI 404: Training and education 2016 404-2 59, 64 8.2 y 8.5 404-3 59 Principle 6 5.1 y 10.3 103-1 103 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 99 103-3 99 GRI 206: Anticompetitive behavior 2016 206-1 99 16.3 Legal compliance GRI 307: Enviromental compliance 2016 307-1 99 Principle 8 16.3 417-1 45, 50 12.8 y 16.3 GRI 417: Marketing and labeling 2016 417-2 99 16.3 417-3 99 16.3 GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance 2016 419-1 99 16.3 CONTENT GRI Index of Content 110 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Page / UN Global Material Subject Quálitas Content Standard Omission SDG´s / Goals Statemenet Compact 103-1 103 Financial education and 103-2 79 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 insurance culture 103-3 79 Sector Supplement: Financial Services 2013 FS16 24, 28, 79 4.4 Principles: 1, 2, 103-1 103 3, 4, 5, 6 y 10 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 97 Ethics, transparency, and 103-3 97 anticorruption 205-1 97 Principle 10 16.5 GRI 205: Anticorruption 2016 205-2 92, 97 Principle 10 16.5 205-3 97 Principle 10 16.5 Principles: 103-1 103 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 y 10 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 99 Risk management 103-3 99 412-1 97 Principle 1 GRI 412: Human Rights assessment 2016 412-2 97 Principle 1 412-3 87 Principle 2 CONTENT GRI Index of Content 111 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Page / UN Global Material Subject Quálitas Content Standard Omission SDG´s / Goals Statemenet Compact Principles: 7, 8 103-1 103 y9 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 69, 73 103-3 69. 73 7.2, 7.3, 8.4, 12.2 302-1 73 Principles: 7 y 8 y 13.1 Not applicable, Quálitas activity of insurance 7.2, 7.3, 8.4, 12.2 302-2 provision is not related to Principle 8 y 13.1 GHG emissions in the use of vehicles by customers. GRI 302: Energy 2016 7.3, 8.4, 12.2 302-3 73 Principle 8 Innovation and operational y 13.1 efficiency 302-4 73 Principles: 8 y 9 8.4, 12.2 y 13.1 Not available. Quálitas is working to present the 302-5 Principles: 8 y 9 8.4, 12.2 y 13.1 information in the next exercise. Principles: 3.9, 12.4, 13.1, 305-1 73 7y8 14.3 y 15.2 Principles: 3.9, 12.4, 13.1, 305-2 73 7y8 14.3 y 15.2 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Principles: 3.9, 12.4, 13.1, 305-3 73 7y8 14.3 y 15.2 305-4 73 Principle 8 13.1, 14.3 y 15.2 305-5 73 Principles: 8 y 9 13.1, 14.3 y 15.2 CONTENT GRI Index of Content 112 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Page / UN Global Material Subject Quálitas Content Standard Omission SDG´s / Goals Statemenet Compact Not applicable, Quálitas activity of insurance provision is not related to GHG emissions in the use of Principles: 305-6 3.9 y 12.4 vehicles by customers. Also, 7y8 Quálitas operations do not GRI 305: Emissions 2016 require the use of refrigerant Innovation and operational efficiency gases. Not available. Quálitas is working to present the Principles: 3.9, 12.4, 14.3 305-7 information in the next 7y8 y 15.2 exercise. 416-1 45, 69 3.6 GRI 416:Customer health and safety 2016 416-2 99 16.3 103-1 103 Brand and market GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 22, 29 positioning 103-3 22, 29 Sector Supplement: Financial Services 2013 FS6 85 3.6 y 9.3 103-1 103 Relationship with agents GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 29, 50 103-3 29, 50 103-1 103 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 52 Relationship with suppliers 103-3 52 GRI 204: Procurement practices 2016 204-1 52 8.3 CONTENT GRI Index of Content 113 Quálitas Integrated Annual Report 2018 • DRAWING NEW ROADS Page / UN Global Material Subject Quálitas Content Standard Omission SDG´s / Goals Statemenet Compact 103-1 103 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 83, 90 103-3 83, 90 8.1, 8.2, 8.10, 9.1, 201-1 90 9.4 y 9.5 Economic results 201-2 99 Principle 7 13.1 GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 Not available. Quálitas is working to present the 201-3 information in the next exercise. 201-4 90 103-1 103 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 29, 45 Client service 103-3 29, 45 Sector Supplement: Financial Services 2013 FS15 45 CONTENT Contact Corporate Social Responsibility T. +5255 5481 8547 Investor Relations T. +5255 1555 6056 Design: CONTENT GRI 102-3 www.qualitas.com.mx Quálitas Controladora, S.A.B. de C.V. Av. San Jerónimo 478, Álvaro Obregón, Jardines del Pedregal, 01900 Ciudad de México. CONTENT
