Our history Dragon Rouge is an independent creative agency, big enough to cover the world, small enough to phone a friend. Our creativity extends beyond borders (thanks to 300 creative and strategic talents of more than 30 nationalities) and is the driving force behind our eight agencies specialised in design, branding and innovation: Paris, London, Hamburg, Warsaw, New York, São Paulo, Shanghai and Singapore. Multicultural by nature, we share common values as well as a single mission: to help brands and companies innovate, transform and generate sustainable growth. In 2018, we carried out a diagnostic to identify and assess the measures that we have taken in favour of sustainable development. We also evaluated the relevant indicators – a real challenge for the Dragon Rouge Group. HAM LDN NYC PAR SAO SHA SIN WAW 1 OUR APPROACH Our Ethics Committee The Dragon Rouge Group Our stakeholders OUR APPROACH Our CSR pillars To meet COP requirements, we structured our approach around three main pillars: Human rights and the workplace The environment Fighting corruption and engaging in ethical behaviour Our CSR approach aims to ensure harmonious working conditions for our Dragons and to offer our clients quality creative solutions which will enable them to become long-term partners, all the while acting ethically and responsibly towards society. We also strive to limit our Group's environmental footprint. Since it is a real strategic challenge to implement CSR initiatives, full commitment from both our employees and management is essential. Our Ethics Committee In order to compile our first CSR report, we gathered employees from different departments across our Paris agency to join an ethics committee. Consequently, each of these employees contributed to this first assessment and proposed ideas for improvement, which in turn defined our objectives for 2019. Alongside the Group Managing Director, representatives from each of the following departments took part: Administration, Finance, Human Resources, Communications, Major International Accounts, IT, Legal, Production and Materials. THE DRAGON ROUGE GROUP The collection and consolidation of data In addition to our French agency (the headquarters of the holding company) which is located in Paris, Dragon Rouge consists of seven other agencies: New York (USA), São Paulo (Brazil), London (United Kingdom), Hamburg (Germany), Warsaw (Poland), Shanghai (China) and Singapore. OUR STAKEHOLDERS We have identified the internal and external stakeholders who are most impacted by our actions (employees, clients, the environment and society at large) and with whom we have strong commitments. HUMAN RIGHTS & THE WORKPLACE 2 Our mission: Improve the well-being of our Dragons THE WELL-BEING OF OUR DRAGONS Our goal as an agency is to be a benchmark employer in the field of communication through design. We are both outwardly and inwardly orientated. We are committed to providing accessibility and showing empathy towards all our employees. We truly believe that if we don’t listen to one another, growth or progress can’t occur. This is why we endeavour to support all our Dragons and to guarantee a fulfilling and rewarding work environment. WORKING CONDITIONS Our employees are primarily designers and consultants from leading business schools and universities. We have always maintained close proximity with these networks. If you look at our training programs, our international mobility and our encouragement of internal promotion, these measures attest to our desire to enhance the experience of our employees and promote quality recruitment and internal development. Dragons at work 300 Dragons 94% of contracts are permanent Stable turnover at around 3% 4% absenteeism in Paris All employees who took maternity leave came back afterwards Absenteeism is regularly monitored in each of our eight agencies. We consider it to be a vital 'health indicator' of our agencies. Our work schedule Our agencies have introduced some great initiatives to enhance the well-being of our Dragons: Warsaw Dragons get a day off on their birthday New York Dragons can take 4 days off (Fridays or Mondays) during the summer to extend their weekends, plus they benefit from public holiday days off (in a country where companies traditionally offer very little time off) Paris Dragons enjoy Friday afternoons off which promotes a healthy work-life balance São Paulo Dragons have flexible working hours Our London agency schedules important meetings between 9.30am and 5.30pm to make life easier for parents. Dragons can leave work at 4.30pm on Fridays throughout July and August Dragons can work from home (determined on a case-by-case basis) 100% of part-time work not imposed (i.e. was the preference of the Dragon concerned) 100% of leave without pay is accepted 10 days of leave per year for Paris Dragons whose children, parents or grandparents are ill (2 days for São Paulo, Hamburg and Warsaw Dragons), 7 days of personal leave for NYC Dragons and 6 days of parental leave for Singapore Dragons Our health policy We aim to provide high-quality healthcare, which covers general health, old age, disabilities and death, for all our employees worldwide. In order to keep our Dragons in good health, we propose the following as part of our health and prevention policy: Local healthcare insurance which covers more than the legal minimum for all our Dragons Our agencies have designed solutions to help their Dragons to stay fit and healthy. For example: Paris Dragons receive flu vaccinations while London Dragons are reimbursed for the cost of the vaccine London Dragons are reimbursed for vision tests and we make an employer contribution towards the cost of glasses worn at work Our London agency covers 70% of the cost of a new bike as part of the bike-to-work scheme Our Paris agency covers 50% of the cost of sports club memberships (up to €230 annually) for Dragons employed for over a year Our salary policy To attract and retain the best talent on the market, we offer a desirable remuneration and benefits package. Our policy aims to acknowledge talent by rewarding both individual and collective performance. Remuneration consists of a fixed monthly salary which may be accompanied by a bonus plan and once-off bonuses if goals are reached Profit sharing program for Dragons in Paris. We also offer benefits; for example, Paris issues restaurant vouchers to all its Dragons valued at €9 a day (50% of which the cost is reimbursed by the agency), São Paulo Dragons receive a lunch subsidy of 22 R$ per day and London Dragons can avail of free meals at the office TALENT DEVELOPMENT Our employees are our greatest asset The development of our Dragons’ talents is key to our long-term success. In order to respond to the complex, challenging briefs presented by our clients and to ensure that our Dragons can compete in the talent market, we give them the opportunity to continuously improve their skills and expertise. The Dragon Rouge Group (being present in eight countries) requires cross-agency management of many projects involving various companies and cultures. Consequently, leadership, expertise and collaborative management are fundamental to our success. Mobility We encourage every Dragon to express their ambitions. Dragons can change positions or transfer internationally to another of our agencies. In 2018, we facilitated: 1 inter-agency exchange of designers 1 V.I.E. contract (Volunteer for International Experience) 2 expatriations Managerial support Individual performance evaluation interviews are conducted annually. This is a unique opportunity for employees to have one-on-one discussions with their managers. These interviews enable us to understand our Dragons’ aspirations in terms of training and mobility. They also serve as an indicator of satisfaction and a barometer to manage psychosocial risks. Lastly, these interviews allow us to identify Dragons with high potential. In this way, we can implement initiatives to develop internal talent. We introduced a new evaluation grid which highlights an employee's skills and focuses on their well-being 100% of annual interviews were conducted We participated in the « Kerning the Gap mentoring » program to bolster women's ambitions We ran a 1-2-1 executive coaching program to help our Dragons focus on their goals and build their confidence 17 internal promotions occured in 2018 160 Dragons trained Training programs are conducted in each of our agencies so that every Dragon can improve their skills, increase their knowledge and advance their career. Computer training – 65 Dragons Management, presentation skills and personal development training – 92 Dragons Language training – 14 Dragons Shanghai tax reform training – 14 Dragons Safety training – 5 Dragons 100% of the training budget for 2018 was spent We also pique curiosity with our in-house workshops: 2 annual design and graphic chain training courses for new Dragons 1 quiz to test IT skills in Paris ‘Drive’, an internal learning programme in London Monthly Lunch-and-Learn sessions Our ambition is qualified by our accreditation as an « Investors In People » organisation since 2002. WELL-BEING AT WORK We know that good working conditions have a positive impact on our Dragons’ well-being and efficiency. In turn, this significantly improves our company performance. That’s why we make sure that all our agencies provide: Ergonomic workstation equipment to avoid back problems (change of chairs, laptop stands and footrests on request…) Top notch computer equipment We always opt for cutting-edge, high-performance computer equipment with high computing power (Intel i7), ample RAM (from 16GB to 64GB) and extensive storage capacities (512GB) Optional additional large monitor (up to 27”) for visual comfort Recreational areas Lofts, gardens, cafeterias, sofas and terraces allow everyone to disconnect Open-plan offices Free fruit Serves as an incentive to eat healthily (some agencies also provide tea, coffee and even snacks) Opportunities to share victories and successful projects ‘Loft’ evenings in Paris provide a source of inspiration and motivation! Further examples: We arrange a carpooling service during public transport strikes in Paris London Dragons with at least three months of seniority are given an ‘Art Pass’ Weekly shoulder massages in London A financial, legal, personal and professional assistance program for London Dragons Events are held year-round: Christmas parties, raclette dinners, summer evenings, Escape Rooms, BBQs, a music festival, an adventure day at KletterWald, a baseball match at Yankee Stadium, a team-building day at Sentosa… Global meeting In June, Dragons from across the world met to celebrate creativity, which is at the heart of our business. Each agency expressed a sense of belonging to the Dragon Rouge Group and highlighted what makes them different from the other agencies during ten-minute films centred around the theme of ‘What it means to be a Dragon’. The films were screened in France during the Global Meeting which gathered together: • All the CEOs and MDs of the Group • All the Creative Directors of the Group • All the Paris Dragons Afterwards, these films were sent to all of the Group's agencies, giving everyone an opportunity to relive the event. SEAMLESS COMMUNICATION Internal communication In order to keep in contact with all our Dragons and to encourage dialogue/information sharing, we have set up various tools to support internal communication: Google Hangouts A tool for organising remote meetings InsiDR Our internal social network (accessible to all Dragons) Brand Management A platform which hosts our brand assets Portfolio A portal which enables agencies to share projects Monthly Global Call Gathers CEOs, MDs of each agency and Group management staff to present the results and strategies for each agency Annual Global Meeting Gathers CEOs, MDs and Creative Directors of the Group MULTICULTURAL DIVERSITY Due to our international presence, we are conscious of the diversity of the world in which we operate. We believe that diversity can drive creativity, innovation and fresh knowledge. Although we are small, we are multicultural and we encourage exchanges between our eight agencies. Diversity at Dragon Rouge means: 30 nationalities Blind recruitment We block personal information from CVs received by our London agency EQUAL OPPORTUNITY We are committed to fighting against all forms of discrimination within our eight agencies. We strive to promote equal opportunities from the outset, both during the hiring process and throughout our Dragons’ careers. We do not tolerate any form of sexual, physical or emotional harassment, coercion or persecution. Welcoming people with disabilities… We employ Dragons with disabilities: Workers with disabilities may apply to any vacancy within the Group We procure office supplies through ESAT (workshops which aim to promote the social and professional integration of adults with disabilities) …and workers who are undergoing professional reorientation We employed a six-month intern who was undergoing professional reorientation Let's talk about gender equality We believe that a balanced gender mix better reflects society and can expand our perspectives. We know that communication agencies don’t have the best reputation for gender diversity, especially when it comes to managerial positions. However, we are committed to supporting the movement for a more equal industry. As for our Dragons, the majority of them are women. This rings true across all our professions, from design to consulting… Our commitments: To promote equal access to employment To ensure equal access to training Let's talk about age We are in favour of recruiting and retaining employees of all ages. Being mindful of generational diversity, we aim to safeguard the careers of our Dragons over 55 years of age. We look out for them and particularly focus on their working conditions. While the average age is low in all our agencies, we believe that age diversity is a key strength. 14% of Dragons are over 50 years old 62% of Dragons recruited in 2018 were under 35 years old Annual retirement-related meetings are held along with personalised follow-up for Dragons over 55 years old so that they can better prepare for the future It’s nice to live among Dragons Average seniority: 4 years SOCIAL DIALOGUE It’s widely accepted that a better quality of life in the workplace leads to higher productivity and worker satisfaction. In 2018, we established an employee committee (called a CSE) who join together for monthly meetings in accordance with French legislation A trade union representative is a member of the CSE – as per the law, we don’t allow any discrimination against the union delegate 3 THE ENVIRONMENT Monitoring our consumption, searching for solutions Our external approach We help our clients to significantly reduce their environmental impact: By providing more responsible printing solutions By recommending materials classified as sustainable By raising awareness of the benefits of the circular economy at our seminars and events, such as our ‘Brand Momentum Series’ in Singapore. During these conferences, we explore how to revolutionise collective and individual consciousness of sustainable development and the future of our planet By inviting our clients to London, the world's leading exponent of circular economy thinking, to encourage reflection on the following themes: Dorothy MacKenzie, Chairman of Dragon Rouge London, is deeply involved in the environmental movement. Ever since the 1980s, she has been questioning the role that brands play in the field of sustainability. In 1991, she wrote 'Green Design,' a guide on the best practices in sustainable design. She is currently the Board Director of the Carbon Trust, an organisation which aims to promote the movement towards a low carbon economy. She is also an expert advisor to the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, an organisation whose mission is to accelerate the transition to a circular economy in partnership with Dragon Rouge. Our internal approach We limit our impact related to: Greenhouse gas emissions – We have put communication tools in place to reduce the need for our Dragons to travel. We also decided to cancel our in-house courier service Waste We are mindful of sorting our waste and of recycling in particular The energy consumption of our servers Creating awareness – New Dragons receive an e-mail on their very first day with us which strongly recommends that they switch off their computers every evening. Another example is that, at the start of the New Year, our Shanghai agency offers a prepaid metro card to its Dragons to encourage them to use public transport. WASTE & POLLUTION MANAGEMENT Due to our activities, we primarily generate nonhazardous waste along with paper and cardboard. • In Paris, we use La Corbeille Bleue, a subsidiary of the Paprec Group (AFQ ISO 14001), for all our paper and cardboard recycling needs • Recycling bins have been set up in all our offices • A customisable mug is given to each Dragon to reduce the need for single-use cups • In Paris, our used ink cartridges are collected by either our recycling service provider CONIBI (ISO 9001) or by the manufacturer HP • Photoreceptors and printer fuser units are reconditioned by Xerox before being reintroduced into the use cycle in Paris • Lastly, all defective batteries, light bulbs and fluorescent lamps are recycled and recuperated by various service providers Reducing our IT waste Our computer equipment consists mainly of desktop and laptop computers, servers and printers. In 2018, we increased the length of our equipment renewal period: • We keep computers for 5 years (previously 4 years) • We keep mobile phones for 3 years (previously 2 years) • We keep servers for 6 years (previously 5 years) We choose to invest in Apple equipment, as the company is widely recognised for its green solutions in the manufacturing of computers and phones. Minimal noise pollution The vast majority of our activities do not create noise pollution. In Paris, the only installations which are likely to generate noise and which could potentially affect the neighbourhood are the IT rooms and our air conditioning system. The noise pollution from these installations was reduced in 2018 by installing air conditioning compressors in the IT office rather than on the roof. SUSTAINABLE USE OF RESOURCES SUSTAINABLE USE OF RESOURCES LIMITING OUR GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Curbing our business travel Since our agencies are located throughout the world and since our business lies in the tertiary sector, employee transportation is our main source of greenhouse gas emissions. We travel by train rather than by plane for trips under 3 hours We possess six company cars (four are under 3 years old, two are hybrid vehicles). 100% of our meeting rooms are equipped with audio and video conferencing systems to allow remote meetings between our London and Paris agencies 100% of our work stations are equipped with Google Hangouts Meet An average of 43 people per day attend meetings on Google Hangouts Meet, using both the chat and video functions (with up to 250 participants online at times) 4 FIGHTING CORRUPTION & ENGAGING IN ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR Transparency and loyalty with our partners & clients: A long-term commitment TRANSPARENCY & LOYALTY WITH OUR PARTNERS & CLIENTS We support our clients while also complying with the continuously evolving regulation which governs the sectors in which we operate. Therefore, we strive to deliver quality creative work that meets the needs of our clients. In this way, we can maintain longterm relationships built on trust. LONG-TERM RELATIONSHIPS FOUNDED ON TRUST We are committed to fostering effective social and environmental practices with all our partners. Our subcontractors & suppliers We have many in-house skills at our disposal. However, when we need to seek resources outside of our usual scope of activity or when specific expertise is required, we may resort to external service providers or suppliers. We currently have relationships with suppliers whose practices meet our requirements in terms of cost, quality and delivery times but who also share our ethical, social and environmental concerns. In addition, both the transparency and traceability of all our purchases is guaranteed thanks to well-documented purchase orders. Transparency, equality & loyalty with our business partners We consistently work to maintain partnerships which meet the three criteria above. No matter the size of the company (even if it’s a start-up or an SME), if its ambition is clear and it’s in line with our values of honesty and reliability, we will consider it. Profitability is not our only criteria in the selection process! Our services are routinely based on a preliminary estimate. Otherwise, the cost is specified at each stage of the project. Clearly defined working methods & deadlines When embarking on a new project, in addition to providing a detailed cost estimate, a working methodology is established by clearly defining rigorous procedures and steps which stem from: Recognised practices in the industry (e.g. following these project stages: strategy – creation – development – finalisation implementation) A thorough study of our client’s requirements From the expertise we’ve gained over 34 years in the creative industry We favour regular and direct communication: Transparent and honest information is exchanged via e-mail (to share important information and on an as-needed basis) Verbal exchanges throughout all the major stages of a project: Debriefing, optimisation, questions Informal chats to keep in touch Meetings during the crucial stages of a project: Brief, presentation, strategy and creation Video-conferences with remote clients Clearly defined working methods & deadlines We also encourage exchanges between clients and our in-house teams: Our strategic and creative teams attend meetings with clients, especially briefing, presentation or debriefing meetings We support our clients during the technical stages by facilitating face-to-face discussions or calls with our technical experts Finally, in order to optimise the quality of our work: Senior Dragons oversee deliverables at important stages of a project Managers complete weekly reviews of all ongoing projects We redefine the scope of a brief when necessary We refuse deadlines which will inhibit the successful completion of a project Trust & confidentiality Any information provided by a client in the context of a project is strictly confidential and remains within the confines of the Group. All our employees are required to sign a Confidentiality Clause in accordance with the GDPR Awareness meetings are held to educate Dragons on the importance of adhering to the confidentiality clause in their contracts Ethical requirements We have always sought to conduct transactions which are fair and which comply with the applicable law. Commercial relations must be sound and based on a well-defined contractual framework (general or specific conditions, specific contracts) and must reflect the entire scope of a commercial relationship. It is obligatory to consult with a direct supervisor when any legal or ethical business-related issue arises It is strictly prohibited to offer or accept gifts/gratuity or to grant undue advantages directly or through intermediaries with the intent to obtain favourable treatment or to influence the outcome of a negotiation Vigilance All forms of fraud are prohibited within the Group and are subject to both our internal penalties and the sanctions prescribed by applicable international or local law. Every Dragon must become familiar and comply with internal control procedures relating to administrative and financial matters. Reporting any suspicious transactions is compulsory as it enables the Group to intervene before an infraction is perpetrated. We have a particularly vigilant internal control system with regards to warning signals (false invoicing, pricing which is well above or below the market standard…) We’ve implemented procedures such as requiring a double signature for bank transfers and making calls to confirm a new IBAN Respect for copyright We are highly vigilant with regard to respecting copyright and have put in place procedures to: • Guarantee the traceability of the various creative elements that constitute a piece of work whether it was created entirely by Dragon Rouge or whether it includes pre-existing thirdparty artwork (graphics, illustration, photography, etc.). We have established art purchasing procedures within the framework of our contracts with stock photo databases. Our clients have peace of mind thanks to the extremely broad conditions we’ve negotiated within these contracts which allow for the acquisition of intellectual property rights • Check the use history of creations. We use extensive benchmarks and complete preliminary research on intellectual property databases like INPI. Raise awareness among clients about the importance of conducting prior rights searches • Raise awareness among employees about the prohibition of infringing on copyright, including literary, artistic and industrial property rights. We impose this prohibition on our creative services providers in order to avoid cases of infringement Compliance with competition law Competition and even more so calls for tenders are commonly practised in the world of communication agencies. This is a fundamental feature of the open economy in which we operate. We strictly adhere to the applicable laws in France and the white paper issued by the « Association Design Conseil » (the French Association of Design Agencies). We prohibit the exchange of confidential information and/or any arrangement with a competing agency or agencies to fix prices or conditions of sale, split a market or boycott a market player e.g. in the context of meetings with professional associations such as the ADC and the EPDA. Preventing possible conflicts of interest A conflict of interest occurs when an employee engages in activities that favour his or her own personal interests to the detriment of the Group's interests. In order to prevent such conflicts of interest, our employees are made aware of situations in which they cannot make a fair decision because they will be affected by the outcome. Consumer health & safety Given the nature of our activities, our impact on the health and safety of consumers is limited. On the other hand, we are especially attentive to the environmental impact of new materials and processes which we recommend and/or are integrated into our client's products. RECOMMENDING ECO-FRIENDLY MATERIALS Which printing processes will allow for optimal recyclability? How can we control the environmental impact of materials used in architecture? Our Materials Expert, who works in conjunction with our architectural and project management teams, informs our clients about the most sustainable solutions and encourages them to ‘think green’. We select all our suppliers based on sustainable development criteria We choose industrial partners (large corporations or SMEs) who are committed to a CSR/Environmental Management System approach (ISO standard 14001) and to manufacturing processes which consume less energy, water and raw materials (EU Energy Label) We opt for sustainable materials and favour those which carry official and independent labels at EU level Ongoing technological research is carried out by our Materials Expert and Production Manager (ADEME, the INIES database, CSTB, OQAI) to identify sustainable products and new recycling methods (research methods include meeting with suppliers, visiting trade shows, attending Collège de France conferences…) Our mock-up specialist creates colour and volume 3D prototypes which allows us to inspect for faults or carry out any necessary modifications before final production Choice of materials • Renewable, recycled or recyclable materials (Blue Angel, Cradle to Cradle) • Materials which do not pose a threat to the environment or to the health of humans and are free of volatile organic compounds (A+, EU Ecolabel, Greenguard, GUT, Indoor Air Comfort, NF Environnement, Pure) • Materials which do not originate from endangered ecosystems (FSC, Nordic Label, PEFC) GRAPHIC CHAIN TRAINING WORKSHOPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Good corporate citizenship and strong relations with all our stakeholders are the foundation for healthy and sustainable growth. This is why we are committed to: Acting ethically and responsibly Affording total transparency to our stakeholders We pledge to contribute positively to the local communities in which we operate and to use our skills and expertise to help organisations with a social purpose, such as charities or NGOs. Social initiatives A 50% discount on fees for designing the identity and entire brand universe of Casa Pequeno Mundo, a non-profit association that offers career services, technical courses and full psychosocial support to young people under 19 years old Our São Paulo agency participated in social programs organised by Techo, an NGO that mobilises volunteers to fight extreme poverty in Latin America Supporting Dragons who sit on the Board of Directors of organisations such as the Carbon Trust Paris Dragons took part in the 'Course des Lumières', a fun run which gathers donations for the Curie Institute. London Dragons held a Coffee Morning for Macmillan Cancer Support and a cake sale for International Women's Day. PARTNERSHIP WITH ELLEN MACARTHUR Founded in 2009, The Ellen MacArthur Foundation's mission is to accelerate the transition to the circular economy. As an influential organisation, the Foundation has succeeded in creating global momentum around the circular economy and putting it at the top of the agendas of business leaders, governments and academic researchers – all in just a few short years. We have joined the Ellen MacArthur Foundation as a Knowledge Partner to offer advice and expertise regarding strategic communications and branding We ensure that its circular economy messages inform, resonate and inspire! PARTNERSHIP WITH TTLMC We work closely with charities on pro bono projects which benefit society. Since 2017, we have been involved in the initiatives organised by « Tout Le Monde Contre le Cancer », a French organisation which carries out events in hospitals to support cancer patients and their families. We designed the entire graphic universe for ‘l’Échappée Rose’ – the first mobile wellness facility which travels to hospitals around the country, allowing patients to put the disease ‘on pause’ and enjoy a moment of relaxation. We also designed for ‘Les Escales au Château’ escape from the daily routine at the hospital and head off on a dream vacation and ‘100 Noëls dans 100 Hôpitaux’ –entertainment, face painting, gourmet snacks and personalised gifts for hospitalised children at Christmas time. Involvement with schools We pride ourselves on extending expertise to the academic community. It is a unique opportunity for us to exchange with the designers and consultants of tomorrow and to help further students’ training. We invite students to visit our agency and attend our conferences with the aim of sharing our knowledge and creating job opportunities We set briefs for students to work towards. We spend time to clearly brief them and critique their work along the way We sit on juries at student competitions We lecture at Paris universities (Penninghen and IUT, Bobigny) for design degrees We are involved with École Estienne (meetings with its creative directors, allowing its students to tour our agency, adjudicating student projects) and École Tokyo Design (we plan annual presentations of our expertise as well as agency visits) We welcome young students for observation internships to help them decide whether or not to pursue a career in our industry and introduce them to the world of business Interaction with the eco-design system Our founding president is a member of the ADC Board (Association Design Conseil) which brings together French design agencies that share a common ambition to bring client’s brands to life through their products and to be a genuine partner. They also share a common vision – that design is a brand’s primary medium of communication. Design strengthens a brand’s identity, value and name recognition over time The CEO of our Warsaw agency is the acting Vice-President of the EPDA (European Brand and Packaging Design Association), the first European network which brings together international designers and design agencies and allows them to communicate with fellow creatives 5 OBJECTIVES FOR 2019 OBJECTIVES FOR 2019 Our ambition is to extend the scope of our social, environmental and societal reporting in the near future to achieve comprehensive, reliable coverage of our eight agencies. We seek to adopt the best practices in areas where we have the most significant impact. We are already planning several projects for 2019: SOCIAL: HEALTH & WELL-BEING Ask our occupational physician to carry out an assessment of risks (psychosocial risks, musculoskeletal disorders and noise control in open spaces) Write a charter on the right to disconnect and implement an automatic email system Incentivise Dragons to come to/from work by bike through an employer’s contribution towards the cost of a bicycle SOCIAL: NEW DRAGONS, DIVERSITY & EQUAL OPPORTUNITES Write a welcome booklet for new employees Work with more people with disabilities and those who are undergoing occupational rehabilitation Ensure that at least one of our caterers employs people in social reintegration ENVIRONMENTAL: WASTE SORTING & RECYCLING Encourage waste separation by purchasing clearly labelled large bins for our office and organise awareness campaigns to educate our Dragons on the importance of recycling Investigate the possibility of using coffee beans instead of coffee capsules in our machines. We are also considering installing a compost system ENVIRONMENTAL: ELIMINATING UNNECESSARY WASTE Make the switch to LED lighting in Paris: We aim to reach 70% by 2019 and 100% by 2020 Dematerialise all time-off requests for the entire Group Conduct campaigns encouraging Dragons to reduce their energy and paper consumption Organise a draw allowing Dragons to purchase our old IT equipment for €1 per device Arrange an annual collection of clothing, books and clothes to donate to NGOs ENVIRONMENTAL: STOPPING POLLUTION Replace our current fleet with hybrid vehicles Consider installing charging stations for electric cars Mandate that our travel agency track our travel and calculate our CO2 emissions ENVIRONMENTAL: BIODIVERSITY INITIATIVES Contemplate creating green spaces inside our agency Examine the possibility of installing a beehive on the roof of our offices SOCIETAL: ETHICS Continue to take environmental factors into account when choosing subcontractors and suppliers Draft a code of conduct for our business partners Explore writing a charter for the protection of whistleblowers SOCIETAL: CHARITIES Offer our branding/packaging services to charities for free Participate in a fun run to raise funds for charity Our CSR approach is based on our philosophy of continuous improvement. We pledge to find innovative solutions to become a more responsible employer, partner and business.
