Social Responsibility Report – 2018 Content Message from the CEO...............................................................3 I BIAL Mission & Values..............................................................................5 Innovation in Health.....................................................................6 Social Responsibility....................................................................7 II BIAL and the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights....................................................................................9 Labour Practices.............................................................................10 Environmental Protection...................................................... 15 Anti-corruption............................................................................... 17 III Patronage Social Responsibility and Patronage..................................................................................19 BIAL Foundation.......................................................................... 20 Social Responsibility Report 2018 2 Message from the CEO BIAL is celebrating 95 years of existence. It is a remarkable date in our history of research, development, production and commercialization of medicines. We are constantly evolving, adapting to change, always working to provide more and better life. This constant evolution has allowed the pharmaceutical industry to contribute in an extraordinary way so that we have today twice the average life expectancy when we compare it to the beginning of the last century. Our ability to change and adapt has allowed us to make a small contribution to these extraordinary changes in people’s health. We work every day with passion, dedication, always with people in mind – Keeping life in mind. This way of being also guides our Social Responsibility policy in all its dimensions, certain that particularly in this context, we cannot stand still or have a passive attitude, neither minimize the urgent need for change. The future seems promising in many areas from health to technology, from science to communication, but also worrying at the level of social asymmetries and inequalities, environmental issues, inclusion, sustainability among many other topics. These are realistic problems of society and of most companies in general. Of all of us! Aware of our responsibility, we want to continue to be guided by the respect for People and Human Rights, as well as the respect for the Environment, always working ethically and in line with the best Working Practices. These will always be the principles upon which BIAL is governed and therefore we renew our commitment to the Global Compact, of which this Progress Report is an example. We are certain that there are no alternative paths if we want to participate in building a more inclusive, cooperative and sustainable society. Social Responsibility Report 2018 3 I BIAL I BIAL Mission & Values Founded in 1924, BIAL’s mission is to discover, develop and provide new therapeutic solutions within the Health area. “Keeping Life in Mind” is our motto and our strategic areas of development are Research and Development, Internationalisation and Quality. We want to meet people’s Health needs, by playing an active part in global economic growth. We also want to contribute to the construction of a knowledgeable society, one that is competitive and dynamic, based on scientific development and innovation. The values which guide us reflect our identity: • Caring for Health • Invest in Quality and Innovation • Excellence in scientific research • Integrity and high ethical standards • Rigour, responsibility and teamwork • Respect for universal values Social Responsibility Report 2018 5 I BIAL Innovation in Health We believe that, to better serve the interests and needs of In recent years we have patented several new drugs worldwide. everyone, we cannot limit ourselves to the production and supply of The average amount of time the pharmaceutical industry spends on medication, we must go beyond. This is why we have decided that a researching a new medication is between ten to fourteen years and strategic focus for BIAL should be the research of new therapeutic research investments can reach 1 billion Euros. During this process, solutions. thousands of molecules are left behind, either because they are not effective or safe, or because they have undesirable side-effects on the To be able to contribute towards the development of mankind, human organism. we feel we should discover, innovate and actively contribute to the treatment of the many diseases that affect human beings and their In 2009 BIAL put Portugal on the world map of therapeutic quality of life. To live every single day in a spirit of creativity and innovation, by launching the first medicine researched and patented in evolution, within a highly professional business sector, means engaging Portugal onto the market – an antiepileptic drug. This drug is currently our employees, our shareholders, our customers and our suppliers in marketed in several European countries, including Portugal, Spain, the BIAL project. United Kingdom, Germany, France and also in the USA. BIAL invests over 20% of its turnover in Research and In 2016 the European Commission approved a new innovative Development (R&D). The 2018 EU Industrial RD Investment Scoreboard drug from BIAL, for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. This drug has ranked BIAL in the 470th position among the top 1,000 European R&D already been marketed in several European countries. companies. In recognition of our commitment to research and development, The Group’s R&D projects are developed at the R&D centre located BIAL has been admitted, for more than one decade, to the European in Trofa, Portugal, by more than 100 people, 44 of which have PhDs Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), and 9 different nationalities. BIAL’s research focuses mostly on the the prestigious federation of the leading research companies in the neuroscience and the cardiovascular system, with the aim to contribute European pharmaceutical sector. to therapeutic development, providing the market with products that improve people’s quality of life. As a national industry, we also feel compelled to contribute actively to economic and social development, by fostering the construction of a society founded on the pillars of knowledge, competitiveness, cooperation, science and innovation. BIAL is a founding member and an associate of the Health Cluster Portugal, a pole of competitiveness in health whose mission is to make Portugal a competitive player in the research, design, development, manufacture and marketing of health-related products and services. BIAL is a member of APIFARMA (Portuguese Pharmaceutical Industry Association), an entity whose main mission is to foster innovation and the development of therapies that address the needs for treatment and prevention of new diseases, as well as providing medicines which will improve the health and the quality of life for all populations. By carrying out its mission, the pharmaceutical industry defends high ethical and quality standards, which combine social responsibility and the duty of solidarity. Social Responsibility Report 2018 6 I BIAL Social Responsibility BIAL’s social responsibility policy is an integral part of the company’s management practices and dictates the relationship with its various stakeholders. It involves several areas: people management, quality and environmental protection policies, various initiatives to promote/support scientific research and association with humanitarian causes and social organisations throughout the world. We are not alone in this mission. Over the course of recent years BIAL has allied with several institutions and bodies that share our vision of cooperating to build a more responsible and sustainable planet. Aiming to contribute towards the promotion of sustainable economic progress, we are a member of the UN Global Compact, acting in accordance with the ten principles regarding management practices. Climate change is a real problem which affects current and future generations. We are signatory to Caring for Climate, a declaration by the members of the Global Compact that promotes solutions towards climate problems which affect our planet. Thinking of a more sustainable future, in 2018 BIAL joined The Porto Protocol initiative as a founding member. This forum brings together entities from different fields and aims to promote the discussion of ideas, while sharing experiences and recommending solutions to reduce ecological footprint. BIAL is also a member of EPIS – Empresários Pela Inclusão Social (Businessmen for Social Inclusion). This association was created in 2006 and is focused on Education, with special emphasis on reducing school failure and early drop-out. Social Responsibility Report 2018 7 II BIAL and the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights The People Human Rights • Principle 1: BIAL supports and respects the protection We are constantly focused in respecting Human Rights in all our of internationally proclaimed human rights; activities and within the relationships with our stakeholders. • Principle 2: BIAL guarantees no corporate complicity in BIAL does not make any kind of discrimination and our processes the human rights violations. always call for equal opportunities. Our Research & Development Area employs people from 9 different nationalities and, as a result of our commitment to internationalisation, our products are in more than 50 countries across Europe, America, Africa and Asia. The human factor is a priority in BIAL Group’s management policy. We believe that our employees are the cornerstone of the Group’s It is also important to state that BIAL has never been involved in success, recognised today by public and private institutions as a any case related to Human Rights violations and the Group has a Code benchmark in the labour market. of Ethics and Conduct, read and accepted by all employees, which emphasizes the topic of the respect for the non-violation of Human BIAL has consistently and steadily created relevant job Rights. opportunities. In 1995 BIAL employed 250 people, nowadays we are more than 900 employees. On a regular basis we also carry out an Internal Satisfaction Survey, where any situation which might contradict the Universal Declaration of Our commitment is reflected in the quality and qualification of Human Rights, may be reported confidentially and anonymously. our employees. BIAL is proud of its extremely thorough selection and recruitment process, as it seeks to attract, select and retain skilled workers, with the best qualifications. This factor can be proven by the percentage of employees with higher education degrees which is of 78%. “Although we have defined a corporate policy common to all group companies, there are of course different habits and cultures between countries or nationalities. Perhaps the first rule to manage an international team is to respect the differences”. Luís Portela, Chairman of BIAL. Social Responsibility Report 2018 9 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Labour Practices • Principle 3: BIAL supports freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective negotiation; • Principle 4: BIAL condemns all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: BIAL condemns all forms of child labour. BIAL’s strategy is future-oriented, protecting the basic principles that any company should ensure in order to be socially responsible. Below we have examples of some situations which reflect BIAL’s activity development, aiming the sustainable growth while respecting society and human beings. -BIAL has a proactive policy which ensures the development of employees through talent management programs, such as training and development actions, as well as several opportunities for internal and international mobility. -Health and safety are a constant priority so BIAL complies with all legal and regulatory requirements related to the health and prevention of work-related accidents. This fact is recognized and validated by the occupational Health and Safety Management System, in accordance with the requirements of OHSAS 18001. Social Responsibility Report 2018 10 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Labour Practices • Principle 6: BIAL guarantees the elimination of employment discrimination. The BIAL Group does not engage any discriminatory practice in recruitment processes, namely pertaining to disability, gender, religion, political or sexual orientation, marital status, nationality, ethnic origin or union membership. For example, 53% of the company employees are female. 47% DISTRIBUTION BY GENDER 53% Women Men 45% GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION 55% Portugal Rest of the World Social Responsibility Report 2018 11 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Labour Practices LABOUR RELATIONS BIAL aims to develop the best practices pertaining to the management and relationship with people. Labour relations are no exception. As part of APIFARMA one of BIAL’s main responsibilities is to follow the guidelines and rules of the Collective Employment Agreement of the Pharmaceutical Industry, an existing convention between companies involved in the sector who are members of the Association. This collective agreement regulates the sector’s activities within the Labour Law, Establishment of Employment Relations, Vocational Training, Safety, Hygiene, Health and Safety, among others. BIAL is also part of the “ISO Group”, a project developed in partnership with Infarmed (Portuguese Authority of Medicines and Health Products I.P.), which gathers a work group of representatives of each industry to harmonise procedures and promote potential synergies between the participating entities. It should also be emphasised that BIAL gives priority to job security and stability and is proud of having approximately 90% of employment contracts as permanent. Social Responsibility Report 2018 12 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Labour Practices HUMAN RESOURCES POLICIES Performance Management Turnover and Mobility Performance Management is crucial and an essential management tool to assure employee/organisation alignment. At BIAL performance At BIAL we favour the internal turnover of our employees, with appraisal is carried out annually, based on the evaluation of the almost all existing opportunities within the Group being disclosed (corporate, departmental and individual) goals, strengths and areas internally, thus offering our people integration through new roles and needing improvement, which result in a development plan with specific departments, as well as working in different countries. In 2018 the rate actions and measures. of recruitment processes completed with internal employees exceeded 25%. In this evaluation employees are given the opportunity to reinforce their career by “mapping” needs and expectations, to promote the Whenever BIAL enters a new market and / or creates international development of specific training plans. This also enables us to gain a teams, the integration of business processes, values, ethical principles more detailed perception of the interests, motivations and ambitions of and BIAL’s culture are priority. Nevertheless, always based on the employees in a short and medium-term, as well as align them with individuality respect, specificities and differences of the communities the strategic needs of the BIAL Group. where we are present. Social Responsibility Report 2018 13 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Labour Practices Training and Development Internal Satisfaction Since the opinion of our employees is important to overall growth, At all functional levels, we promote teamwork and an ongoing every 2 years we conduct an Internal Satisfaction Survey. This survey is training systems which allows updating and expanding skills and an opportunity for all employees to voice their views on several issues competencies of our human resources. related to their work. With the intention to generate high levels of motivation and In the last Internal Satisfaction Survey, conducted in 2017, the performance, BIAL develops programs aimed towards individual participation rate was of 84% and the overall satisfaction reached performance. In 2018 approximately 50 training hours were given 83%. In 2019 we will carry out a new survey and our aim is to sustain to each employee, proving BIAL’s commitment to the qualification our results, as well as to continue to be a company empowering and professional valorisation of people. Below are some examples of feelings of belonging and pride among our employees. training programs implemented at BIAL: • Induction Training – Defined and aimed at all employees who Internal Communication start working for the company. As BIAL is present in over 50 countries and has more than 900 • Executive Coaching – Provided annually to a group of employees, internal communication is key to a good organisational employees with the main goal of providing them with key skills to climate. better perform their roles. Through our intranet all relevant information is shared and • Leadership Training – Through partnerships with distinguished available to all employees. institutions, each year, BIAL provides its leaders with leadership training. “myTEAM” and “BIAL Tools” are examples of programs Annually there is an event commemorating the anniversary of which have been developed. the company where the Chairman, the CEO and the Directors of the different areas share information about the present status and the future of the company. In addition, international meetings are annually held with all Directors to share information and make decisions on the definition/adjustment of the company’s strategy. BIAL has been creating a virtuous circle of satisfaction between the Company and its employees, defined as a priority of the internal motivation and the support of a cooperative and collaborative spirit. The high level of permanent and open dialogue is a source of pride, which is recognised both internally and externally. • Management and Leadership Good Practices Program. • Curriculum Enrichment – BIAL annually contributes to or finances the costs of employee graduation, master, PhD and MBA studies, which may be considered as an added value to the business and to the employees. • Language Training – Given each year so that, over time, all employees can improve this skill to promote, optimise and speed up the internationalisation process defined for the Group. • Internal Training – Annually, several internal training plans are provided to all employees with topics on process updates, procedures or equipments. Our employees are also trained in key areas such as Best Practices in the Pharmaceutical Industry, Occupational Health and Safety, Pharmacovigilance, among others. It is important to state that the Code of Ethics and Conduct is accessible to all new employees in the company. Once again, proving our commitment to offer training, BIAL has also developed an e-learning platform. Social Responsibility Report 2018 14 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Environmental Protection Quality and the Environment as Principles The main environmental aspects which directly and indirectly depend on our activity are periodically monitored in a systematic • Principle 7: BIAL supports a precautionary approach to manner, namely: environmental challenges; -Waste production • Principle 8: BIAL promotes environmental -Water consumption and wastewater responsibility; -Energy • Principle 9: : BIAL promotes the use of environmentally-friendly technology. -Gas emissions -Environmental noise Quality is understood as being a responsibility for all. Its -Promotion of legal compliance for “Entities that work on behalf of improvement must be constantly sought out and developed as a or for the Organisation” determinant factor towards the accomplishment of our goals. Health, Safety and the Environment are also an integral part of our commitments. The strategies as well as the development and WASTE PRODUCTION optimisation efforts in our processes, products and services respect both the Environment and all those who live in it. In 2018 overall waste production was 205 tonnes. In total, all of it was sent to licensed operators. These commitments will be ensured by all areas of the Company, through the following principles: In 2018 the production of recyclable waste (plastics, aluminium, glass, cardboard, paper, ….) at BIAL corresponded to approximately -Guarantee the quality and safety of the drugs manufactured, in 45% of the total waste generated. The economic value of this waste harmony with the health and safety of employees as well as of the led to added value for the company of about 15% of the total costs environment; associated with the global management of waste. -Strictly comply with regulatory, technical and normative BIAL monitors paper consumption. It is worth noting that, despite requirements which apply to our activity or others to which BIAL the increase in the number of employees registered in 2018, there subscribes; are several reduce consumption strategies implemented by BIAL such as the transition of documents in digital form, the use of double-sided -Stimulate the improvement and development of the employees’ printing and the reuse of paper. skills, recognising their contributions as a way of professional growth, job satisfaction and commitment to quality, health, safety In addition to recyclable waste, BIAL produces hazardous waste and the environment, so as to maintain an organisation which resulting from the return of products from the market (pharmacies, values initiative, teamwork and knowledge sharing; wholesalers) and from production leftovers. In 2018, hazardous waste amounted to approximately 77 tons, which is 16% higher than the -Demand, from suppliers, the strict compliance with the previous year. specifications and requirements for different materials, products and services, as well as acting responsibly with regards to health, safety and the environment, stimulating their participation in the improvement of their processes, products and services; -Continuous improvement of the system performance, for us to have merit in the acceptance of the Health Community, regulating entities and society in general. Certified in 2001, BIAL was the first pharmaceutical company and the first operating in the healthcare area to obtain Certification for its Environmental Management System from ISO 14001. Social Responsibility Report 2018 15 Environmental Protection PROMOTION OF LEGAL COMPLIANCE FOR “PEOPLE WORKING ON BEHALF OF OR FOR THE ORGANISATION” Throughout 2018, BIAL continued to promote training and awareness actions regarding the Environment, with special emphasis on subcontracted entities. In 2019, BIAL will continue committed to monitoring the effectiveness of the Environmental Management and Occupational Health and Safety Systems, along with their evolution in time, while paying special attention to the compliance within the applicable legislation and continuous improvement. WATER CONSUMPTION AND WASTEWATER During 2018, 20 188 m3 of water from the public supply system OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (OHS) were consumed. This water was used for human consumption as well as for the production processes. In order to reduce costs and their BIAL promotes a healthy and safe working environment, adopting inherent impact, the company’s fire prevention network, irrigation the necessary measures to prevent accidents which may occur during systems, washing and cooling systems use untreated water obtained the course of work and minimizing or eliminating the risks, where from a borehole and 9,574 m3 were consumed, which means a saving possible. in the consumption of drinking water. Within the training/awareness and communication context, several The volume of wastewater produced and treated in 2018 in our actions were developed with all employees, both in conference rooms Industrial Effluent Chemical and Biological Treatment Plant was of and at the workplace. Various emergency drill exercises were also 8 811 m3, corresponding to 43.6% of total consumption of drinking conducted. In 2018, several actions were conducted, namely in areas water. such as the Environment and OHS, focusing on Waste Management, Good Environmental and OSH Practices for Service Providers, ENERGY Emergency Response (fire extinguisher training), Occupational Noise and Ergonomics (included class of labor gymnastics), Chemical Energy consumption is mainly associated with two types of Agents,Individual Protective Equipment, Height Work, Confined Space “sources”: Electricity and Natural Gas, the total of which is recorded Manual and Load Handling. under Primary Energy, TEP. Energy consumption has shown some fluctuations over the past 10 years, alternating with positive and In terms of health, in addition to the usual auxiliary diagnostic tests negative variations from one year to another. that support the medical fitness assessment, two additional campaigns were also developed: audiometric tests and optometric tests. In 2018 BIAL’s facilities consumed a total of approximately 1,461 TEP, with the consumption profile increasing by 40% in With regards to the choice of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), comparison to 2017. Under the applicable law, BIAL group is this is performed by taking into account the risks to be protected and considered to be an energy-intensive consumer and is implementing the characteristics of the employees who will use it. In addition to an Energy Rationalization Plan. providing all PPE required for the tasks to be performed, BIAL replaces them whenever they are damaged or have expired. GAS EMISSIONS Technical audits to the facilities are also carried out, with the According to the “Gaseous Effluent Characterization” conducted objective of verifying the safety conditions of workplaces (work periodically and as a consequence of the improvement actions taken, equipment, environment, PPE, fire-fighting equipment, exposure to BIAL maintains mass flow rates of pollutants below the respective chemical, biological and physical agents) as well as verifying legal minimum mass flow thresholds, and therefore it is not required to compliance. These audits also screen machines, the use of shields comply with the respective Emission Limit Values (ELV). and other aspects related to OHS. These audits result in reports which include the findings and corrective measures suggested. ENVIRONMENTAL NOISE According to the provisions of the applicable law and based on the results obtained in the last measurement, BIAL meets the noise indicator values, not exceeding the exposure limit values nor the discomfort limit values. Social Responsibility Report 2018 16 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Anti-corruption • Principle 10: BIAL works against all forms of -BIAL conducts all activities according to the highest ethical corruption, including extortion and bribery. standards reflected in our Code of Ethics and Conduct. BIAL complies with any and all laws, directives, regulations, standards or national, international or regional rules, associative codes, policies, procedures and ethical, deontological and moral BIAL has been in the market for over 95 years and throughout standards, applicable to our activities in all geographical locations these nine decades, has worked in compliance with the highest ethical where we operate. standards. This has always been part of the company’s DNA. -On a regular and continuous basis, BIAL promotes global or BIAL has a Code of Ethics and Conduct which reminds and applies sectoral training actions. Transparency, ethics, and integrity are the main ethical principles which govern the company and relations expected of our employees, as well as of the hierarchies while with its partners. Since BIAL’s image and success depends on each of promoting BIAL’s ethical culture. their employees and the group’s strength, integrity and ethics are part All new employees, regardless of their function, are trained of daily activities, BIAL will continue to work responsibly, seeking to according to the the Code of Ethics and Conduct. make a difference, offering everyone a longer and better life. -Bribery and corruption are against BIAL’s core values; they are unethical and contribute to inequality. Therefore, we have a zerotolerance policy regarding bribery and corruption practices. As part of our commitment towards integrity and high ethical standards in the conduct of our business activities, each and every Officer, Employee or legal person working on behalf of BIAL, is strictly prohibited from (and from attempting to) offering, giving, soliciting, accepting or receiving any goods, services or amounts, with the intention of obtaining illegitimate economic or business benefits or advantages. -Failure to comply with the Code or with the Laws, Procedures and Ethical Standards may lead to (administrative, civil and criminal) penalties for BIAL, causing significant business disruption and harm to BIAL’s reputation, and personally towards each one of us. It may lead also to disciplinary action including possible enforcement of legally permitted penalty. -BIAL has internal mechanisms to report irregularities or noncompliant behaviours which are not in accordance with the principles outlined. We aim to ensure and monitor that all employees comply with ethical and conduct principals provided. Social Responsibility Report 2018 17 III Patronage III Sponsorship Social Responsibility and Patronage BIAL integrates several entities and institutions whose aim is the BIAL Group contributes actively towards the development of several sustainable development of the planet and the creation of a more fair institutions, associations, hospitals, schools, universities, municipalities and responsible society. and other organisations who work to foster the well-being of today’s society and future generations. BIAL gives special attention to BIAL is part of “Porto de Futuro”, a pioneering and innovative supporting the local community where it is based in, namely the educational program in the country, which is a response to the need for Câmara Municipal da Trofa, local schools in Trofa and Maia districts, as a greater involvement from the civil society in schooling, recognising well as local sports clubs and associations. the key role of Education in the sustainable development of a more competitive and dynamic society. In this program, BIAL supports a We also highlight BIAL’s participation in the “Banco do Group of Schools in the Porto region and, among various programs, we Medicamento” initiative, a protocol between the Ministério da highlight the “Braço Direito” project. This project aims to have students Solidariedade e Segurança Social, Infarmed, Apifarma and “União das come to BIAL for a work day as the right hand of one of our employees, Misericórdias”. This is a platform for access to free medicines through accompanying them on their daily tasks and activities. donations made directly by pharmaceutical companies, through social institutions that have medical and pharmaceutical services. In the Furthermore, every year, some of BIAL’s employees volunteer to Health area, we also have partnerships with several medical societies train students from one of that Group’s schools on topics such as and patient associations which aim towards training, education and Family, Citizenship, Economy, among others. awareness of the various issues that affect the health of the population. Every year we collect food products, school books, toys and BIAL’s patronage also includes the promotion of artistic activities, clothing to support charitable institutions. including the publication and disclosure of a variety of cultural works in the fields such as painting, literature, sculpture, music and Once a year a blood donation and bone marrow collection is photography. also held at BIAL’s premises, by Instituto Português de Sangue e Transplantação. Social Responsibility Report 2018 19 III Sponsorship BIAL Foundation With the aim in disclosing and promoting science and research in Health, BIAL created, in 1994, the BIAL Foundation. It is an institution of public utility, whose mission is to promote and motivate scientific knowledge of the human-being, both from a physical and spiritual point In 2018, with the objective of widening the scope of the BIAL of view. Foundation action and recognising the most remarkable and relevant discoveries in biomedicine, the BIAL Award in Biomedicine was Over the years, the BIAL Foundation has recognised and stimulated created. This new Award, with a value of 300 thousand Euros, will scientific research by awarding Prizes and Grants for Scientific have its first edition in 2019 and is intended to reward an article of Research, collaborating with the scientific community from around the biomedical nature published after the 1st of January 2010, which world. represents a work with results of great quality and scientific relevance. Aimed at motivating medical research and publishing works with The Grants for Scientific Research are aimed to encourage great repercussion in medical research, the BIAL Foundation promotes research in Psychophysiology and Parapsychology areas and can the Prémio BIAL Medicina Clínica. This award aims to reward an go as far as up to € 50,000. The competitions already conducted original, intellectual work of medical nature, with a free theme and have already benefited of more than 690 projects of around 1500 directed to clinical practice, representing a work with results of great researchers from 25 countries. quality and relevance. With the same goal of stimulating the neurophysiological and In addition to the monetary value of 100 thousand Euros, the mental study of Man, the BIAL Foundation has been organising, Prémio BIAL Medicina Clínica also includes the publication of the every two years since 1996, the “Behind and Beyond the Brain” winning article, with a first exclusive edition to be distributed free of symposium, which is currently an international forum for the charge among health professionals. discussion and expansion of research in the field of Neurosciences and Parapsychology. Social Responsibility Report 2018 20
