Natural Capital Partners’ Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact February 2019 Statement of Continued Support by Stephen Killeen, President & CEO To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Natural Capital Partners, as a United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Participant, reaffirms its support for the Ten Principles of the UNGC in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this Communication on Progress, we describe our work since our last submission in February 2018 to deepen the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Stephen J. Killeen President & CEO London: 167 Fleet Street, London, EC4A 2EA +44 20 7833 6000 New York: 1732 First Avenue, Suite 20732, New York, New York 10128 +1 212 390 8835 info@naturalcapitalpartners.com naturalcapitalpartners.com Natural Capital Partners Europe Limited Registered in England No: 02979872 VAT No: 728827790 Registered Office: 167 Fleet Street, London EC4A 2EA, United Kingdom 2019 Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact 28 February 2019, Page 2 of 5 2019 Communication on Progress Introduction to Natural Capital Partners Natural Capital Partners works with businesses to measure, manage and reduce their environmental impacts and deliver against their sustainability goals. Our primary service to clients is the creation and management of portfolios of market-based environmental instruments, including but not limited to carbon credits, energy attribute certificates, water benefit certificates and woodland creation certificates. We are a small privately-held business of 25 professionals located in the United States and Europe generating revenues of less than $100m per year. We have 22 years of experience helping 300+ world-class businesses across 33 countries which are taking a lead in managing environmental issues for competitive business advantage and to build social, environmental and economic value in the communities in which they have influence. In 2018, Natural Capital Partners’ clients supported 64 climate mitigation projects in 26 countries; and, 61 renewable energy projects in 30 countries. In addition, we help clients identify and support projects outside their direct operations that make qualified contributions to the UN Sustainable Development Goals or self-defined sustainability objectives. How we manage our Global Compact Commitments Natural Capital Partners (formerly known as The CarbonNeutral Company) became a signatory to the Global Compact in 2010. The Company continues to work on incorporating its commitments under the Global Compact into our strategy, operations, and management procedures. Our approach to assuring compliance with our commitments is based upon a qualitative assessment of risks in each of the ten areas of focus as defined by the Global Compact. Areas of highest risk relate to risk exposures within our supply chain – specifically climate mitigation and adaptation projects in the least developed and developing economies from which we source market-based instruments such as carbon credits, energy attribute certificates, water benefit certificates and others. In the past year (March 2018 to February 2019) this activity accounted for approximately 86% of our discretionary spend and covered more than 393 contracts in 55 countries of which 10 are classified as least developed nations. The remaining spend is in low risk categories including professional services, travel, and office accommodation – purchased from suppliers selected for their professionalism and commitment to sustainable development. Table 1, below, summarises our risks assessment, related risk controls and areas of planned risk management improvement. 2019 Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact 28 February 2019, Page 3 of 5 Table 1: Risk Assessment and Responses Across Ten Principles Level Operational Operational Human Rights Priority Areas of Risk Controls Tools Company Support and respect the policy & due Deepen project 1 protection of internationally Medium Supplier Code diligence partner vetting; proclaimed human rights. of Conduct; procedures continue to country and Company implement new Make sure that they are not project partner policy & due Supplier Code 2 complicit in human rights Medium due diligence diligence of Conduct abuses. procedures Labour Uphold the freedom of Company association & effective policy & due 3 Low recognition of the right to diligence collective bargaining. procedures Deepen project Company partner and Eliminate all forms of forced policy & due supplier 4 Low Supplier Code and compulsory labour. diligence vetting; of Conduct & procedures continue to due diligence Company implement our Work for the effective abolition policy & due Supplier Code 5 Medium of child labour. diligence of Conduct procedures Company Eliminate discrimination in policy & due 6 respect of employment and Low diligence occupation. procedures Environment Use of bestSupport a precautionary in-class third7 approach to environmental Low None Core purpose party challenges. of our standards Undertake initiatives to business is Maintain our Product and 8 promote greater environmental Low the delivery of CarbonNeutral® service sales responsibility. positive status Encourage the development environmental impact Supply Develop new and diffusion of 9 Low partner products & environmentally friendly activities services technologies. Anti-corruption Employee Deepen Work against corruption in all Financial Handbook supplier 10 its forms, including extortion Medium management policy & engagement & and bribery. & controls procedures vetting With respect to Principle 8, Natural Capital Partners is a CarbonNeutral® company certified to the requirements of the CarbonNeutral Protocol. We calculate our greenhouse gas emission footprint and offset unavoidable emissions annually for the prior year within six months of the calendar yearend. For Calendar Year 2017, our carbon footprint was 154 tonnes of CO2e. A combination of 2019 Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact 28 February 2019, Page 4 of 5 Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) and renewable energy Guarantees of Origin, in the United States and Europe respectively, were retired to zero-rate our 10 tonnes of CO2e Scope 2 emissions. The remaining Scope 1 and 3 emissions of 144 tonnes of CO2e were offset by retiring a mixed portfolio of carbon credits generated under the Clean Development Mechanism (17%); Verified Carbon Standard (33%), Gold Standard (33%), and the American Carbon Registry (17%). The main tools we use to manage our Global Compact commitments across the business are our Employee Handbook and our detailed sourcing due diligence procedures. The Employee Handbook includes policies that together cover the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, including specifically: • Dignity at work and harassment • Disability in employment • Diversity • Equal opportunity • Age discrimination • Anti-bribery • UN Global Compact Natural Capital Partners’ commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact: • applies to all personnel, namely directors, officers and employees of Natural Capital Partners, its subsidiaries, as well as appointed affiliates and/or third-parties acting on behalf the Company from time to time; and, • relates to business activities with any individuals, private commercial organisations, subnational, national and international governmental or public-sector bodies, and any other organisations with which the Company interacts directly or indirectly in the course of its business-related activities. All Company personnel are responsible individually and collectively for our commitments under the United Nations Global Compact. Specifically, personnel must: • not by act or omission knowingly breach the spirit and purpose of the Global Compact; • follow the mandated Company procedures designed to ensure adherence with the Ten Principles, and which may be developed from time to time to improve our management of associated risks; • take steps to require that third parties engaged on the Company’s behalf conduct Natural Capital Partners business to ethical and professional standards consistent with the aims and objectives of the Global Compact; and, • promptly report to the Company any known or suspected instances or circumstances where the Company’s personnel, or those doing business on the Company’s behalf, may be acting counter to the spirit and purpose of the Global Compact. 2019 Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact 28 February 2019, Page 5 of 5 Performance Improvement and Compliance During the past year we have: 1. Deepened our engagement with project partners with the continued implementation of our Supplier Code of Conduct. 2. Enhanced and further developed our proprietary due diligence procedures and controls. These two areas remain the focus of our performance improvements. Annual reporting on non-compliance and ongoing improvements Internal checks and controls have not identified material instances of non-compliance with our policies since our last Communication of Progress. Our next Communication on Progress will be at the end of February 2020. _____________________________________________________
