Shaping a Sustainable Future Sustainability Report 2018 Keppel Group’s Vision Mission Operating Principles A leading real estate company, Guided by our operating principles 1 Best value propositions to customers. shaping the best for and core values, we will create 2 Tapping and developing best talents future generations. value for all our stakeholders through from our global workforce. innovative real estate solutions. 3 Cultivating a spirit of innovation and enterprise. 4 Executing our projects well. 5 Being financially disciplined to earn best risk-adjusted returns. 6 Clarity of focus and operating within our core competence. 7 Being prepared for the future. Contents Overview Empowering Lives About this Report 2 Health and Safety 37 Corporate Profile 3 People Matter 42 Letter to Stakeholders 4 Driving Sustainability 7 Nurturing Communities Sustainability Framework 8 Community and Society 50 Commitment to Stakeholders 9 Managing Sustainability 10 Other Information Sustaining Growth Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index 54 Corporate Governance 12 International Network 59 Risk Management 16 Environment 18 Shaping a Sustainable Future A multi-faceted real estate player, Keppel Land provides innovative real estate solutions with its sterling portfolio of residential developments, commercial properties and integrated townships, while placing sustainability at the heart of its strategy and operations. Overview About this Report Corporate Profile GRI 102-45 | GRI 102-46 | GRI 102-48 | GRI 102-49 Keppel Land reaffirms its commitment towards sustainability with the publication of this Keppel Land is the property arm of Beijing and Tianjin in China, 2. Quality sustainability report 2018 (the Report). Keppel Corporation, a multi-business Ho Chi Minh City in Vietnam, • Fit for Purpose company providing robust solutions for Jakarta in Indonesia, Manila in the • Maintainability Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards sustainable urbanisation, with key businesses Philippines and Yangon in Myanmar. The Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option. in offshore and marine, property, infrastructure 3. Aesthetics It focuses on topics that have been identified as material to Keppel Land’s business and its and investments. Responsible Design Values key stakeholders, which are detailed in the section on Managing Sustainability. The GRI To encapsulate Keppel Land’s conscious 4. Sustainability Content Index on pages 54 to 58 contains the list of GRI references used in the Report. As a multi-faceted property company, effort to deliver the best standards in • Design for climate change Keppel Land provides innovative real estate liveability, quality, aesthetics and sustainability, responsiveness, resource efficiency This Report has successfully completed the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service. It has also solutions with its sterling portfolio of a set of Responsible Design Values and ecological conservation been reviewed and approved by Keppel Land’s Sustainability Committee, which ensures that award-winning residential developments, was developed. • Productivity all material issues are addressed. investment-grade commercial properties and integrated townships. These guidelines are based on four key Sustainable Development Goals Reporting Period and Scope principles, namely innovative designs to As a leading sustainable company, Keppel Land has been publishing its sustainability report annually since 2008. The Report Keppel Land is geographically diversified differentiate Keppel Land’s properties, Keppel Land operates profitably yet in a socially details the Company’s approach and initiatives taken in integrating sustainability into its policies, in Asia, with Singapore, China and Vietnam integration of values, cost effectiveness and environmentally responsible manner. structure and daily operations. as its key markets, while it continues to and the marketability of the scale up in other markets such as Indonesia development projects. In line with the Keppel Group’s focus on the The Report provides an account of Keppel Land’s sustainability performance as well as and India. United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development its strategies and practices, while highlighting the economic, environmental and social impacts These design values are adopted for all Goals, Keppel Land has adopted six goals of the Company’s activities and developments across its properties in Singapore and overseas. Keppel Land is Asia’s premier home developer, of Keppel Land’s new developments in which are most aligned with its business. with a pipeline of about 50,000 homes Singapore and overseas: They are Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being; It is based on Keppel Land’s fiscal year from 1 January to 31 December 2018. Where possible, in Singapore and overseas. It is also Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure; the Report provides up to three years of historical information to allow sufficient basis a leading prime office developer 1. Liveability Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities; for comparison. in Singapore and is committed to • Health and Well-Being Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and grow its commercial portfolio in • Inclusiveness Production; Goal 13: Climate Action; and This Report demonstrates Keppel Land’s commitment to keep its stakeholders, including key Asian cities including Shanghai, • Safety and Security Goal 17: Partnership for the Goals. employees, customers, business partners, partner agencies and community members abreast of the Company’s efforts and developments in sustainability. Limited copies of this Report have been printed to minimise the impact on the environment. Keppel Land provides innovative real estate solutions The Report can also be downloaded at Keppel Land’s corporate website www.keppelland.com. with its prime portfolio of residential developments, integrated townships and investment-grade commercial properties. Photo credit: ST Press 2 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 3 Overview Letter to Stakeholders Keppel Land adopts a proactive Dear Stakeholders, Environmental Stewardship As a leading green developer, Keppel Land and holistic approach towards I am pleased to present Keppel Land’s has set the benchmark2 for all new Singapore sustainability. As a responsible Sustainability Report for 2018. developments and overseas commercial corporate citizen and a leading projects to be certified to the Building and Call for Climate Action Construction Authority of Singapore’s (BCA) green developer, we will The call for climate action took on greater Green Mark GoldPLUS standard, or its equivalent, continue to align ourselves urgency in 2018. In the biggest international and for all overseas residential developments climate change negotiations since the 2015 to be certified to the BCA Green Mark Gold with best practices and Paris Agreement, the 24th Conference of standard, or its equivalent. All newly acquired international benchmarks. the Parties to the United Nations (UN) completed commercial buildings are also We look forward to the Framework Convention on Climate Change to be certified to the BCA Green Mark Gold (COP24) held in Katowice, Poland, in standard, or its equivalent, within two years. continued support of all November 2018 sought worldwide collaboration our stakeholders as we on the implementation of the Agreement. To-date, Keppel Land has garnered The talks come on the heels of a landmark a total of 83 BCA Green Mark Awards, progress on our journey report from the Intergovernmental Panel on of which 16 are Platinum. The total estimated towards shaping a sustainable Climate Change, which warned that the world reduction in energy consumption from future together. has only 12 years left to take action and limit all of our Green Mark-awarded projects global warming to 1.5ºC, as compared to when they are fully completed will be over the previous threshold of 2ºC. Released in 200 million kWh per annum, which is the October 2018, the report details the immense equivalent amount of energy required to challenges and costs, as well as the benefits power more than 38,000 homes3 in Singapore of keeping global warming within 1.5ºC. for one year. This translates to cost savings of about $42 million annually. This is in Singapore has pledged to reduce its carbon addition to total annual water savings emissions intensity by 36% from 2005’s level of about two million cubic metres and by 2030, and to stabilise its greenhouse gas annual carbon emission reduction of emissions with the aim of peaking around almost 90,000 tonnes. Tan Swee Yiow 2030. In 2019, Singapore implemented a Chief Executive Officer carbon tax – the first country in Southeast To minimise the carbon footprint from the Asia to do so. The inaugural Zero Waste development of our properties and operation Masterplan will also be published in the activities, our target is to reduce our carbon second half of 2019. emission intensity by 40% below 2010’s level by 2030. We had met our earlier target of while Bugis Junction Towers was recertified To raise public awareness on plastic pollution, enhanced with A.I. with machine learning As part of a comprehensive suite of reducing our carbon emission intensity by as a Green Mark Platinum building. Keppel Land organised a public screening capabilities, anticipates users’ preferences and measures that have been put in place to 16% below 2010’s level by 2020 in 2016, Park Avenue Heights in Chengdu, China, of the environmental documentary, automates settings for a seamless experience. build a low-carbon and climate-resilient city, four years ahead of schedule. received the Green Mark Gold Award. ‘A Plastic Ocean’, at the Botanic Gardens. Singapore aims to green 80% of its buildings We continued our efforts in 2019 by organising For its thoughtful innovations, Keppel Land by 2030, improve the energy efficiency of To achieve the revised target, we will undertake In addition, Keppel Land is a partner in the the display of an interactive microplastics received the Singapore Good Design Mark tenanted spaces and data centres, as well carbon reduction measures which include Green Buildings Innovation Cluster (GBIC) artwork made with Singapore’s shore debris (SG Mark) Award 2018 for three of its projects, as introduce smart home technology. developing high-performance commercial programme, an initiative by the BCA to drive by a local artist at Ocean Financial Centre, namely, the virtual reality showsuites at buildings, improving energy efficiency of greater energy efficiency through green Marina Bay Financial Centre and Highline Residences, the Habitap smart home Committed to Sustainability existing buildings and tapping on renewable building research, design and development Keppel Bay Tower. Named ‘Ayer Ayer mobile application at Corals at Keppel Bay, Keppel Land embraces a multi-faceted energy. Meeting the 40% reduction target capabilities among academic institutions, Project Table’, the artwork highlights the as well as the smart mobile application at approach towards sustainability. We are will result in a cumulative reduction of developers and other professionals in the issue of plastic pollution in Singapore’s beaches KLOUD, Keppel Land’s smart serviced co-office. committed to sound corporate governance almost 140,000 tonnes of carbon emissions, green building industry. and waters, as well as microplastics entering practices and strive to continuously which will yield potential savings of the human food chain. Separately, in Vietnam, Upholding Good Safety Practices improve our environmental, social and over $75 million, from 2010 to 2030. As part of the GBIC programme, to encourage the public to reduce consumption Recognising the importance of fostering governance performance. Beyond 2030, an annual reduction of Keppel Land is piloting five new and of single-use plastics, Keppel Land collaborated a strong safety culture in our supply chain, about 17,000 tonnes of carbon emissions, emerging energy-efficient technologies with partners to showcase a plastic straw art we set up our fifth Safety Awareness Centre Keppel Land is also committed to contributing or annual savings of about $9 million at Keppel Bay Tower. These technologies, installation, ‘The Parting of the Plastic Sea’, at (SAC) in 2018. Located in Wuxi, China, to the achievement of the UN Sustainable are expected. to be implemented in a development in the Estella Place retail mall in Ho Chi Minh City. this follows the success of our other SACs Development Goals (SDGs). We have Singapore for the first time, will reduce in Ho Chi Minh City, Jakarta, Johor Bahru and adopted six1 of the SDGs which are For its strong commitment and continuous Keppel Bay Tower’s annual energy Embracing Innovation Tianjin. The SACs were set up to increase safety most aligned with our business, and improvements in environmental performance, consumption by 20%, making it Singapore’s In line with its ‘Thinking Unboxed’ brand awareness among contractors’ employees have established stretch targets as well as Keppel Land received the prestigious first super low-energy high-rise existing philosophy, Keppel Land constantly explores and provide mandatory training before they aligned our strategies with these six SDGs, Quality Champion (GoldPLUS) Award for commercial building. Keppel Land will new ways of enhancing customer experiences are allowed to work onsite. As at end-2018, which were identified based on the Company’s developers at the BCA Awards 2018. implement the technologies in certain in its developments. we have trained a total of over 66,000 workers. potential impact on and ability to contribute In Singapore, Corals at Keppel Bay won parts of the building, which will allow to these goals. the Universal Design Mark GoldPLUS Award, Keppel Bay Tower to yield estimated overall In 2018, Keppel Land and Habitap Keppel Land is also one of only nine annual energy savings of approximately unveiled Singapore’s first smart home companies in Singapore to be recognised 1.5 million kWh. This is equivalent to the powered by artificial intelligence (A.I.) at as a bizSAFE Mentor by the Workplace Safety 1 The six Sustainable Development Goals which Keppel Land has adopted are Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being, amount of energy required to power more Corals at Keppel Bay. The smart home and Health (WSH) Council to lead contractors Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure, Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities, Goal 12: Responsible than 250 five-room HDB flats in Singapore management system integrates smart home in developing and implementing safety Consumption and Production, Goal 13: Climate Action and Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals. for a year. The expected cost savings controls, community management and initiatives at worksites, as well as to provide 2 Keppel Land’s environmental targets apply to all projects where it has a majority stake and/or operational control. 3 Based on the average energy consumption of a Housing Development Board five-room flat, which is 471 kWh/month. in energy and water is approximately lifestyle services on a single platform. stewardship and support to meet the safety (Source: SP Services) $250,000 annually. The new system, which has been further standards set by the WSH Council. 4 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 5 Overview Letter to Stakeholders Driving Sustainability Cultivating An Engaged Workforce Overseas, in partnership with the Singapore This is in support of the Chinese Government’s Our efforts on the staff communication International Foundation, we launched plans to combat rural poverty. and engagement front have resulted in Phase Two of the Words on Wheels consistently high staff engagement levels. (Ho Chi Minh) mobile library programme in Shaping A Sustainable Future Keppel Land conducted the Keppel Global Vietnam in March 2018. This follows the We are encouraged that we have Employee Engagement Pulse Survey in 2018. success of the first phase launched in 2014, continued to receive international Net Profit Return on Equity Total Assets The survey achieved a strong response rate which saw more than 200 volunteers from recognition for corporate excellence, of 98% from a total of 2,244 respondents. across the Keppel Group participate in the quality and sustainability. Keppel Land Employees are regularly updated on the Company’s performance and strategic programme. To be rolled out over the next three years, Phase Two is expected clinched several key awards at the Euromoney Real Estate Awards 2018, $939.9m 14.7% $14.0b direction at various platforms, including the to positively impact over 7,000 Vietnamese including Best Residential Developer in Net profit increased by 41% Keppel Land achieved average Total assets decreased by 7.8% Annual Staff Conferences held in Singapore, students in Districts 2 and 8 of Ho Chi Minh City Asia as well as Best Overall Developer year-on-year to $939.9 million in 2018. return on equity (ROE) of year-on-year to $14.0 billion in 2018. China and Vietnam. (HCMC), including students from Keppel Land in China, Vietnam and Indonesia. 14.7% over the last 10 years. Vietnam’s adopted Anh Phu Secondary School. ROE for 2018 was 11.4%. We will continue to sharpen our focus on Believing in empowering through education, In the Global Real Estate Sustainability people development through job rotation our volunteers have also developed a Benchmark 2018, Keppel Land topped the and enlargement, localisation, performance sustainability-themed curriculum to Developer/Diversified – Office/Residential management and manpower planning to instil environmental consciousness among category globally and in Asia-Pacific. bolster our bench strength and groom a new the schoolchildren. A total of eight volunteer In addition, Keppel Land ranked second generation of Keppelites who are innovative, trips involving over 80 employees in the Developer category in the Asia and collaborative and nimble. To facilitate staff across the Keppel Group have been East Asia sectors, as well as sixth globally. deployment across cities, a uniform global held to-date. Through these trips, about grading structure has been established for 2,500 students from seven primary and The journey towards sustainability is employees based overseas. At the same secondary schools have benefitted a continuous one. We look forward to time, localisation efforts continue, with locals from the programme. your continued support as we strive accounting for 63% of all department head to shape a sustainable future for positions at our offices in China, Vietnam In China, volunteers from Keppel Land China, generations to come. Sustainable Development Goals Volunteerism Safety Training and Indonesia. in partnership with Bless China International, 6 SDGs 5,600 hours 66,000 workers have been reaching out to underprivileged Nurturing Communities villagers in Kunming, Yunnan Province, Yours sincerely, We believe in doing good as we do well. for over a decade by providing critical Set targets in line with six A total of 5,600 hours were clocked by Trained 66,000 workers at Keppel Land’s In 2018, Keppel Land staff in Singapore medical aid such as cataract and Sustainable Development Goals staff for community outreach activities Safety Awareness Centres in China, and overseas dedicated a total of about limb deformity surgeries. Since 2006, (SDGs) which are most aligned in Singapore and overseas in 2018. Vietnam, Indonesia and Malaysia 5,600 hours to community outreach activities. staff volunteers have reached out with its business. as at end-2018. to over 200 villagers. As part of the In Singapore, we continued to work Keppel Group’s collaboration with the closely with strategic partners such as the China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation, North West Community Development Council Keppel Land volunteers have also been Tan Swee Yiow to meaningfully impact the lives of residents engaging needy schoolchildren from Chief Executive Officer living in rental flats in the North West district. Mabian County in Sichuan Province, China. 24 May 2019 Energy Savings Carbon Emission Reduction Employee Engagement $42m 90,000 tonnes 98% Total energy savings of $42 million Total carbon emission reduction of Keppel Land achieved a strong or 200 million kWh per annum 90,000 tonnes per annum. response rate of 98% for the can be achieved from its Keppel Global Employee Engagement 83 BCA Green Mark-awarded Pulse Survey. Keppel Land supports developments. eco-initiatives such as Ricoh Asia Pacific’s Eco Action Day tree-planting event held in October 2018. Guest-of-Honour Mr Masagos Zulkifli (extreme right), Singapore’s Minister for the Environment and Water Resources, and Mr Tan Swee Yiow (second from left), CEO of Keppel Land, then-CEO of Keppel REIT, together with other government and corporate leaders, planted more than 300 tree saplings at Fort Siloso in Sentosa. 6 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 7 Overview Sustainability Framework Commitment to Stakeholders GRI 102-40 | GRI 102-42 Keppel Land is committed to delivering value to As a leading real estate company, shaping the best for future generations, all our stakeholders through Sustaining Growth in we are guided by the Keppel Group’s operating principles and core values our business, Empowering Lives of our people to create positive impact and shared value for all our stakeholders and Nurturing Communities wherever we operate. through innovative real estate solutions. We believe that driving meaningful dialogue and regular engagement with our stakeholders is crucial to our success as a company. The following key stakeholder groups have been identified. Sustaining Growth Our Partner Agencies We work closely with regulatory We integrate sustainability principles in our business strategies and operations, and non-governmental and regard sustainable development both as a corporate responsibility and a source agencies to achieve higher of business opportunities. environmental, health and safety standards. We are focused on strong corporate governance, prudent risk management and resource efficiency. Our Business Partners We integrate our strong regional network and knowledge with the strengths of our partners to capitalise For more information, go to: pages 12 to 36 on opportunities. Our Employees We help employees realise their full potential and cultivate employees who are Empowering Lives motivated and dedicated, as well as promote workforce welfare. People are the cornerstone of our business. We are committed to grow and nurture our talent pool through training and development Our Customers to help our people reach their full potential. We develop quality properties and products with good With safety as one of our core values, we are committed to providing a safe and healthy investment value as well as build workplace for all our stakeholders. on our brand equity to enhance our competitive edge. Our Community For more information, go to: pages 37 to 49 We strive to be a committed and responsible corporate citizen, nurturing communities wherever we operate. Nurturing Communities As a global citizen, Keppel believes that as communities thrive, we thrive. We engage and nurture communities wherever we operate, with the goal of shaping a sustainable future together. Value for all our Stakeholders For more information, go to: pages 50 to 53 8 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 9 Overview Managing Sustainability As a leading sustainable company, framework, implementing initiatives and improvement efforts, Keppel Land is the world’s biggest sustainable Defining Report Content 2. Issues where the Company has Keppel Land operates profitably yet in a monitoring its sustainability performance. working to meet the requirements under development challenges by 2030. GRI 102-46 policy statements of strategic nature; socially and environmentally responsible the new ISO 45001 occupational health Materiality Assessment and 3. Issues that comparable organisations manner. It adopts a proactive and holistic The Sustainability Committee reports and safety management system, which The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Stakeholder Engagement consider material; approach towards sustainability. to the Board of Directors (the Board) which provides a robust and effective set of Development calls for worldwide Keppel Land has identified and prioritised 4. Issues important to stakeholders; and has oversight of environmental, social and processes for improving safety in global collaboration among governments, issues that are most relevant and significant 5. Issues that are considered to be Keppel Land is committed to sound corporate governance (ESG) matters. The key material supply chains. businesses and the larger community to the Company and its stakeholders. social norms. governance practices and robust enterprise ESG issues for Keppel Land have been to mobilise their efforts to achieve a Adopting a matrix-based approach, risk management processes. The Company identified, reviewed and taken into In terms of sustainability reporting, common set of goals. materiality was assessed by This allows Keppel Land to review the actively builds and promotes a strong safety consideration as part of the Company’s Keppel Land has adopted and aligned the Sustainability Committee and significance of such issues periodically, culture to achieve a zero-harm workplace. strategy formulation by the Board its Sustainability Report 2018 with the Keppel Land is committed to contribute senior management from its different based on changing stakeholder It also strives to be an employer of choice, and management. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: to advancing sustainable development business units based on the importance expectations. The table below shows nurturing a competent, skilled and engaged Comprehensive option. through aligning its activities with selected of an issue to internal as well as external how the Company’s key material issues workforce to drive sustainable growth. Benchmarks of Excellence goals. The Company has adopted six stakeholders using clearly defined are linked to its overall strategy and risk Keppel Land aligns itself with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) SDGs which are most aligned with its threshold criteria. management approach. Sustainability Management International Organisation for Standardisation At the UN Sustainable Development Summit business and material issues. Steps Driving Keppel Land’s sustainability efforts is (ISO) standards including ISO 9001 on in 2015, the UN General Assembly were also taken to establish stretch These criteria are based on AA1000 the Sustainability Committee, which includes quality management and ISO 14001 on adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable targets and align its existing strategies Standard’s five-part Materiality senior management personnel from Singapore environmental management, as well as Development that includes 17 Sustainable with these six SDGs, which were identified Test comprising: and overseas. The Committee is responsible OHSAS 18001 on occupational health and Development Goals (SDGs) and based on the Company’s potential impact 1. Issues that have direct short-term for formulating the Company’s sustainability safety management. As part of continuous specific targets that aim to tackle on and contribution to these goals. financial impact; Supporting Six Relevant Sustainable Development Goals Keppel Land’s Material Issues GRI 102-47 | GRI 102-49 SDG Goal Objective Targets* Material Topics Topic Boundary and Impact Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being • To maintain an incidentand injury-free work environment. for all, at all ages. • To equip all frontline managers with the knowledge and skills of LEVEL 1: safety leadership. Key Material Issues • To have all new commercial developments certified to a recognised standard that supports and promotes the health and well-being of Economic Performance and Sustainable financial performance, occupational and customer health and safety, as well as building occupants. Health and Safety Compliance compliance with national or international standards in areas including corporate governance, environment, safety, product responsibility and society, are material to both internal (employees) Build resilient infrastructure, promote • To invest, on average, 2% of the Company’s profit in innovations to and external (customers, business partners, partner agencies and the community) stakeholders. inclusive and sustainable industrialisation support sustainable development by 2030. and foster innovation. This applies to Keppel Land’s operations in Singapore and overseas. LEVEL 2: Highly Critical Issues Environmental Impact Environmental aspects, including the use of environmentally-friendly materials, energy and water Make cities and human settlements inclusive, • To have all new Singapore developments and overseas commercial projects • Materials usage conservation, reducing carbon emissions, efficient effluent and waste management, as well as safe, resilient and sustainable. certified to the BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS standard, or its equivalent. • Energy efficiency sustainable performance of products and services, are important elements in addressing • To have all overseas residential developments certified to the • Water management climate change. BCA Green Mark Gold standard, or its equivalent. • Carbon emission reduction • To have all newly acquired completed commercial buildings certified to • Effluent and waste management These aspects are relevant to the Company’s internal and external stakeholders. the BCA Green Mark Gold standard, or its equivalent, within two years. • Sustainable products and services Environmental guidelines relating to these areas apply in all geographical locations where the Ensure sustainable consumption and • To reduce energy and water usage intensities by 30% from 2010’s Company operates. production patterns. levels by 2030. • To increase the amount of green materials used (e.g. green-labelled Labour Practices Positive employment practices are critical in attracting, retaining and developing its talent pool products, low-emission products, or products with recycled content) • Employment as the Company strives to be an employer of choice. These practices directly impact employees to 50% by 2030. • Training and education in Keppel Land’s offices in Singapore and overseas. • Labour-management relations Take urgent action to combat climate • To reduce carbon emission intensity by 40% from 2010’s level by 2030. Social Responsibility The Company is committed to be a responsible corporate citizen, contributing and enriching change and its impacts. • Local communities the lives of local communities wherever it operates. • Business ethics Across Keppel Land’s countries of operations, community engagement and business ethics are material to all internal and external stakeholders. LEVEL 3: Emerging or Moderately Material Issues Strengthen the means of implementation • To continue collaborating with partners and stakeholders in communities and revitalise the global partnership for where the Company operates to build a sustainable future. Market presence As Keppel Land seeks to integrate sustainable policies, strategies and practices into its business sustainable development. Marketing communications operations, its market presence, as well as adherence to standards relating to marketing Anti-child labour communications, prohibition of child labour and policy of non-discrimination are important and Non-discrimination relevant to all its operations. These aspects have an impact on all of the Company’s stakeholder groups. * Keppel Land’s environmental targets apply to all projects where it has a majority stake and/or operational control. 10 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 11 Sustaining Growth Corporate Governance the level of commitment required, after The nature of current Directors’ appointment and membership on Board Committees are which suitable candidates will be approved. as follows: The following criteria are used to assess Board Committee Memberships Keppel Land is committed all new appointments: 1. Integrity; Directors Loh Chin Hua Board Membership Chairman Audit and Risk – Board Safety Member to achieving high standards 2. Independent mindedness; Tan Swee Yiow Chief Executive Officer – – 3. Possession of core competencies that and Executive Director of corporate governance meets the needs of the Company and Tan Yam Pin Non-Executive Director – Chairman to ensure sustainability complements the skills and competencies Koh-Lim Wen Gin Non-Executive Director – Member of the existing Directors on the Board; and long-term success. 4. Ability to commit time and effort to carry Yap Chee Meng Chan Hon Chew Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman Member – – out duties and responsibilities effectively; Willy Shee Ping Yah Non-Executive Director Member – 5. Track record of making good decisions; 6. Experience in high-performing organisations; and 7. Financial literacy. annual basic salary plus any other fixed 2. Review and report to the Board at least The internal guideline adopted by the allowances, which the Company benchmarks annually the adequacy and effectiveness Company to address the issue of multiple with the relevant industry market median. of Keppel Land’s risk management and board representations is that Directors The size of the annual performance bonus internal controls systems, including should not have more than six listed pot is determined by Keppel Land’s financial financial, operational, compliance company board representations and performance and the Company’s performance, and information technology controls other principal commitments. and is distributed to employees based on (such review can be carried out internally individual performance. A portion of the or with the assistance of any competent The Board recognises that proper annual performance bonus is granted third parties); succession planning plays an important in the form of deferred shares that are 3. Review audit plans and reports of the role in ensuring continuous and effective awarded under the Share Plans of external auditors and internal auditors, stewardship of the Company. As such, the Keppel Corporation Limited (KCL). and consider the effectiveness of actions Company’s succession plans are reviewed or policies taken by Management on Keppel Land’s Directors and Management factors in the strategic formulation and The Chairman leads the Board and is annually to ensure the progressive renewal Accountability and Audit the recommendations and observations; firmly believe that full commitment to high execution of the Company’s objectives. responsible for the management of the of the Board, including the Chairman. The Board, supported by the ARC, oversees 4. Review the independence and objectivity standards of corporate governance is The Board meets regularly on a quarterly Board, encourages Board’s interaction with Succession and leadership development Keppel Land’s system of internal controls of the external auditors; essential to ensure the sustainability of the basis and as warranted. Management, facilitates effective contribution plans for Management are also reviewed. and risk management. 5. Meet with the external auditors and Company’s businesses and performance, as of the Directors, encourages constructive internal auditors, without the presence well as to safeguard stakeholders interests Board Composition relations among the Directors, and promotes Remuneration Matters Audit and Risk Committee of Management, at least annually; and maximise long-term stakeholder value. Presently, there are seven Directors. high standards of corporate governance. Remuneration Policy for The ARC’s primary role is to assist the 6. Receive all whistle-blower reports With the exception of Mr Tan Swee Yiow, The Chairman approves the agenda for Key Management Personnel Board to ensure the integrity of financial pertaining to the Company from the Board Matters who became Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Board meetings and ensures sufficient time The Company adopts a remuneration system reporting, the adequacy and effectiveness Receiving Officer, immediately upon The Board’s Conduct of Affairs and an executive Director on 1 January 2019, is spent to cover all items in the agenda, that is aimed at attracting, retaining and of risk management and internal control receipt of a complaint. The ARC shall The Board oversees the effectiveness of the rest of the six Directors are non-executive especially on strategic issues. The Chairman motivating talent on a sustainable basis. systems, to oversee risk management and provide oversight, under expressed Management as well as the corporate Directors. Apart from Mr Loh Chin Hua, and CEO are separate persons and are not In designing the remuneration structure, compliance in Keppel Land and to ensure authority from the Board and the KCL governance of the Company with the Mr Tan Swee Yiow and Mr Chan Hon Chew, related to each other. the Company seeks to ensure that the level that a robust risk management system is Whistle-Blower Committee and receive objective of maximising long-term stakeholder the rest of the four Directors are external and mix of remuneration is competitive, maintained. The ARC is kept abreast of the final report upon the completion of value and protecting the Company’s assets. Directors (External Directors). External The CEO has full executive responsibilities relevant and appropriate in finding a changes to accounting and governance such investigations. On a quarterly basis, Its key roles include the review and approval Directors are directors who do not have over the business directions set by the Board balance between current versus long-term standards and issues which have a direct the ARC shall also receive an update of Keppel Land’s corporate strategies and an executive position within the Company and operational decisions of Keppel Land. remuneration and between cash versus impact on financial statements through on the whistle-blower reports received directions, annual budgets, major investments, and/or its related companies. The CEO is accountable to the Board for the equity incentive remuneration. quarterly updates and discussion with the during the quarter and the status of divestments and funding proposals, conduct and performance of the Company. external auditors. The ARC also reviews and any such pending investigations; as well as the review of Keppel Land’s The Directors provide an appropriate The Company reviews its total remuneration guides Management in the formulation of 7. Review the adequacy and effectiveness financial performance, risk management balance and diversity of skills, experience, Board Membership structure regularly to reflect four key objectives: risk policies and processes to identify, of the Company’s internal audit as well processes and systems, and sustainability gender and knowledge of the Company, Process and Criteria Used for Selection evaluate and manage significant risks, to as risk and compliance functions, considerations including corporate governance as well as relevant core competencies and Appointment of New Directors 1. Stakeholder alignment: To incorporate safeguard stakeholder’s interests and the at least annually; practices. The Board is also responsible in areas such as accounting or finance, To increase the reliability of the process, performance measures that are aligned Company’s assets. In addition, the ARC 8. Receive, as and when appropriate, for setting the Company’s core values legal, business or management experience, the Board’s diversity in terms of mix of to stakeholder’s interests; discusses risk management strategies with reports and recommendations from and ethical standards. Board Committees industry knowledge, strategic planning expertise, knowledge and experience on 2. Long-term orientation: To motivate Management and the Board and makes Management on risk tolerance and include the Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) experience and customer-based experience the Board is evaluated and, in consultation employees to drive sustainable visits to the Company’s project sites strategy, and recommend to the Board and Board Safety Committee (BSC). or knowledge. In terms of composition of the with Management, the role and the desirable long-term growth; and discusses the risk mitigation actions for its determination the nature and extent Board, External Directors form the majority. competencies for a particular appointment is 3. Simplicity: To ensure that the structure and issues that Keppel Land faces in the of significant risks which the Company These Board Committees have clearly determined. Recommendations from, inter alia, is easy to understand and communicate various markets. overall may take in achieving its strategic defined written terms of reference. Matters Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Directors and Management are the usual source to stakeholders; and objectives and the overall Company’s which are delegated to Board Committees To ensure an appropriate balance of power, for potential candidates. However, external 4. Synergy: To facilitate talent mobility and The ARC is guided by the following terms levels of risk tolerance and risk policies; for more detailed evaluation and approval increased accountability and a greater search consultants are also considered. enhance collaboration across businesses. of reference: 9. Review and discuss, as and when are reported to and monitored by the Board. capacity of the Board for independent 1. Review financial statements as well as appropriate, with Management the decision-making, the Company has a clear Formal interviews with the shortlisted The total remuneration structure comprises significant financial reporting issues Company’s risk governance structure The Board has included in its oversight, division of responsibilities at the top level of candidates are conducted to assess their two key components, that is, annual fixed and judgements contained in them, and framework, including risk policies, consideration of sustainability issues such the Company, with the non-executive Chairman suitability and the candidates are verified cash and annual performance bonus. The for better assurance of the integrity of risk mitigation and monitoring processes as environmental, social and governance and the CEO having separate roles. of their awareness of the expectations and annual fixed cash component comprises the such statements; and procedures; 12 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 13 Sustaining Growth Corporate Governance 10. Receive and review quarterly reports from and information technology controls, as well Risk Management and Internal Controls Under the second Line of Defence, private sector customer, supplier, to whether the circumstances warrant Management on major risk exposures as management of risks of fraud and other The Company’s approach to risk management significant business units are required contractor or any other person or entity an investigation. The ARC will also and the steps taken to monitor, control irregularities. The ARC also reviewed the is set out in the Risk Management section on to conduct self-assessment exercises that is intended to induce or reward an ensure that any disciplinary, civil and/or and mitigate such risks; effectiveness of the actions taken by pages 16 and 17. on an annual basis; this is bolstered by improper performance or non-performance criminal action that is initiated following 11. Review the Company’s capability to Management on the recommendations second line independent monitoring of a function or activity. completion of an investigation, is appropriate, identify and manage new risk types; made by the internal and external auditors The Company also has in place a Risk by centralised functions such as balanced, and fair. The ARC will also 12. Review and monitor Management’s in this respect. The ARC also performed Management Assessment Framework to Control Assurance, Risk & Compliance, The Code is published on the Company’s monitor the actions taken to correct the responsiveness to the findings and independent reviews of the financial facilitate the Board’s assessment on the Information Systems and Health, intranet which is accessible by all employees. weaknesses in the existing system of recommendations of the risk statements of the Company. The ARC has adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s Safety & Security. On an annual basis, all employees are internal processes and policies which management department; explicit authority to investigate any matter risk management system. The Framework required to acknowledge the Code and resulted in or may cause the perpetration 13. Investigate any matters within the ARC’s within its terms of reference, full access lays out the governing policies, processes Under the third Line of Defence, to assist undergo annual training and assessments of the fraud and/or misconduct, to prevent purview, whenever it deems necessary to and cooperation by Management and and systems pertaining to each of the key the Company to ascertain the adequacy to ensure awareness. any recurrence. or as may be directed by KCL; full discretion to invite any Director or risk areas of the Company, and assessments and effectiveness of the Company’s 14. Report to the Board on material matters, executive officer to attend its meetings, are made on the adequacy and effectiveness internal controls, business units are Supplier Code of Conduct Briefings for all staff on the Code and findings and recommendations; and reasonable resources to enable it to of such policies, processes and systems required to provide the Company with The Company is committed to conducting Whistle-Blower Protection Policy were 15. Provide timely input to the Board on discharge its functions properly. in managing each of these key risk areas written assurances on the adequacy its businesses ethically and responsibly. held when the policies were introduced. critical risk and compliance issues; every quarter. and effectiveness of their system of The Company’s core values of integrity New employees are briefed on the 16. Review the ARC’s terms of reference The ARC held five meetings during the year. internal controls and risk management. and accountability are fundamental to the policies when they join the Company’s annually and, after consultation with the The Company’s internal and external In addition, the Company has in place a The Company’s internal and external auditors way it does businesses, including how it orientation programme. Subsequently, KCL Audit Committee and Board Risk auditors reported their audit findings and System of Management Controls Framework provide an added independent assessment manages its supply chain and the impact to maintain awareness, all employees Committee, recommend any proposed recommendations independently to the ARC. (the Framework) outlining the Company’s of the overall control environment. of the Company’s business activities are required to acknowledge the changes to the Board for approval; The ARC also met with the internal and internal control and risk management beyond its direct operations. In this regard, policies annually. Any revisions are 17. Perform such other functions as the external auditors, without the presence of processes and procedures. The Framework Employee Code of Conduct the Company adheres to the Keppel Group highlighted to them on a regular basis. Board may determine; and Management. At the meetings, the external comprises three Lines of Defence towards To build a culture of high integrity as well as Supplier Code of Conduct, which was 18. Sub-delegate any of its powers within its auditors briefed the members of the ARC ensuring the adequacy and effectiveness of reinforce ethical business practices, the implemented in end-2016 to integrate Board Safety Committee terms of reference as listed above from on the latest developments in accounting the Company’s system of internal controls Company has in place an Employee Code Keppel’s sustainability principles across The Company’s BSC guides Management time to time as the ARC may deem fit. and governance standards and practices. and risk management. of Conduct (Code). its supply chain. to enhance Keppel Land’s commitment In addition, the ARC reviewed the on workplace safety and foster a positive During the year, the ARC reviewed the independence and objectivity of the Under the first Line of Defence, The Code addresses, at the employee level, The Keppel Group Supplier Code of safety culture in the Company. The BSC internal and external auditors’ plans and external auditors through discussions Management is required to ensure the standards of acceptable and unacceptable Conduct outlines standards regarding meets quarterly to discuss safety issues findings to ensure that they are sufficient to with the external auditors. good corporate governance through behaviour and personal decorum, as well as environmental management, business as well as provide guidance and direction assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the implementation and management of issues of workplace harassment. On the conduct, labour, as well as health and to chart safety milestones to ensure that the the Company’s significant internal controls, The ARC comprises three directors, of which policies and procedures relevant to the business front, the policy addresses safety practices of its suppliers. Company is complying with local regulations including financial, operational, compliance two are non-executive and External Directors. Company’s business scope and environment. standards of ethical business behaviour and industry best practices. including anti-corruption, the offering and Suppliers are expected to abide by the receiving of gifts, hospitality and promotional Supplier Code of Conduct. The BSC is supported by the Operational expenditures, dealings with third party Excellence Department (OE). OE is headed associates, as well as conflicts of interest. Whistle-Blower Protection Policy by the General Manager, Operational The Company has a Whistle-Blower Protection Excellence, who is assisted by a team Keppel Land’s System of Management Controls The rules require business to be conducted Policy to encourage the reporting in good faith of safety professionals from various with integrity, fairly, impartially, in an ethical of suspected reportable conduct, violations engineering disciplines. OE conducts and proper manner, and in compliance with of the Code or applicable laws (including regular site safety inspections and audits Policies all applicable laws and regulations. the U.S Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, U.K. on all the active projects and assets in Bribery Act 2010, the Singapore Prevention Singapore and overseas. The Code also requires all staff to avoid any of Corruption Act, the anti-bribery legislation conflict between their own interests and the of the People’s Republic of China and The BSC is guided by the following terms 4 Board Oversight Board of Directors interests of the Company in dealing with its other applicable anti-bribery laws) by of reference: suppliers, customers and other third parties. establishing clearly defined processes 1. Establish health and safety (H&S) policies; through which such reports may be made 2. Monitor the Company’s compliance with Business Unit Internal External Relevant anti-corruption rules are also with the confidence that employees and the approved H&S policies by: 3 Assurance Representation Audit Audit spelled out to protect the business, other persons making such reports to (a) Assessing the adequacy of resources and reputation of the Company. the employees’ supervisors, ARC Chairman H&S standards; Processes Employees must under no circumstances or Receiving Officer will be treated fairly (b) Assessing the operations of the Systems Management & Self-Assessment Enterprise Risk Regulatory IT Governance 2 offer or authorise the giving, directly or and, to the extent possible, protected Company on training, safety audits, Assurance Frameworks Process Management Compliance Framework through third parties, of any bribe, kickback, from reprisal. elimination, control and minimisation illicit payment, or any benefit-in-kind or of H&S risks; and any other advantage to any government The ARC Chairman is kept informed of all (c) Assessing the compliance of the Core Values, Corporate & Employee Conduct official or government entity, private sector cases reported. Every Protected Report Company with applicable legislation; Business Governance/ customer, supplier, contractor or any received (whether oral or written, and 3. Recommend the adoption of acceptable 1 Rules of Governance other person or entity, as an inducement anonymous or otherwise) will be assessed H&S practices in the industries in which Policy Compliance Operational Financial or reward for an improper performance or by the Receiving Officer, who will review the Company operates; Management Governance Governance Governance non-performance of a function or activity. the information disclosed, interview 4. Receive reports concerning H&S Similarly, employees must not under any the whistle-blower when required and incidents within the Company; and circumstances solicit or accept illicit if contactable and, in consultation with 5. Consider H&S issues that may have People payment, directly or indirectly, from any the Whistle-Blower Committee, strategic, business and reputational government official or government entity, make recommendations to the ARC as implications for the Company. 14 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 15 Sustaining Growth Risk Management Managing Key Risks • Where required, Keppel Land leverages • Critical business functions are The key risks identified and appropriate the expertise of the engaged auditors in determined and alternative processes, mitigating actions undertaken by Keppel Land the interpretation of financial reporting resource requirements and in 2018 are as follows: standards and changes. interdependencies are identified Sound and effective 1. Business Strategy Risks • Strong corporate governance and internal control procedures have been to support operations in times of disruption. risk management is • Keppel Land’s strategic direction and established and are frequently • A security strategic framework has reviewed to prevent fraud or other been established to coordinate security integral to Keppel Land’s business strategies are reviewed by the Board and senior management improper financial conduct risks. measures for Keppel Land’s assets. business strategy. regularly. Factors including laws and The framework adopts a systematic regulations, market conditions and 4. Project Management Risks approach based on the strategic the competitive landscape within • Project management processes are thrusts of deterrence, detection and each market are considered carefully. reviewed regularly. Keppel Land adopts response, which guides the development Keppel Land continues to explore best industry practices so as to deliver of Keppel Land’s security initiatives. technology and innovation as part quality projects on time and within budget. of its strategy to develop innovative • Regular trainings are conducted for 8. Compliance Risks products and solutions. project managers to increase their • Key compliance processes are in • To ensure that Keppel Land is not familiarisation and ensure their place to ensure effective compliance overexposed to any single project or compliance with the processes. with relevant laws and regulations. market, the Company has established • Project reviews are regularly conducted • Keppel Land has in place Financial a concentration risk management between selected teams to ensure Authority Limits and Control policy which governs exposure limits knowledge-sharing within the Company. Self-Assessment tools to mitigate of each market and project. Exposure the risk of fraud, corruption and to all countries and projects are 5. Human Resources Risks misconduct by staff. monitored regularly. • Keppel Land leverages leadership • Internal and external audits are • Guided by internal policies and other development and local graduate conducted regularly to identify, detect investment parameters, all major programmes to identify and develop and mitigate fraud or bribery risks. investments undergo due diligence its talent pipeline. processes and are evaluated by the • Succession plans for key executive 9. Quality of Deliverables Board. All investment and divestment positions are reviewed regularly and • Keppel Land has Quality Assurance/ A Risk-Centric Culture Regulatory Compliance annual online training and declarations. proposals submitted for Board approval rigorously to ensure relevance. Quality Control procedures and the Effective risk management hinges equally Keppel Land operates in an ethical and The Keppel Group ensures that policies are are required to be accompanied by Keppel Quality Standards in place to on mindsets and attitudes as well as proper manner, and complies with all updated as necessary and communicated a detailed risk assessment, which 6. Information Technology Risks ensure excellence in project deliveries. systems and processes. Keppel Land applicable laws and regulations. to all relevant parties. specifies areas for the investment • To address Information Technology • To encapsulate Keppel Land’s efforts to fosters a strong risk-centric culture within team to consider. (IT) security risks, the IT Security deliver the best standards in the design the Company. Regulatory Compliance Framework For more information on the Keppel Group Framework was established and of its projects, a set of Responsible and Governance Structure Employee Code of Conduct, refer to page 15. 2. Exposure to Financial Market Risks measures put in place include Design Values was developed and are Sound and Robust Risk Management Keppel Land’s Regulatory Compliance • Keppel Land hedges against foreign intrusion prevention, detection adopted for all new developments in Keppel Land will continue to review and Governance Structure is designed to Training and Communication exchange and interest rate risks through systems and firewalls. Singapore and overseas. To ensure refine its risk management methodology, strengthen the Company’s policies Keppel Land will continue to invest in the utilisation of various financial • IT audits and reviews are carried out customer satisfaction of products systems and processes to ensure and processes surrounding training initiatives for staff to raise instruments, where appropriate. annually to ensure alignment to delivered, Keppel Land has established that it can respond promptly and regulatory compliance. employees’ risk management awareness, • Keppel Land ensures that adequate IT policies and procedures. a standard operating procedure for effectively in the constantly evolving equip them with the knowledge to engage funding resources are available for • The IT Disaster Recovery Plan is defects management and handover business landscape. Keppel Land’s Regulatory Compliance in prudent risk-taking in decision-making investments and cash flows are reviewed and tested regularly to ensure of units at its properties. Management Committee (RCMC) is and business processes, as well as enhance actively managed. the robustness of the IT system. Keppel Land adopts a five-step risk chaired by the Chief Executive Officer. sharing of key lessons learned. • Policies governing end-user computing 10. Health and Safety Risks management process which comprises Its key members include heads of business 3. Misstatement of Financial Statements as well as the safeguarding of • Keppel Land has a health and safety risk identification, risk assessment, units. The RCMC is supported by the The Company continues to refine its and Disclosures information are in place and regularly policy which promotes staff awareness formulation of risk mitigation measures, Regulatory Compliance Working Teams. compliance training programmes and • As part of the Keppel Group, emphasised to employees. on the importance of workplace communication and implementation, curriculum for new and existing employees. Keppel Land ensures that its health and safety. as well as monitoring and reviews. Together, the RCMC and the Regulatory consolidated financial statements have 7. Business Continuity Risks • To inculcate a strong safety culture Compliance Working Teams drive the During the year, policy-related training been prepared in accordance with the • Business units continually review and among all employees, various initiatives Keppel Land has established a robust implementation of regulatory programmes were conducted for Singapore Financial Reporting Standards test their business continuity plans to and programmes are implemented by business continuity management (BCM) compliance programmes. staff in Singapore and overseas (International) and International ensure effective response to potential the Company’s Workplace Safety and framework that allows it to address potential to raise awareness and deepen Financial Reporting Standards. business disruptions. Health department. crises and external threats, while minimising Policies and Procedures understanding of the Company’s the impact on its people, operations Keppel Land adheres to Keppel Group policies, compliance policies. The content of and assets. including the Keppel Group Employee the programmes are developed and Five-Step Risk Management Process Code of Conduct, Global Anti-Bribery Policy, tailored to the target audience. To ensure crisis-preparedness, BCM plans Insider Trading Policy, Whistle-Blower Identify Assess Mitigate Implement Monitor are regularly carried out. Led by the BCM Protection Policy, Competition Law Manual, In addition, employees are required committee, business units in various Conflict of Interest Policy and other to complete mandatory annual online Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 locations conduct a range of simulations relevant policies. training, assessment and declaration Understand the Prioritise risk factors Develop action plans Communicate Monitor mitigation covering a broad spectrum of potential programmes. The programmes cover strategy, identify by assessing their to mitigate risks and implement results and KRI. disruptions. Such BCM plans are tested All new employees are briefed on key policies and employees are required to value drivers and potential impact and identify key risk action plans. and continually refined to ensure responses these key policies upon onboarding acknowledge their understanding of these risk factors. and likelihood indicators (KRI) to are relevant, practical, executable and orientation, while all employees policies and declare any potential conflicts of occurrence. monitor risks. and effective. undergo refresher courses through of interest. 16 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 17 Sustaining Growth Environment Sustainability Benchmarks Certification/Rating Number of Awards Type of Developments Location LEED Keppel Land adopts a proactive Platinum 1 Commercial Singapore and holistic approach Gold (Precertification) 1 Commercial Mandaluyong City, the Philippines Total 2 towards sustainability and BCA Green Mark is committed to the highest Platinum 8 Commercial Singapore environmental standards. 5 1 Data Centre Residential Singapore Tianjin, China 1 Hospitality Zhongshana, China 1 Commercial Jakarta, Indonesia GoldPLUS 5 Commercial Singapore 4 Residential Singapore 2 Residential Wuxi, China 1 Hospitality Yangon, Myanmar Gold 10 Residential Singapore 3 Commercial Singapore 23 Residential Shanghai, Tianjin, Chengdu, Wuxi, Jiangyin, Nantongb, Shenyangc and Kunming, China 1 Commercial Tianjin, China 6 Residential Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam 2 Commercial Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam 1 Residential Jakarta, Indonesia 1 Commercial Mandaluyong City, the Philippines 1 Hospitality Yangon, Myanmar As a responsible green developer, and protection. The Committee formulates 1 Commercial Johor Bahru, Malaysia Carbon Emission Intensity Reduction Keppel Land strives to carry out its business Keppel Land’s eco-policy, principles, targets Certified 1 Data Centre Singapore 20% in an environmentally responsible manner. and framework for action, implements green 4 Residential Shanghai, Jiangyin and Shenyangc, China It adopts a proactive and holistic approach initiatives, as well as sets performance 1 Residential Kolkatad, India towards sustainability and strives to benchmarks for continuous improvement. Total 83 continually improve its environmental Keppel Land’s carbon emission performance through harnessing human The Committee also leads the implementation Audubon Classic Sanctuary 3 Golf Course Tianjin and Kunming, China, as well as intensity in 2018 was about 20% Bintan, Indonesia capital, technology and innovation. of the Integrated Management System below 2010’s level. Total 3 (IMS) and the Go Green with Keppel Land Keppel Land is focused on creating outreach programme. Keppel Land has BCA Green Mark Awards properties that harmonise with and also committed to supporting the circular a The Keppel Cove project in Zhongshan, China, was divested in 2018. 83 b The Waterfront Residences project in Nantong, China, was divested in 2017. enhance the environment. economy and eliminating avoidable c The Seasons residential township as well as the Hunnan Township Development in Shenyang, China, were divested in 2018. single-use plastics in its Singapore and d Elita Garden Vista in Kolkata, India, was divested in 2014. It undertakes rigorous measures to ensure overseas operations. that both new and existing developments To-date, Keppel Land has garnered comply with regulatory requirements and are Integrated Management System 83 BCA Green Mark Awards for its Sustainability Management Standards aligned with internationally-recognised Keppel Land implemented the IMS for its properties in Singapore, China, Vietnam, environmental guidelines. operations in Singapore, China and Vietnam Standard Development Location Indonesia, Myanmar, the Philippines in 2014, 2015 and 2016 respectively. The IMS ISO 14001 Residential Singapore and India. Environmental Sustainability Strategy combines the ISO 9001 quality management Commercial Singapore The Company recognises key environmental system, the ISO 14001 environmental Residential Shanghai, Tianjin and Wuxi, China challenges and risks, and has an environmental management system and the OHSAS 18001 Commercial Shanghai and Tianjin, China sustainability strategy in place. occupational health and safety management system into a single framework, thereby Residential Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam The strategy focuses on five main areas, streamlining processes and increasing Commercial Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam namely, the formulation of corporate policies overall operational efficiency. Residential Jakarta, Indonesia and programmes, development of new projects, ISO 9001 Residential Singapore management of completed buildings, In 2017, the Company implemented Residential Shanghai, Tianjin and Wuxi, China implementation of management systems, the latest ISO 9001:2015 standard for Commercial Shanghai and Tianjin, China as well as organisation of outreach initiatives. quality management and ISO 14001:2015 Residential Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam standard for environmental management Commercial Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam The Sustainability Committee, which for its Singapore operations. Its operations includes senior management personnel, in China, Vietnam and Indonesia also OHSAS 18001 Residential Singapore oversees Keppel Land’s sustainability efforts converted to these new standards Commercial Singapore which include environmental management in 2018. Residential Shanghai, Tianjin and Wuxi, China Commercial Shanghai and Tianjin, China Residential Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Commercial Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam 18 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 19 Sustaining Growth Environment For all project sites covered under the areas pertaining to business conduct, Benchmarks of Excellence Supply Chain Management scope of Keppel Land’s environmental labour practices, safety and health, Keppel Land aligns with and benchmarks its management system, contractors are as well as environmental management. business practices against global standards required to conduct an impact assessment All Keppel Group companies, including in sustainability. These include the United based on activities at the project site prior Keppel Land, are required to include States Green Building Council’s Leadership to construction. The assessment covers the acknowledgment and signing of the in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED), Project Initiation Design Development Tender Construction Operation potential negative environmental impacts, Keppel Group Supplier Code of Conduct as the Building and Construction Authority of including depletion of resources, biodiversity part of their supplier selection procedure. Singapore’s (BCA) Green Mark scheme, Sustainable Concept and Tender Construction Procurement disturbance, as well as air, water and the Audubon International certification, Design Brief Schematic Documentation Ensure Environmental State ISO 14001 noise pollution. In 2018, 98.8% of Keppel Land’s suppliers ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Set minimum Design Review Select contractors Aspects Impact specifications in endorsed the Code. The remaining 1.2% standards, as well as GRI Standards. BCA Green Mark Appoint consultants based on their track Assessment is the contracts Contractors are required to establish and comprised three suppliers who could not target for new to conduct record, financial conducted to for procurement implement appropriate measures to mitigate endorse the Code. Keppel Land’s compliance It has set the benchmark for all new developments. environmental strength, commitment identify and mitigate of services. and/or prevent significant environmental team had conducted further due diligence Singapore developments and overseas impact assessment. towards high standards environmental issues. impacts that have been identified. and assessed that the three suppliers were commercial projects to attain the BCA Green Issue Sustainable of quality, environmental fit to be appointed. Mark GoldPLUS Award, or its equivalent; and Design Standards management and safety. Encourage contractors In alignment with the Keppel Group, for all overseas residential developments to to design team to source green-labelled Keppel Land adheres to the Keppel Group Through such efforts, Keppel Land attain the BCA Green Mark Gold Award, or its and consultants. Preference for materials responsibly. Supplier Code of Conduct, which was aims to influence and encourage its equivalent. All newly acquired completed ISO 9001-, ISO 14001developed to integrate Keppel’s sustainability suppliers to operate responsibly, commercial buildings also have to attain and OHSAS 18001Monitor contractors’ principles across its supply chain and improve energy efficiency and reduce the BCA Green Mark Gold Award, or its certified contractors. energy, water positively influence the environmental, overall carbon emissions. equivalent, within two years. and construction Set out standards of social and governance (ESG) performance materials usage. conduct for contractors, of its suppliers. All new suppliers that Compliance BCA Green Mark including in the areas provide Keppel with products and services In 2018, the main contractor appointed by Keppel Land has garnered a total of 83 BCA of legal compliance, valued at $200,000 or more per contract the Company for a residential project in Green Mark Awards to date for its properties health and safety, as or over cumulative purchase orders in the Singapore was fined $1,000 for a mosquito in Singapore, China, Vietnam, Indonesia, well as environmental prior calendar year are expected to sign breeding incident at the construction site. Myanmar, the Philippines and India. management. and abide by the Keppel Group Mitigating actions have since been taken They include 16 Platinum, 12 GoldPLUS, Supplier Code of Conduct, which covers to prevent recurrence. 49 Gold and six Certified awards. State environmental and ISO 14001 specifications in tender documents. Keppel Land garnered multiple awards at the BCA Awards 2018, including the prestigious BCA Quality Champion (GoldPLUS) Award for developers. Supply Chain Keppel Land is committed to managing its Key Challenges Strategies and Actions supply chain across the whole life cycle of Climate change and global warming • Legal compliance all of its projects, from the initiation and More stringent regulatory requirements to • Carbon Management Plan design development stages to subsequent address carbon emissions are expected. • Minimum BCA Green Mark standards, construction and operation stages. or their equivalent, for new developments • Sustainable Design Standards This allows the Company to effectively manage its consultants, main contractors Limited natural resources • Legal compliance and subcontractors, as well as diverse Cost of energy is expected to rise in the • Minimum BCA Green Mark standards services, materials and equipment required long run, leading to higher expectations to for completed buildings to deliver large-scale developments in a source for materials responsibly. • Environmental Operations Plans complex supply chain environment. • Green procurement policy • Supply chain management In selecting its main contractors for its new projects in Singapore and overseas, Ecological conservation • Legal compliance contractors are assessed based on stringent Greater emphasis is placed on the • ISO 14001 Environmental criteria, which include track record, financial protection of ecosystems and well-being Management System strength as well as commitment towards of the community. • Environmental outreach programmes high standards of quality, environmental • Stakeholder engagement programmes management and safety. Contractors with • Public communications plan ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications are preferred. 20 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 21 Sustaining Growth Environment Environmental Objectives Objectives To develop environmentallyTo adopt an integrated To meet national or To raise environmental To underscore importance To develop green capabilities, Preserve biodiversity in friendly properties that minimise approach in the design, international standards on awareness among stakeholders. of environmental ownership knowledge and skills to enhance local environments. pollution and other adverse construction and development environmental protection. GRI 102-43 I GRI 102-44 among stakeholders. building performance. impacts on the environment. of sustainable developments. Targets To have all new Singapore Reduce carbon footprint Expand the scope of the Engage staff, tenants and Promote green practices among Build a core team of in-house Preserve biodiversity and developments and overseas and implement sustainable ISO 14001 environmental the wider public through tenants and employees through green building specialists with maintain high standards of commercial projects certified practices when developing management system environmental initiatives the BCA-HPB Green Mark for expertise in sustainability and environmental protection in to the BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS new buildings and managing certification to include including the Go Green with Healthier Workplaces and green building technology. native environments to ensure a standard, or its equivalent; existing properties. the Company’s overseas Keppel Land outreach programme. Eco-Office programmes. balanced and intact ecosystem. all overseas residential business operations. developments certified to the BCA Green Mark Gold standard, or its equivalent; as well as all newly acquired completed commercial buildings certified to the BCA Green Mark Gold standard, or its equivalent, within two years. Performance in 2018 • Clinched the BCA Quality • Conducted annual reviews • Implemented conversion • Organised roadshows in • As part of the Keppel Group, • To date, about 35% of the • Marina at Keppel Bay was Champion (GoldPLUS) Award to track the progress of to the new ISO 14001:2015 Singapore to educate staff, Keppel Land pledged Company’s project and conferred the Discovery Yacht for developers. Environmental Operations standard for environmental tenants and the general public Climate Action goals for 2018, property managers in Singapore Award for doing its part • Attained a total of 83 BCA and Carbon Management management for its about water conservation including to invest in green and overseas have been in marine conservation in Green Mark Awards to-date Plans to ensure they remain operations in China, in conjunction with World technology as well as increase trained and equipped with support of the Educational for its properties in Singapore relevant and up-to-date. Vietnam and Indonesia. Water Day. usage of renewable energy. green certifications. Outreach Floating Classroom and overseas, including 16 • Launched ‘Plastic Straw Free’ • 34 of Keppel Land’s programme. The programme Platinum, 12 GoldPLUS and 49 challenge at Saigon Centre commercial, residential is an initiative by the Gold Awards in Singapore, retail mall in Vietnam and hospitality developments International Seakeepers China, Vietnam, Indonesia, to raise awareness of in Singapore and overseas Society. Under the programme, Myanmar, the Philippines environmental sustainability. participated in Earth Hour. yacht owners contribute and India. • Organised public screening of • Cultivated urban farms their vessels and crew for • Conducted service quality ‘A Plastic Ocean’ to highlight at Bugis Junction Towers outreach sessions with surveys for 11 completed the causes and consequences and residential buildings children to inculcate a greater projects. About 95% of the of plastic waste on marine life in Singapore to encourage understanding of marine respondents indicated that in support of Earth Day. sustainable farming among biodiversity, as well as they were satisfied with the • A virtual reality and staff, tenants and residents. research expeditions. services rendered in the photography exhibition management, operations to raise awareness of the and green features of water situation in rural villages the developments. overseas was hosted at Ocean Financial Centre. • Supported Ricoh’s Eco Action Day as Strategic Partner and planted 300 tree saplings for eco-pledges canvassed during Eco Action Day roadshows held at Keppel Land and Keppel REIT’s buildings. • Organised beach clean-up sessions in Singapore and Vietnam. Plans ahead • To have all new Singapore • Implement guidelines • Roll out the IMS to cover • To continue to partner • To achieve optimal levels of • To have all project managers • To partake in good developments and overseas comprising stretch targets all overseas operations. related agencies and bodies energy, paper and toner usage trained as Green Mark stewardship of the natural commercial projects certified in the areas of environmental in Singapore and overseas at its corporate office. Managers within two years environment and adopt best to the BCA Green Mark certification, energy, water, to raise eco-consciousness. • To encourage more tenants of joining the Company, so as practices and policies that GoldPLUS standard, or its landscaping and materials • To continually engage and to renovate their premises to develop a pool of in-house support healthy ecosystems, equivalent, and all overseas use in new developments inculcate a green mindset in accordance with professionals with expertise promote biodiversity and residential developments in Singapore and overseas. among various stakeholder the requirements for in sustainable design sustain natural resources. to be certified to the BCA groups through sharing best BCA-HPB Green Mark for processes, to encourage Green Mark Gold standard, practices at environmental Healthier Workplaces. integrated designs and or its equivalent. conferences, organising enhance the environmental • To have all newly acquired outreach programmes and performance of its buildings. completed commercial supporting eco-related events. buildings certified to the BCA Green Mark Gold standard, or its equivalent, within two years. 22 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 23 Sustaining Growth Environment Keppel Land incorporates In the Philippines, Keppel Land’s Within its corporate office, Keppel Land green features such as solar panels in its The Podium development bagged multiple uses eco-friendly products such as Totally developments, which awards in sustainability including the Chlorine-Free or Elemental Chlorine-Free help to enhance the environmental performance LEED Gold (Core & Shell) precertification. printing paper, as well as Energy Star-labelled of its buildings. The development is also the first in computers. In addition, a recycling company the Philippines to be awarded the has been contracted to collect and recycle BCA provisional Green Mark Gold Award. waste paper. Green and Healthy Office Keppel Land uses energy-efficient light In recognition of Keppel Land’s efforts emitting diode (LED) smart lightings in its to promote a healthy lifestyle among offices. These consume about 70% less its employees, the Company was energy compared with conventional T8 conferred the Platinum Award under fluorescent tubes. Coupled with effective the new BCA-HPB Green Mark for plug load management, energy consumption Healthier Workplaces scheme introduced was greatly reduced to 80,000 kWh in 2019 by the BCA and the Health Promotion on an annualised basis, with energy usage Board (HPB). per gross floor area at about 30 kWh/m2 iv. Keppel Land has set the benchmark for all its overseas residential developments to attain the BCA Green Mark Gold Award. This includes Sheshan Riviera in Shanghai, China. For its commitment and achievement of about two million m3 and annual in delivering high-quality and sustainable carbon emission reduction of almost developments, Keppel Land was awarded 90,000 tonnesiii. four accolades at the BCA Awards 2018, including the prestigious BCA Quality Champion Awards and Recognition (GoldPLUS) Award for developers. Keppel Land’s Keppel Land continues to gain recognition residential development in Singapore, both regionally and internationally for its Corals at Keppel Bay, won the BCA Universal stewardship in environmental sustainability. Mark GoldPLUS Award. In addition, Bugis Junction Towers was recertified as a BCA Keppel Land China received the Outstanding Green Mark Platinum building, while Park Green Contribution Award at China’s Avenue Heights in China received the BCA 7th Finance Summit 2018 held in July in Beijing. Green Mark Gold Award. Inaugurated in 2012, the Outstanding Green Contribution Award recognises companies The BCA Green Mark scheme drives for excellence in environmental stewardship. Singapore’s construction industry towards achieving a sustainable built environment Keppel Land was also recognised for by incorporating best practices in corporate social responsibility, building environmental design and construction, communities as well as design and as well as encouraging the adoption of construction at PropertyGuru’s Asia green building technologies. It provides a Property Awards in October 2018, comprehensive framework for assessing while its residential development in Singapore, the overall environmental performance Highline Residences, was awarded the of new and existing buildings in terms Best Private Condo Landscape Architectural of energy and water efficiency, indoor Design, as well as received highly air quality, as well as other green and commended distinctions for Best Universal innovative features. Design Development and Best Residential Green Development. Energy and Cost Savings i Average consumption of a Housing Development When fully completed, the total reduction Testament to its continual improvement Board five-room flat is 471 kWh/month. in energy consumption from all of in its ESG standards, Keppel Land topped (Source: SP Services) ii Energy cost: 1kWh = $0.2413. (Source: SP Services, Keppel Land’s BCA Green Mark-awarded the Developer/Diversified – Office/ 4Q 2018) projects will be over 200 million kWh Residential category globally and in iii Energy conversion ratio: 1kWh electricity = per annum, which is the equivalent amount Asia-Pacific at the Global Real Estate 0.4192 kg CO2. (Source: Energy Market Authority, Energy Statistics, 2018) of energy required to power more than Sustainability Benchmark 2018. In addition, iv Keppel Land’s corporate office occupied 38,000 homes in Singapore for one yeari. Keppel Land ranked second in the about 50,000 sf spread across four floors at This also translates to cost savings of Developer category in the Asia and Bugis Junction Towers. Keppel Land relocated its Singapore corporate office to Keppel Bay Tower about $42 million annuallyii. This is in East Asia sectors, as well as sixth globally in December 2018. addition to total annual water savings in the Developer category. 24 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 25 Sustaining Growth Environment Innovation reality, Keppel Land was able to with machine learning capabilities, enables Keppel Land is piloting five new and emerging In line with its ‘Thinking Unboxed’ showcase different configurations the anticipation of users’ preferences and energy-efficient brand philosophy, Keppel Land provides and apartment types available at the automation of settings to provide a technologies in Keppel Bay Tower to make the innovative real estate solutions for Highline Residences without having seamless experience. development Singapore’s sustainable urbanisation and constantly to create physical show suites – first Super Low-Energy explores new ways of enhancing customer an efficient solution for land-scarce The introduction of the ‘lifestyle assistant’, High-Rise Existing Commercial Building. experiences through its developments. cities such as Singapore. Habitap Handy, also allows users to interact with and easily control smart Photo credit: ST Press In designing its properties, Keppel Land Smart mobile applications were home devices, including door locks, ensures that thoughtful innovations are developed for Corals at Keppel Bay lighting and air-conditioning systems, incorporated. In doing so, the Company and KLOUD, providing homeowners access facilities booking and visitor takes into consideration factors such as and office users the convenience management systems, as well as usability, reliability and maintainability. of managing facilities and booking enjoy lifestyle services using text and meeting rooms with just a tap of voice messaging on popular messaging In May 2018, Keppel Land received the one’s mobile phone. SG Mark was applications such as WhatsApp Singapore Good Design Mark (SG Mark) established in 2013 to set the and WeChat. Award for three of its projects, namely, benchmark for design quality that its virtual reality show suites at Highline impacts businesses and communities Green Innovation Residences, the Habitap smart home in Singapore and beyond. Keppel Land is a partner in the Green mobile application at Corals at Keppel Bay, Buildings Innovation Cluster (GBIC) as well as the smart mobile application In November 2018, Keppel Land and programme. An initiative by the BCA, at KLOUD, Keppel Land’s smart Habitap unveiled Singapore’s first smart the GBIC reinforces the drive towards serviced co-office. home powered by artificial intelligence (A.I.). greater energy efficiency through The smart home management system green building research, design and Keppel Land harnessed new technologies integrates smart home controls, community development capabilities. It comprises which were incorporated for these management and lifestyle services on a academic institutions, developers three projects to provide an enhanced single platform. The new system, which and other professionals in the green customer experience. Through virtual has been further enhanced with A.I. building industry. As part of the GBIC programme, With the completion of the pilot, estimated Keppel Land is piloting five new and to be by 2020, Keppel Land expects to emerging energy-efficient technologies decrease the annual energy consumption in Keppel Bay Tower. These technologies of Keppel Bay Tower by 20%, from about include a high-efficiency air distribution 145 kWh/m2 per year to 115 kWh/m2 system, a revolutionary cooling tower water per year. management system, integrated sensor technology to optimise fresh air intake, If these technologies are applied to smart lighting solutions as well as an intelligent the entire building, the annual energy building control system. This will be the consumption of Keppel Bay Tower first time that these technologies are is estimated to be further reduced to implemented in a development in Singapore. 92 kWh/m2 per year. Keppel Land was Keppel Land will implement the technologies awarded a grant of up to $1.28 million by in certain parts of the 18-storey building, the BCA for this programme. which will allow Keppel Bay Tower to yield an estimated overall annual energy Green Capabilities savings of approximately 1.5 million kWh. Keppel Land is committed to inculcating This is equivalent to the amount of energy in its employees a sound understanding required to power more than 250 five-room of green technologies and knowledge of HDB flats in Singapore for one year. The sustainability management as part of expected cost savings in energy and water the Company’s plan to improve its is approximately $250,000 annually. environmental performance. In November 2018, Keppel Land and Habitap unveiled Singapore’s first A.I.-powered smart home, which allows users to easily control smart devices within their homes via popular mobile messaging applications. 26 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 27 Sustaining Growth Environment To-date, about 35% of all its project and support wider adoption of green building In 2018, total direct energy consumption property managers in Singapore and overseas development and practices. The Council from the use of diesel (over 800,000 litres) Total Energy Consumption (million kWh) have been trained as Green Mark Managers, complements and supports the government’s was about 26,400 GJviii, while total indirect 90 Green Mark Facilities Managers or Green efforts to accelerate the greening of the energy consumption from the use of electricity Mark Professionals, or have undergone city’s buildings by 2030. (72 million kWh) was about 260,000 GJix. 75 the Singapore Certified Energy Manager programme organised by the National University Environmental Performance Energy conservation measures undertaken 60 of Singapore’s Energy Sustainability Unit. This section reports on Keppel Land’s energy by the Company in 2018 include developing 45 and water use, waste discharged and recycled, energy-efficient buildings, upgrading and Green Business Associations materials used as well as emission to air for optimising chiller plant systems, as well as 30 Keppel Land is a founding member of major properties in Singapore and overseas. replacing conventional lightings with LED the World Green Building Council (WGBC) It covers data for its corporate officeiv, tubes at its investment properties. 15 Corporate Advisory Board and works Singaporev and overseasvi properties under with the global network of green building Keppel Land and Keppel REIT’s portfolios, Water Use 0 councils to implement strategies, ideas and as well as hospitality developmentsvii Water Consumption 2015 2016 2017 2018 projects for a sustainable built environment. managed by Keppel Land. In 2018, Keppel Land’s total water Corporate Office 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Keppel Land’s CEO, Mr Tan Swee Yiow, consumption was about 620,000 m3. Singapore Commerciala,b 21.4 22.1 22.2 20.7 is currently a Board member of WGBC. Residential developments have been Overseas Commerciald 15.6 12.4 25.0 35.2 excluded unless otherwise stated as they In Singapore, water is drawn from public Hospitality Propertiese 19.4 21.4 16.6 16.3 The Company is also a founding member are trading properties, which the Company supply sources such as local catchment Total 56.7 56.2 64.1 72.5 of the Singapore Green Building Council eventually will not own. areas, imported water, reclaimed water (SGBC). Mr Tan served as President of SGBC (NEWater) and desalinated water. Potable from 2017 to 2019. SGBC propels Singapore’s To account for the variation in the type, water is consumed at Keppel Land’s building and construction industry towards number and construction stages of projects investment properties for drinking, environmental sustainability by promoting undertaken every year, Keppel Land measures sanitation, irrigation and general washing. Energy Intensity (kWh/m2) green building design, practices and the energy consumption of each project technologies, integrating eco-initiatives into over the period of its entire construction. Estimated water consumption at 480 mainstream design, construction and The information is disclosed upon the the corporate office is about 3,000 m3 400 operation of buildings, as well as building completion of the project to allow for more per annum or 9.1 m3/person per annum. industry capabilities and professionalism to meaningful comparisons between developments. This is in line with the recommendations set 320 by the Singapore Standard SS CP48:2005 Keppel strives to inculcate a green mindset among for water services. 240 its stakeholders through its environmental outreach 160 efforts, which include Water conservation measures include the public screenings of use of water-efficient fittings certified under documentaries such 80 as A Plastic Ocean. PUB’s Water Efficiency Labelling Scheme, such as self-closing taps and flow regulators. 0 All of Keppel Land’s investment buildings in 2015 2016 2017 2018 Singapore have won the PUB Water Efficient Corporate Office 60 60 64 53 Building Silver Award for outstanding efforts Singapore Commerciala,b 97 101 101 95 in water conservation. Overseas Commerciald 170 149 138 148 Hospitality Propertiese 105 115 93 115 Energy Intensity at Completed Construction Sitesf (GJ/m2) 0.48 0.40 0.32 iv Keppel Land’s corporate office occupied 0.24 about 50,000 sf spread across four floors at Bugis Junction Towers. Keppel Land relocated its Singapore corporate office to Keppel Bay Tower 0.16 in December 2018. v Includes Keppel Towers and Keppel Towers 2, 0.08 Keppel Bay Tower, Ocean Financial Centre, as well as Bugis Junction Towers. 0 vi Includes Saigon Centre in Vietnam and International Financial Centre Jakarta in Indonesia. Ocean Reflections The vii Includes Sedona Hotel Yangon in Myanmar and Financial at Keppel Madison Lakefront Corals at Spring City Golf & Lake Resort in Kunming, China. Centre Bay Residences Residences Keppel Bay Sedona Hotel Mandalay in Myanmar and Direct Energy (Diesel) 0.19 0.45 0.28 0.37 0.3 Sedona Suites Hanoi in Vietnam were divested in 2017 and 2016 respectively. Indirect Energy (Electricity) 0.09 0.12 0.13 0.00 0.14 viii 1 litre of diesel = 0.0331 GJ ix 1 kWh of electricity = 0.0036 GJ Refer to footnotes on page 32. 28 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 29 Sustaining Growth Environment Water Discharge Direct and Indirect Emissions Total Water Consumption (‘000 m3) Water drawn from public utilities at the Total Carbon Emissionsg (tonnes CO2) Emission to Air construction sites of Keppel Land’s The Company’s carbon emissions include 720 42,000 developments in Singapore is generally direct emissions from fuel used in power 600 recycled and reused for washing vehicles. generators and loss of refrigerants in air 35,000 With appropriate earth control measures, conditioning systems, indirect emissions 480 discharged water contains a lower amount due to purchased electricity consumed at 28,000 of total suspended solids than the legal investment properties and hotels, as well as 360 21,000 allowable limit of 50 mg/litre. other indirect emissions arising from water 240 usage at investment properties, business 14,000 In Singapore, discharged water is conveyed travel and employees commuting to and 120 by a network of pipelines nationwide to from the workplace. 7,000 waterworks or wastewater treatment plants 0 where it is chemically treated, filtered and In 2018, total carbon emissions was 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 disinfected. The treatment frees the water about 37,800 tonnes. The largest source 2015 2016 2017 2018 Corporate Office 3 3 3 3 of harmful bacteria and makes it clear, of emissions was the use of electricity in Fuel (scope 1)h 1,100 2,410 2,290 2,150 Singapore Commerciala, b 168 166 192 179 odourless and colourless. The treated water its investment buildings, which accounted Refrigerants (scope 1)h 750 750 640 550 Overseas Commerciald 130 104 170 239 is then pumped into the distribution system for about 85% of the Company’s Electricity (scope 2)h 27,000 24,350 28,510 32,800 Hospitality Propertiese 343 284 203 196 and service reservoirs. carbon footprint. Business Travel (scope 3)h 1,600 1,330 1,910 1,900 Total 644 557 568 617 Staff Commuting (scope 3)h 200 200 180 180 Similarly, overseas, wastewater is recycled Under Keppel Land’s Carbon Management Water Consumption (scope 3)h 250 200 200 220 for use whenever possible. Plan, the Company aims to reduce its carbon emission intensity by 16% below Total 30,900 29,240 33,730 37,800 Waste Management 2010’s level by 2020, and a further 40% Water Intensity (m3/person) Waste Recycled by 2030. Keppel Land has since achieved Total waste generated at Keppel’s completed its 16% reduction target ahead of schedule, 90 properties in Singapore and overseasx in in 2016. Normalising the carbon emissions Overall Carbon Emission Intensity (kg/m2) 2018 was estimated at about 10,000 tonnes. by the total floor area of all its investment 75 Of this, about 250 tonnes of waste, properties, its carbon emission intensity 72 60 including paper, plastics and cans, in 2018 was about 64 kg/m2. were from Keppel Land’s investment buildings. 60 45 Keppel Land’s performance in terms Tenants at these buildings are also 48 of emission reduction is based on 30 encouraged to recycle. For instance, at the weighted average of each country’s 36 Ocean Financial Centre, a central paper emission reduction which is then normalised 15 recycling chute complete with a paper by gross floor area (GFA). GFA figures 24 0 shredder for disposing confidential for hospitality/retail projects are adjusted documents within their premises enables to account for their higher energy 12 2015 2016 2017 2018 Corporate Office 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.1 tenants to recycle used paper. Recycling consumption as compared with office 0 bins, including those for electronic waste, buildings. This is to better reflect the Singapore Commerciala,b,c 17.5 17.3 19.3 17.2 2015 2016 2017 2018 are also centrally provided within the Company’s actual sustainability efforts. Overseas Commerciald 20.6 16.2 45.9 45.6 Total 67.9 62.5 63.3 64.1 buildings, making it convenient for tenants Hospitality Propertiese 1.9 1.5 1.1 1.4 to recycle. Based on this new methodology and Refer to footnotes on page 32. considering only scope 1 and 2 emissionsh, Waste generated at Keppel Land’s Keppel Land’s carbon emission intensity in corporate office consists mainly of paper. 2018 was about 20% below 2010’s level. Embodied Carbon Emission Intensity at Completed Construction Sitesi (kg/m2) The Company has a systematic paper management and recycling programme. Implementation of energy conservation 1,200 These include setting printers to print measures, including the upgrading and double-sided by default, encouraging the optimisation of chiller plant systems, 1,000 use of e-mails and the intranet for the as well as the replacement of conventional 800 broadcast and storage of documents, lightings with LED tubes at its investment utilising smaller printouts, as well as properties, have improved the Company’s 600 switching to electronic greeting cards. environmental performance. Keppel Land Recycling bins are placed at convenient will continue to implement similar energy 400 locations in all departments so as to conservation measures in all its properties, encourage employees to recycle. A recycling including those overseas. 200 company has also been contracted to collect 0 used paper regularly. Ocean Reflections The Financial at Keppel Madison Lakefront Corals at Centre Bay Residences Residences Keppel Bay Embodied Carbon arising from Energy Use (Direct + Indirect) 27.7 51.0 40.0 31.0 42.0 Embodied Carbon arising from Materials Use 510.0 860.0 920.0 970.0 530.0 x Excludes Sedona Hotel Yangon. Refer to footnotes on page 32. 30 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 31 Sustaining Growth Environment Construction Projects Materials Used at Completed Construction Sitesi (kg/m2) Expenditure on Environmental Protection While emissions due to construction activities that occur within the boundaries Description Estimated Expenditure ($) 4,200 of a development site are a result of the Total cost of green building features in all Green Mark-awarded projects in Singapore and overseas to date* 160,000,000 3,500 contractor’s direct and indirect emissions, Keppel Land recognises the significant Expenditure in 2018: 2,800 environmental impact of construction activities. The Company measures and Green building features in Green Mark-awarded projects in 2018 8,900,000 2,100 Training (including environmental courses, seminars and conferences) 5,000 monitors energy and emission data from 1,400 its construction sites. External certifications (including ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001) 75,000 Total 8,980,000 700 Construction Materials Materials Usage * Total cost includes cost of projects developed in joint ventures which will be borne by Keppel Land and its joint venture partners. 0 The construction and real estate sector Ocean Reflections The consumes a considerable amount of Financial at Keppel Madison Lakefront Corals at Centre Bay Residences Residences Keppel Bay materials. However, the amount of Year of Completion 2011 2011 2012 2014 2016 materials used within a reporting year is Environmental Operations Plans water usage at each property. These include Materials Intensity not comparable over the years as the Keppel Land has implemented environmental adhering to Keppel Land’s environmental (kg/m2 GFA) 2,200 2,900 3,600 3,800 330 number of projects varies every year and operations plans for the management policy and green procurement guidelines. Emisson Intenstity the construction stages of each project of its completed commercial buildings (kg/m2 GFA) 510 860 920 970 530 differ. To meaningfully track such data, in Singapore and hospitality properties Annual reviews are conducted to monitor the Keppel Land discloses the usage of materials overseas since 2012. In 2014, the scope progress and implementation of the plans a Energy data for Singapore commercial buildings includes energy for mechanical and electrical services over the entire construction period of was expanded to include completed as well as the corresponding cost savings. such as air-conditioning, lifts and lightings in all common areas, but excludes tenants’ energy a project instead of on a yearly basis. commercial buildings overseas. These measures will continue to help the consumption as tenants are charged separately for use of electricity within their tenanted space. b Includes Ocean Financial Centre, Keppel Towers & Keppel Towers 2 and Keppel Bay Tower. For comparison purposes, total materials Company achieve its goal of maintaining c Water intensity figures for Singapore commercial buildings are computed based on the number of used per project is reported upon These plans outline environmental targets at least the BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS rating occupants in each respective year. project completion. and programmes to yield measurable for all its completed commercial buildings d Includes Saigon Centre in Vietnam and International Financial Centre Jakarta in Indonesia. e Energy and water usage intensities for hospitality properties is expressed in terms of kWh/room-night reductions in waste as well as energy and in Singapore. and m3/room-night respectively. Includes Sedona Hotel Yangon in Myanmar and Spring City Golf & A total of 10 most commonly-used materials Lake Resort in Kunming, China. Sedona Hotel Mandalay in Myanmar and Sedona Suites Hanoi in in building construction have been identified Vietnam were divested in 2017 and 2016 respectively. f Data for construction sites are disclosed on project basis instead of by year, to allow for meaningful and measured. The materials are cement, comparison. Energy data represent the total energy consumed during the entire construction period sand, concrete, aggregate, bricks, steel, of the project. aluminium, glass, paint, as well as ceramic g Energy conversion ratio: 1kWh electricity = 0.4192 kg CO2. (Source: Energy Market Authority, Energy Statistics, 2018) and granite tiles. Environmental Targets h Scope 1 emissions include direct emissions from fuel used in power generators and loss of refrigerant in air-conditioning systems. Keppel Land has in place a set of Sustainable Scope 2 emissions include indirect emissions due to purchased electricity consumed at investment properties and hotels. Design Standards for its new developments Scope 3 emissions include other indirect emissions arising from water usage at investment properties, which include stretch targets in the areas business travel as well as commuting to and from the workplace of employees from corporate office. of environmental certification, energy, i The emission data represent the project’s total embodied carbon from materials used and energy consumed at the construction site. Embodied carbon index of materials are sourced from The water, landscaping and materials used to Inventory of Carbon and Energy 2011, based on cradle-to-grave boundaries. improve resource efficiency and building productivity. The Company aims to reduce materials usage intensity and embodied carbon emissions. 2008 2012 2017 2020 2030 In addition, it is also committed to Committed to achieve Committed to train all Committed to achieve To reduce carbon To reduce carbon conserving global resources by minimising at least the BCA Green Project Managers as at least the BCA Green emission intensity emission intensity the carbon footprint from its construction Mark Gold Award, Green Mark Managers. Mark GoldPLUS Award, by 16% below 2010’s by 40% below 2010’s and operation activities, as well as from or its equivalent, for or its equivalent, emission level*. emission level. the production and distribution of new developments in 2015 for new commercial building materials. Singapore and overseas. developments overseas. To reduce energy Committed to and water usage 2012 maintain at least the Committed to intensities by 30% Targets BCA Green Mark achieve at least the below 2010’s level. Recognising the twin benefits of Committed to achieve GoldPLUS Award for BCA Green Mark environmentally-friendly business practices at least the BCA Green completed commercial Gold Award, or its on the environment and its bottom line, Mark GoldPLUS Award buildings in Singapore. equivalent, for Keppel Land has set strategic plans for for new developments continual improvement. newly acquired in Singapore. commercial buildings within two years. * Achieved 2020 target in 2016 with a 16.5% reduction in carbon emission intensity below 2010’s emission level. 32 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 33 Sustaining Growth Environment Carbon Management Plan Overseas Sedona Hotel Yangon’s Inya Wing, with its myriad Keppel Land’s Carbon Management Plan Keppel Land’s commitment towards eco-friendly features, is the outlines the initiatives and programmes the management and protection first building in Myanmar to attain the BCA Green Mark that the Company will undertake to reduce of the environment goes beyond GoldPLUS Award. its emissions. Singapore to countries overseas where it operates. Having met its target to reduce its carbon emission intensity by 16% below 2010’s In Vietnam, to encourage the public level by 2020 ahead of time, Keppel Land to reduce consumption of single-use has set a new target of reducing its carbon plastics, Keppel Land collaborated with emission intensity by 40% below 2010’s partners to showcase a plastic straw art emission level by 2030. installation, ‘The Parting of the Plastic Sea’ at the Estella Place retail mall in To achieve this, Keppel Land will undertake Ho Chi Minh City. carbon reduction measures which include developing high-performance commercial Hospitality Management buildings, improving the energy efficiency Keppel Land also operates and of existing buildings and tapping on manages a portfolio of properties renewable energy. including hotels, serviced residences, golf courses, resorts and marinas across Meeting the 40% reduction target will Asia. The Company is committed to result in a cumulative reduction of almost good environmental stewardship at 140,000 tonnes of carbon emissions, its hospitality properties. which will yield potential savings of over $75 million, from 2010 to 2030. With the incorporation of sustainable Beyond 2030, an annual reduction of features and green practices, Sedona Hotel about 17,000 tonnes of carbon emissions, Yangon has successfully achieved significant or annual savings of about $9 million, waste and emission reduction, as well as are expected. energy and water conservation. The hotel is the first in Myanmar to severe soil erosion, today, Spring City is increasing the natural habitat areas and achieve the BCA Green Mark Gold Award home to two world-class golf courses. migration corridors. for its Garden Wing. Sustainable features Indigenous flora like eucalyptus trees and include real-time water usage monitoring of wildflowers were carefully preserved during Audubon Certification public areas including the swimming pools, and after construction to ensure that the The Company owns and operates three the use of energy-efficient LED lights, an ecosystem remained balanced and intact. Audubon International-certified golf courses innovative new ‘waste heat’ recovery system Spring City also features a 1.7-km nature in China and Indonesia. ECICC was the first which heats water while regenerating heat, trail with over 300 plant species, most of in the world to achieve the prestigious thereby increasing energy efficiency, which are native to the Yunnan province. Audubon Classic Sanctuary status in 2009, as well as the use of recyclable materials. Information boards have also been placed followed by Spring City and Ria Bintan The hotel has also implemented an along the trail to help spread the message in 2010. extensive guest and staff education on the importance of preserving the programme to promote and encourage local biodiversity. Audubon is a global environmental sustainable practices. organisation which champions The Ocean and Forest Courses at Ria Bintan wildlife protection, as well as provides Sedona Hotel Yangon’s Inya Wing, which Golf Club are constructed around existing education and conservation assistance opened in May 2016, also boasts myriad natural contours so as to preserve wildlife for responsible management of eco-friendly features. The Inya Wing is the corridors. Its design allows for the resort natural resources. The Audubon Classic first building in Myanmar to be certified to be integrated seamlessly with nature. Programme is targeted at existing golf with the BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS Award. Ria Bintan Golf Club has also embarked courses that are being redeveloped or on a programme to reduce water and going through refurbishments while Preserving Biodiversity fertiliser usage in the maintenance of maintaining its use. Conscious efforts are made to preserve its golf courses. Local species of shrubs the biodiversity in Keppel Land’s properties. and groundcovers have been planted to To achieve the status, certified courses Its golf courses such as Spring City Golf minimise maintenance work. must meet stringent programme & Lake Resort (Spring City) in Kunming, requirements as well as any additional China, and Ria Bintan Golf Club in Indonesia At the Eco-City International Country Club site-specific requirements identified by were sculpted along the natural contours (ECICC) in the Sino-Singapore Tianjin Audubon. These include environmental of the undulating landscape. Eco-City, eco-initiatives include enhancing planning, wildlife and habitat management, water quality with additional re-circulating outreach and education, reduction of Originally an arid and mountainous site streams so as to increase plant density chemical use, safety, water conservation, afflicted by poor surface drainage and along the water’s edge, as well as as well as water quality management. In March 2019, Singapore’s then-Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean (sixth from left) and Mrs Teo (fifth from left), together with Ms Catherine Wong (third from right), Singapore’s Ambassador to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, and other delegates visited Estella Place where they viewed ‘The Parting of the Plastic Sea’, which has garnered the Guinness World Record for ‘Largest drinking straw sculpture (supported)’. 34 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 35 Sustaining Growth Empowering Lives Environment Health and Safety Environmental and Sustainability Milestones 2007 Winner of the Services category Formed the Environment at the Singapore Environmental Keppel Land is Achievement Awards. Management Committee to committed to inculcate spearhead environmental initiatives. 2011 Won the Sustainable Business Award (Large 2016 a strong safety culture. Included as a component of Enterprises) at the Singapore Keppel Land’s corporate office, both DJSI World and Asia Sustainability Awards. then located at Bugis Junction 2008 Pacific Indices. Towers, was the first Green Garnered Singapore Compact’s Mark-awarded office to use Ocean Financial Centre Included in RobecoSAM’s Green Champion Award. renewable energy generated became the first office Sustainability Yearbook 2012 offsite to fully power development in Singapore’s and named Sector Mover for its operations. central business district to real estate. obtain the BCA Green Mark Keppel Land China was Platinum Award, while Won Best Sustainability Award among the Top 10 ASEAN The Estella was the first at ACCA’s Singapore Awards Companies in China by in Vietnam to achieve the for Sustainability Reporting. 2014 the China-ASEAN Business BCA Green Mark Gold Award. Council for the fourth Ranked 17th in Corporate consecutive year. Implemented the 2012 Knights’ Global 100 Most ISO 14001 standard for Sustainable Corporations in Clinched the BCA Quality its Singapore operations. Founding member of the World (Global 100). Champion (Gold) Award World Green Building Council’s Corporate for Developers. Included as a component Advisory Board. Ranked 1st in Residential of both DJSI World and Included as a constituent Asia Pacific Indices for the (Global), China and East Asia of the MSCI Global fourth and fifth consecutive sectors, and 3rd among developers globally in GRESB. Strong Safety Culture 3. HSE is a line responsibility; Sustainability Index. year respectively. Number of fatalities Keppel Land’s safety approach is guided by 4. Everyone is empowered to stop any 0 2009 Constituent of MSCI Global the Keppel Zero Fatality Strategy which unsafe work; and International Financial Sustainability and Socially 2017 outlines actionable items to reduce workplace 5. Strong safety culture is achieved Ocean Financial Centre Centre Jakarta Tower 2 Responsible Indices for the fatalities to zero through five strategic thrusts, through teamwork. became the first office became the first development Ranked 1st in Residential third and second consecutive namely, building a high-performance safety development in Southeast in Indonesia to achieve (Global) and Asia (Developer Keppel Land continued its strong year respectively. culture, adopting a proactive approach to All new employees are required to undergo Asia to achieve the LEED the BCA Green Mark category), as well as ranked track record in safety with zero fatalities safety management, leveraging technology a safety induction course as part of their Platinum certification. Platinum Award. 3rd among developers globally in 2018. Conferred the Most to mitigate safety risks, harmonising global orientation programme. Staff are also Admired ASEAN Enterprise in GRESB. safety practices and competency, as well as regularly updated on matters including Implemented the ISO 14001 Trained workers Award for Corporate streamlining learning from incidents. safety action plans, accident and/or Conferred 10 awards at the 66,000 standard for its operations in Excellence at the ASEAN incident reporting procedures, relevant China and Vietnam. BCA Awards, including the Business Awards. Several key initiatives have been implemented training programmes, as well as related BCA Quality Excellence Award. Eco-City International in line with the Keppel Group Zero Fatality articles, which are also available on Country Club in China Implemented the Named Best Overall Developer Strategy. They include: the intranet. 2013 Over 66,000 workers have been trained became the world’s first ISO 9001 standard for in Myanmar, Best Office at Keppel Land’s five Safety Awareness Audubon International-certified Conferred the Most Admired its Singapore operations. Developer in Vietnam and • Establishment of a Group-wide global Board Safety Committee (BSC) Centres as at end-2018. Classic Sanctuary golf course. Indonesia, and Best Residential standard for managing High Impact Keppel Land’s BSC reviews and develops ASEAN Enterprise Award Developer in Vietnam at the Risk Activities; safety policies and management systems. for CSR at the ASEAN Euromoney Real Estate Awards. • Implementation of a standardised It currently comprises three members Business Awards. 2010 incident investigation and root cause including two independent Directors. Included as a constituent of the analysis technique; Formed in 2007, the BSC has oversight Included as a component MSCI Global Sustainability and • Global safety leadership coaching of the safety programmes and budget. of Dow Jones Sustainability Socially Responsible Indices. 2015 programmes to train and empower Index (DJSI) Asia Pacific. frontline managers; and The BSC regularly monitors and evaluates Named Regional Sector Leader Ranked 4th in Corporate • Reinforcement of the five Key Safety the Company’s compliance and effectiveness Named Most Admired for Asia (Office Category) Knights’ Global 100, the Principles and Life-Saving Rules through of its health and safety (H&S) policies as well 2018 ASEAN Enterprise in the Global Real Estate first time an Asian company videos and campaigns. as safety management system to ensure for corporate social Sustainability Benchmark made it into the top 10 in Topped globally and in alignment with industry best practices. responsibility (CSR) at the (GRESB). the ranking’s history. Asia-Pacific the Developer/ The Key Safety Principles were developed Safety reports on the Company’s operations ASEAN Business Awards. Diversified – Office/Residential to encourage and drive safe behaviour among in Singapore and overseas are submitted to Keppel Land China Bagged the BCA Quality category in GRESB. all employees across the Keppel Group to the BSC every quarter. Attained Audubon Classic received the Top 10 ASEAN Champion Gold Award guide them in their daily operations. Sanctuary status for golf Companies in China Award (Developer) and BCA Built Awarded the BCA Quality The five principles are: The BSC convenes quarterly to discuss courses in Kunming, China, by the China-ASEAN Environment Leadership Champion (GoldPLUS) Award safety standards, practices and any and Bintan, Indonesia. Business Council. Gold Class Award. for developers. 1. Every incident is preventable; related matters that may have strategic, 2. Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) operational and reputational implications is an integral part of our business; on Keppel Land. 36 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 37 Empowering Lives Health and Safety As part of the Keppel Group Inter-Strategic All worksites in Singapore and overseas All potential contractors are put through Keppel Land’s Safety Awareness Centres, Business Unit Safety Committee, Keppel Land have a site safety and health committee a pre-qualifying evaluation to assess including a mobile participates in regular dialogue sessions helmed by the main contractor’s project their competencies. centre in Wuxi, China, provide training with other business units to promote manager and supported by Keppel Land’s programmes to improve the exchange of safety knowledge and project team. In Singapore, workers are Compliance the safety performance experiences. This includes site visits represented by the project supervisor or In keeping with the Company’s commitment of contractors’ employees. where business units take turns to foreman in the committee. An average in ensuring that its operations as well as host safety personnel from across the of between 7% and 19% of the workforce major suppliers are not involved in unethical Keppel Group and share their respective is represented on the committee for labour practices such as child or forced safety systems. projects in China, Vietnam, Indonesia labour, a human rights clause on the and Malaysia. prohibition of child labour has been Safety Management System incorporated in all H&S specifications A safety management system is The committee monitors safety performance to contractors since 2012. incorporated at the development stage and submits monthly reports. Members of all of Keppel Land’s projects and meet at least once a month to discuss The H&S specification is a comprehensive continues through the design, safety inspection findings, incidents and document for contractors. It includes development and management stages. injuries, work processes and activities, a safety policy and its objectives as This inculcates a strong safety mindset as well as organise onsite H&S events. well as information about the Company in all employees and stakeholders, and its responsibilities. Planning and including its consultants, suppliers All accidents and near misses are implementation guidelines including and contractors for all its projects in investigated and findings are discussed hazard identification and risk assessment; Singapore and overseas. during BSC meetings. information, training and supervision; safe work systems; hazard controls; Workers, contractors and Keppel Land Any incident of non-compliance with permits to work; equipment inspection, project staff are encouraged to collaborate safety standards and accidents involving testing and maintenance; personal protection and come up with innovative ideas employees and/or subcontractors are also equipment; first-aid facilities and emergency to improve safety. In 2018, a total of reported to management in a timely manner. plans are also included in the specification. five projects were conferred Safety Lessons learnt from incidents and near Innovation Awards which were presented misses are shared with other business units In addition, the document details the at the Keppel Group Safety Convention to prevent recurrence. monitoring and measuring mechanisms safety-related activities and training ConSASS in October. such as workplace inspections, accident programmes, such as compulsory Keppel Land has conducted the Keppel Land also believes in partnering recording and reporting, accident investigation, attendance and certification for courses Construction Safety Audit Scoring System A comprehensive design checklist is contractors and suppliers who share internal and external audits as well as safety conducted by training providers approved (ConSASS) audit at all its projects also implemented for every project. its commitment to quality as well as improvements. Legislations and standards by the Ministry of Manpower (MOM). in Singapore. Rigorous assessments are incorporated high environmental and H&S standards. as well as performance measurement to identify and analyse potential hazards indicators are also incorporated. OHSAS 18001 ConSASS is an audit tool that provides and risks. Controls are also in place A set of stringent criteria is applied and In 2012, Keppel Land received the an independent assessment on the to eradicate or minimise exposure adhered to when selecting contractors To ensure that all its contractors Occupational Health and Safety Management effectiveness and development status to hazards. for each of the Company’s projects. remain vigilant and comply with the H&S System (OHSAS) 18001 certification for the of a worksite’s workplace safety and health specification as well as relevant regulatory successful implementation of the system at (WSH) management system. It is requirements and safe work practices, all development projects and properties administered by the WSH Council Keppel Land conducts quarterly safety under its management in Singapore, China and supported by the MOM for the walkabouts at its Singapore worksites and Vietnam. construction industry in Singapore. and inspects overseas worksites at least Since August 2011, all construction sites Build a once every quarter. An international standard, OHSAS 18001 in Singapore with a contract sum of high-performance guides the Company in the management, $30 million and above are required to safety culture In 2018, safety walkabouts were conducted control and improvement of its occupational have its WSH management system audited at Keppel Land’s project sites in Singapore, H&S performance. Projects in Singapore, every six months. China, Vietnam and Malaysia. China and Vietnam currently account for about 80% of Keppel Land’s total ongoing Conducted by MOM-approved WSH auditors, Streamline Adopt a proactive Proactive Actions developments. All of its projects in these the audit involves document reviews, learning from approach to safety Over the years, Keppel Land has countries are in compliance with OHSAS 18001. site inspections and interviews with incidents management implemented numerous initiatives to key personnel. A total of 17 elements are inculcate a strong safety culture. In 2018, independent third-party audits were assessed, with each being graded using Keppel carried out at projects sites in Singapore, four bands. Each band has a score between Zero Fatality Safety Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) China and Vietnam to ensure compliance 1 and 100. The MOM requires sites to meet Strategy Remuneration of management is linked with OHSAS 18001. An internal audit was a minimum score of 75% at Band III. to sustainability-related KPIs, which conducted for the Company’s projects includes safety. Safety is also a KPI in to ensure that the various parameters In 2018, Keppel Land conducted the performance appraisal of all frontline pertaining to OHSAS 18001 were met. quarterly audits for its worksite at Harmonise Leverage managers. Any fatality at the end of the The Garden Residences in Singapore. global safety practices technology to mitigate & competency safety risks supply chain can affect the bonuses of As part of continuous improvement The Company conducts two additional key executives and staff. KPIs include the efforts, Keppel Land is working to meet ConSASS audits on top of the two Company’s safety performance which the requirements under the new ISO 45001 mandatory audits per year, bringing encompasses accident frequency and Occupational Health & Safety Management the total number of audits to four a year. severity rates, as well as the occurrence System, which provides a robust and The ConSASS audit allows cross-comparison of fatal accidents. The KPIs also include effective set of processes for improving of worksites’ effectiveness in managing the individual manager’s participation in safety in global supply chains. WSH risks. 38 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 39 Empowering Lives Health and Safety Keppel Land is proper use of equipment and scaffold erection. stakeholders and workers are committed committed to achieving a zero-accident workplace All workers have to attend mandatory safety to maintaining high safety standards at for all its projects, including training before they are allowed to work at all project sites. Safety programmes the redevelopment of International Financial any of Keppel Land’s project sites. that reward and encourage safe work Centre Jakarta Tower 1 practices are organised to promote safer in Indonesia. Training and Education work environments. Employees undergo training courses and seminars to enhance their knowledge and Safety Performance skills in managing H&S risks. Staff at The Company recorded zero fatalities in 2018. Keppel Land’s corporate headquarters in Accident frequency rate was 0.27 reportable Singapore underwent a total of 667 hours of case for every million man-hours worked safety training in 2018. Overseas, employees in 2018, compared to 0.09 in 2017. Accident in China, Vietnam, Indonesia and Malaysia severity rate was 5.32 in 2018, compared to underwent a total of 4,065, 47,355, 1,745 and 1.38 in 2017. 1,126 hours of training respectively. Sharing Best Practices Training topics included first aid, safety In 2018, Keppel Land organised the induction, site regulation, HSE risks, Safety Leadership workshop for frontline safety awareness, construction safety, managers and senior management in risk management implementation, as well Singapore. Overseas, about 230 participants as specialised subjects such as safe use of including consultants, contractors and staff electrical equipment and working at height. attended the Contractors Safety Convention in China, while about 420 consultants and Rewards and Recognition staff attended the first Safety Convention Keppel Land collaborates with its in Vietnam to exchange best practices main contractors to ensure that all in safety. Completed Buildings Audit Communication Completed building audits were conducted GRI 102-43 | GRI 102-44 for a total of 17 office buildings, hospitality Safety Talks units and shopping malls in Singapore, Keppel Land’s Cumulative Accident Frequency Rate (per million man-hours) Keppel Land actively engages its China, Vietnam, Indonesia and Myanmar consultants and contractors through 1.2 in 2018. various communication modes to instil the importance of safety at the workplace. 1.0 bizSAFE Mentor Keppel Land is one of only nine companies in All workers undergo safety orientation 0.8 Singapore to be named the bizSAFE Mentor courses on site. Weekly talks on different 0.6 for its exemplary WSH management and topics including working at heights are also performance. This is the highest recognition conducted by the main contractors for 0.4 attainable by a company under the WSH their workers. Council’s bizSAFE programme. 0.2 Training As a bizSAFE Mentor, Keppel Land leads Safety Awareness Centre (SAC) 0 and guides contractors in developing Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Keppel Land has SACs in Ho Chi Minh City, and implementing safety initiatives at Jakarta, Johor Bahru, Tianjin and Wuxi. 2014 0.00 0.00 0.51 0.58 0.52 0.49 0.53 0.61 0.58 0.55 0.57 0.55 their workplaces. The Company also 2015 0.00 0.62 0.53 0.56 0.49 0.40 0.38 0.33 0.29 0.29 0.30 0.27 provides stewardship and support to The SACs provide trainings to improve the 2016 1.08 0.60 0.48 0.52 0.42 0.46 0.40 0.40 0.51 0.47 0.47 0.43 meet the safety standards set by the safety performance of contractors’ employees. 2017 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.05 0.12 0.11 0.10 0.09 0.09 WSH Council. As at end-2018, over 66,000 workers have been 2018 0.00 0.29 0.17 0.25 0.19 0.16 0.14 0.19 0.16 0.19 0.25 0.27 trained at the five SACs. This includes 819 Since 2010, as part of Keppel Land’s tender workers trained in China, 6,795 in Vietnam, requirement, main contractors have to be 4,392 in Indonesia and 36 in Malaysia certified as bizSAFE Partners. This in turn in 2018. requires their subcontractors to have at least bizSAFE Level 3 certification, The SACs were set up to increase which entails the implementation of safety awareness among contractors’ risk management and assessment to employees on pertinent topics such as eliminate or reduce injuries and illnesses working at height, lifting procedures, at worksites. working within confined spaces, 40 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 41 Empowering Lives People Matter Overseas, about 42% of its staff hold a c. Provide employees with equal Bachelor’s degree, professional certification opportunity to be considered for Regional Distribution (%) or graduate diploma, while about 4% have a training and development based on Master’s or post-graduate degree. their strengths and needs to help them Keppel Land believes The overall turnover rate for Keppel Land in achieve their full potential; d. Reward employees fairly based in nurturing an open and 2018 was about 20% or 613 employees, on their ability, performance, compared to 12% or 394 employees in 2017. contribution and experience; and collaborative work culture Of the 613 employees, about 37% or 227 e. Comply with labour laws and abide as well as a competent staff were below 30 years old, while another by the Tripartite Guidelines on 52% or 321 staff were aged between 30 and Fair Employment Practices. and engaged workforce. 50 years. The remaining 11% or 65 staff were over 50 years old. Turnover by gender was There were no reported incidences of 45% or 278 male and 55% or 335 female. discrimination by employees in 2018. Singapore 10.9 . The turnover rate for the Company’s Provision of Benefits China 38.2 headquarters in Singapore in 2018 stood Keppel Land adheres to the respective India 0.2 at 19.7% or 74 staff, below the national social security contribution or pension Vietnam 18.6 average of 21.3%. plan obligations of the countries in which Indonesia 9.0 we operate. The Philippines 1.1 Policy of Non-Discrimination Keppel Land upholds human rights Central Provident Fund (CPF) Malaysia 4.6 principles and adheres to fair employment In Singapore, the CPF is a comprehensive Myanmar 17.4 practices. The Company provides equal social security savings plan that Total 100.0 opportunities with regard to the recruitment enables salaried Singapore citizens and career development of its employees. and permanent residents to set aside Keppel Land is a signatory of the Employers’ funds to work towards a secure retirement. Pledge of Fair Employment Practices and Under the CPF scheme, Keppel Land abides by the Tripartite Guidelines on and its employees make monthly Fair Employment Practices. contributions to the employees’ CPF The Company recognises that people Profile of Employees accounts in accordance with the Employee Engagement are its greatest asset and that every Keppel Land employs 3,218 staff across its The Keppel Group adheres to the principles prevailing regulations. 98% staff represents the Keppel Land brand. 13 countries of operation. Some 351 employees of non-discriminatory and merit-based Thus, Keppel Land is committed are based at Keppel Land’s corporate office employment practices. It is committed to the Staff Benefits to nurturing a diverse, competent in Singapore, of which 281 or 80% are five guiding principles of fair employment. Besides the mandatory CPF contributions and dedicated talent pool that will executives and 70 or 20% are non-executives. They are: by employer and employees, Keppel Land Keppel Land achieved a strong drive growth and create value for Some 336 or 96% are permanent employees, offers all full-time employees a comprehensive response rate of 98% for the the Company. while 15 or 4% are contract staff. Some 24 or a. Recruit and select employees on the benefits package including paid vacation leave, Keppel Global Employee Engagement 7% of Keppel Land’s Singapore-based staff basis of merit (such as skills, experience maternity and paternity leave entitlements, Pulse Survey 2018. Talent management and succession are from the minority ethnic groups. or ability to perform the job), regardless as well as coverage under the Company’s planning rank highly on Keppel Land’s of age, race, gender, religion, family health insurance plan. Localisation Strategy priority list. The Company continues A total of 2,867 staff are based overseas, status or disability; 63% to bolster its bench strength in its key of which 2,746 or 95% are permanent staff. b. Treat employees fairly and with respect Keppel Land values the knowledge, markets of Singapore, China and Vietnam, Of these, 42.5% are located in China, 21.8% and implement progressive human experience and expertise of exemplary staff as well as other markets such as Indonesia in Vietnam, 8.4% in Indonesia, 1.5% in India resources (HR) management systems; who are beyond the retirement age of 62. through staff promotion, redeployment, and the Philippines, 20.4% in Myanmar and Locals accounted for 63% of all job rotation, job enlargement and selective 5.4% in Malaysia. Of the permanent staff department head positions at its key new hires. overseas, 701 staff are employed under overseas offices of China, Vietnam joint-venture companies. They are attached and Indonesia in 2018. Keppel Land continues to actively engage to the Company’s hotels and resorts in its staff through various initiatives Vietnam and Myanmar. such as post-results communication sessions, sharing over tea sessions Of the employees in Singapore, 50% are Workforce Distribution and enterprise social network, Yammer, female and 50% are male. Overseas, as well as employee perception and 47% of employees are female, while 53% 4,500 engagement surveys. are male. In Singapore, 57% of its workforce 3,600 are between 31 and 50 years of age, Profile of Board of Directors with 24% and 33% in the 31–40 and 2,700 The Company has a total of seven 41–50 age groups respectively. Overseas, directors on its Board, of whom four 71% of its employees are aged 40 years 1,800 are independent non-executive directors. and below. 900 These directors contribute with experience and competency in areas such as industry In terms of educational profile, 91% of 0 knowledge, legal, finance and risk management. its Singapore-based employees have 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 The Board has one female director, tertiary qualifications and above. Of these, Singapore 497 443 402 350 351 Mrs Koh-Lim Wen Gin, who has been an 74% hold a Bachelor’s degree, professional International 3,429 3,652 3,324 3,019 2,867 independent director on the Board since certification or graduate diploma, while 17% 20 January 2010. have a Master’s or post-graduate degree. Total 3,926 4,095 3,726 3,369 3,218 42 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 43 Empowering Lives People Matter The Company retains and extends their engagement are evaluated. Staff performance Professional Profile (%) employment annually on a contract basis, appraisals are conducted on a unified Gender Profile (%) Singapore Singapore taking into account the employee’s health, Human Resources Information System productivity and performance. These adopted by the Keppel Group. employees enjoy the same benefits as Executive 80.1 those working full-time. In 2018, a total of This is part of the Company’s ongoing Male 50.1 three of Keppel Land’s Singapore-based efforts to automate work processes and Non-Executive 19.9 Female 49.9 employees were above the retirement age. drive productivity. Overseas employees Total 100.0 can also access the system via the intranet. Total 100.0 Remuneration In Singapore, the ratio of basic salary of An integral part of the performance male to female in the executive category, appraisal is the employee’s exemplification including members of senior management of the Keppel Group’s core values which and excluding expats who were recruited in are Can Do, integrity, customer focus, Singapore and based overseas, is 1.83, while people-centredness, safety, agility and that for the non-executive category is 0.31. innovation, collective strength as well Professional Profile (%) Gender Profile (%) There are no female entry-level executives as accountability. Overseas Overseas and non-executives in Singapore in 2018. The ratios of the entry-level salary of male to Alignment with these core values female in the executive category in China and is assessed based on observed Executive 44.2 Vietnam are 1.28 and 1.10 respectively. For behaviour during daily interactions Male 52.6 non-executives in China and Vietnam, the with the employee’s supervisor, peers, Non-Executive 55.8 Female 47.4 ratios are 0.85 and 1.01 respectively in 2018. subordinates and other stakeholders Total 100.0 to achieve work goals. Total 100.0 At Keppel Land, basic salary refers to the fixed amount actually paid to an employee Leadership Development (LEAD) Programme for performing his or her duties, excluding The LEAD programme, which comprises variable pay such as payment for overtime LEAD 1 for Emerging Leaders and LEAD 2 work or bonus. Entry-level salary, on the for Operational Leaders, aims to accelerate other hand, refers to the fixed amount paid the development of strong performing to an employee of the most junior grade employees regardless of nationality. Educational Profile (%) Age Profile (%) Singapore of each respective employee category, LEAD 1 seeks to develop high-potential Singapore for performing his or her duties. This executives to become effective managers, Master’s Degree/Post Graduate 16.8 excludes variable pay. while LEAD 2 aims to nurture promising Less than 31 years 13.7 Bachelor’s Degree/Professional managers to become effective functional From 31 years to 40 years 23.9 Certification/Graduate Diploma 73.8 Career Planning and Recognition and operational leaders. Performance Management System From 41 years to 50 years 33.3 Diploma/GCE ‘A’ Levels 7.1 Keppel Land has in place a structured staff A stringent selection process, which From 51 years to 62 years 28.5 GCE ‘O’ Levels/Industrial Certification 1.7 appraisal and performance management includes psychometric testing, has been More than 62 years 0.6 Others 0.6 system which allows all staff to receive instituted to ensure rigour and objectivity regular performance feedback and in identifying staff for the programme. Total 100.0 Total 100.0 career development reviews. The Keppel Competency model allows for greater In 2018, a total of 26 staff were selected consistency across Keppel’s business for the LEAD programme. Participants in units in areas such as succession planning the programme progress through a and talent management, while the Keppel structured learning roadmap. This includes Age Profile (%) Educational Profile (%) Leadership Potential model ensures that a taking on stretch assignments, overseas Overseas Overseas consistent leadership potential assessment postings and job rotations to help them model is applied for all executives across develop core competencies aligned with Less than 31 years 29.3 Master’s Degree/Post Graduate 4.4 Keppel’s business units. the Company’s strategic thrusts. They are From 31 years to 40 years 41.9 Bachelor’s Degree/Professional also guided by trained mentors who coach Certification/Graduate Diploma 41.8 From 41 years to 50 years 22.1 Keppel Land fosters a performance-based and share experiences as well as provide Diploma/GCE ‘A’ Levels 18.7 reward culture. Compensation includes insights and perspectives throughout From 51 years to 62 years 6.6 a base salary that commensurates with the programme. More than 62 years 0.1 GCE ‘O’ Levels/Industrial Certification 11.0 skills and experience, along with an Others 24.1 Total 100.0 incentive bonus programme based on In 2018, six of Keppel Land’s LEAD staff Total 100.0 the Company’s performance via the attended the Emerging Leaders Programme Corporate Scorecard, as well as the individual (ELP). Organised by the Keppel Leadership employee’s performance via the Balanced Institute, the ELP focuses on developing Scorecard or the performance appraisal form. potential leaders across the Keppel Group who exemplify the Keppel core values The Corporate Scorecard is used and operating principles, as well as display to holistically assess Keppel Land’s strong leadership skills. The ELP also focuses corporate performance. Apart from on creating a unique learning experience financial performance, performance which involves learning through action, in areas such as people development, group work, business visits, case studies process management and stakeholder and engaging with senior management. 44 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 45 Empowering Lives People Matter Some of the activities that were carried Vietnam and Indonesia to provide leadership In Singapore, employees at the managerial encourage social learning. The employee out to enhance the development of LEAD training for the local managers. In 2018, level and above clocked 6,287 hours of training, newsletter, KLink, is also one of the key staff include personality report debriefs, locals accounted for 63% of all department while those at the executive level and below communication platforms to keep staff development action plans and leadership head positions at its key overseas offices of achieved 3,163 training hours in 2018. informed on the Company’s latest updates programmes for Keppel Young Leaders. China, Vietnam and Indonesia. To facilitate Overseas, employees at the managerial level through stories as well as interviews with The LEAD 3 development roadmap staff deployment across cities, a uniform and above clocked 11,192 hours, while those management and staff. for senior staff includes a coaching global grading structure has been established at the executive level and below achieved component with a 360° assessment, for employees based overseas. 27,143 training hours. Interactive sessions such as the annual as well as enrolment in structured courses Dinner and Dance, festive celebrations and programmes. In 2018, a total of five The progress of localisation is reviewed Employee Engagement and afternoon teas are also organised Singapore and overseas-based leaders annually by top management. In China, GRI 102-43 I 102-44 throughout the year to allow staff to come went through 360° assessments followed the MAP continues to attract young Staff Engagement Platforms together, both at the Company and the by executive coaching. talents from reputable universities to Employees are regularly updated on the departmental level. join the Company through the Employee Company’s performance and achievements In addition, five participants attended Value Preposition branding exercise. on a quarterly basis at the departmental level. In mid-December 2018, Keppel Land the inaugural Advanced Leaders Keppel Land also reaches out to Vietnamese Annually, the Company’s strategic directions staff moved into its new premises at Programme (ALP) organised by the and Indonesian students in Singapore who are shared at the Annual Staff Conference Keppel Bay Tower. This was part of Keppel Leadership Institute. Over a are keen to work in their home countries (ASC) which is held in May. the Keppel Group’s ‘Under One Roof’ period of six months, the ALP brought upon graduation. initiative to foster greater collaboration together key leaders from across the Various communication platforms are in and synergy among business units. Keppel Group, during which they took Training and Development place to keep staff informed about changes The Company adopted an open and agile part in dialogues with senior management, Keppel Land utilises the Keppel Group’s within the Company, as well as to facilitate workspace concept for its new office design. external company visits, as well as worked leadership potential assessment framework. feedback about these changes. These Key considerations behind the new office on case studies and action learning All of Keppel’s business units use this include sharing sessions on changes in design include bringing staff across teams projects designed around the key theme framework to assess potential leadership the Company’s organisation structure, together for quicker collaboration, as well of change and transformation. and facilitate deployment of talent across which were conducted before and after as caring for staff’s health and well-being. the Keppel Group. its implementation in September 2018. Ergonomic chairs and height adjustable Succession Planning Yammer, an enterprise social network, is tables are provided to ensure that the work In Keppel, staff are assessed biannually The CRCs identify and groom promising also used to disseminate timely information space is conducive for staff. A range of using the Keppel Group Leadership employees for future leadership positions. to staff and serves as an open channel healthy snacks are also provided for staff potential assessment framework. for staff to give their feedback, as well as at the breakout area. In 2018, the first review was completed Helmed by senior management, the CRCs in May and the second review was focus on specific developmental interventions completed in December for staff in for high-potential employees based on the Singapore, China, Vietnam and Indonesia. Company’s shortand long-term business Keppel Land’s senior Inputs from these assessments were needs. Career plans for 42 high-potential management and staff used to refresh the succession plans for staff were reviewed in 2018. There were also engaged in a robust leadership positions. 17 staff rotations to various business units discussion at the 2018 Annual Staff Conference. to familiarise staff with different aspects of These plans were subsequently submitted to the business. the Keppel Group Management Development Committee for endorsement. This ensures At the same time, the New Hires Milestone effective succession planning. Programme was also implemented in 2018 to help new employees assimilate into the Management Associate Programme (MAP) organisation. It includes various workshops The two-year MAP comprises job rotation to familiarise them with the Keppel Group’s opportunities, core training and mentoring businesses, core values, functions of for fresh graduates. Candidates benefit different departments, real estate industry, from the exposure, knowledge and networks as well as the Company’s performance necessary to embark on a fulfilling and management framework. rewarding career with Keppel Land. Recognising the importance of continuous Localisation Strategy training and development, various training In view of Keppel Land’s presence overseas, roadmaps and courses are made available a number of mid-career locals have been to employees. hired to helm key positions, as well as to enhance the capability of the Company’s Staff are encouraged to attend at least three overseas management teams. Keppel Land training programmes annually. In collaboration also participated in university career fairs with the Keppel Group, an online learning and talks to attract fresh graduates to platform was introduced in 2018 to enable join the Company upon graduation. staff to embark on self-directed learning The selected candidates were rotated to journey. The HR department also works different departments for on-the-job training. closely with unit heads to recommend relevant courses for staff. Efforts are also To better manage and monitor the career made to identify training programmes for development of its local talents in its key non-executive staff, including both soft and overseas markets, local Career Review functional skills. In addition, course materials Committees (CRCs) have been set up in China, are made available on the intranet. 46 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 47 Empowering Lives People Matter Employee Engagement Survey (EES) Overseas staff also attended customised c. Enhanced Paternity Leave for working To cater to employees’ different interests, Keppel Land conducted the Keppel Global training sessions for programmes that are fathers to receive one additional week, the Welfare Committee also organised Employee Engagement Pulse Survey not readily available in their home countries. on top of the existing one week of educational workshops such as health in 2018. The survey achieved a strong In 2018, a teambuilding segment was government-paid paternity leave; and wealth management talks, as well response rate of 98% from a total of incorporated as part of the event itinerary d. Each parent is entitled to six days of paid as events such as an excursion to a durian 2,244 respondents. Keppel Land achieved to strengthen bonding and teamwork among childcare leave for children aged below farm in Malaysia and a movie screening. a high engagement score, with 92% employees from different business units. seven years and extended paid childcare Keppel Land’s employees also participated of employees surveyed indicating The ASC was well-received by staff and leave of two days for children aged actively in Keppel Games, which is a that they would ‘go beyond the norm’ culminated in the Company’s annual Dinner between seven and 12 years; and series of sports competitions organised to contribute to Keppel’s success. and Dance. e. Provision of four weeks of government by the Keppelite Recreation Club. The survey responses were used to paid adoption leave for adopted infants Employees across the Keppel Group formulate intervention programmes Workforce Welfare aged below 12 months. compete in a range of sports including to build a more engaged workforce. Keppel Land continues to implement initiatives badminton, dragon boating, golf, track and that promote family cohesiveness and In line with the government’s pro-family field, table-tennis, swimming and bowling. Annual Staff Conference (ASC) workforce welfare. The Singapore government legislations and the Child Development The ASC 2018 held in May was attended encourages and supports Singaporeans to Co-Savings Act, employees who have Labour Relations by about 500 Singapore-based staff work towards fulfilling their marriage and been with the Company for more than GRI 102-41 across all job levels and key executives parenthood aspirations. In 2015, the three months are eligible for parental and Keppel Land places great emphasis on from Keppel Land’s overseas operations. government introduced the Jubilee Marriage childcare leave benefits. maintaining a harmonious and collaborative and Parenthood Package in support of a relationship with unions. Non-executive The ASC facilitates strategic collaboration pro-family environment in Singapore. Female employees with Singapore employees at Keppel Land’s Singapore and exchange of best practices and ideas, citizen births are entitled to 16 weeks of headquarters are covered under the as well as provides cross-learning These include: government-paid maternity leave. In 2018, collective agreement signed between opportunities among staff. It also serves a. Enhanced Maternity Protection for Keppel Land was granted a total amount the Singapore Industrial and Services as a key platform for Management to Pregnant Employees; of $14,347 for eligible female employees. Employees’ Union (SISEU) and the Company. share Keppel Land’s strategic directions b. Shared Parental Leave allowing fathers Male employees with Singapore citizen births To-date, a total of 12 employees are and provide updates on the various to utilise up to one week of the mothers’ are entitled to two weeks of government-paid members of the SISEU. business units. maternity leave; paternity leave. Keppel Land grants one day of paternity leave to its male employees with In 2018, Keppel Land engaged SISEU non-Singapore citizen births. through dialogues and other communication modes. Under the collective agreement In addition, employees with children who signed with the SISEU, the notice period for Keppel Land’s new are Singapore citizens and aged below consultation and negotiation between the office adopts an open and agile workspace seven years are entitled to six days of Company and the Union shall be no later concept which fosters paid childcare leave per year, borne jointly than six months prior to the expiry of the greater collaboration by the Company and the government. agreement. As specified in the collective among employees. In 2018, Keppel Land was granted a total agreement, reasonable notice periods of $24,395 for 30 eligible employees under are given to affected staff in the event of the government-paid childcare leave scheme. significant operational changes. The Union Employees with children who are Singapore will be advised before changes in the general citizens aged between seven and 12 are conditions of employment, such as rates entitled to two days of extended childcare of pay, hours of work and other general leave annually. In 2018, Keppel Land was terms and conditions of employment, granted a total amount of $14,342 for are put into effect. 28 eligible employees under the extended childcare leave scheme. In addition, the agreement also covers medical benefits including annual Workplace Health Promotion coverage limit, extension of coverage In 2018, Keppel Land continued to collaborate to dependents, as well as Group Term with the Health Promotion Board to run a Life and Group Critical Illness insurances series of health and fitness programmes for for corporate office employees. staff. These include Zumba, Loopz Tabata, The agreement reinforces the Company’s Running Clinic and Fitness Bootcamp sessions commitment to fair remuneration which were carried out throughout the year and employee retention. There were at the open terrace space at the fourth floor no grievances reported by employees of Bugis Junction Towers. in 2018. 48 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 49 Nurturing Communities Community and Society The event was graced by Ms Indranee Rajah, attended by about 1,000 people. During the Empowering through Education Minister, Prime Minister’s Office, Second event, the audience were encouraged to pledge Keppel Land firmly believes that knowledge Minister for Finance and Second Minister to take steps to do their part to combat climate is fundamental in equipping communities for Education, and Grassroots Adviser to change. The award-winning documentary with skills for a sustainable livelihood. Keppel Land creates positive Tanjong Pagar Grassroots Organisations. Present at the opening ceremony were highlights the causes and consequences of plastic pollution to the oceans. In line with this, the Company collaborates with strategic partners on various reading economic and social impact Keppel Land senior management and initiatives and programmes in Singapore staff volunteers, grassroots leaders and Raising Environmental Awareness Overseas in the communities wherever community groups. In Vietnam, Keppel Land rolled out its and overseas. it operates. ‘Plastic Straw Free’ challenge at Saigon My Library Screening of Environmental-Themed Films Centre retail mall in June 2018. The Sutera Mall, the retail component of To commemorate Earth Day and World initiative was in line with the theme for Taman Sutera, Keppel Land’s integrated Environment Day in April and June respectively, World Environment Day 2018, ‘Beat Plastic township in Johor Bahru, Malaysia, has housed Keppel Land collaborated with Keppel REIT Pollution’, and was supported by the World My Library since 2013. It is Johor Bahru’s and international environment organisation, Wide Fund for Nature. During the five-day first full-fledged community library and Conservation International, to screen a series campaign, Keppel Land rallied shoppers is a collaboration between Singapore’s of short environmental films titled ‘Nature and food and beverage tenants at the mall National Library Board and Tanah Sutera is Speaking’ in the lifts at Ocean Financial to support the campaign through reducing Development. It spans 35,000 sf with a Centre, Marina Bay Financial Centre and the usage of plastic straws and switching wide collection of books and audio-visual One Raffles Quay in Singapore, as well to biodegradable or reusable alternatives materials. My Library has an average of as International Financial Centre Jakarta, such as bamboo or paper straws. 34,000 visitors monthly and a total of Indonesia, and Saigon Centre in 10,000 registered members as at end-2018. Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC), Vietnam. In November 2018, Keppel Land Vietnam also organised a beach clean-up as part Words on Wheels Keppel Land, together with Keppel REIT and of the company’s teambuilding exercise. Following the success of its Words on Wheels supported by the Singapore Green Building Over 200 staff collected approximately (WoW) mobile library project in Hanoi, Vietnam, Council (SGBC), also organised the public 225 kilograms of trash and plastics on Keppel Land partnered the Singapore screening of ‘A Plastic Ocean’ at the Singapore Bai Dai Beach in Nha Trang, a coastal resort International Foundation (SIF) to extend Botanic Gardens in April 2018, which was city on the South Central Coast of Vietnam. the project to HCMC in May 2014. As a responsible corporate citizen, The supported programmes should reach Volunteerism Keppel Land continues to engage and out to the local communities in countries 5,600 hours contribute to communities wherever where Keppel Land operates, provide it operates. The Company adopts a opportunities to involve and leverage the multi-faceted approach towards corporate skillsets of its employees, as well as ensure social responsibility (CSR) and aligns its that activities undertaken have positive impact In 2018, staff clocked about 5,600 hours community outreach efforts with its focus on the local communities in the long term. for community outreach activities in areas of environment and education. At the Singapore and overseas. same time, it also continues to support Currently, Keppel Land supports and various community programmes in areas implements local community engagement Words on Wheels including the arts and healthcare, as well as programmes in most of its countries 7,000 other charitable causes. of operations. To inculcate and nurture a spirit of Caring for the Environment students volunteerism among its employees as well as cultivate an engaged workforce, employees are given two days of Keppel Land supported Ricoh Asia Pacific for its Eco Action Day 2018 campaign. Keppel Land and Keppel REIT have been Over 7,000 students in Districts 2 and 8 volunteer leave annually to participate supporting the campaign as Strategic of Ho Chi Minh City are expected in community-related activities. Partner and Official Building Supporter to benefit from Phase Two of the This encourages staff to be socially respectively for the past four years. As part Keppel Land-sponsored Words on responsible and embrace Keppel’s of the campaign, Keppel Land rallied Wheels (Ho Chi Minh) programme. core values of Can Do, people-centredness tenants of Keppel’s commercial buildings, and collective strength, while making a namely Keppel Towers, Keppel Bay Tower, positive impact on the lives of beneficiaries. Ocean Financial Centre, Marina Bay Financial Centre, One Raffles Quay and Bugis Junction In 2018, Keppel Land committed a Towers, to make environmental pledges in total of about 5,600 hours to various support of Singapore’s Year of Climate Action. community outreach activities in As part of the campaign, Keppel Land and Singapore and overseas. Keppel REIT also supported activities such as a tree planting event. The Company assesses strategic partnerships and support of outreach To mark the opening of Kim Pong Park, a programmes based on a detailed set tree planting and plaque unveiling ceremony of criteria. These include alignment with was held in November 2018. Located next the Company’s CSR focus, continuity to Keppel Land’s condominium development and scalability of the initiative, extent in Tiong Bahru, Highline Residences, the of stakeholder engagement, as well as park was developed by Keppel Land in Ms Indranee Rajah (centre), Minister, Prime Minister’s Office, Second Minister for Finance and Second Minister for Education, together with Keppel Land senior management and staff the track record of the organisation. consultation with the National Parks Board. volunteers, took part in a tree planting ceremony as part of the official opening of Kim Pong Park, developed by Keppel Land. 50 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 51 Nurturing Communities Community and Society Keppel Land collaborates To commemorate a decade of its assisted the local medical team with In Myanmar, staff from Sedona Hotel with strategic partners such as the North West ongoing volunteer efforts, Keppel Land, health screenings, as well as engaged Yangon visited the Home for the Elderly at Community Development in partnership with Eco-Business, the villagers in art and crafts. See Sar Yeik Villa in Yangon. During the visit, Council to spread cheer to the less-privileged through produced a compelling short documentary food items and cash donations contributed meaningful activities. titled ‘A Gift of Sight’. In March 2018, Community Engagement by staff were distributed. Keppel Land invited the volunteer doctors In October 2018, as part of the Keppel featured in the documentary to share Welfare Budding Dancers programme, A fundraising charity event was also held their experiences with Keppel Group staff Keppel volunteers from Keppel Land during the year with close to US$200,000 over two sessions. and Keppel Capital in Shanghai, raised in support of the Daw Khin Kyi in collaboration with J Dance School Foundation. Since its establishment in 2012, In September 2018, a volunteer trip to Shanghai, organised weekly dance classes the Daw Khin Kyi Foundation has championed Kunming was organised. Staff volunteers for hearing impaired children from the a number of community projects in support from across the Keppel Group took part Shanghai Hearing Impaired Children of villagers in Myanmar’s rural areas. Sedona in the volunteer trip, which saw about Rehabilitation Centre. To raise funds for Hotel Yangon has also provided on-the-job RMB 38,600 (about S$7,700) raised for this programme, volunteers held a charity training for about 150 youths from the the less-privileged in Kunming. The funds sale at the Trinity Tower in Shanghai Foundation’s Hospitality and Catering went towards cataract operations for in January 2019, during which over Training Academy. villagers, purchasing of reading materials RMB 10,000 was raised. and furniture for a reading room in a local In the Philippines, in collaboration with the primary school, as well as purchasing of In Vietnam, the ‘Grant-a-Wish’ initiative in Singapore Philippine Association, Keppel Land basic necessities for the elderly in several December 2018 saw Keppelites and Saigon staff organised a Christmas celebration for local eldercare institutions. Centre’s office tenants fulfil the wishes of beneficiaries of Caritas Manila, a non-profit 120 schoolchildren from Mai Tam House organisation that serves as the lead social During the trip, staff volunteers also helped of Hope and Nguyen Dinh Chieu School service and development ministry of the to spruce up the homes of the elderly, for the Blind. Catholic Church in the Philippines. WoW (Ho Chi Minh) is an initiative led by the The Company has sponsored scholarship North West district. Led by Mr Ong Ye Kung, Keppel Land is the sponsor SIF in partnership with the General Sciences programmes as well as the refurbishment Singapore’s Minister for Education and of Phase Two of the Words on Library and is sponsored by Keppel Land. of the school’s facilities. Member of Parliament for Sembawang GRC Wheels (Ho Chi Minh) programme, Phase One of WoW (Ho Chi Minh), which (Gambas), and Mr Loh Chin Hua, CEO of which is expected to positively impact over 7,000 Vietnamese spanned 2014 to 2017, reached out to more Sharing Best Practices Keppel Corporation and Chairman of Keppel Land, students in Districts 2 and 8 than 3,000 primary and secondary school In August 2018, Keppel Land shared best staff volunteers packed and delivered festive of Ho Chi Minh City. Pictured are directors of Keppel Land children in the suburban Binh Chanh District. practices in sustainability at a seminar for a packs, which included vouchers sponsored and senior management of the group of graduate students who were taking by Keppel Land, to the beneficiaries. Keppel Group during a visit to An Phu Secondary School in Phase Two of WoW (Ho Chi Minh) was their Masters in Environmental Management August 2018. launched in March 2018. Over its three-year at the National University of Singapore. In addition, in December 2018, as part of span, the programme is expected to touch The presentation covered how Keppel Land Keppel Land’s partnership with the CDC the lives of over 7,000 students in Districts 2 integrates sustainability into the Company’s for its Care & Repair Programme at Gambas, and 8 of HCMC, including Keppel Land operations, and how it is working towards Keppel Land volunteers hosted 90 residents Vietnam’s adopted Anh Phu Secondary aligning its business strategy, practices and to the musical ‘A Singapore Carol’ produced School. Keppel Land volunteers were operations with its six adopted Sustainable by Wild Rice. involved in the development of sustainabilityDevelopment Goals. themed English lessons on green living and In May 2018, volunteers from Keppel Land financial literacy as part of the programme. Keppel Land sponsored the SGBC’s delivered 50 punnets of lettuce from the Leadership Conversations 2018 Forum, Company’s indoor office farm to the Since the launch of Phase Two, eight volunteer which was also held in August. The forum Alzheimer’s Disease Association (ADA). trips involving over 80 employees across was attended by members from across The lettuce was subsequently used in the Keppel Group have been held to date. the green building sector. During the event, ADAcafé at the Agape Village, which is run Through these trips, about 2,500 students Singapore’s Minister for the Environment by ADA to provide people in the early stages from seven primary and secondary schools and Water Resources, Mr Masagos Zulkifli, of dementia with meaningful employment. have benefitted from the programme. engaged CEO of Keppel Land and then-CEO In addition, the programme also saw the of Keppel REIT, Mr Tan Swee Yiow, Reaching Out to Overseas Communities refurbishment of an information technology in a discussion on the topic of ‘Practising Beyond philanthropic efforts, Keppel Land laboratory in one of the schools. Sustainability for Climate Action’. seeks to empower lives for sustainable change and improvement, creating positive In August 2018, directors and senior Supporting Community Causes and meaningful impact in communities management members of Keppel Group Keppel Land continues to work closely with overseas where it operates. visited An Phu Secondary School. During the North West Community Development the visit, 12 scholarships amounting to a Council (CDC) to enrich the lives of residents A Gift of Sight total of about VND 56 million were presented living in rental flats in the North West district Volunteers from Keppel Land China have to students who had excelled academically. of Singapore. collaborated with non-government organisation, The group also engaged the students during Bless China International, to provide critical lessons that were carried out as part of the In January 2018, the Company partnered medical aid such as cataract and limb deformity WoW (Ho Chi Minh) programme. the CDC in its WeCare @ North West – surgeries to underprivileged villagers in Service Weeks (Gambas) campaign for Kunming, Yunnan Province, China, since 2006. Keppel Land Vietnam has been supporting the second consecutive year to reach Over 100 villagers have had their eyesight An Phu Secondary School since 2015. out to less-privileged families living in the restored through this project. 52 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 53 Other Information Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Standard Number Title Disclosure Reference Omissions Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102: 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 9 General 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 49 Disclosures 2016 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 9 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 23, 40, 47 For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 23, 40, 47 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. Reporting Practice GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2 Standard Number Title Disclosure Reference Omissions 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 2, 11 GRI 101: Foundation 2016 102-47 List of the material topics 11 102-48 Restatements of information 2 Organizational Profile 102-49 Changes in reporting 2, 11 GRI 102: 102-1 Name of the organization 3 General 102-50 Reporting period 2 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 3 Disclosures 102-51 Date of most recent previous report 2 102-3 Location of headquarters 3 2016 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 102-4 Location of operations 43 102-5 Ownership and legal form 3 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 102-6 Markets served 43 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 2 102-7 Scale of the organization 3 102-55 GRI Content Index 54-58 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 43-45 102-56 External assurance This report is not 102-9 Supply Chain 15, 18, 20 externally assured. 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply 15, 18, 20 Management Approach chain This Management Approach applies to the following material 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 33-34 topics: Economic Performance, Market Presence, Materials, Energy, Water, Emissions, Effluents and Waste, Environmental 102-12 External initiatives 10, 28 Compliance, Employment, Labor/ Management Relations, 102-13 Memberships of associations 28 Occupational Health and Safety, Training and Education, Non-discrimination, Child Labor, Local Communities, Customer Strategy Health and Safety, as well as Socioeconomic Compliance. 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-6 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 11 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 16-17 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 10-11, 12, 16, 18, Ethics and Integrity Approach 37, 42, 50 2016 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 15 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 7, 22-23, 36, 41, 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 15 46-48, 51-53 Governance Economic Standards 102-18 Governance structure 13-14 Economic Performance 102-19 Delegating authority 10 GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 7 Economic 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 24, 33 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental 10 Performance opportunities due to climate change and social topics 2016 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental 22, 48 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other 43-44 and social topics retirement plans 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and 13 201-4 Significant financial assistance received 49 its committees from government 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 13 Market Presence 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 12-13 GRI 202: 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared – Information is confidential. 102-25 Conflicts of interest 15 Market to local minimum wage 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, 12-15 Presence 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the 46 values and strategy 2016 local community 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 13 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance 12-13 Legend Fully reported Partially reported 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental 16-17 and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 16-17 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics 16-17 102-32 Highest governance body's role in sustainability reporting 10 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 22, 48 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 22, 48 102-35 Remuneration policies 13 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 13 102-37 Stakeholders' involvement in remuneration 13 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio – – Information is confidential. 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio – – Information is confidential. Legend Fully reported Partially reported 54 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 55 Other Information Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Standard Number Title Disclosure Reference Omissions Standard Number Title Disclosure Reference Omissions Environmental Standards Effluents and Waste Materials GRI 306: 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 30 GRI 301: 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 32 Effluents Partial disclosure Materials and Waste as wastewater is 301-2 Recycled input materials used 32 2016 2016 discharged into the 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packing materials – Disclosure is not public sewerage applicable as input system or sewage building materials treatment plant. including packaging are 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 30 purchased directly by Partial disclosure the main contractors. as wastewater is Energy discharged into the public sewerage GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 29 system or sewage Energy 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 29 treatment plant. 2016 302-3 Energy Intensity 29 306-3 Significant spills – – Disclosure is 302-4 Reduction of Energy Consumption 29 not applicable as Keppel Land does not 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products 29 have significant spills. and services 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste – – Disclosure is not applicable CRE1 Building energy intensity 29 as waste on-site is Water managed by the main contractors and the GRI 303: 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 30 Company does not Water 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal 30 transport, import, export 2016 of water or treat hazardous waste. 303-3 Water recycled and reused – Amount of water recycled 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and runoff – – Disclosure is not mainly for irrigation use applicable as waste water is insignificant. is discharged into the public sewerage system CRE2 Building water intensity 30 or sewage treatment plant. Emissions Environmental Compliance GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 31 Emissions GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 21 305-2 Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 31 Environmental 2016 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 31 Compliance 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 31 2016 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 31 Social Standards 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) – Disclosure is not Employment applicable as the GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 43 Company does not Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 43-44 have ozone-depleting 2016 provided to temporary or part-time employees substances. 401-3 Parental leave 49 305-7 NO, SO, and other significant emissions – Disclosure is not applicable as the Labor/Management Relations Company is not GRI 402: 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 49 regulated by national Labor/ Partial disclosure as laws, regulations or Management duration of minimum environmental permits Relations notice period to report significant 2016 is confidential. air emissions for its operations. Occupational Health and Safety CRE3 Greenhouse gas intensity from buildings 31 GRI 403: 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management38 CRE4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from new 31 Occupational worker health and safety committees construction and redevelopment activity Health and 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 41 Safety 2016 lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related Legend Fully reported Partially reported fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related 40 to their occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements 49 with trade unions CRE6 Percentage of the organization operating in verified 39 compliance with an internationally recognized health and safety management system Legend Fully reported Partially reported 56 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 57 Other Information Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index International Network GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Standard Number Title Disclosure Reference Omissions Singapore China Keppel Land Limited Beijing Shanghai Training and Education 1 HarbourFront Avenue GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 46 Level 2 Keppel Bay Tower Beijing Honghui Management Co. Ltd. Keppel Land China Limited Training and 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 27, 40, 46 Singapore 098632 Education Unit 706 (Head Office) assistance programs Tel: (65) 6338 8111 2016 China World Office 2 39th Floor Wheelock Square 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 44-45 No. 1 Jian Guo Men Wai Avenue 1717 Nanjing West Road and career development reviews Chaoyang District Shanghai, China 200040 Beijing, China 100004 Tel: (86) 21 6171 2121 Non-discrimination Tel: (86) 10 6505 0866 GRI 406: 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 43 Keppel Land (Shanghai) NonManagement Co., Ltd discrimination Chengdu Room 2001 Park Place 2016 1601 Nanjing West Road Child Labor Chengdu Hillstreet Development Co., Ltd. Shanghai, China 200040 Unit 903 New Hope Tower Tel: (86) 21 6288 3066 GRI 408: 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents 38 45 Ren Min Nan Lu Section 4 Child Labor of child labor Chengdu, Sichuan Province 2016 Tianjin China 610041 Local Communities Tel: (86) 28 8702 6688 Keppel Hong Da (Tianjin Eco-City) GRI 413: 413-1 Operations with implemented local community 50 Property Development Co., Ltd Local engagement, impact assessments, and development Jiangyin Communities programs No. 2018 Zhong Tian Da Dao RBO Block 13, 2016 Level 1 Unit 101, 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative 50-53 Jiangyin Evergro Property Co Ltd Eco-Business Park, impacts on local communities Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City, #7 Clubhouse, Stamford City CRE7 Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily displaced – Disclosure is not Wenhua Lu Tianjin 300467, China and/or resettled by development, broken down by project applicable as impacts on (Opposite Jiangyin Tianhua Cultural Centre) Tel: (86) 22 6633 1088 local communities in the Jiangyin, Jiangsu Province countries that Keppel Land China 214400 operates in are guided by Tel: (86) 510 8683 9999 Wuxi the respective authorities’ land planning regulations. Keppel Lakefront (Wuxi) Customer Health and Safety Kunming Property Development Co., Ltd Keppel Waterfront Residence Sales Gallery GRI 416: 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product 39 Spring City Golf & Lake Resort Northeast of West Gaolang Road & Jinshi Road Customer and service categories Health Tangchi, Yiliang, Binhu District, Wuxi 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and 21 Kunming, Yunnan Province Jiangsu Province, China 214121 and Safety safety impacts of products and services 2016 China 652103 Tel: (86) 510 8562 3083 Tel: (86) 871 6767 1188 Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social 21 Socioeconomic and economic area Compliance 2016 Legend Fully reported Partially reported 58 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2018 59 Other Information International Network Vietnam Indonesia Myanmar Hanoi Bintan Yangon Keppel Land Vietnam Company Ltd PT Ria Bintan Sedona Hotel Yangon (Hanoi Branch Office) Jl. Perigi Raja No. 1 Kaba Aye Pagoda Road Unit 05B, 2nd Floor, International Centre Lagoi Bintan Resorts Bintan Utara, Yankin Township 17 Ngo Quyen Street, Trang Tien Ward, Kepulauan Riau 21955 Indonesia Yangon, Myanmar Hoan Kiem District Tel: (65) 6546 7555/ Tel: (95) 1 860 5377 Hanoi, Vietnam (62) 770 692 842 Tel: (84-24) 3936 7745 Jakarta The Philippines Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) PT Keppel Land Keppel Land Vietnam Company Ltd PT Kepland Investama Ortigas, Manila (Head Office) PT Harapan Global Niaga Unit 3, 26th Floor, Saigon Centre Tower 2 PT Sukses Manis Tangguh Keppel Philippines Properties, Inc. 67 Le Loi Boulevard, Ben Nghe Ward, District 1 PT Sukses Manis Indonesia 18F Unit 1802B-1803 HCMC, Vietnam PT Sukses Manis Abadi The Podium West Tower Tel: (84-28) 3821 8000 PT Puri Land Development 12 ADB Avenue Keppel-Metland Joint Operation Ortigas Center Keppel Land Watco Co. Ltd International Financial Centre Mandaluyong City 1550 Level 3M Saigon Centre Tower 1 Tower 2, 20th Floor Tel: (63) 2 584 6170/71 65 Le Loi Boulevard, Ben Nghe Ward, District 1 Jln. Jend. Sudirman Kav. 22-23 HCMC, Vietnam Jakarta 12920, Indonesia Tel: (84-28) 3823 2500 Tel: (6221) 571 2238 India Sedona Suites Ho Chi Minh City Level 27 Saigon Centre Tower 2 67 Le Loi Boulevard, Ben Nghe Ward, District 1 Bangalore HCMC, Vietnam Tel: (84-28) 3822 9888 Keppel Puravankara Development Pvt Ltd #21/30, Prestige Craig House 3rd Floor, Craig Park Layout M.G. Road, Bengaluru 560 001, India Tel: (91) 08 4150 5000 Malaysia Johor Bahru Tanah Sutera Development Sdn Bhd No. 2 Jalan Sutera Merah 2 Taman Sutera 81200 Johor Bahru, Malaysia Tel: (60) 7 289 9009 60 Keppel Land Limited (Incorporated in the Republic of Singapore) 1 Harbourfront Avenue Level 2 Keppel Bay Tower Singapore 098632 Tel: (65) 6338 8111 Fax: (65) 6337 7168 www.keppelland.com Co Reg No: 189000001G
