Sustainability Report 2018 Näsby Castle Residential Development, Sweden Founded in 1998. Offices in Stockholm, Helsinki, Oslo and Copenhagen. 62 employees (~63% real estate professionals). €3.1 billion assets under management. Creates value through active asset management including NOI increasing activities, tenant improvements, technical upgrades, redevelopments and developments. Currently managing five close-ended private equity real estate funds. Niam Nordic V (2011) Niam Nordic VI (2015) Niam Nordic Core-Plus (2012) Niam Nordic Core-Plus II (2016) We have raised €1,019 million for Niam Nordic VII so far, which is the largest Opportunistic real estate fund raised in the Nordics. Table of contents A good track record is our ticket for the future ................................................................................................................... 4 NIAM is experience and local presence ............................................................................................................................... 5 NIAM is making progress ........................................................................................................................................................ 6 Sustainability at NIAM ........................................................................................................................................................... 9 The key to NIAM’s success is its people ............................................................................................................................. 10 NIAM is transparency and responsibility ......................................................................................................................... 12 NIAM is getting better and greener ..................................................................................................................................... 14 Case – Keilaniemi ................................................................................................................................................................... 15 NIAM is measuring performance ........................................................................................................................................ 16 Case – Kaari Shopping Center ..............................................................................................................................................17 From global principles to local stakeholder expectations ............................................................................................... 18 A good track record is our ticket for the future The purpose of our business is to generate returns for many years, which includes aspects related to the for our clients, as we develop and increase the value quality of the indoor environments. New certification of each fund’s properties. Over the years we can schemes are coming with increased focus on health clearly see that there is a link between our environand wellbeing of tenants. mental management and our net operating income. Ensuring that our properties have good environmenOur sustainability strategy is all about combining tal performance increases the attractiveness of our value growth with sustainability performance. properties for our tenants and property investors, The principles of the UN Global Compact is the founthus enabling us to attract suitable, reliable tenants as dation of our work. In the following pages you can well as future buyers of our properties. follow our sustainability progress over the last year. We look back at another year of very good results. Fredrik Jonsson, CEO The passion our employees put into their work and into our properties is what we have to thank for that. Our history of success has enabled us to again raise capital for a new fund and we can now continue to develop more properties and improve their performance. Looking forward we see that the risks associated with a changing global climate will require us to focus further on renewable energy sources and on energy and resource efficiency, all along the value chains of the built world. The actual expected changes in our climate can also pose new challenges to which we need to adapt. There are also other aspects of sustainability getting increased attention. A trend that we can see clearly, is the increased focus on wellness in today’s workplaces. We have worked with building certifications 4 Stockholm Residential Development, Sweden NIAM is experience and local presence Niam AB, founded in 1998, is a leading private equity real estate firm in Northern Europe with real estate assets under management of approximately €3.1 billion as of December 31, 2018. Our head office is located in Stockholm, Sweden, employees’ competence and passion for real-estate with local offices in the Nordic capital cities of that is behind our success. Helsinki, Oslo and Copenhagen. Niam employs 62 people and has one of the largest real estate teams We are also one of the largest private owners of real specifically focused on the Nordic Region with 38 estate in the Nordic region. We follow an active asset acquisition and asset management professionals. management strategy, including project development, which involves regular interaction with property A key competitive advantage for Niam is its local managers, tenants, city planners, politicians and presence and hands-on real estate competence. local authorities to understand their interests and The top 20 real estate professionals average over perspectives. 25 years of direct real estate experience. It is our 5 NIAM is making progress 2010 Niam became a member of Sweden Green Building Council 2003 Niam became a member of INREV 2009 Niam’s internal Management System for quality and environmental assurance was certified in accordance with ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004 2011 Niam launched Niam Green, outlining internal sustainability guidelines 6 2012 Niam began reporting to GRESB LEED Gold® certification awarded to Niam-owned property Stockholm Waterfront Building, a 25,000 sqm office building in central Stockholm Niam completed its first sustainability report in accordance with GRI G3 2017 Niam completed its first sustainability BASTA criteria became required report as a Communication on Progress for larger developments, avoiding to the UN Global compact hazardous materials 2018 Niam is measuring the electricity/ heating consumption in 85% of its properties (residentials excluded) 2014 23 out of 49 properties were certified according to BREEAM, LEED or In January 2014, the Miljöbyggnad by February 2019 property Kremmertorget, a 13,700 sqm shopping center in Norway, became the first BREEAM classified shopping center in Norway 7 Mikkelborg Park, Denmark 8 Sustainability at NIAM Niam always proactively aims to optimize operational assurance to the tenants that the property will meet efficiency and sustainability in all of our properties. their future needs which will enable us to maintain Our goal is to manage and respond to the growing or improve financial performance. For example, a range of environmental and social issues that can major maintenance program may require an uplift affect property values. One way of doing this is by of technical standards and installations. Once a promanaging Niam’s environmental impact to further gram is executed, many certification targets are likely enhance its financial performance. We systematically to be fulfilled. One way to provide this assurance is identify and manage environmental performance then through environmental certifications. and risks in the properties we buy to ensure that we have resilience in times of changes in regulation, Our criteria to certify a property is met if the comas well as physical and societal changes. To integrate pleted inventory shows that with reasonable investthe environmental performance of a property, techment requirements, the relevant certification would nical and environmental due diligence are mandatory result in a favorable financial position in negotiations parts of the acquisition process and by that we can with tenants, future buyers, NOI improvement, etc. help protect long-term returns. When developing our properties, Niam often complies with the BREEAM certification criteria since By driving improvements in environmental perwe usually acquire existing buildings. However, formance of the assets we acquire, Niam reduces we are familiar with all certification systems on operating costs, carbon emissions and the use of the market. Niam is well-aware of the benefits of natural resources, which helps to attract and retain incorporating sustainable investments and initiatives tenants, as well as ensuring that we appropriately into its properties since it provides cost savings, manage environmental risks. Our goal is to create value to its customers and capital partners as well value by offering workplaces that foster innovation as benefits to the wider society. A way of creating and productivity while reducing costs. To be able to premises that are more attractive is for us to focus offer our tenants attractive premises, we work with more on digital solutions. As one example, we comthem to understand their current and future needs. municate with our tenants about public transport This includes an evaluation of the qualities of the departures or waste management. For example building, the indoor work environment, floor plans through digital display boards. and capacity. We sometimes acquire buildings that may be considered old or obsolete, with the intention to convert and improve them. It is then important to provide 9 The key to NIAM’s success is its people Niam recognizes that we operate in a competitive and ever changing marketplace where employees should have the courage to be entrepreneurial and where they learn from their mistakes. Our employees are encouraged to use their expertise and experience to take action and responsibility. We are focused on attracting and developing the best employee satisfaction over the years and low people to move the organization forward because, employee turnover. In 2018, eight new people joined simply put, the key to success is people. Once part the Niam team and the employee turnover was 5%. of the team, management uses a holistic approach to developing its people by using coaching and feedback Employee satisfaction survey results to guide and support employees. All employees have 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 permanent employment with us and when required, 4.6 4.8 4.6 4.5 4.5 Niam engages specialists on a consultancy basis. PLAYING IT FAIR Employee satisfaction is measured through an A cornerstone of our Code of Conduct is Fair annual survey which engages all employees in the Employment Practice, in which rules for employment, process of evaluating the work environment and employee conduct and remuneration is outlined. identifying areas for improvement. The survey is When hiring new people, management bases employconducted in cooperation with the Great Place to ment decisions on job qualifications and merit. Work Institute and it covers areas such as credibility, They make all employment-related decisions and respect, fairness, pride, camaraderie and values. actions without regard to a person’s race, gender, The response rate to the employee satisfaction sexual orientation, age, disability or other charactersurvey, which was 93% in the 2018 survey, has been istics protected by law. Niam has had no incidences consistently high over the years, which is a clear of reported discrimination or sexual harassment. indication of high employee engagement as well as satisfaction. EMPLOYEES STAY, AND THEY STAY ENGAGED Satisfied employees are a prerequisite for satisfied INDIVIDUAL EFFORTS – SHARED SUCCESS clients and investors. It is Niam’s employees who Niam has fully embraced a plan-do-check-act interact with the real estate community to deliver the approach across all strategic aspects of the business performance expected from a full service institutional including company goals, fund specific objectives, fund manager. Niam maintains strong, consistent property performance and, most importantly, 10 employee development. We utilize a Performance In our development projects we only work with counManagement system to strengthen our entrepreterparties that are well established and certified, all neurial culture and clearly communicate company on turnkey contracts. In all contractual agreements goals as well as individual development expectations. we eliminate the use of undeclared labor by requiring All employees review their annual goals and develID06, a project initiated by the Swedish Tax Board opment objectives three times per year with their which requires everyone at a construction site to manager where individual targets and training needs carry ID cards to ensure that only a legal workforce are established. is present. In all development project contractual agreements, Niam also require our counterparties The corporate objectives and individual developto produce an occupational health and safety plan, ment goals are strongly aligned and linked which complies with the Swedish occupational to employee compensation incentives and are health and safety regulations. The work environmenreviewed regularly. tal plan must be approved by Niam. Since 2013, Niam receives incident statistics reports from turnkey conEQUAL OPPORTUNITIES tractors and property managers on a regularly basis. In the Nordics, the real estate sector and private equity sector have a history of an uneven gender As part of Niam’s ISO certification, annual partner composition. This has started to change and we audits of our turnkey contractors and property are happy to see an increase of women in these two managers are performed to make sure that they sectors, at all levels. At Niam we also see a change work according to the ISO standards, which is also in our workforce where we are now almost reaching regulated in the agreements that includes a commita 50/50 split. However, since the turnover was 0%, ment to Niam’s Code of Conduct. we still have 80% men and 20% women in our management team. SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT In our role as real estate fund manager, we are also social developers and we take that responsibility Gender distribution in full earnestness, in all ways we can. In addition to our daily work, Niam supports BRIS (Children’s Right in Society) and ECPAT, both with the goal 64% 62% 54% 57% 57% 56% of protecting and strengthening the rights of chilMen dren. Niam also supports Stockholms Stadsmission Women (Stockholm’s City Mission), a non-profit association caring for people caught in homelessness and 36% 38% 46% 43% 43% 44% addiction. The organizations we support are chosen annually by voting in a management team meeting 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 which has resulted in a reoccurring devotion to the organizations for people, mainly children, in need. CARING ABOUT PEOPLE Niam endeavors to provide a secure workplace, both During renovations of Niam’s Stockholm office, physically and psychologically, for our employees donations of office furniture were made to Ronald and those who work on behalf of us in our properties McDonald House and an elementary school and projects. Compliance with applicable laws and among others. other work environment regulations are required and ensured through active efforts to maintain a healthy work atmosphere. 11 NIAM is transparency and responsibility We understand the importance of being a responsible and transparent property manager, therefore, we work with several global and local stakeholders and regulatory authorities to continuously improve and increase our transparency. With this report we communicate our progress as signatory to the UN Global Compact. We also became signatory to the UN Principles of Responsible Investment in 2016 and takes part in the annual assessment. In 2018, Niam received a grade A in both the Strategy & Governance and Property modules. We also report to the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) in order to properly measure and communicate our sustainability efforts in the Niam Nordic Core-Plus funds. Aviabulevardi Office Property, Finland 12 HOW WE MANAGE RISK REGULATORY AND FINANCIAL AUTHORITY To improve transparency, Niam has been a member OVERSIGHT of the European Association for Investors in NonNiam AB is an Exempt Reporting Adviser under Listed Real Estate Vehicles (INREV) since 2003, the US Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The initial supporting their objective to improve transparency, registration pursuant to the Dodd Frank Act was professionalism and best practices across the real made in April 2012, and Niam AB is subject to the estate sector in order to make the asset class more U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). accessible and attractive to investors. With the In 2014, Niam AB was registered as an Alternative INREV goals and our investors’ interests in mind, Investment Fund Manager pursuant to the Directive we are working to integrate INREV’s recommended on Alternative Investment Fund Managers (AIFMD) reporting initiatives. Our Core-Plus funds also comand also became a subject to the Swedish Financial ply with INREV’s reporting guidelines in interim Supervisory Authority. The AIFMD controls our financial reporting. organization, functions and processes and requires, for example, that we have an independent function All of our financial reporting follows local GAAP and for risk and compliance, valuations of our assets IFRS financial reporting standards. Our commitment and an independent internal audit function. It also to rigorous internal controls and risk management requires us to provide quarterly reports to the Swedis reflected in our Management System where our ish Financial Supervisory Authority. Niam was the operating processes are documented and reviewed first real estate private equity firm to complete this regularly. The Management System was certified registration in Sweden. Risk Management is one of in 2009 according to the ISO standard of quality, the primary purposes of the AIFMD and by being 9001:2004, and environment, 14001:2008. In 2017 registered as an AIFM, Niam has a structured way of our Management System was updated according to identifying and managing risks, which benefits all of the new standards, ISO 9001:2015 and 14001:2015. our stakeholders but most importantly our investors. All Niam employees are trained regularly in risk Through that, we adopt a process-driven approach management and compliance. when developing, implementing and improving the effectiveness of a qualityand environmental On May 25, 2018, the EU General Data Protection management system, including risk management, Regulation (GDPR) became effective, replacing to enhance customer satisfaction and performance. the Data Protection Directive. GDPR was designed to harmonize data privacy laws across Europe, to CODE OF CONDUCT, RESPECT FOR PEOPLE protect and empower all EU citizens’ data privacy AND BUSINESS and to reshape the way organizations across the Niam has adopted a Code of Conduct which incorregion approach data privacy. Organizations handling porates the Niam values to ensure that all company personal data must have a clear purpose and legal activities comply with the highest standards of ethics ground for processing and retaining personal data. and integrity and are fully in accordance with all The GDPR also entitles data subjects the right to applicable laws. The Code of Conduct establishes access, rectification, data portability and erasure. standards to govern the actions of all company The regulation also includes requirements on safeemployees, officers and directors and all Niam perguards to ensure that the data is protected properly, sonnel are responsible for understanding its content. and breaches of a certain severity must be reported Key aspects of the Code of Conduct include fair to the Swedish Data Protection Authority and the treatment and privacy policies, conflict of interest, data subject. anti-corruption, anti-money laundering policies and the sustainability statement. Niam has had no indiNiam has adapted its processes to comply with cation of or incidents related to corruption or money the GDPR. laundering and all employees have been trained on issues related to the Code of Conduct. 13 Thermo Fisher HQ, Finland NIAM is getting better and greener In 2017 our Management System was updated meters in our properties and collects the data in according to the new standard ISO 14001:2015. a portal. The system enables us to store, analyze, Since 2009, we have had a certified system and diagnose and better report all energy consumption proactively focused on managing our environmental data. Additionally, the system facilitates that selective impact to further enhance our financial performance. measurements are taken place where they can make a Our first step was to establish the proper criteria great impact in order to reduce our carbon footprint. for regularly measuring our environmental impact. When the appropriate measurements were identified, Niam annually reports the Core-Plus funds to GRESB we introduced energy targets. In 2018, the target in (Green Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark) in the Core-Plus funds was to perform environmental order to benchmark our ESG performance against assessments for all properties within the funds. our peers. Core-Plus I is currently in divestment phase hence will be excluded from 2019’s submission. Niam Green is our corporate initiative to reduce the GRESB Real Estate Assessment is the global standard environmental impact. The policy guides Niam’s for ESG benchmarking and reporting for listed propemployees as well as its business partners to develerty owners, private property funds, developers and op more sustainable properties. The policy involves investors that invests directly in real estates around property certifications, energy saving measures and the world. The result gives us actionable information other initiatives such as preventing the usage of and tools on how we can improve performance and hazardous materials. manage ESG risks and opportunities. The report for 2018 will have a larger focus on health and wellIn order to monitor our properties’ performance in being among both tenants and employees within the terms of energy consumption, Niam uses the softcompany than before. ware system Mestro. Mestro electronically reads the 14 Life Science Center Keilaniemi, Finland Keilaniemi The Life Science Center is located in Keilaniemi, As a result of these changes, operating costs are outside the city center of Helsinki. The asset is comexpected to decrease. Solely by changing the lights prised of 31,960 sqm of lettable area spread over five in the lobbies to LED lights, the lighting costs will be modern interconnected buildings. The area is very reduced by 20%. By making these green changes it attractive and known for being one of the most sought will not only be a more efficient and green building, it after areas for company headquarters in Finland, both will also add value for the tenants. In November 2018, for Finnish as well as international companies. To the building was certified according to BREEAM create additional value in the buildings, Niam decided In-Use – Good. to go through with a number of green activities: • New energy certificates for four of the buildings Location: Espoo, Finland • Conversion to LED lights in several lobbies as Property Type: Multi-let office building well as in a staircase Freehold/leasehold: Freehold • Installation of charging stations for electric cars Number of Properties / Size: 5 / 32,000 sqm • Adjustments of heating, ventilation and cooling Certification: BREEAM In-Use Good systems Main tenants CSC and Bayer • Upgrade of the building automation systems in two buildings • Re-building the entry to the main lobby to maintain the temperature in the building • Changing the type of ventilation filters to decrease waste 15 NIAM is measuring performance Through Niam’s environmental management system we monitor and evaluate consumption each year. By keeping track of the energy consumption of our buildings’ we can clearly target our actions to reduce the impact on the environment. ENERGY CONSUMPTION sqm was 0.3 m3 compared to 2017 when it was 0.4 m3. During 2018, energy consumption represented 22% of all operating expenses across the funds (electricity All water used at our properties is from the municipal 11%, heating and cooling 11%). The result when we water supply and consumption is measured at least succeed in decreasing our energy consumption by annually. Water readers are often read manually inmaking small adjustments in our properties is not stead of electronically as is the case for the electricity only a financial gain, it has also an impact on our and heating meters. In those cases, we request the environmental performance. property managers to report the consumption data. In order to decrease consumption, objectives are set WASTE MANAGEMENT in those properties where we can identify a saving Monitoring waste consumption and weighing waste potential. In 2018, the total energy consumption of is not possible in all locations where Niam is operNiam’s properties was approximately 59 GWh or ating. However, property managers are requested 86kWh/sqm in the Core-Plus funds and 155 kWH to have waste management policies in place and to in the Opportunistic funds. The consumption correregularly follow up and improve where applicable. sponded to ~13,200 tons of carbon emissions. Waste is mainly generated by our tenants’ operations and therefore it is important that our tenants have The corresponding numbers in 2017 were 126 kWh/sqm the facilities required to sort their waste. In cases in the Core-Plus funds and 172 kWH in the Opporwhere Niam is involved in construction work, waste tunistic funds1. In some cases the tenant owns the management is agreed with the construction firm. contract and consequently we have no access to the data. Those cases are excluded in the numbers above. BUILDING CERTIFICATIONS IN PLACE This diagram shows the total consumption /sqm from As part of our internal guidelines, Niam Green, all our properties where we are able to measure and building certifications should be pursued when they monitor consumtion. are financially sound for new construction and major renovations. A sustainability target in our Core-Plus Total consumption funds is to perform and evaluate energyand environkWh/sqm mental inventories on all newly acquired assets. The 160 result is a good foundation when deciding to perform 150 energy saving projects or to enter certification pro140 cesses. Niam has not committed itself to any specific 160 162 143 130 certification but uses the type of certification that is 2016 2017 2018 most suitable in each individual case. As of March 2019, Niam had 23 buildings certified with, LEED (12), WATER USAGE BREEAM (10) and Green Building (1). That is 47% of In 2018, Niam’s properties consumed 58,000 m3 of waNiam’s total portfolio1. An additional four buildings ter compared to 119,000 m3 in 20171. Consumption per are in the process of being certified. 1 Residential properties excluded. 16 Kaari Shopping Center, Finland Kaari Shopping Center Kaari Shopping Center is located in Kannelmäki, • Conversion to LED lights which is a densely populated residential area, 10 km north of Helsinki Central Business District. The area The work is currently ongoing and the goal is to is a well-known and established retail location since have everything done during the first half of 2019. the 1970’s. The shopping center, constructed in three Other green activities that have been performed in phases between 2009-2013, was acquired by Niam in Kaari Shopping Center: October 2015. When acquired, Kaari Shopping Center experienced some problems with customer flows to • Evaluation of possibility to install more charging the upper floors, and in 2016 a project was initiated stations for electric cars to improve the internal structure, sight lines and • Increased recycling rate: the 300 people workincrease customer flow. The project succeeded and ing in Kaari Shopping Center are educated and the footfall has increased 2015-2018 from 5.5 million trained regarding recycling on a regular basis to 7.4 million visitors. In 2018, an energy evaluation • Exclusivly use environmentally certified cleaning was performed by Niam which resulted in a number and washing liquids of identified possible activities to reduce the energy consumption: Location: Helsinki, Finland • Optimization of the building automation systems Property Type: Retail • Decreased ventilation during nights • Decreased temperature of the warm tap water by Freehold/Leasehold: Freehold and Leasehold 3 degrees Number of Properties / Size: 1 / 48,370 sqm • Installed motion detectors for lighting in areas Certification: BREEAM Silver that are not frequently used Main tenant: HOK-Elanto, H&M etc • Added one heating fan in the main entrance 17 From global principles to local stakeholder expectations OUR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS privacy policies, conflict of interest, anti-corruption, Since May 2017, Niam AB is a signatory to the UN anti-money laundering, anti-bribery policies and Global Compact (UNGC) and we are engaged on a a sustainability statement, and is aligned with the signatory level. We thereby commit ourselves to make principles of Global Compact. progress in our sustainability efforts, in line with the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. This report In 2016 Niam became a signatory to the UN Principles constitutes our second Communication on Progress of Responsible Investment and takes part in the (COP) and in our UNGC reference table we explain annual assessment. In 2018, Niam received a grade A the linkages between the principles and our reportin both the Strategy & Governance and Property ing. The report is accessible to the public on our webmodules. site and in the UN Global Compact participant portal. STAKEHOLDERS AND OUR USE OF REPORTING In our reporting to Global Compact we also report GUIDELINES on the links between our business and the SustainOur key stakeholders are Niam employees, subconable Development Goals (SDG). In 2018 we made tractors, municipal politicians and officers, tenants, an overall analysis of those links. In the analysis we debt providers, investors and regulatory authorities. found that there are ten SDGs which have targets that Our debt and equity providers, some of which are have a clear linkage to our business. This includes signatories of the UN Principles for Responsible issues related to the workplace we offer to our Investment (PRI), show an increasing focus on employees, where the targets related to the working responsible investment and our sustainability report, environment and gender equality are the most relewhich is a tool for communicating our focus on susvant. In relation to our business, which is to develop tainability initiatives and responsible investments. and manage properties in funds, targets related to resource efficiency are those of highest relevance. We A task group, consisting of representatives from the can also see that as we develop our properties we can fund management, project development, investor positively contribute to the diffusion of new smart relations and external experts (TomorrowToday), technologies. With our ethical standards, our systemwere involved in defining the scope and content atic approach to managing risks and being transparof our sustainability report. We keep an ongoing ent, we address the target related to anti-corruption. dialogue with experts to follow any changes in what can be seen as material issues, as well as to Our Code of Conduct covers fair treatment and continuously improve our reporting. 18 Niam has been reporting to GRESB since 2012. regarding the size, structure or ownership of Niam, We find the GRESB framework to be highly relevant nor have there been significant changes from the prewhen defining the content of this report. It has been vious reporting period regarding scope and measuredeveloped to meet investor expectations regarding ment methods or any re-statements of information their assessment of environmental, social and govstated in the earlier report. The real estate perforernance performance. mance measurements and associated definitions are in accordance with GRESB unless otherwise stated. When determining the relevant sustainability objectives for Niam, we focus on aspects related to The report covers real estate performance measureNiam as a company, our employees and the impact ments for Niam Funds with the exception of the two on our properties and their tenants. For determining Copenhagen Residential Portfolios in Niam Fund significant environmental aspects, Niam has used V, consisting of 1,100 owner occupied apartments the Swedish government’s 16 environmental quality which are excluded since Niam has a limited opporobjectives as a framework. In 2018, the management tunity to influence utility performance and purchassystem was re-certified by LRQA according to the ing policies. latest standard, ISO 14001:2015. As we made the transition we made a thorough review of our environData concerning employees covers all operations mental aspects. of Niam AB. For joint ventures and co-owned properties, data is presented pro rata to the respective SCOPE OF DATA fund’s ownership. LEED®, and its related logo, This is our fourth sustainability report. All data is a trademark owned by the U.S. Green Building reported is for the fiscal year 2018 unless otherwise Council® and is used with permission. The same stated. There have been no significant changes applies to any other logos used in this report. UN GLOBAL COMPACT REFERENCE TABLE PRINCIPLES PAGE REFERENCE AND COMMENTS Human Rights All major contracts include a commitPrinciple 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection ment to Niam’s Code of Conduct. of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Fair employment practice is a cornerPrinciple 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. stone of our Code of Conduct. p. 10-11, 13 Labour All major contracts include a commitPrinciple 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and ment to Niam’s Code of Conduct. the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Fair employment practice is cornerstone Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; of our Code of Conduct. p. 10-11, 13 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Niam has an environmental policy Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to covering these principles and an environmental challenges; environmental management system Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental certified against ISO 14001:2015. responsibility; and p. 14, 16 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Niam has a zero-tolerance to bribery and Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, corruption. We uphold all laws relevant including extortion and bribery. to countering bribery and corruption in all the jurisdictions we operate, including but not limited to the UK Bribery Act 2010 as well as Swedish and US law. p. 13 19 For further questions regarding this report, its content or Niam in general please contact: RIKARD HENRIKSSON Head of Asset management, Sustainability Manager Tel +46 8 5175 8563 rikard.henriksson@niam.se JENNIFER ANDERSSON COO, Head of Investor Relations & Business Development, Quality Manager Tel +46 8 5175 8559 jennifer.andersson@niam.se Niam AB – Stureplan 3, STOCKHOLM | Box 7693 | Tel +46 8 51 75 85 00 | www.niam.com
