Sustainability delivered. 2019 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Report Contents 3 Introduction 21 Client experience 35 Waste and water 57 Managing our 4 A message from Mike Salvino 22 Joining with clients to empower a 37 Management systems supply chain neurodiverse workforce 38 Looking ahead: DXC’s new 3-year 58 Ethics in conduct. Excellence in 5 Our key performance highlights 23 DXC Social Impact Practice environmental plan sourcing. 6 About DXC Technology 23 Making work safer 59 Controlling supplier risk 6 Destination digital for workers 39 Employees 60 DXC global locations 7 DXC is Digital Delivered 24 Accelerating the development of 40 Diverse talents. Inclusive teams. 8 Our approach to corporate driverless cars 41 Reimagining neurodiversity responsibility 25 The 21st-century workplace 42 Investing in progress 8 Awards and recognition 26 Public health leadership 43 The innovative spirit of DXC 9 Our goals and progress 26 Artifcial intelligence for antibiotics 44 Tomorrow’s technology skills, today 10 Responsible business 26 Green government 45 Accelerated learning 11 Introduction 27 Life-changing recovery 46 Health and safety 12 The DXC Corporate Responsibility 28 Wearable digital diabetes coach framework 28 Informatics delivers healthcare 47 Community 13 Our approach to CR governance gains 48 The DXC Foundation 14 Stakeholder engagement 49 Digital futures 29 Environment 15 Materiality 50 Comprehensive commitments 30 Introduction 16 Integrity matters 51 Feeding the hungry 31 Climate risks 17 CLEAR to the core 52 Tomorrow’s technologists 32 Energy consumption and 18 Corporate governance greenhouse gas emissions 53 STEM revolution 19 Privacy and ethics 32 DXC’s energy and emissions journey 54 Brighter horizons 20 Innovation and integrity 34 Renewable energy and carbon 55 Helping children thrive strategy 56 Green priorities 2 Introduction 4 A message from Mike Salvino 8 Our approach to corporate responsibility 5 Our key performance highlights 8 Awards and recognition 6 About DXC Technology 9 Our goals and progress Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain A message from Mike Salvino In today’s global ecosystem, deliver life-saving care more efciently • Through the DXC Dandelion Program, responsible and sustainable business and businesses to use artifcial intelliwhich has already opened up IT practices are critical to the success gence to make workers safer. We partner careers for 100 people with autism, of DXC Technology, our clients, our with leading auto manufacturers in the we created neurodiversity hubs in partners and our suppliers. DXC is design of autonomous vehicles that have Australia and the United States to committed to improving society and the potential to improve the energy share ideas for improving employment the environment through technology efciency of transportation for the pathways for students on the autism and innovation. 21st century. spectrum. DXC’s strength as a company begins During fscal year 2019, we worked • DXC also achieved a top score of 100 with our people. By acknowledging, toward achieving our goals for a in the 2019 Disability Equality Index, a recognizing and rewarding our people, people-frst workplace, sound positive indication of our company’s we strive to be an employer of choice governance, sustainable operations, inclusive, diverse and accessible and a great place to work and grow. community philanthropy and client culture. collaboration. Highlights of our With a commitment to environmental Looking ahead, our DXC commitment to corporate responsibility accomplishsustainability, we set and meet aggrescorporate responsibility and sustainaments include the following: sive carbon-reduction goals, working bility will remain strong as we focus on toward circular-economy processes and • Exceeding ambitious sustainability growth: inspiring our people to advance contributing to a healthy world. targets, in just two years we achieved their careers, wellbeing and perfora 21.3% reduction in global greenmance; guiding our clients on their Our active involvement in our communities house gas emissions and a 24.6% digital transformation journeys; and produces more efcient and benefcial reduction in absolute energy usage. building our business by doing all we outcomes for our clients and those they serve — from promoting science, tech• We launched the DXC Social Impact can to work toward the highest goals, nology, engineering and mathematics Practice, bringing together community principles and values. (STEM) education to encouraging a groups, research institutions and spirit of volunteerism throughout our our own leading digital capabilities global workforce. to help address challenges related And, as leaders in digital innovation — to neurodiversity, opportunities for from cloud and applications to analytveterans, indigenous employment and ics and machine learning — we help the climate change. Mike Salvino enterprises that are shaping a brighter President and Chief Executive Ofcer DXC Technology future for the world. We help hospitals to 4 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Our key performance highlights DXC achieved a top score of 100 21.3% in the 2019 Disability Equality Index — a positive global greenhouse gas indication of our company’s inclusive, diverse and emissions reduction achieved accessible culture. in 2 years 24.6% absolute energy reduction achieved in 2 years More than 1.1M hours of noncompliance formal learning in DXC University completed by DXC employees in FY 2019 DXC India educational and vocational training programs touched the lives of more than 16,000 primary and secondary school students, more than 300 people with disabilities and over 9,000 university-level STEM students 5 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain About DXC Technology Destination digital DXC Technology is the world’s leading independent, end-to-end IT services 70+ 60+ “By focusing on the countries years of innovation growth and interests company. We lead clients on their digital transformation journeys, of our people, clients, multiplying their capabilities and partners and commuhelping them harness the power nities in which we live of innovation. $21B 9 and work, we will build a sustainable business No. 2 US IT Services Company IT services leader global ofering families that fulflls the goals — Fortune 500 and aspirations of Top 10 IT Service Provider DXC Technology.” — Everest Group ~6,000 200+ Mike Salvino America’s Best Management President and CEO, DXC Technology Consulting Firms — Forbes clients globally best-of-breed partners Top 10 Solution Provider — CRN Global Growth Champion — Forbes ~138,000 10,000+ strong global team Agile/DevOps Recognized by analysts as a “Leader” professionals in digital business transformation, IT security, cloud enablement, digital healthcare and more Ranked on Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America 2019 6 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain About DXC Technology DXC is Digital Delivered #1 Global enterprises are making the shift to digital technology to produce better business outcomes. DXC Technology has the ability to lead digital transformations for clients by modernizing and integrating their mission-critical IT and by deploying digital solutions at scale for a successful digital future. No. 1 in ServiceNow service deployments Analytics Application Services Business Process Services Microsoft Productivity Uncovering critical insights and quickly Developing, managing and modernizing apps Automating and streamlining processes to cut Partner of the Year applying them to improve business outcomes to deliver digital services and boost results costs and optimize the customer experience No. 1 in AWS-certifed architects Hitachi Vantara Global Systems Cloud and Platform Services Consulting Enterprise and Cloud Apps Integrator of the Year Securely managing hybrid environments Confdently guiding digital transformation Building and scaling new digital to maximize private and public clouds and by blending world-class expertise and capabilities aligned to clients’ industry mission-critical IT intellectual property and business processes No. 1 Symantec GSI partner by sales revenue Industry Software and Solutions Security Workplace and Mobility Enabling enterprises to quickly integrate Identifying threats, responding to attacks, Creating user-centric digital workplaces technology, transform their operations and protecting data and managing identities that enable employees to work and develop new ways of doing business with collaborate more efciently industry-specifc capabilities 7 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Our approach to corporate responsibility We are pleased This year, we established a new Social Awards and recognition to present the DXC Impact Practice to help our clients and Corporate Responcommunities develop and run programs • Ranked in the Dow Jones sibility and that beneft individuals and society. Sustainability Index (DJSI) North Sustainability Supporting our Corporate Responsibility America 2019 — DJSI is a global Report for our and Sustainability Report, we have sustainability benchmark tracking fscal year ended produced a separate DXC 2019 GRI performance of the world’s leading March 31, 2019. This report details Report that summarizes our performance companies in terms of economic, our achievements across key against material aspects of the Global environmental and social criteria environmental, social and governance Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards. • Ranked in the prestigious Euronext focus areas of our global program. We are proud to have been recognized Vigeo Index: World 120 and the In our second year as DXC Technology, by a number of highly rated sustainability Euronext Vigeo Index: US 50; among we continued to achieve solid results and inclusion and diversity indices. the top performers in the category in relation to our environmental of “Top performers North America” in impact program, including reducthe Euronext Vigeo Software and IT Paula Sullivan tions in our absolute energy and Services sector report greenhouse gas emissions globally. Corporate Responsibility Senior Principal, We are therefore pleased to share DXC Technology • Leading Disability Employer Seal for here for the frst time our new global 2019 from the National Organization 3-year environmental goals to take on Disability in the United States us to FY 2022. • Achieved a top score of 100 in the 2019 Disability Equality Index — Best Places to Work for People with Disabilities — a positive indication of our inclusive and accessible culture • Named by Forbes to its 2018 Best Employers For New Grads list 8 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Our goals and progress Pillar Goal Progress in FY 2019 How we align to the UN Sustainable Development Goals Responsible In adherence to the DXC Code of Conduct and our In FY 2019 more than 99% of DXC employees completed Goal 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions business CLEAR Values, we will provide comprehensive online this training. We also required the same training of 50,000 • Indicator 16.5: Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms training globally to our in-scope population to enable contractor personnel. • Indicator 16.6: Develop efective, accountable and transparent institutions employees to improve their knowledge of DXC’s at all levels ethical standards. Our people Bridging the digital skills gap: We will develop DXC has established Digital Transformation Centers in the Goal 4: Quality education partnerships with leading educational institutes, US (Louisiana), UK, Australia, India (Bangalore), • Indicator 4.4.1: Proportion of youth and adults with information and aligned to our new Digital Transformation Centers. Bulgaria and the Philippines. communications technology (ICT) skills, by type of skill In FY 2018 we set a hiring goal to expand the proactive Our internal hiring goal was achieved. Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth sourcing and recruitment of diverse candidates, Going forward, we will encourage employees to embrace • Indicator 8.5: Achieve full and productive employment, including persons including veterans, military spouses and their uniqueness in the workplace through self-identifcation, with disabilities wounded warriors. which will enable us to better support their needs. Community We will focus on STEM programs to help youth The DXC Codes program introduces schoolchildren to Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth get passionate about STEM and create the STEM skills through an engaging IT challenge and • Indicator 8.6.1: Proportion of youth (aged 15 – 24 years) not in education, technologists of tomorrow. competition that inspires a passion for programming employment or training and IT/computer sciences. Environment In FY 2018 we achieved our target to reduce waste and In FY 2019, we achieved a 16.8% reduction in water consumption Goal 12: Responsible consumption and production water use by 10%. Our FY 2019 goal was to focus on IT against the baseline, and 51.3% reduction in waste generation. • Target 12.4: Environmentally sound management of hazardous waste waste disposal. IT assets are now increasingly being reused, with 65% of • Target 12.5: Substantially reduce waste generation items by weight being reused or sold onward. • Target 12.6: Encourage supply chain to adopt sustainable practices In FY 2018 we achieved our goal of 15% reduction in In FY 2019, we achieved a 21.3% reduction against the Goal 13: Climate action absolute greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2e), 2 years baseline and provided additional reporting within the Global • Target 13.2: Integrate climate change measures into policies and strategies earlier than planned. Our FY 2019 goal was to further Environmental Management Plan. embed the efciencies and improve the reporting. We have established new targets to take us to FY 2022. We have committed to a reduction target of 15% in abA 24.6% reduction in absolute energy consumption against Goal 7: Afordable and clean energy solute energy usage by FY 2020. Our FY 2019 goal was the baseline was achieved globally, supported by a renewable • Target 7.2: Increase the proportion of renewable energy used to meet this target through efciencies and increasing energy strategy (33% increase in use), energy efciency • Target 7.3: Double the rate of energy efciency improvement renewable energy use. program and portfolio consolidation. 7B: Support renewable energy growth in developing countries In FY 2018 we committed to expanding the ISO 50001 In FY 2019, the global Energy Management System was Goal 13: Climate action Energy Management Standard to our strategic data updated to improve the reporting of data and look ahead at • Target 13.2: Integrate climate change measures into policies and strategies centers. In FY 2019 we aimed to extend and improve the climate risks afecting the business. Goal 7: Afordable and clean energy reporting process. • Target 7.2: Increase the proportion of renewable energy used • Target 7.3: Double the rate of energy efciency improvement 9 Responsible 11 Introduction 16 Integrity matters 12 The DXC Corporate 17 CLEAR to the core business Responsibility framework 18 Corporate governance 13 Our approach to CR governance 19 Privacy and ethics 14 Stakeholder engagement 20 Innovation and integrity 15 Materiality Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Responsible business Introduction We are pleased to present DXC Technology’s 2019 The DXC Corporate Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Report. Responsibility (CR) program fosters our company’s growth by promoting and increasing the value of DXC to our shareholders, clients, communities and employees. The DXC 2019 GRI Report summarizes our performance against material aspects of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards). With the exception of our current awards and rankings, all information in this report, including statistical data, refers to DXC’s fscal year (FY) 2019, from April 1, 2018, through March 31, 2019. DOWNLOAD 11 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Responsible business The DXC Corporate Responsibility framework At DXC, we strive to create consistency and greater Establishing a culture of impact for our sustainability performance with integrity in work across the globe by Responsible defning our CR approach Playing a positive role in all activities and at all times as business around fve areas of focus: the communities where we maintain our adherence to the Conducting Client Experience, Employees, we live and work and highest standards in our industry business Community, Environment and contributing to for ethical and forward-thinking ethically Responsible Business. sustainable development business conduct Client by fostering literacy and Community experience STEM education, fghting Engage Serving as a trusted Innovation & child hunger and poverlocally transformation partner bringsatisfaction ty and bringing relief to ing industry knowledge, innothe most vulnerable after vative ideas and world-class natural disasters digital oferings to help clients in all industries solve complex challenges with confdence Employees Environment and agility Build a great Reducing our place to impact work Building a great place to work by Identifying and managing nurturing an inclusive and diverse our most important material culture, harnessing new models impacts with an established of talent acquisition and reskillplan for reducing energy use, ing, and investing in our people to carbon emissions, waste and provide for increased employee water use across our global engagement, wellness and safety operations to contribute to a healthier planet 12 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Responsible business Our approach to CR governance The DXC Foundation: Priorities for giving Each year, the DXC Corporate provides structure to our philanthropic Responsibility team establishes an activities, aligning our giving with our annual strategic plan for the program mission and values. Foundation gifts Education Fostering global literacy with focus on science, technology, and presents it to the Corporate further our work in established focus engineering and mathematics (STEM) for students from Responsibility Steering Committee areas and are approved by the DXC kindergarten to college for review ahead of the new fscal year Foundation Board. In addition to fnanHealth and Enhancing people’s health and wellness at a local and global beginning in April. Composed of senior cial giving, the DXC Foundation provides wellness level, with a focus on veterans, the disabled, and child hunger leaders from across DXC’s business, opportunities for employees to particiand poverty the committee defnes the strategy and pate in foundation programs as well management policy for our global CR as organize workplace volunteer eforts Disaster relief Supporting emergency assistance to those in need after a program, meeting regularly to provide for the good of the community, our disaster or period of crisis or trauma marketing, human resources, and secuemployees and our company. rity perspectives and guide our compliance, communications, reporting and other initiatives. Complementing this core framework, senior regional executives drive global priorities in their regions, providing important feedback on cultural diferences and identifying ways to implement our CR strategy locally for maximum employee, stakeholder and business beneft. Governed and managed by a diverse group of employee volunteers from across our company, the DXC Foundation is a registered 501(c) charity in the United States that Indigenous Wayuu children in the remote La Guajira region of Colombia now have a new, two-classroom IT school thanks to eforts by employee volunteers from DXC’s North and Central Europe region. 13 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Responsible business Stakeholder engagement Our stakeholders include shareholders organizations (NGOs), and more. DXC By regularly communicating and investors, clients, employees, supexecutives and key subject matter exand meeting with third pliers and partners, media, government perts meet with stakeholders regularly to parties from the nonproft, and regulators, peers, communities, discuss business trends and solicit feedgovernment and industry investment analysts, nongovernmental back on the company and our industry. sectors, we strive to adopt innovations that improve the performance of our global CR program. Stakeholders we Stakeholder group Examples of DXC’s engagement with group engage with include Business for Social Responsibility DXC’s annual Investor Day, executive presentations and dialogue with institutional investors and (BSR), the Institute of Investors and industry industry analysts to build upon quarterly earnings calls, investor perception surveys and regular Corporate Responsibility and analysts analyst briefngs Sustainability, the All-Party Parliamentary Corporate Clients and partners Ongoing dialogue and face-to-face meetings led by DXC account executives, joint industry Responsibility Group, the memberships, DXC-led events such as our annual Insurance Conference, sharing of insights Confederation of British and expertise via DXC’s Leading Edge Forum (LEF), customer feedback meetings and Industry (CBI), the Corporate customer-satisfaction surveys such as DXC Client Pulse Executive Board, and Intellect. Employees Global employee-engagement survey, town hall meetings, CEO briefngs, employee forums, union and works council meetings and communications through email and DXC internal social media platforms, including the myDXC portal Suppliers Regular meetings, evaluations and sharing of best practices in responsible supply chain management Civil society, community DXC Foundation programs, philanthropic donations, community engagement programs, groups and NGOs employee volunteerism, pro bono skills giving diversity initiatives and veteran hiring and support programs Government and Face-to-face meetings, leadership groups, surveys and roundtable discussions on issues industry bodies of social and environmental importance 14 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Responsible business Materiality Signifcant areas across business, communities and the environment We focus our CR activities on areas of During the materiality assessment, we greatest concern to DXC and our stakeseek to evaluate the business impacts Environmental Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions reduction holders in order to maximize the positive of each issue we identify. This approach in operations and value chain, e-waste management, efects of our sustainability initiatives. helps us analyze our current state with material and resource efciency, travel and Conducted annually, a formal materialiefciency, address risks and emerging transportation efciency ty process that emphasizes internal and challenges, establish our ambition external feedback enables us to rigorlevels, create and prioritize goals, Social capital Data security and privacy, community engagement, ously evaluate our social, environmental assign resources, and set our roadmaps thought leadership and governance issues and assess how to achieve these goals. The result of this closely our actions align with key susprocess is to position DXC for stronger Human capital Employee engagement, digital skills development, tainability objectives. Research methods sustainability leadership through inclusion and diversity, health and safety, labor and include meetings, interviews and other improved knowledge of what we and management relations direct consultations that provide insight our stakeholders most value as the for better understanding and reporting sustainability landscape evolves. Products and services Expansion of opportunity, innovation and value on topics of special signifcance for DXC. through digital transformation Leadership and Responsible supply chain, supplier diversity, governance business continuity, management of intellectual property, strong business ethics, transparency and accounting 15 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Responsible business Integrity matters At DXC, our people work hard every day all we do and who we are. Our CLEAR • SpeakUp! DXC. DXC’s CLEAR Antiretaliation stance to establish and maintain a culture of Values are the distinguishing hallmarks Values and Code of Business performance, with integrity in all activof DXC’s performance and reputation. Conduct confrm the expectation DXC commits to conducting ities, everywhere, at all times. Knowing that employees and others should a fair and thorough review • Code of Business Conduct. DXC’s that integrity matters to us — that we responsibly seek advice and report of all actionable concerns, Code of Business Conduct sets lasting care as much about how we achieve as misconduct as appropriate. The maintaining employee expectations of the commitments we what we achieve — reassures our cliSpeakUp! DXC program establishes confdence and confdentiality make to each other and our company, ents, business partners, employees and several open, confdential and, as the and protecting employee to our clients and shareholders, and to investors that they can be proud of their law allows, anonymous channels for personal data. We forbid the communities in which we live and DXC association and rewarded for the seeking advice or reporting concerns. retaliation against any work. The Code of Business Conduct trust they extend to us. Those channels include OpenLine, employee who in good faith applies equally to everyone working DXC’s always-available, confdential, reports misconduct or For these reasons and more, each member at, with or on behalf of DXC. anonymous, toll-free and web-enabled participates in a company of DXC’s Board of Directors and each of During FY 2019, DXC required all new advice and reporting channel. investigation of misconduct. the company’s executive leaders afrms hires, all regular fulland part-time their personal commitment to our CLEAR employees, and more than 50,000 Values and a strong culture of integrity. contractors to complete a Code of Our Ethics and Compliance Ofce Business Conduct and CLEAR Values (ECO) operates globally and reports Review. This review covered topics independently to the Board. Key ECO such as DXC’s CLEAR Values, conficts programs and resources include: of interest, information security, • CLEAR Values. These core beliefs workplace fraud, anticorruption, are an important competitive timekeeping and intellectual property. diferentiator and intangible driver of our company’s success. They defne “At DXC, a culture of integrity and our CLEAR Values will always be vitally important to us. Our people know there are no circumstances in which it is appropriate to abandon these ideals. We believe they drive an enduring confdence and trust that secure our industry leadership.” Chris DePippo Chief Ethics and Compliance Ofcer, DXC Technology 16 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Responsible business CLEAR to the core DXC’s CLEAR Values are a critical competitive diferentiator and driver of our success. We depend on these core principles to harmonize interactions with each other and our clients, business partners and competitors. C L E A R Every day, we put our CLEAR Values into practice with consistency and creativity to make our business stronger. Benefts to DXC include: Better teamwork. Leadership should derive from skill, not title; our CLEAR Values align teammates from and Client Focused Leadership Execution Aspiration Results across all layers and levels. Our success We lead from the Excellence We aspire individually We accept individual Flexible workplaces. Our CLEAR Values derives from a deep front, displaying our We insist on excellence in and collectively to be responsibility for understanding of our integrity and using facts all we do for clients and more tomorrow than our commitments represent common standards that unite a clients, to whom all of to support our straight ourselves, striving always we are today. and expect to be global, increasingly virtual DXC community. DXC is committed to talk. We create an accountable for recognition among the Diverse culture. Our CLEAR Values deliver exceptional environment for positive leaders in our industry. for results. respect diferences in age, gender, service and value. change built on collaboration and trust. religion, custom and heritage. Strong partnerships. Our CLEAR Values drive uniformity in our dealings with customers, suppliers and competitors. While gift and hospitality exchanges may have a legitimate role in business development Entrepreneurial spirit. With encourand partner relations, without proper control they may also invite waste, abuse and agement for risk-taking and innovation compliance risk. In keeping with DXC’s CLEAR Values and the company’s commitment to comes the need to act in line with integrity, employees must comply with strict rules for exchanging gifts and hospitality with our CLEAR Values, demonstrating business associates. The policy applies worldwide to all employees of DXC, its wholly owned responsibility and integrity. subsidiaries and their afliates. Media fuency. With little time to get it right, an employee’s frst instinct should be informed by our CLEAR Values. 17 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Responsible business Corporate governance DXC commits to maintaining the highest The Board adheres to governance The Board of Directors believes that Independent governance standards of corporate governance. principles designed to ensure excellence the current leadership structure, which The responsibilities of the DXC Board in the execution of its duties and regularly separates the chairman and chief The Board assesses the of Directors include, but are not limited reviews the company’s governance executive ofcer roles, coupled with independence of our directors to, overseeing the management of our policies and practices. The Board a lead independent director who has and examines the nature business and the assessment of our discharges its responsibilities through broad authority and responsibility, is the and extent of any relations business risks; overseeing the processes regularly scheduled meetings, action by most efective leadership model for DXC between the company and our for maintaining integrity with regard written consent and other communicauntil Mr. Lawrie’s retirement as chairman directors, their families and to our fnancial statements and other tions with management as appropriate. in December 2019. At that time, the Board their afliates. A director is public disclosures, and compliance with DXC expects directors to attend all will reassess its leadership structure. “independent” if they satisfy law and ethics; reviewing and approving meetings of the Board and the Board the New York Stock Exchange Each of the directors other than (NYSE) requirements for our major fnancial objectives and committees on which they serve, and all J. Michael Lawrie and Michael J. Salvino director independence strategic and operating plans, and annual meetings of DXC’s stockholders is independent, and the Board believes and the Board of Directors other signifcant actions; and overseeing at which they are standing for election that the independent directors provide afrmatively determines that our talent management and succession or reelection as directors. efective oversight of management. the director has no material planning. The Board’s current leadership structure relationship with DXC, either We have established an Enterprise Risk consists of a chairman, a lead independent directly or as a partner, Management (ERM) function to identify director and strong committee chairs. stockholder or ofcer of risks in the strategic, operational, fnancial During the fscal year In September 2019, Michael J. Salvino, reporting and compliance domains, an organization that has a ended March 31, 2019, a member of the Board of Directors of for DXC as a whole as well as for each relationship with DXC. DXC held 11 meetings of the DXC, was appointed to serve as president operating unit, and to evaluate the full DXC Board of Directors, and chief executive ofcer of DXC. efectiveness of existing mitigation Mr. Salvino succeeds J. Michael Lawrie, strategies. The ERM function reports to the Audit Committee who served as DXC’s chairman of the the chief fnancial ofcer and coordinates held eight meetings, the Board, president and chief executive and reviews assessments of internal Compensation Committee ofcer since the company’s formation processes and controls for ongoing held six meetings, and the in 2017. Mr. Lawrie will continue to serve compliance with internal policies and Nominating/Corporate as chairman of the Board until his legal regulatory requirements. retirement from the Board on December Governance Committee 31, 2019. held fve meetings. 18 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Responsible business Privacy and ethics and procedures, which enable consistent Privacy-aware Privacy and data protection Government afairs privacy and data protection across all enterprise Based in the European Union, DXC’s of DXC’s legal entities and businesses. The DXC Government Afairs function Global Privacy and Data Protection plays a strategic role in the developDXC takes a holistic approach Ofce (PDPO) is a well-resourced and ment of our public sector and other to ensure that our employees Human rights are privacy aware throughout qualifed strategic compliance function businesses, management of regional that operates under the authority of DXC commits to the protection and and local risks and opportunities, and their employment with the DXC’s global Ethics and Compliance advancement of human rights and eforts to preserve DXC’s reputation company. Our approach Ofce. The PDPO is responsible and ensuring that our operations in comas a reliable partner and accountable includes new-hire instructions, accountable for advising DXC’s busimunities around the world function employer. Clear guidelines defne apannual awareness briefngs, nesses on best practices in privacy with integrity. That includes forbidpropriate employee behaviors regardtargeted training for compliance, and for developing poliding any form of slavery, human ing lobbying, political contributions high-risk populations cies, procedures, training, risk assesstrafcking, forced labor and child and contact with government ofcials. and periodic messaging ment and monitoring programs that enlabor and complying with applicable through newsletters and able DXC to provide adequate levels of laws prohibiting such exploitation. In other communication and personal data protection for our clients, developing our approach, we look to awareness campaigns. employees and other relevant individuals the UN Guiding Principles on Business in all geographies and jurisdictions and Human Rights, the International around the world, including privacy Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration laws such as the EU General Data on Fundamental Principles and Rights Protection Regulation (GDPR), the at Work, the UN Universal Declaration UK Data Protection Act and the of Human Rights, and other sources. California Consumer Privacy Act. Highlights of our approach include (1) a Anticorruption strong, globally applicable Privacy and To support economic and social Data Protection Policy that refects the development around the world, DXC Generally Accepted Privacy Principles maintains a global program to com(GAPP) applicable to the collection, bat bribery and related forms of use, storage and processing of personal corrupting infuence on world markets, data, and (2) comprehensive and cohevoicing our unwavering commitment sive compliance standards, processes to compliance with the law. 19 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Responsible business Innovation and integrity DXC has more than 600 Intellectual property Certifcations Antislavery stance sites in 70 countries around The DXC Intellectual Property Ofce’s DXC continually expands our certifcaDXC is committed to minimizing the risk the world with one or more centralized, proactive approach to tion program and refnes our integratof all forms of forced labor and human certifcations for quality and identifying, procuring and managing ed management system that supports trafcking within our business or supply other attributes. our intellectual property (IP) involves multiple standards, models and framechain. We have incorporated specifc working with the executive team to works. These include ISO 9001 (Quality questions on modern slavery and human establish IP policies, standards and Management), ISO 14001 (Environmentrafcking into our initial screening survey guidelines. Through our Discovery tal Management), ISO 20000 (Service for suppliers, and our CR screening survey Program, we recognize and reward our Management), ISO 22301 (Business for our largest direct suppliers by spend. innovative technologists who invent Continuity Management), ISO 27001 When hiring new DXC employees and new patentable technologies for DXC. (Information Security Management), individual contractors, we check that Cultivating patentable inventions helps CSA STAR (Cloud Certifcation), OHSAS they are legally eligible to work, meet DXC achieve extraordinary results for 18001 (Health and Safety Management), background checks and external our clients and helps us advance stateISO 50001 (Energy Management), SA reference checks, and pass our security of-the-art technologies in DXC’s port8000 (Social Accountability), TL 9001 clearance. We are satisfed that these folio. The program also refects (Quality Management in Telecom), multiple checks will identify victims of our CLEAR Values and our ISO 13485 (Quality Management in human trafcking or modern slavery. technology vision and Medical), BS 10012 (Personal Information fosters a culture of Management), COBIT5, CMMI-DEV HIPAA compliance innovation. and CMMI-SVC. We commit to the lawful processing of health data, and we work with our clients and vendors to fully comply with the US Health Information Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). Ensuring the privacy of employee health information is a critical priority at DXC. 20 Client 22 Joining with clients to empower a 26 Public health leadership neurodiverse workforce 26 Artifcial intelligence for antibiotics experience 23 DXC Social Impact Practice 26 Green government 23 Making work safer for workers 27 Life-changing recovery 24 Accelerating the development of 28 Wearable digital diabetes coach driverless cars 28 Informatics delivers healthcare gains 25 The 21st-century workplace Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Client experience Joining with clients to empower a neurodiverse workforce Through the DXC Dandelion Program, gaining greater insight into the our objective of creating an environment The DXC Dandelion Program we continue to help people on the autism competitive advantages a neurodiverse where autistic people are celebrated and today employs over 100 people spectrum build technology careers by workforce brings. supported. ANZ selected and welcomed with autism, has provided 70+ giving them opportunities to apply their nine individuals to its Group Technology work experiences and internships professional skills while benefting from DXC Dandelion Program at function in cybersecurity and software to higher-education students a holistic employment experience. Since Australia and New Zealand testing roles. The team working in cyberand provides leading insights the pilot in Adelaide, Australia, in 2015, security managed and signifcantly on autism in the workplace to DXC Dandelion Program teams have Banking Group matured the critical business-as-usual the global research community. worked with clients in software testing, In 2018, DXC implemented the Dandelion phishing capability. The team working analytics, IT operations, cybersecurity Program at Australia and New Zealand on testing excelled at identifying and more. The program enables DXC Banking Group (ANZ) as the foundation defects and moved on to build their and our clients to collaborate around of the bank’s new Autism@Work initiative, automation skills using the testing shared goals of helping people with the Spectrum Program. In the program’s tool TOSCA. autism thrive in the workforce and frst year, together with ANZ, we achieved All nine trainees were profcient 4 months earlier than expected, returned 12 months’ value in 5 months and delivered a productivity increase of over 50%. ANZ has already transitioned four trainees to permanent roles as ANZ employees and has grown the program by taking on a new cohort of seven trainees in 2019 in cybersecurity and data services roles. A new team of data analysts join the Australian Department of Social Services. 22 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Client experience DXC Social Impact Practice Making work safer This year, DXC launched a new Social • Leveraging DXC’s Digital Transformation for workers “DXC’s Social Impact Impact Practice to help our clients and Centers and strategic incubator Practice is a great To improve the safety of electrical line communities develop and run programs relationship with Stone & Chalk, workers in the feld, a DXC team created progression from DXC’s that beneft individuals and society. We Australia’s leading fntech and a smart, hands-free prototype system Dandelion Program, built our Social Impact Practice on the corporate innovation marketplace, for trial by Essential Energy, a large success of the DXC Dandelion Program, to help clients address business which has had a global electricity distributor in Australia. which helps people on the autism specchallenges and social issues impact to people on the The prototype tested how wearable trum build careers in technology. The spectrum in regards to • Facilitating a social challenge augmented reality (AR) technology DXC Social Impact Practice now helps each year where our employees could improve safety by guiding employment. DXC, being clients develop their own socially benengage with community providers workers in real time and validating their one of the pioneers in this efcial initiatives on the foundation of to analyze how to use technology work. In the trial, we used an AR device our well-established CR expertise and area, has advised many to address social issues, then work attached to a worker’s helmet to provide intellectual capital, and it specifcally organizations including with the practice to develop scalable, them with critical information while enables clients to scale the DXC Dandeour startup program.” sustainable models preserving their freedom of movement lion Program for their own enterprises. as they worked on power poles. The Highlights of the DXC Social Impact Areas of focus for the DXC Social James Mahoney system guided the line worker through Practice are: Impact Practice in its frst year include work instructions, recorded observations Executive Director, Autism at Work, neurodiversity, veterans, indigenous JPMorgan Chase • Creating relationships with community and measurements, and created an employment and climate change. groups and representative academic auditable record (including video and organizations locally and internationally photo evidence) of the work being done. Development of the prototype could assist in capturing auditable video, achieving compliance with safety regulations and procedural steps, and boosting worker productivity by helping workers stay focused on the job. DXC serves more than 6,000 commercial and public-sector clients 23 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Client experience Accelerating the development of 800+ driverless cars Prioritizing access managed cloud clients DXC signed an agreement this year to and analysis to deployment of evolved A DXC team recently helped support BMW’s autonomous vehicle knowledge. Built on an open-source set up and launch a digital Support for development via the High Performance ecosystem, DXC Robotic Drive is avail1 million+ bank created to spearhead D3 platform. DXC provides services that able on-premise or in a cloud or hybrid the fnancial inclusion of help deliver and simplify data analysis environment, allowing workloads to be over 1 billion people in India, applications and algorithmic training to reduce the time moved easily. Engineers can work collabwhere more than 35% of the and cost to develop autonomous vehicles. oratively and in an agile fashion regardpopulation lacks access to less of their geographic locations. Using 8,000+ The BMW Group High Performance banking services. a single platform for storage, processD3 platform supports the autonomous ing and training means hardware and vehicle development program, gathering analytics professionals massive amounts of road-travel data software requirements — and cost and complexity — are reduced. Data can be from the global BMW test feet. Using collected globally but monitored centrally, 10+ DXC’s digital solution, BMW’s manufacmaximizing efciency and reducing cost. turing research and development teams can collect, store and manage vehicle The DXC Robotic Drive platform and Intelligent Security sensor data in seconds rather than toolkit are composed of digital analytOperations Centers days or weeks, resulting in faster autonics, cloud and platform services, and omous drive development cycles. security and applications oferings. Largest DXC ofers a global network of AutomoDXC is focused on enabling autonomous tive Centers of Excellence where DXC’s driving research and development by partners and clients collaborate, build provider of workplace and expediting engineering and testing cycles. and deliver industry innovation. mobility solutions An example of this capability is DXC Robotic Drive, which rapidly accelerates the autonomous driving development process — from data collection, storage 24 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Client experience The 21st-century workplace Enterprises can achieve savings through faster meeting startups (up to 10 minutes’ savings), less time trying to fnd available Digital Transformation rooms for ad hoc meetings (5to 15minute savings) and more efcient Centers workspaces. When integrated with With six locations around in-room audio and video conferencing, the world, DXC’s Digital the DXC solution results in richer and Transformation Centers are more efective collaboration that drives places for digital innovation, a more agile and engaged enterprise. discovery, development and delivery. We work with clients Through these capabilities, clients can at these centers to help them track workspace use through online solve their business problems reports and analytics and get intelliand provide an immersive gent room utilization based on real-time digital culture experience data. Ultimately, our services allow for focusing on the art of space to more accurately refect the Today’s organizations need to create With DXC Smart Working Spaces, we the possible. demands of the business, reducing the ofce environments that support a help clients simplify inefcient workfootprint and the need for travel. Regrowing millennial workforce, improve space reservation and meeting room ductions in the real estate footprint lead employee productivity and optimize the experiences with a fully mobile and to lower energy use and greenhouse use of space, with smart buildings oferintuitive room-booking and indoor waygas emissions, while collaboration tools ing new opportunities for management, fnding experience that provides intellireduce the need for travel, which may automation and analytics spanning the gent workspace planning to improve the also help improve employee well-being. physical and digital realms. use of space. DXC maintains partnerships with more than 200 of the world’s industry-leading companies. 25 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Client experience Public health collaborative and standardized systems Green government that enable cost-efective, higherleadership quality care. For a UK public-sector organization, DXC Bionix DXC provides end-user-environment DXC acquired Molina Medicaid Solutions Artifcial intelligence services across multiple locations. These With DXC Bionix™, we harness (MMS), a Medicaid Management Inforthe power of analytics and mation Systems (MMIS) business, to for antibiotics services support a change in workartifcial intelligence, lean fows across the group, enabling staf bring new benefts to US state agencies processes and leading According to the US Centers for members to operate in a more coordiand Medicaid recipients. DXC provides automation capabilities to Disease Control and Prevention, more nated manner through the provision of health and human services to governcreate a high-defnition view than 30% of antibiotics are overprea set of core IT services. Built into the ment agencies in 29 states, touching of the IT services delivery scribed in outpatient scenarios. Using project is a signifcant environmental the lives of more than 47.3 million active operating environment that data analytics and advanced algobeneft through the recycling of the Medicaid members. DXC Payer Portfolio yields deeper learning and rithms, DXC and the Singapore General former IT estate — with old devices ofers the following services to Medicmore useful information. The Hospital are working on an artifcialbeing refurbished, redeployed and aid benefciaries: provider, encounter, results for clients are fewer intelligence solution to help doctors reused — together with the adoption of third-party liability, insights (analytics), business disruptions, reduced accurately prescribe antibiotics in this approach for all new hardware. In and fraud and abuse prevention. human error and operational high-pressure clinical situations. This addition, we will provide a full reporting The acquisition of MMS enables DXC solution was recognized as one of suite on the end-user-environment derisks, and lower costs. to ofer additional services and benthe most impactful projects by the ployment program, including reducing efts (including pharmacy operations Singapore Ministry of Health as part carbon emissions, reducing impact of IT and drug rebate support) in fve more of the National Health Tech services and increasing the reuse and states, as well as the US Virgin Islands. Challenge awards. recycling of resources. By integrating MMS’ proven software and software-as-a-service architecture, we can ofer more clients interoperable, With a new contract extension announced in 2018, DXC has partnered with the Wisconsin Department of Health Services for over 40 years, helping to provide Medicaid business processes and other services to benefciaries. 26 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Client experience Life-changing recovery provides protocols for the appropriate quality of care, elevated patients’ diagnosis and efective treatment and 12-month continuous abstinence rate to AiR Healthcare Solutions is an internamanagement of substance use disorders, 72% (compared to a 35% national averHumanoid robotics tional provider of disease management mental health disorders, eating disorders age) and improved patient satisfaction and telephone-based care coordination and other chronic behavioral health and well-being while enhancing care Supported by the application solutions for chronic behavioral health conditions. team member efciency. of machine learning and conditions. AiR has evolved since its 2002 artifcial intelligence, DXC’s AiR’s original SQL database could humanoid robot agent helps founding to address not only substance no longer handle the complex relationuse disorders, but all behavioral-healthbanks and wealth managers ships, multiple interactions and sheer recommend and sell insurance related illnesses. Today the organization, volume of information involved with while maintaining the legacy business, solutions personalized the new care management model. The for each customer using is delivering a large-scale solution that old system and process posed a risk meets the needs of the new, value-based, transparent, authentic data that follow-up interactions would fall based on vital image statistics technology-driven healthcare economy. through the cracks, or important data To better care for its patients, AiR’s from the robot. insights might be overlooked. To help multidisciplinary team of behavioral address these challenges, AiR selected health clinicians developed a unique DXC Health360™ Care Coordination care management process model. built on Microsoft cloud technology and It is based on national guidelines and Microsoft Dynamics 365. Among other evidence-based practices and is shaped benefts, the solution has provided new by AiR’s expert opinion. The model insights about patients and improved 27 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Client experience Wearable digital Informatics delivers healthcare gains diabetes coach China’s National Health and Family system improves data sharing between Healthier youth Planning Commission manages more medical and healthcare institutions and The UK National Health Service (NHS) Youth Welfare, known in than 100 primary medical and healthfacilitates the collaboration of processspends $13 billion annually on care for Flemish as Agentschap care institutions in the city of Guiyang. es between medical institutions. It also medical complications stemming from Jongerenwelzin, is one of To improve care and prepare for the minimizes the investments necessary to diabetes. Inadequate and untimely six agencies that make up future, the commission wanted a single participate. Through this collaboration, medical information can shorten the the Flemish Department of information platform so it could more the client has improved medical policies length and quality of life of diabetic Welfare, Public Health and efectively coordinate and deliver covand its ability to drive reforms, obtained patients. Prevention and early treatFamily. Working with DXC, the erage across all those institutions in higher standards of information for the ment of complications from diabetes agency has kept an important this growing city of southwest China. To medical community, and enhanced can improve the lives of patients and software application up to build a foundation for improvement and community access to information and save money. To support NHS, DXC date for thousands of internal to accommodate future growth, DXC recognition of the medical and healthhelped the West of England Academic and external users. During the established an integrated management care sector. Health Science Network create the development, DXC delivered system that covers regional medical infrastructure to deliver mobile health a new working version of the institutions, medical businesses and self-management tools in the form of DOMINO software to Youth a population of 7 million people. The wearable sensors and supporting softWelfare every 3 weeks. Results ware. Our solution provides patient/ have included automated clinical platforms with machine learning claims and risk management and predictive analytics capabilities, processes and reduced risk enabling real-time data views and through data analysis. information sharing. Patients benefted from self-management enabled by real-time views of their data, as well as more timely treatment enabled by the sharing of their data with healthcare professionals. Providers benefted from improved knowledge of diabetic patients and the ability to plan treatment strategies using real-time data. 28 Environment 30 Introduction 34 Renewable energy and carbon strategy 31 Climate risks 35 Waste and water 32 Energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions 37 Management systems 32 DXC’s energy and emissions journey 38 Looking ahead: DXC’s new 3-year environmental plan Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Environment Introduction This is DXC’s second year of reporting progress against our 3-year environmental targets. These targets, which use FY 2017 data as a baseline, were developed from a full materiality assessment. The FY 24.6% reduction in energy 2018 – FY 2020 Global Environmental consumption from our Management Plan communicates DXC’s FY 2017 baseline. key environmental impacts with absolute reduction targets. Full details of the targets and how they were developed are available in the plan. Greenhouse gas emissions Energy consumption IT asset disposal Waste generated Water consumption Management systems achieved from portfolio reconciliation The level of reporting and disclosure that and efciency projects. In FY 2019, DXC DXC provides has also been strengthened. The FY 2017 baseline data and 3-year maintained the 3-year environmental Environmental data is published and targets use a mixture of externally targets with a view to pursuing further available through the Global Environassured data and estimations in order environmental initiatives, increasing the mental Management Plan, which is to represent all locations. In FY 2018, depth of reporting and improving data updated regularly to refect our progress. signifcant progress was made in accuracy. Key environmental impacts In addition, we produce a GRI Report reducing the absolute environmental of IT asset disposal and electricity conannually, and we showcase progress impacts of the business, with greenhouse sumption are well managed, but the adthrough several case studies as well. gas emissions reductions as well as ditional focus for the year has been on With the increasing level of investor scruwaste and water use reductions already refrigerant gas and waste data, which tiny, we have also provided a technical exceeding targets, and energy use reducwill help with operational management guide to aid conversations with investors. tion progressing well. Much of this was of the services. 30 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Environment Climate risks Climate change risk Description Impact Climate-change issues are identifed assessment and management of risk, Increased Increased use of cooling in data centers Increase in operating from reports by the UN Framework within acceptable levels, to promote pricing of due to heat waves and warming conditions; costs and taxes Convention on Climate Change (UNachievement of the organization’s energy and introduction of new carbon pricing FCC) and from the Intergovernmental strategy and objectives. carbon taxes regulations Panel on Climate Change’s Sixth Climate risk assessments are performed Assessment Report, which identify the Top talent Younger talent is more vocal about Loss of top new talent, every 6 months. These assessments current themes and locational issues acquisition working for businesses that have greater reduced ability to guide updates to projected impacts that are developing. These resources positive impact on the environment retain talent and methods for preventing or reducing help us determine not only our climateFailure of Extreme weather causing loss of data Fines for not risks to DXC facilities, operations and related risks but also the regions where data centers center services fulflling contracts, business objectives. DXC will be afected. These are captured loss of clients together as both the risks, in terms of Identifed risks are calibrated against managing them, and opportunities the DXC Enterprise Risk Assessment. Changing Investment decisions that factor in Loss of investment where they relate to services and Risk categories are: Strategic, Operabehavior of climate risk management; serviceand market share regions where DXC operates. tional, Legal and Compliance, Financial, stakeholders purchasing decisions that take into and Reputational. They are discussed account environmental performance DXC has a global Enterprise Risk among relevant business stakeholders Management (ERM) Program that to determine their levels of impact and These risks also present opportunities for DXC — opportunities to: sets the standards, work program and materiality. practices for holistic and standardized • Increase our competitiveness among peers in attracting young talent company-wide ERM. The ERM Program provides a framework for identifcation, • Pursue new environmental, social and governance (ESG) investment funding based on climate management performance • Provide services and products that help clients reduce emissions and save energy • Reduce costs through energy-efciency measures and tax savings 31 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Environment Energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions DXC’s energy and emissions journey An initial reduction target of 15% in Over the past year, DXC has sought to After the success of the frst year, we Energy efciency programs absolute energy was set from the FY improve the accuracy of the data being needed to continue the efciency and 2017 baseline, to be met by FY 2020. collected and gain a better understanding engagement programs globally to instill We have continued the efciency In its frst year of operations, DXC of the portfolio and scope of emissions. a responsible environmental approach. programs for our global ofce portfolio achieved an 11.9% reduction, driven in For energy data, we have focused on the and have extended them to the data center business in the United States. large part by portfolio rationalization. use of natural gas and diesel at our sites, Improving the quality of data together with onsite generated renewable Across the ofce portfolio, there has In FY 2019 global energy consumption In FY 2019 we sought to improve the been a continued focus on temperature energy. The accuracy of the data fell 14.5% from the previous year, and a quality of data captured across our setpoints and moderating these to proincreased by over 25% from the previous cumulative 24.6% from the baseline to global portfolio of more than 450 vide a comfortable working environment year, with more actual and verifed data 1,867,920 megawatt hours. Scope 2 energy locations and 30 million square feet across the larger sites. The optimization being captured. now accounts for 95% of total energy of space. This has been a business-wide has followed a fve-level structure, moving consumption. efort involving the real estate teams, from efciency through controls to Global energy intensity (by revenue) data center operations and business asset restructuring. Key improvement Global energy consumption functions. A large part of this work has areas have involved: (MWh) been undertaken as part of the property FY FY FY • Conducting night audits for heating, 2017 2018 2019 management teams’ eforts to restructure ventilation, air conditioning and the portfolio and confrm lease arrange-11.9% lighting to ensure schedules are Revenue 25,394 24,556 20,753 ments with several smaller facilities. The ($M) efective -24.6% improvement in information has enabled a better understanding of the properties • Calibrating thermostats Intensity (MWh/$M) 97.62 88.98 90.01 in scope and how DXC can initiate • Aligning heating and cooling setpoints improvements with landlords. Overall, the accuracy of the information is now • Resetting heating, ventilation, air 85% — a signifcant improvement from conditioning and lighting schedules the previous year, when 67% of data • Removing additional lighting where was from actual sources. there is overcapacity * Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions — Emissions • Updating building management Baseline from sources that are owned or controlled by the company systems (e.g., owned or controlled boilers, vehicles) FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 2,478,864 2,184,908 1,867,920 † Scope 2: Electricity indirect greenhouse gas emissions — Emissions from the generation of purchased Scope 1* Scope 2† electricity consumed by the company 32 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Environment Reducing emissions Global greenhouse gas emissions * Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions — Emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the company (tCO2e) (e.g., owned or controlled boilers, vehicles) Our reporting is aligned to the Scope 2: Electricity indirect greenhouse gas Data center airfow † requirements of international emissions — Emissions from the generation of purchased reporting standards such as the -15.1% electricity consumed by the company optimization Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Our -21.3% ‡ Scope 3: Other indirect emissions — Emissions from We expanded our energy approach for collecting and reporting activities such as transportation via vehicles not owned or controlled by the company (e.g., company travel by air) savings program for data data on greenhouse gas emissions is centers through a largeexternally assured in accordance with We achieved our greenhouse gas scale initiative to optimize ISO 14064-3:2018. In FY 2019, this limitemissions reduction target of 15% last airfow. In-depth analysis ed assurance was provided by Lloyd’s year and continued our progress with was completed on 12 data Register.* a further reduction of 7.4% this year, centers in the United States achieving a total reduction of 21.3% to bring cooling systems into from the baseline. Eighty-fve percent of alignment with the current * Limited assurance has been provided by Lloyd’s this year’s data is from actual sources Register for FY 2018 and FY 2019 greenhouse gas Baseline IT equipment. Through this emissions. The FY 2017 baseline has not been assured. FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 as opposed to estimates. initiative, more than 250 air 1,128,608 958,598 887,809 The bulk of emissions (83%) was conditioning units were turned Scope 1* Scope 2† Scope 3‡ generated from electricity consumed in of and fan speeds were the company’s ofces and data centers. reduced on more than 200 Scope 3 emissions increased again additional units. in FY 2019 due to changes in supplier reporting, which will be investigated further next year. LED lighting Greenhouse gas emissions DXC continued its LED lighting initiative with large-scale projects intensity (by revenue) in India. The Noida facility in the New Delhi area and B4 Mindspace facility in Hyderabad converted fuorescent lighting to new LED FY FY FY fxtures, saving energy and providing occupants with better lighting 2017 2018 2019 for their work areas. These projects are anticipated to save a combined 1.5 million kilowatt hours of electricity per year while signifcantly Revenue 25,394 24,556 20,753 ($M) improving lighting levels. In addition, LED lighting is installed as a corporate standard at all new sites, including the recently opened Intensity ofce in New Orleans, Louisiana. 44.44 39.04 42.78 (tCO2e/$M) 33 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Environment Renewable energy and carbon strategy The recent report from the Intergoverncarbon strategy, which follows a 2. In addition to efciency measures, Purchasing renewable mental Panel on Climate Change structured plan: DXC is actively purchasing renewable raised the need for further carbon energy, which already makes up a energy 1. DXC is implementing efciency reduction measures to limit the planet signifcant portion of our electricity Across the global portfolio, measures across the existing to a temperature increase of 1.5 degrees purchased in Europe. This approach DXC has sought to purchase estate covering ofce, data center Celsius. DXC has accepted our role in will be extended to other regions renewable energy from and transportation activities for reducing direct emissions from our where suitable energy provisions suppliers, amounting to the business. This will extend the activities across the global portfolio. are available. In FY 2019, 17% of the 317,601 megawatt hours of current energy efciency investment We also recognize that our services to company’s electricity came from energy. The supply comes program across the ofce and data clients can play a signifcant role in renewable energy sources. mostly from the majoritycenter portfolios to optimize building reducing their emissions. owned wind farm in Texas, performance. The program will also 3. DXC will promote the generation of together with hydroelectric DXC has developed a forward-thinking look to occupy efcient premises and renewable and low-carbon energy energy purchased in Sweden approach to our renewable energy and use technology to reduce the amount onsite. Several facilities include solar and Denmark. Further sources of travel necessary. photovoltaics and low-carbon heat of renewable energy have provision, and this will be extended as been identifed, and we are viable sites are identifed. A total of working with suppliers to 680 megawatt hours was generated confrm the criteria. in FY 2019 — an increase of over 50% from FY 2018. 34 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Environment Waste and water Waste generation This year we were able to determine the leasing options that ensure equipment Waste reduction proportion of waste generated and its is maintained efectively and returned initiatives in India In the frst year as DXC, we met our fnal disposal route — whether recyto DXC. These options are aligned with waste reduction target of 10% against Paper cup reduction. In cled, energy recovery or landflled. A our circular economy approach with a the FY 2017 baseline. This was achieved nearly all facilities in India, signifcant portion of materials are review to reduce the generation of waste through portfolio consolidation and DXC replaced paper cups used and do not enter the waste stream, by maintaining assets in use through greater use of technology. These with reusable ceramic cups and these have not been included in upgrades. initiatives have continued in FY 2019, and polycarbonate glasses, a these calculations. Over 40% of waste with several signifcant programs change that touches more than materials were recycled, and a further Disposal of IT materials implemented in India to reduce 30,000 employees. Facilitated 15% were disposed of with energy re(“Other” includes small pieces paper consumption. by employee engagement and covery. The collection of waste data this generated from equipment; “Misc.” communication, the change year was complicated by the variety includes monitors, printers, etc.) Waste generation has removed over 10 million of approaches and terminology used (metric tons per year) paper cups from the waste around the world to capture waste-genMisc. Other stream annually, resulting in an FY 2020 eration and disposal data. 11.1% 36.6% anticipated 40,000 kilograms of target Desktop 8.2% paper being saved. -21.0% IT asset disposal Restroom tissue. Similarly, Although not a manufacturer, DXC prorestroom tissue for the India vides hardware assets to clients, as well sites was updated to save paper. -51.3% as advice on what hardware solutions A smaller design and fold of tissue Notebook and packages meet their requirements. 10.9% towels in washrooms and hand We take seriously our role of helping to wash areas was used with the reduce the environmental impacts of Servers Storage same functionality. With this 20.3% these assets, in terms of their energy 12.9% simple change, 12,000 kilograms consumption and fnal disposal. of paper has been saved Working with our partners, we ofer a each month. Baseline Target range of solutions to promote the reFY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 cycling and reuse of hardware assets. 16,247,557 12,837,885 7,920,227 15,331,838 This includes taking back client-owned legacy equipment, promoting asset upgrades to extend their life, and 35 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Environment Proportion of items by weight Water consumption Water consumption (m3 per year) 100% The 10% reduction target for water consumption was achieved in the frst Water saving initiatives FY 2020 year. Additional savings were achieved in India target in FY 2019 for a total reduction of 16.8% -12.9% -16.8% In DXC’s Bangalore and against the FY 2017 baseline. Good Chennai ofces, aerators were practice measures and staf awareness installed in faucets. This simple have helped to identify where efciency tap-based mechanism has measures can be implemented to rehelped save 150 kiloliters and duce water usage and rectify any leaks. 198 kiloliters of water per month Further investigation into water usage in Bangalore and Chennai, throughout the portfolio highlighted the respectively. signifcant volumes used in leased ofcData center Workplace es. In the United States and the United Kingdom, two sites have rainwater Resale Recycle harvesting systems for use in the humidBaseline Target ifcation system, toilets and sprinkler FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 In FY 2019, DXC generated 859 metric 3,141,342 2,735,249 2,612,777 2,827,208 systems. At one facility, water from a tons of IT items for disposal, the majorinatural well is used for irrigation. ty of which constituted servers and their enclosures. A total of 65% was reused, meaning the items were cleaned and upgraded for a second use instead of being added to the waste stream. The remaining amount was recycled as parts, with less than 1% going to disposal without recovery. 36 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Environment Management systems DXC maintains global certifcations Our ISO 50001 energy management Earth Day for both the environment and energy system will be reviewed in line with the management systems (ISO 14001 and 2018 version of the standard, which DXC held several Earth Day ISO 50001, respectively) at strategic will also allow for alignment with the events around the world in locations. Our certifed locations cover environmental program and common FY 2019. Activities included: more than 20% of DXC’s greenhouse approaches. This program has helped • Walk-to-work campaign gas emissions footprint. in identifying energy initiatives and To reduce plastic, DXC employees in • Plastic waste collection rolling them out across the data center France conducted a workshop for producing DXC maintained global certifcation to initiatives portfolio in a structured manner, as natural toiletries. ISO 14001 working with our certifcation part of the energy efciency • Beach and urban cleanups provider. We continue to develop an inmanagement system. tegrated approach to our management • Plastic-free initiatives at our systems, including our ISO 50001sites in Sofa, Bulgaria, and certifed energy management system. Bratislava, Slovakia The integration of the environmental • Recycling and waste management systems of the two awareness initiatives, organizations that merged to create including food-packaging DXC (CSC and the Enterprise Services recycle schemes business of Hewlett Packard Enterprise) On Earth Day, DXC employees planted trees in will be completed in FY 2020. Further arSotanga, Romania. eas of focus for our certifcation eforts will include the Digital Transformation Centers — regional hubs in which DXC teams work with our clients on their digital transformation initiatives. DXC employees in Taiwan donated their time on Earth Day to clean up a beach. 37 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Environment Looking ahead: DXC’s new 3-year environmental plan We have updated our assessment of the Achieving our targets We will continue our strategy of DXC will use a structured management environmental factors afecting DXC’s focusing on well-designed buildings system to coordinate all these activioperations in order to better understand Our absolute reduction targets require that have a low environmental impact ties. The standards provide an opporthe key issues that will afect the business us to assess where activities can be and support a healthy and productive tunity to ensure best practices are in the future. More and more, investors avoided to signifcantly reduce workforce. Measures will be rolled out understood, documented and rolled out are requesting reporting across a range environmental impacts, rather than and performance will be monitored across the portfolio with progress and of ranking bodies. Renewable energy simply considering efciencies. We will regularly to track progress and support success measured in a tangible way. has also become a higher priority for explore opportunities for renewable the sharing of best practices. We have They are fundamental to achieving our the business with our role as a high-level energy contracts, starting with facilities also set out a series of activities to targets and are embedded in the way energy consumer. We have set targets in the United States and India. These reduce energy, waste and water we work. for the areas of greatest importance arrangements will provide low-carbon consumption, and costs. energy to strategic ofces and data For details, see the new Global for DXC and our stakeholders. Environmental Management Plan. centers. Environmental targets Greenhouse 20% absolute greenhouse gas emissions reduction (tCO2e) DXC’s new global environmental gas emissions sustainability targets are based on a Covers the global ofce and data center portfolio and applies 3-year program, given the fast pace of to Scope 1 and 2 emissions and Scope 3 travel emissions change in our business. We maintain a Energy 12% absolute energy reduction (MWh) commitment to absolute reduction consumption targets, which aligns with the spirit Covers the global ofce and data center portfolio of the UN Sustainable Development Renewable 30% renewable electricity purchased or generated Goals and the Climate Agreements. energy Covers the global ofce and data center portfolio The plan uses FY 2019 as a baseline, with progress evaluated annually. Water 15% absolute reduction in mains water globally E-waste Zero e-waste to landfll (%) through the promotion of reuse Waste 15% absolute reduction in waste generated globally (metric tons) 38 Employees 40 Diverse talents. Inclusive teams. 44 Tomorrow’s technology skills, today 41 Reimagining neurodiversity 45 Accelerated learning 42 Investing in progress 46 Health and safety 43 The innovative spirit of DXC Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Employees Diverse talents. Inclusive teams. Equality and transparency DXC commits to maintaining a work At DXC, we are proud of our inclusive • In turn, we apply our talent, service environment free from unlawful For the frst time, DXC is and diverse culture. Our commitment oferings and partnerships to improve discrimination and harassment participating in the Corporate to inclusion and diversity brings many communities and drive positive social against any applicant, employee, Equality Index, an annual benefts to our global business: change around the world. vendor, contractor or client. We prohibit benchmark sponsored by • With a diverse team, we can more To foster a better understanding of retaliation against anyone who comthe Human Rights Campaign efectively design services to meet inclusion and diversity and ways to plains of harassing or discriminatory Foundation that reviews our the needs of clients from diverse combat bias, we provide employees conduct or who has participated in a company policies concerning backgrounds. with on-demand educational resources, company or agency investigation into the LGBTQ community in the including disability-focused training, a complaint. We also promote equal workplace. • Innovation is the byproduct of an through the DXC University online learnopportunity through the support of pay inclusive, diverse workplace in which ing platform. To further demonstrate transparency, and we bar discriminapeople feel comfortable sharing their our commitment to these principles, tion against employees or applicants ideas and perspectives. DXC recently joined the International who inquire about or disclose their own • As a service provider, our actions and Labour Organization’s Global Business pay or the pay of another employee commitment to responsible inclusion and Disability Network — a worldwide or applicant. and diversity practices help us retain network of organizations working toclients and win their support. gether to promote disability inclusion in • When our teams refect the world’s the workplace. diversity, we are also able to continue attracting the highest levels of professional talent. ~138,000 DXC professionals serve clients in over 70 countries. 40 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Employees Reimagining neurodiversity The DXC Dandelion Program helps people over 100 people on the autism spectrum. • DXC and the Cooperative Research DXC open-sources the on the autism spectrum build valuable Here are some program highlights: Centre for Living with Autism (Autism Dandelion Program technology, life and executive functioning CRC) hosted, for the third time, the methodology through Cornell • New DXC neurodiversity hubs in skills and fnd rewarding careers in the Autism@Work Summit in Melbourne, University’s Yang-Tan Institute Australia and the United States global IT industry. A 3-year roadmap of Australia. Sponsored by NAB, the summit to allow other organizations enable us to collect and share carefully designed transformation, the featured guest speakers from the United to use our knowledge and ideas for improving employment program seeks to improve the well-being States, including John Marble, who is organizational management pathways for students on the and capabilities of Dandelion Program autistic and a leader in innovation and tools to remove employment autism spectrum. Partners are Curtin team members by integrating feedback autism advocacy and worked at the barriers for people with autism. University, University of South Australia, from trainees, autism-spectrum consultWhite House during US President Barack To date, there have been 4,619 Macquarie University, the University ants, technical support employees and Obama’s administration. We also downloads of 43 materials of Queensland, Australia National the latest research. We expanded the launched the frst Autism@Work Leaders posted and 2,683 page hits University, Swinburne University, program recently with the Australia and Summit in Auckland, New Zealand. from 390 institutions in 87 Landmark College and the City New Zealand Banking Group (ANZ), as countries. We regularly send University of New York. • We continue to modify and enhance well as the Australian Department of new information to Cornell as our program through partnerships Human Services and Department of Home • We are helping to develop assistive with Cornell University, Stanford we help expand this repository. Afairs, and we added new partnerships tools and technologies that better University, La Trobe University (Olga with National Australia Bank (NAB) and support program participants and Tennison Autism Research Centre), the Australian Federal Government staf, including a phone app, a gamethe University of Haifa, Ono Academic Department of Social Services. To date, based model for better understanding College, the Ro’im Rachok Israel DXC has established 10 teams across participants, and a technical platform Defense Forces program, Autism four states in Australia, employing manager. CRC, Autism New Zealand, Uptimize, pymetrics and Life Sherpa. Awards recognizing DXC’s inclusive and diverse culture include the ISG ANZ Paragon Award, Best of the Best by DIVERSEability Magazine, Leading Disability Employer by the National Organization on Disability, Best Place to Work by the Disability Equality Index, Best Place to Work for LGBT Equality by the Human Rights Campaign, 100 Best Companies by Working Mother, Corporation of the Year by the Hispanic IT Executive Council, Top 50 Employer by CAREERS & the disABLED magazine, and Top 50 Employer by Woman Engineer. 41 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Employees Investing in progress in learning and networking events where Tysons, Virginia. The Accelerate leaders In March 2019, DXC launched Learning partnership they meet with other local interns, actively model and advocate for the a 2-week program to celebrate As a gold-level member of the College recent college graduates and role of women leaders in technology International Women’s Day of Computing & Informatics (CCI) executive leaders. in their individual business units. Their on March 8. We promoted Corporate Partners Program at Drexel roles include mentoring, sponsoring the program’s events across University, DXC helps the technology the myDXC employee portal Expanded opportunity STEM and diversity initiatives, leading experts of the future hone skills and our eforts in support of International and the DXC Workplace prepare to bring digital innovation In October 2018, we formally launched platform, where 860 employees Women’s Day, and demonstrating visito life. In FY 2020, through the DXC– DXC Accelerate, our fagship program participated. Highlights ble leadership in the regions and busiDrexel partnership, we look forward for high-potential women-executive included interviews with DXC’s ness units. In parallel in 2018, our United to launching a graduate-level college leaders in technology. The program repsenior women leaders, a panel Kingdom and Ireland team launched program for international students to resents a strategic investment for DXC discussion and a session on the Maximise Program to accelerate travel to the United States to pursue and focuses on the development of 50 achieving work–life balance the development of our women-inmaster’s degrees in one of four top women leaders to prepare them for while giving back to the leadership pipeline. subjects — computer science, data higher-impact roles in DXC. Their succommunity. science, information systems or softcess will create strategic value for our ware engineering — and agree to clients and our business. Participants continue with DXC after graduation are given the opportunity to work on in one of our six Digital Transformaa business challenge as a core project tion Centers. Drexel CCI students who through the duration of the program hold co-op positions within DXC gain with executive support and mentoring, experience with a range of digital and in preparation for presenting to the DXC advanced technologies, from artifcial Board of Directors at the conclusion intelligence to blockchain, and take part of the program at our headquarters in This year we hosted members of the Accelerate Program at DXC’s Digital Transformation Centers in the Philippines and the United Kingdom for events that provided immersive leadership training while incorporating community initiatives. 42 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Employees The innovative spirit of DXC DXC supports employees with multiple leaders. Employees receive Tech Honors DXC Workplace is our internal social Through DXC Labs, our programs that encourage the innovative recognition at three levels: Fellow, Dismedia platform that allows employees professionals have used virtual thinking, advanced technology expertise tinguished (including Architect, Engito receive real-time news feeds and take reality to reinvent the IndyCar and future-ready solutions clients expect. neer and Technologist) and Master. daily action to quickly connect and auto racing fan experience, The DXC Technology Awards for Techcollaborate with colleagues all over the created a voice-enabled At DXC Digital Transformation Centers, nical Excellence recognize people in world. This virtual water cooler ofers bedside hospital assistant employees co-develop solutions to busiour technology community who deliver work chats, the ability to create and join and harnessed machine vision ness problems with our clients by designextraordinary results for our clients and groups, convenient mobile access and to fght crime with real-time ing, piloting, scaling and operating digital are leading them forward on their digital other features that help our global team license plate detection. We products. Digital Transformation Centers transformation journeys. Winning share knowledge in order to generate also created an experimental use design thinking in the development solutions demonstrate modern digital new ideas and serve our clients. voice-activated (Amazon Alexa) and deployment of business solutions design, digital efciency in delivery and cloud-controlled (AWS IoT) for our global clients, integrating DXC’s Launched this year, DXC Communities and tangible business outcomes. drone that uses three-word leading digital services. Similarly, DXC of Interest bring together colleagues Similarly, the DXC Tech Honors program Labs provide employees with resources to foster dialogue, collaboration and identifers to provide location identifes and celebrates the members of to research and build reference architecthought leadership. Following an enterdirections accurate to within our technology community who achieve tures and prototypes for practical busiprise Agile framework, the forums span 3 square meters, anywhere in and sustain extremely high levels of perness use. Through these innovation hubs DXC’s industries, oferings, partners and the world. sonal development, contribute to DXC we introduce emerging technologies into emerging technologies. Twenty groups innovation and client outcomes, use their our industries and oferings, including now exist to help colleagues explore expertise to drive technology innovation drones, modeling, virtual and augmentblockchain and other areas of imporin their domains, and actively support ed reality, machine learning, brain wave tance for DXC and our clients. the growth of tomorrow’s technology monitoring, and 3D printing. DXC was named a Military Friendly Employer 2019 in recognition of our commitment, efort and success in creating sustainable and meaningful beneft for the military community in the United States. 43 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Employees Tomorrow’s technology skills, today The DXC University online learning contextualized learning for our employWith the DXC Technologist Reskilling During National Disability platform gives our employees on-the-go ees, and virtual practice labs enabled Program, more than 4,600 employees Employment Awareness Month access to skill development and career our professionals to interact and expercompleted advanced technical training in the United States, DXC management resources such as coursiment with technology and solutions in through our DXC Partner Network learnreceived three recognitions: a es, videos, books and more. In FY 2019, low-risk, exploratory environments. ing portals. DXC employees now have Leading Disability Employer more than 100,000 DXC University more than 10,000 certifcations in nextSeal from the National In alignment with our global hiring participants completed more than 1.1 gen and digital platforms, including Organization on Disability, a strategy, DXC enhanced the Day 1 – million learning hours, including over AWS, Microsoft Azure, VMware, MicroBest Place to Work for Disability 90 Onboarding Experience for new 72,000 courses in Agile, cloud and soft Dynamics, Agile/Scrum/SAFe and Inclusion Award, and a Best of employees, their hiring managers and next-generation digital skills. More than ServiceNow. the Best Top Disability-Friendly onboarding buddies around the world 122,000 digital badges were awarded — Companies Award from by deploying a custom global DXC Onincluding from the Industrialized AI DIVERSEability Magazine. boarding web app with personalized Day Open Badge Academy — demonstrat1 – 90 onboarding checklists, dashboards ing capability in what digital innovaand activity-completion tracking. During tion means for DXC, customer benefts FY 2019, more than 26,400 personalized In FY 2019, DXC was awarded from the digital revolution and key DXC checklists were generated in the web the Technology and Developer digital oferings. Our four DXC Learning app by more than 65,000 unique visitors Excellence Innovation Award by Academies — Digital, Sales, Leadership in 70 countries, resulting in an 81% Skillsoft for driving innovative and Business Skills — improved and satisfaction rate for new employees. and efective learning programs using Skillsoft’s program management services and learning resources to upskill and reskill technical consultants on emerging 1,127,180 8.8 100,861 learning hours completed average learning hours unique employees accessed technologies. completed per employee learning 103,000+ 18,000+ 72,500+ next-gen legacy and core employees acquired DevOps courses completed on agile certifcations Dojo white/green/yellow belts cloud and next-gen skills 44 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Employees Accelerated learning Through the DXC Graduate and Early Program is a sales certifcation promodules in the Aspiring Leaders and Spanning 21 days, the 2019 Career Programs and related initiatives gram designed to equip our client-facing Management Foundations programs. DXC Learnathon presented with our higher-education partners, we leaders with the knowledge and skills And more than 2,500 participants from employees with an array recently welcomed interns from around necessary to conduct efective dialogue Asia, Europe and the Americas attended of “knowledge nuggets” the globe and formalized relationships about DXC and lead clients on their digsessions in our Accelerate: 10x10 Leaderdelivered via live events, with select colleges, including Drexel ital transformation journeys. White Belt ship series. The DXC Leadership Fundawebinars, 1-minute videos, University. These co-op programs allow modules are web-based and available to mentals program, piloted in the Australia virtual scavenger hunts and students to work side by side with our all employees, while Yellow Belt Specialty and New Zealand region, was launched other events to encourage technical teams and receive mentoring web-based training enables client-facing in other regions in 2019 to help leaders greater fuency with the digital on innovations such as artifcial intelleaders to analyze relevant case studies, develop an understanding of the neurofoundations of our business. ligence and robotics. In FY 2019, DXC apply selling skills to client situations science of leadership and develop hired more than 3,000 graduates to deand track business outcomes. strategies to engage their teams more liver the latest digital skills to our clients. efectively, make solid connections, and We launched the DXC Leadership The DXC Sales Academy maps learning use a coaching mindset to develop a Academy as a global ofering in FY 2019 assets to sales competencies to accelhigh-performance culture. More than 150 to combine leadership theory and pracerate skill development and provides a leaders completed the Leadership Funtice, ofer development for each stage of 4-week FastStart onboarding program damentals program in our Australia and leadership and provide a multifaceted for new sales hires to expedite role-based New Zealand and Asia regions. learning experience. Over 3,100 leaders learning. The related DXC Spartans completed more than 35,500 e-learning During FY 2019, DXC enabled more than 3,500 employees to In FY 2019, more than 10,000 improve their business English language competency through participation in a program that met learners where they live and work, including with self-paced on-demand structured learning and personal advisory and coaching services. Improved language profciency helps employees collaborate more efciently and DXC employees completed Spartans White Belt training, refecting specialized enables DXC to deliver better business outcomes to our clients. expertise in engaging with our clients. 45 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Employees Health and safety We emphasize preventing work-related The DXC Emergency injuries and illnesses, and we tailor our Preparedness program gives safety programs to minimize hazards. employees easy access to site For example, because slips, trips and emergency procedures before falls are a leading cause of lost workthey travel to DXC locations. It days at DXC, we publish an online also provides a uniform way to health advisory to raise awareness of communicate to our employees the most frequent types of accidents. It critical information that includes practical tips for staying safe will assist in the safe egress in the ofce and manufacturing areas from our locations during an The DXC Environmental Health and Safety nize that employees are most productive and advice on avoiding incidents. We emergency. (EHS) organization helps DXC identify when they are healthy. conduct regular inspections to identify and reduce health and safety risks and potential hazards and use preventive We administer our health and safety comply with the law. Protecting our emhousekeeping measures. Among our programs as part of a comprehensive The DXC Pandemic Protocols ployees’ health and safety is a natural challenges are meeting the needs of EHS management system that meets or Handbook provides employees extension of our commitment to make an increasingly mobile workforce, with exceeds applicable regulatory requirewith medical fact sheets and DXC a great place to work. We own and many of our employees working from ments globally. This system aligns with detailed information about lease facilities across the world, and our client sites and other locations. the internationally recognized Occuhow to respond to disease global scale gives us the opportunity to pational Health and Safety Assessment DXC’s EHS program ensures compliance outbreaks that may afect our positively afect many diferent comSeries standard OHSAS 18001 as well as with regional health and safety regulations workplaces and operations, munities and the environment. We take the ANSI Z10 (American National Standas well as best practices to minimize the including guidelines for risk seriously our responsibility to provide a ard) and ILO-OSH 2001 standards. occurrence of accidents and provide a analysis, site actions, use of safe working environment, and we recogsafe working environment for our emprotective equipment and ployees and third parties. Site safety more. managers and regional EHS representaThe DXC Ergonomics Program provides options for a workstation tives also report on local site and reassessment that systematically reviews work activities to gional health and safety requirements. identify tasks that pose ergonomic risks to employees and In addition, it is the responsibility of all outlines solutions. Following the risk assessment, we can employees to be aware of DXC’s health implement preventive strategies such as process redesign and safety requirements and to report or modifed engineering controls. unsafe practices, equipment and conditions to managers for remediation. 46 Community 48 The DXC Foundation 49 Digital futures 53 STEM revolution 54 Brighter horizons 50 Comprehensive commitments 55 Helping children thrive 51 Feeding the hungry 56 Green priorities 52 Tomorrow’s technologists Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Community The DXC Foundation A registered 501(c) charity in the United make it easier for them to make a diferdonations to charities of their choice. DXC Cares States, the DXC Foundation leverages ence, at the local and global levels. Any DXC employee can participate by community investment as a strategic submitting a brief essay describing an Through the DXC Cares social Through the DXC Gives program, we media program, we regularly opportunity to ignite employee engageact of community service by one or help build up the communities where we recognize and celebrate ment and develop the client, partner and more DXC employees. Winners typically live and do business as well as celebrate the inspiring community community relationships that strengthen demonstrate excellence in collaboration, the volunteerism and dedication of our involvement of our employees our business performance and enhance problem-solving, energy and community people. Employees who win the quarall over the world. Images, our global brand. With targeted grants impact. terly DXC Gives Charity Challenge tweets, stories and blog posts and programs, we partner with our emreceive the opportunity to guide $5,000 on internal and external ployees around the world in ways that communications channels demonstrate the diversity of DXC Foundation philanthropy: Our giving priorities DXC’s commitment to service. Focus area Mission Activities/community partners Education Foster global literacy, with a focus on science, Investing time, energy and funds in schools, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) programs and events focused on STEM learning, knowledge for students from kindergarten to college including charitable organizations that ofer scholarships Health and Enhance people’s health and wellness at local and Collaborating with programs that support veterans, wellness global levels, with a focus on veterans, the disabled wounded warriors and their families; create better and children in need lives for the disabled; and work to eliminate child hunger and poverty Disaster Deliver emergency assistance to victims of natural Helping to provide emergency assistance in multiple relief disaster or periods of crisis or trauma forms after high-severity disasters worldwide The DXC Foundation honors employees who give back to their communities by awarding these employees $5,000 grants to direct to local philanthropic organizations. 48 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Community Digital futures Through this initiative, many children To date, our team has brought digital Through an array of programs, Transforming rural schools living in India’s rural areas now have exclassrooms to schools in 14 remote DXC in India provided 100 After researching and identifying underpanded opportunities, on par with their villages, touching the lives of 6,000 young women with driver served schools in remote, rural areas, a urban-dwelling counterparts, to explore children. At these schools, pass rates education to help break DXC team in India communicates with new sources of information via the interhave improved, students have earned social and economic barriers village representatives and school mannet while learning technology skills that state and national prizes in academics related to automobile use; agement agencies to determine what enable digital fuency and ofer pathand sports, teachers have won recogniprovided 2,800 girls from kinds of support each group of schoolways to IT careers. Approximately 70 DXC tion for initiatives they have been able underprivileged backgrounds children needs to help them reach their employees originally spearheaded the to devise outside the curriculum, and with life skills training; and educational goals. project, sharing ideas and supporting the our team has coordinated with school delivered academic support Based on these fndings, our team cause of outreach to students in need. systems to secure additional classroom to approximately 1,000 female typically provides the school with basic Today, some 400 volunteers from throughspace for the students. students in collaboration with amenities frst, including purifed drinkout the community, including software Project Nanhi Kali. ing water, shoes and sports equipment engineers, doctors and lawyers, are to help students engage in physical participating in the DXC-led project. ftness. Our volunteers then clean up the school environment and paint murals depicting inspirational themes. By fulflling a school’s basic needs, we create the foundation for the next phase of the volunteer program, when the DXC team donates and installs fully outftted digital classrooms incorporating devices and infrastructure. A DXC team in India provides basic necessities Establishing digital classrooms in village schools for schoolchildren in rural areas. expands opportunities for students. Through a partnership with the Isha Vidhya nongovernmental organization, DXC India has helped with educational scholarships for 1,500 schoolchildren who live in poverty. 49 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Community Comprehensive commitments DXC volunteers in India visited Expanding opportunity more than 125 villages with the DXC employees in India joined forces this year to create positive community Mobile Health Van, conducting impacts, with an emphasis on expanding the opportunities available to over 300 health camps and impoverished children for education and career training. completing over 25,000 checkups. In addition, DXC India employees donated 2,200 Networked Dynamic Learning Established 60 NDLCs as knowledge hubs Connected female students in communities units of blood to various centers Centers (NDLCs) for girls in Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad and government schools or government-aided to help people afected by and Delhi private schools serving underprivileged children blood disorders. with each other using cloud computing and networking technologies to enrich knowledge sharing and learning In FY 2019, the DXC India team Mobile Health Van Provided funding for vans with state-of-the-art Extended health services and research councarried out educational and equipment to enable wellness checkups, medtrywide using technology to reduce illness vocational training programs ical testing and research, and environmental across 250 to 300 villages per year for 2 years that touched the lives of more assessments for air and water pollution than 16,000 primary and secondary school students, Career development centers Established micro-level vocational training Trained 2,000 students and achieved a 40% more than 300 people with centers to meet the skilling and job placement placement rate in the initial phase of a 3-year disabilities and over 9,000 needs of the large employable cohort residing project aiming to reach 7,400 young people university-level STEM students. in impoverished urban areas of Uttar Pradesh, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bangalore IT skills training Created skill-development opportunities for Trained and helped secure employment for 50 people with disabilities who are graduates candidates from the new ready-to-hire talent or diploma holders, enabling them to be jobpool ready in the IT sector #NeverTooLate campaign Partnered with the Make a Diference (MAD) Equipped employees to take action in their own foundation to drive awareness of the challengspheres of infuence to improve understanding es faced by 35 million disadvantaged children of social inequalities and help children in need in India 50 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Community Feeding the hungry uses social media to fundraise, coorDXC India sponsored hot, Improving food security Healthy meals for children dinates the eforts of 12 churches and freshly cooked, unlimited A DXC employee founded and leads A DXC volunteer in the United States other local organizations that donate nutritious meals 6 days a Bucks County Food Runners, a nonprofrecently founded a local afliate of food, and works with school counseweek to 1,053 students at it volunteer organization that serves as the Lovepacs organization, which was lors to identify students who qualify Bengaluru Government a conduit between people in an area of created to help schoolchildren in a US for government nutritional assistance School in association with the Pennsylvania who experience food insecucommunity who received backpacks of and could beneft from the program. Akshayapatra Foundation. rity and local restaurants with extra food food to take home on Fridays because Through our DXC volunteer’s leadership, to donate. Creating this organization from they lacked enough food for the week500 students from 25 schools now althe ground up required extensive research end. To support food-insecure children ways have food during holiday breaks. and networking to learn best practices in during holiday breaks, which can last A DXC team in Canada helped For the longest holiday breaks, such as the Greater Vancouver Food food safety and handling, management of a week or longer, the Lovepacs afliChristmas, each food package costs liability issues, the amount of excess food ate provides food to last through every Bank process donations and $40 and weighs 35 pounds. Overall, prepare nutritious meals for normally produced by restaurants, the school holiday for needy students from the Lovepacs network feeds more than level of food insecurity in the region, the kindergarten through the 12th grade in food-insecure people in the city. 3,000 students from 150 schools during number of local food distribution agencies Lewisville, Flower Mound and Highland holiday breaks. and more. Through its mission of feeding Village, Texas. The volunteer-run team the hungry, the organization sources edible food destined to be discarded and redirects it to social service agencies that provide food to those in need. Since saving over 10 tons of food in 2015, Bucks County Food Runners has expanded its reach and community infuence, delivering over 25 tons of food in 2018 in four counties spanning two US states. More than 100 volunteers collect and deliver the food, and the organization now partners with 25 agencies, shelters, pantries and community centers that serve thousands of underprivileged people in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. Bucks County Food Runners volunteers collect food for those in need. 51 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Community Tomorrow’s technologists After an interview process, the DXC Volunteers from DXC in Building dreams community selected two ambassadors South Africa worked with an Indigenous Wayuu children in the to travel to La Guajira to help build underserved school in Cape remote La Guajira region of northern the school. Our employees used trowTown to create a fully equipped Colombia now have a new, bright els and paint brushes as they worked computer and science lab yellow, two-classroom IT school thanks side by side with volunteers from the to enrich student learning, to eforts by employee volunteers from Ankarstiftelsen charity, a Swedish nonEmployee Ambassadors from DXC’s NCE region establish a training program to DXC’s North and Central Europe (NCE) governmental organization. The buildworked with other volunteers to build the IT assist teachers in incorporating region. The NCE Employee Ambassador ing was completed ahead of schedule, school in La Guajira. the lab into lesson plans and network, which plans and executes and the school — a frst for DXC — was help the school align curriculum employee-driven initiatives for the inaugurated on February 22. oferings with STEM felds region, began the project in November and university-preparation 2018. Approximately 200 Employee Members of our team later held a series requirements. Ambassadors ran local fundraising of meetups across regions to share best events through January, including practices from this project with other charity bazaars, concerts, auctions DXC employees and to spread the mesand bake sales, raising the funds sage of social responsibility. Through needed to build the IT school. DXC this project, the Wayuu children now then matched the funds raised. have access to technology and new As part of the inauguration of the IT school in La sources of knowledge in an enhanced Guajira, volunteers gave out care packages that learning environment that helps them included notebooks and pencils, as well as food. hone skills and pursue their dreams. DXC led multiple charitable eforts this year in Asturias, Spain. Eforts included sponsoring an IT Olympics event for students at the University of Oviedo, holding laptop auctions to raise funds for community organizations, coordinating blood donation drives, and donating resources to fght cancer. A DXC Employee Ambassador tutors a local Wayuu student in introductory IT skills. 52 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Community STEM revolution is open to all those between the ages of students with an immersive, experiential Since 2011, a DXC team in the CoderDojo 7 and 17. There are many diferent levels introduction to working at a global IT United States has organized In Italy, DXC organizes regular events of coursework, ranging from Scratch (a services company. By ofering technical Community Champion events to promote and develop coding culture simple, object-oriented program that workshops, mentoring and skill develto recognize individuals who through the CoderDojo initiative, a teaches the basics of coding) to courses opment for program participants within make selfess contributions global volunteer-led community of free on sensors and Arduino, Python, mobile business units, we hoped to infuence to the well-being of others. programming clubs for young people. application programming and robotics. career choices and promote gender Nominees for awards are CoderDojo is a grassroots organization Since joining the initiative, DXC has diversity in the IT industry. volunteers or members of composed of thousands of independent held more than 70 CoderDojo events recognized organizations who clubs, called dojos. DXC believes that, This year, DXC provided 20 apprenticdemonstrate dedication to and led 500 hours of training. Roughly by exposing young people to informaes with an exceptional career learning improving their communities. 2,000 students have participated in the tion and communication technology at experience that spanned 11 months and Each year our Idaho-based program, and 80 DXC employees have a young age, we can contribute to adencompassed more than 30 workshops team honors three winners and served as mentors, with a core of 30 dressing issues stemming from a global and training sessions in areas such fve fnalists at a dinner and employees participating regularly. shortage of programmers. as coding, gamifcation and network awards ceremony. In addition, The feedback DXC receives from the management. Twenty executive mentors DXC donates fve $200 and The CoderDojo Foundation has sigyoung participants has been consistprovided guidance to the participants, three $1,000 grants to the nifcant reach, with 1,250 dojos now ently positive and enthusiastic, and and we sought to maximize the profnalists and winners so that in 69 countries and new ones being our courses are always booked. gram’s efectiveness by ofering regular each can “pay it forward” to established every week. DXC has been job rotations throughout our businesses their community organization. involved in the initiative in Italy since Enabling IT career pathways as well as varied specialization options 2014, having opened CoderDojo centers The DXC team also hosts an Through the Girls in IT program, DXC in and career orientation support. annual Kids in Motion health in Bari, Milan and Rome. Each of DXC’s Brazil recently provided female STEM fair that enables as many dojos holds 15 to 20 events per year and as 175 children between the ages of 8 and 12 to explore 20 healthy activities with support from healthcare systems, DXC employees in the UK partnered with the nonproft organlibraries and other entities. ization Founders4Schools for a career-mentoring event in the North Tyneside area that gave 370 young people fresh insights into IT careers and the DXC workplace. In Brazil, the Girls in IT program provides workshops and mentoring to promote gender diversity in IT. 53 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Community Brighter horizons United States, with a mission of caring competition, depending on their age In the spirit of the Christmas Accelerating progress for children in educational, fnancial, group, participants used Scratch, a season, the DXC Mexico At the 2018 DXC Technology 600 Verizon social and medical need to help them free programming language developed team brought food, candy, IndyCar Series race at Texas Motor lead productive lives. DXC is proud to at the Massachusetts Institute of Techbikes, games and musical Speedway, DXC employees demonstrated bring visibility to the Texas chapter of nology, to write a video game in the entertainment to more than 200 an exceptional commitment to caring Speedway Children’s Charities, which style of a closed-world two-dimensional disadvantaged children in the for others. During a prerace event at the raises money through events like this “platformer,” or to write a video game Nuevo Laredo area. DXC ofce in Plano, Texas, employees and has donated more than $10 million in which the player plays a team sport saw the No. 22 DXC Technology Dallara/ in funding to nonproft organizations with a moving object such as a ball. Chevrolet, met Team Penske driver in four Texas counties. Grants have DXC received over 450 projects Simon Pagenaud, and helped Speedsupported a range of organizations representing 1,500 competitors from way Children’s Charities by purchasing and causes including Camp iHope, 24 countries. Participants ranged in Track Walk shirts. The shirt purchases pediatric cancer research, Ronald age from 10 to 14. Competition winners gave employees and their guests the McDonald House Charities and the received gift cards. opportunity to walk along the Texas Boys & Girls Clubs of America. Motor Speedway track prior to the race, getting a unique perspective of DXC Codes the world-class raceway. We donated proceeds from the shirt purchases to Through the DXC Codes program, we Speedway Children’s Charities. Since introduce children to STEM skills with an 1982, this organization has distributed engaging IT challenge and competition more than $43 million in funding to that inspires passion for programming nonproft organizations across the and computer sciences. For the 2018 Before the DXC Technology 600 Verizon IndyCar In FY 2019 DXC Brazil hosted an innovative Inclusion Hackathon Series race, Team Penske driver Simon Pagenaud that gave people with disabilities new opportunities to explore answered questions from DXC employees next IT skills, including coding, as part of our involvement with the to the No. 22 DXC-sponsored race car. Juntos na TI diversity enhancement initiative. 54 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Community Helping children thrive participated in International Women’s The DXC team in the Philippines Empowering girls to pursue STEM Homes for the vulnerable Day celebrations, career-focused panel recently hosted a session To help reduce the gender imbalance discussions and other events. DXC Vietnam recently sought to help poor of the Accelerate Women in in the UK IT industry, DXC recently took families with school-aged children by Technology program to help action to support young women in the The DXC-led Stemettes Hack Chorley building new homes that provide them with the organization buy medicine, UK in developing STEM-related skills — event involved more than 100 people a more secure place to live. Over a 4-year soap and other supplies for kits such as communication, critical thinkand was covered extensively by local period, employees from the DXC Healthdonated to 240 girls recovering ing, collaboration and creativity — to media. Throughout the next year, the care and Life Sciences team have worked from abuse. More than 80 of prepare for IT careers or improve their DXC Foundation will partner with the together to build four houses for families in our employees also worked with job-readiness in diverse felds. SpecifStemettes on various events to help need in the Long An, Ba Ria and Tay Ninh Rise Against Hunger Philippines ically, DXC employees have worked women in local chapters throughout provinces. The project involves extensive to pack 40 boxes of rice meals closely with the Stemettes, a UK-based the UK develop their creativity and IT initial research to identify people who will for the hungry, and we donated nonproft organization that encourages problem-solving skills. DXC employees beneft from the program, travel for site 21 boxes of goods to the White girls to pursue STEM careers through have also volunteered for the STEM visits to assess housing needs, fundraising Cross Orphanage caring for free and enjoyable programs. For the Ambassadors Program funded by the UK within and beyond DXC, coordination with very young children. group’s #MonsterConfdence tours and Government’s Department for Business, governmental authorities and contractors, other initiatives in recent years, DXC volInnovation and Skills. After receiving and more. Through this volunteer efort, unteers have worked with young women training, our volunteers work with local our employees have enabled families to on resume-writing and interview techschools to provide students with move from dwellings with broken roofs to niques; shared insights about the diferreal-world examples of STEM projects. comfortable and safe homes that create a ent types of STEM careers open to them, foundation for healthier lives and new such as service desk, database adminiseconomic opportunities. The team’s tration and software development; and goal is to build one house per year for impoverished families with school-aged children, through 2025. Members of the DXC team in the Czech Republic worked extensively with a Prague nonproft to provide school supplies for children who had been placed in temporary family care due to neglect. Volunteers present a new home to a family in need. 55 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Community Green priorities to this coordinated engagement camto make our Bulgaria ofce location DXC volunteers in Helsinki, Shaping a more paign, the global DXC team led an array plastic-free. The campaign to eliminate Finland, participated in a fun sustainable world run to raise money for Red Nose of eco-friendly activities in every region waste in the form of single-use plastic To mark Earth Day 2018, DXC engaged where we operate. For example, in the cups, bags, food containers and cutlery Day, an annual campaign that our teams around the world in activities Asia-Pacifc region, DXC volunteers encompassed a series of coordinated benefts children’s education to raise awareness about the global cleaned beaches and green spaces, events, including an internal comand healthcare in developing plastics pollution crisis, with a key goal planted trees, organized “plogging” munications campaign, games and countries. of encouraging employees to reduce sessions (jogging while picking up litter), workshops, that transitioned the ofce single-use plastics such as bags, cups, held environment-themed photography entirely away from plastic cup use and bottles and straws in their daily lives, contests, transitioned to green comreduced other resource-intensive Through the Yellow Bag at work and home. Educational events mutes, observed Earth Hour by conservpractices over 4 months. One part of Project, employees in the and resources included a campaign to ing energy in ofces, and eliminated the initiative was for employees to save Philippines donated new collect and publicize Earth Day pledges, plastics from workday routines. and donate plastic bottle caps to raise school uniforms, coordinated social media groups to share environfunds for local hospitals to purchase medical care and delivered mental initiatives, a plastics-footprint Going plastic-free incubator units. The DXC team has food to young students at calculator and a dedicated Earth Day collected more than 220 pounds of This year, DXC volunteers designed and underserved public schools. page for collaboration and learning on plastic caps through this project so far. the myDXC employee portal. Responding implemented a comprehensive program Safeguarding the environment Mexico Conducted a Recycling Against Cancer campaign, collecting and donating more than 500 pounds of plastic bottle caps to promote plastics recycling and raise funds for cancer research Hong Kong Posted Earth Day signage next to ofce building light switches and printer switches to encourage energy conservation Italy Cleaned up and expanded public green spaces in partnership with municipal authorities to help improve community access to nature Philippines Sponsored an environmental awareness fair featuring presentations on zero-waste lifestyles to highlight eco-friendly practices that reduce plastics pollution Romania Planted 230 trees to sequester greenhouse gas emissions and provide other benefts to two villages 56 Managing our 58 Ethics in conduct. Excellence in sourcing. supply chain 59 Controlling supplier risk Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Managing our supply chain Ethics in conduct. Excellence in sourcing. DXC seeks to build productive longDXC Human Rights term supplier relationships and create Respect for • Protection of internationally recognized human rights a global supply chain that consistently basic human • No threats of violence or abuse Statement refects our core values of human rights, rights of The DXC Human Rights • Mitigation of risks to worker health and safety rigorous standards for worker health employees Statement refects the UN • Adherence to wage, hour and overtime regulations and safety, anticorruption, environmenGuiding Principles on Business • Compliance with US Confict Minerals Law and Human Rights, the ILO tal sustainability and inclusion, and diversity in the workplace. Through a Labor • Respect for fundamental employee rights Declaration on Fundamental dedicated global supply chain managestandards Principles and Rights at • Recognition of freedom of association and collective bargaining ment function, we plan, monitor and and prohibition Work, and the UN Universal • Zero tolerance of forced labor and child labor Declaration of Human Rights. continuously improve all DXC activities of child labor related to sourcing and procurement • No human trafcking of goods and services from third-party • Antidiscrimination stance suppliers, with key spend areas encomProhibition • Adherence to the highest ethical standards passing IT hardware, software, network, Countering human of corruption • No bribery, extortion or fraud labor services and corporate indirect and bribery trafcking goods and services. • Disclosure of conficts of interest • Refusal of inducements and gifts DXC does not tolerate any form DXC’s Responsible Supply Chain of human trafcking, modern Principles speak to the commitments Environmental • Implementation of responsible and sustainable slavery or exploitation of staf we make to create and maintain ethiprotection environmental policies employed directly by suppliers cal, accountable and forward-thinking • Monitoring and management of greenhouse gas emissions or through recruitment sourcing activities. Establishing the • Compliance with laws governing the treatment of waste, agencies. Specifcally, we standards required for conducting wastewater and air pollution expect suppliers to adhere business with DXC, these principles • Elimination of hazardous substances from products and services to UN Article 3 Protocol to cover fve important areas: Prevent, Suppress and Punish • Resource conservation and use of renewable energy Trafcking in Persons. Equality, • Commitment to supplier diversity diversity and • Participation of small business, small disadvantaged business inclusion and woman-owned small business concerns • Unrestricted competition 58 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain Managing our supply chain Controlling supplier risk DXC has integrated the evaluation of and anticorruption standards, diversity our supply chain professionals in Supporting small social and environmental criteria in the and environmental sustainability, supplier understanding the importance of supply chain selection process and exdiversity, and data security. Our screenethical, environmental and human rights business pects suppliers to share a commitment to ing to date has not identifed major risks considerations in the supply chain. DXC engages small businesses sustainability in line with the DXC Responor signifcant negative impacts related not only as a government New suppliers to DXC that are under sible Supply Chain Principles. An addento their social or environmental perforcontracting requirement but also contract agree to the Responsible Supdum titled “Responsible Supply Chain mance. In the event of major noncompliin the spirit of good citizenship ply Chain Principles. DXC’s process for Principles” is included in DXC’s global ance with our standards, we would work and growing the global adding new vendors involves a restricted supplier contracts, and suppliers and with our suppliers and request corrective economy. The result is a win-win parties list check, fnancial check, emassociated subcontractors are expected actions. We also use background checks situation for all involved that bargoed countries check, and signof by to agree and adhere to it as it pertains to at the early stages of our tender process. adds value to our government the relevant supply chain manager. This human rights, labor and corruption, and clients with innovative solutions. We continue to enhance our responsible is governed by the DXC Third Party Risk environmental management. supply chain eforts by including the Management Policy. As part of our supplier management Responsible Supply Chain Principles process, we ask suppliers that exceed a as an addendum to our master services certain business volume with us to answer agreements. The principles incorporate Zero tolerance for a supplier sustainability questionnaire, a wide range of social, labor, ethical corruption which covers how they respect internaand environmental factors. To further DXC expects our suppliers and tionally recognized human rights, labor strengthen accountability, we train their indirect suppliers to adhere to the highest standard of moral and ethical conduct in line with all UN and Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) conventions against corruption, and to comply with all local laws and regulations as they relate to fair business practices. 59 Introduction Responsible business Client experience Environment Employees Community Supply chain DXC global locations The Americas Asia North, Central and Eastern Europe UK, Ireland, Israel, 1775 Tysons Boulevard 1 Depot Close #03-01 Schickardstrasse 32 Middle East and Africa Tysons, VA 22102 Singapore 109841 71034 Boeblingen Floor 4 USA Republic of Singapore Germany One Pancras Square +65 68099 000 London 1501 Page Mill Road South Europe N1C 4AG Palo Alto, CA 94304 Australia and New Zealand Tour Carpe Diem United Kingdom USA 26 Talavera Road 31 Place Des Corolles +44 (0)203 882 4422 Macquarie Park, NSW 2113 CS 40075 Australia 92098 Paris La Defense Cedex Lifey Technology Park +61(2)9034.3000 France Leixlip, Co. Kildare, +33.1.55.707070 Ireland About DXC Technology DXC Technology, the world’s leading independent, end-to-end IT services company, manages and modernizes mission-critical systems, integrating them with new digital solutions to produce better business outcomes. The company’s global reach and talent, innovation platforms, technology independence and extensive partner network enable more than 6,000 privateand public-sector clients in 70 countries to thrive on change. For more information, visit www.dxc.technology. © 2019 DXC Technology Company. All rights reserved. Designed and produced by DXC’s Creative Services. CP_1128a-20
