Working responsibly to create value Cairn Energy PLC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Introduction Cairn Energy PLC is an independent, UK-based oil and gas exploration, development and production company. Cairn has explored, discovered, developed and produced oil and gas in a variety of locations throughout the world and has extensive experience as operator and partner in all stages of the oil and gas lifecycle. Our operations This report We are headquartered in Edinburgh, Scotland, and have offices in This document comprises Cairn’s full Corporate Responsibility London, Norway, Senegal and Mexico. We have been listed on the report 2018. London Stock Exchange for 30 years and we are currently a member It covers our approach and performance from 1 January to of the FTSE 250 index of the UK’s 250 largest public companies. 31 December 2018, across all assets and activities over which we We have successfully discovered and developed reserves in a variety have operational control. We exclude data where we do not control of international locations, in partnership with our host governments, operations, but we do consider the risks associated with our partners’ for more than 20 years. We currently have assets in eight countries. control of such activities. Our exploration and development activities occur mainly in frontier Based on our material issues, the content in this report is grouped and emerging basins where the greatest potential value exists. Our under four main themes: Governance, People, Society and increasingly diverse portfolio has a geographical focus in northwest Environment. See Prioritising Issues on page 13 for more detail Europe, West Africa and the North Atlantic and, more recently, about our materiality assessment, and how it shapes the structure Central and South America. of our reporting. Our production assets, located in mature basins such as the We have commissioned ITPEnergised to provide third-party North Sea, provide the cash flow to sustain that exploration and assurance of the integrity of our greenhouse gas emissions data. development activity. See About This Report on page 64 for more information about the scope and boundaries of the report. Read the full assurance We are committed to working responsibly as part of our strategy to statement from ITPEnergised. deliver value for all stakeholders. This means working in a safe, secure, and environmentally and socially responsible manner. See our Annual Report and Accounts and our website for more information about our operations. Cover image: ENSCO 101 drilling rig 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 2 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Contents 4 Our Approach 15 Governance 26 People 5 CEO Statement 16 Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Corruption, 27 Health and Well-Being 6 2018 Snapshot and Transparency 28 Addressing International Health Challenges 7 Increasing Standards 17 Operating with Integrity 28 Ensuring Staff Well-Being 9 The UN Sustainable Development Goals 17 Our Culture 29 Accident Prevention and Safety 10 Creating Value 19 Ethical Issues 30 Preventing Major Accidents 11 Working with Our Stakeholders 19 Transparency and Reporting 32 Managing Occupational Safety 12 Stakeholder Engagement through the Year 20 Payments to Governments 33 Crisis Management and 13 Prioritising Issues 21 Economics and Funding Emergency Response 22 Our Impact 35 Contractors 24 Climate Change Risk and Reporting 36 Using Contractors 40 Employees 41 Training and Development 42 Talent Management 42 Diversity and Inclusion 43 Employee Engagement 44 Security 45 Keeping Our People Safe 46 Society 55 Environment 64 About This Report 47 Social and Economic Benefits 56 Climate Change, Energy and Emissions 48 Managing Social Risks 57 Resource Use 52 Human Rights 58 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 53 Our Approach to Managing 59 Discharges, Waste and Sound Human Rights 60 Product Stewardship 54 Protecting People and Communities 61 Biodiversity 62 Assessing Our Biodiversity Impacts 63 Environmental Baseline Surveys 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 3 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Our Approach Working responsibly is what we do at Cairn. We aim to deliver value from our assets, activities and people, to bring lasting, positive social, environmental and economic benefit to all our stakeholders. Entering Aberdeen port 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 4 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT CEO’s Review Building a balanced business for the long term Cairn today embodies the vision we set out for the company five years ago. In 2013 we stated that we would “re-gear the capital base to exploration success, access future cash flow to fund exploration programmes and hold appropriate equity interests in operated, frontier exploration.” Today, this is what we have achieved. We enter 2019 with a balanced portfolio of exploration, development and production assets, both operated and non-operated, at appropriate levels of equity exposure. Our frontier exploration position in Senegal, acquired in 2013, has yielded material exploration success and our production assets in the North Sea, acquired in 2012, are now providing cashflow to support future exploration, appraisal and development. We continue to feed our pipeline of exploration assets, acquiring exploration acreage in a number of new countries during 2018. Creating value Our strategy continues to be to deliver value for stakeholders by exploring, developing and producing hydrocarbons, helping countries to develop their own resources for economic benefit and energy security. In Senegal, we believe transformational potential can be achieved through the development of our significant hydrocarbon discoveries. With more than US$1 billion invested to date through the joint venture’s activities, we believe that the development and production of hydrocarbons will continue to deliver significant social and economic benefits for the country and people of Senegal. The SNE project will deliver oil production and subsequently domestic gas supply, ultimately creating significant local employment opportunities, both direct and indirect. Looking to the future We recognise that the world is facing challenges associated with climate change and we acknowledge that the associated two-degree climate target scenario will require significant growth in renewable energy sources. However, oil and gas will continue to be society’s primary energy source and meet a growing demand for many years to come and we believe we have a role to play in helping to meet that demand. We will continue to work to better understand and respond to the climate change associated challenges facing the industry. We will continue to work to global standards and reaffirm our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact, a voluntary initiative based on CEO commitments to implement universal sustainability principles in support of UN goals. Board changes Jackie Sheppard retired as a non-executive director of the Company at the year-end having served on the Board since 2010. Alexander Berger, non-executive director, has served on the Board for nine years and has advised the Company that he will not be seeking re-election at the Annual General Meeting in May 2019. He will therefore retire from the Company on that day. Cairn would like to thank both Jackie and Alexander for their excellent contributions to the Board during their years of service to Cairn. The Company is currently engaged in a recruitment process to appoint two non-executive directors, at least one of whom will be female. Outlook Cairn looks forward to a number of potentially material near-term exploration drilling opportunities, supported by established cashflows from producing assets and sustained by assets entering the development phase. The Company is fully funded for all committed expenditure, and continues its focus on delivering value for its stakeholders within the constant of a responsible and safety focused strategic offering. Simon Thomson, Chief Executive 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 5 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT 2018 Snapshot During 2018, we made progress with our Nova development in Norway and the exploitation plan for the SNE area development in Senegal. Our active exploration programme involved operating the Ekland well in the UK North Sea and participating in five further wells in both the UK and Norwegian sectors. An oil discovery was made in the non-operated Agar-Plantain prospect in the UK North Sea. We also added significant potential to our portfolio with further operated licences in Mexico and Suriname, and joint venture participation in licences in Mauritania and Côte d’Ivoire. Governance People Society Environment Policies: Rolled out training Health and safety: Zero Management system: Biodiversity: Maintained on our integrated Group Lost Time Injuries or Issued new guidance on our focus on assessing Code of Ethics to Recordable Incidents managing social risks biodiversity risks in new all personnel. across the Group. and opportunities. venture and operational projects; this included a Compliance for UK Contractors: Working Managing social impact: review of best practice drilling: Revised and with Invest in Africa, a nonDeveloped and submitted a sound management resubmitted the Corporate governmental organisation Social Impact Assessment with reference to the Major Accident Prevention (NGO), to establish an to the Mexican authorities potential impact of a 2D Policy (CMAPP) in preparing online portal for sourcing for Block 9. seismic programme on to drill an exploration well pre-approved suppliers Social and economic mammals and turtles in the Ekland block. in Senegal. benefits: Aligned our offshore Suriname. Corporate Responsibility Employee well-being: impact benefit planning Spills: No spills of Management System Launched a new health process with the UN oil or chemicals to (CRMS): Environmental and well-being programme Sustainable Development the environment. component of our CRMS to colleagues in the UK Goals (SDGs). audited against the and Norway. Community development: requirements of OSPAR1 Training: Phase two of our Supporting fishing recommendation 2003/5, Management Bootcamp communities in Senegal and a gap analysis programme commenced through a pilot programme performed against in May. with The Hunger Project. ISO 45001, the health and safety management Equality and diversity: Human rights: Modern systems standard. Raised awareness of slavery assessments unconscious bias in incorporated into contractor Climate change: recruitment and other audits and zero tolerance Completed a climate people practices through requirements included change resilience review ‘lunch and learn’ sessions. in all contracts. focusing on our most material assets. Major accident and hazard prevention: Five Crisis and Emergency Response Team exercises held and increased training, including self-help training packs and workshops, rolled out. We improved CMAPP for application across the Group, including our Ekland programme. Read more: Governance Read more: People Read more: Society Read more: Environment 15 26 46 55 1 Oslo/Paris Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the North-East Atlantic. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 6 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Increasing Standards To deliver value for our stakeholders, we need to operate in High Performing Behaviours a safe, secure, and environmentally and socially responsible Based on the 3Rs, we expect to see High Performing Behaviours way. We manage our business activities in line with our exhibited in everything we do, day-to-day. These are promoted core values, known as the ‘3Rs’. throughout the organisation and ensure that everyone can contribute to the success of the business. The behaviours are: – be safe; Our values: the 3Rs – be entrepreneurial; Building respect – be focused; We act with respect for people, communities, – be a leader; the environment, human rights and the law. – be collaborative; Nurturing relationships – be open; and We act honestly, transparently and with integrity to develop strong and lasting relationships with – be empowered. our stakeholders. To embed these behaviours in our culture, all employees in the organisation are measured against them. This is done Acting responsibly through our annual performance reviews, and when setting We behave fairly and ethically, and are accountable for objectives for the following year. our actions. We believe in, and act on, our responsibility to care for people, society and the environment. Frameworks and standards Our culture of working responsibly is also built on global frameworks and standards. They inform how we deliver on our strategy and promote responsible corporate behaviour and working practices. The graphic summarises the many standards and frameworks that inform our strategy, and against which we measure our performance. Governance Society EITI GRI AA1000 FRC IPIECA ISO 26000 UDHR SDGs VPSHR IOGP standards for the oil and gas industry UNGC IFC Performance Standards People Environment ISO 45001 OSPAR ISO 14001 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 7 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we have integrated its 10 universally accepted principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption into our policies and our Code of Ethics. See how we’ve performed against these principles in our UNGC index. We are committed to working to the International Finance Corporation (IFC)2 Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) standards and good practice guidance. Governance People Society Environment As a participating member Our Corporate We support the principles Our CRMS is aligned of the Extractive Industries Responsibility Management contained within the with the requirements of Transparency Initiative System (CRMS) is aligned Universal Declaration of ISO 14001, the international (EITI), we apply the EITI with the requirements of Human Rights (UDHR). standard for environmental global transparency ISO 45001, the international management systems, In mitigating security standard and publish our standard for occupational and OSPAR, a mechanism risks, our operations, payments to governments. health and safety by which 15 governments equipment and training management systems. and the EU protect the We report our CR meet the requirements of marine environment of the information in accordance the Voluntary Principles North-East Atlantic. We do with the Global Reporting on Security and Human not operate in UN World Initiative (GRI) Standards Rights (VPSHR). Heritage sites. (Core option) and Our CRMS is aligned AccountAbility’s AA1000 with the requirements Accountability Principles of ISO 26000 guidance Standard (AA1000 APS) – on operating in a socially see our GRI Content Index. responsible way. We use the latest We map how our activities guidance from the contribute to the UN SDGs. Financial Reporting Council (FRC) and IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues, to ensure effective stakeholder engagement and a focus on material issues. Read more: Governance Read more: People Read more: Society Read more: Environment 15 26 46 55 Every two years, our CRMS undergoes an external verification against Compliance with local regulations both the requirements of the UK Department for Business, Energy and We will always comply with regulations set by our host Industrial Strategy guidance and OSPAR recommendation 2003/5, a countries. Legislation varies according to location and requirement for operating in the UK Continental Shelf and Ireland. We where host country regulations for the oil and gas sector are reverified our CRMS against OSPAR in June 2018 and put an action plan underdeveloped, we are guided by our CRMS, which is based in place to address the one finding and four other suggestions (read on IOGP standards and UK and international best practice. more in Governance). This ensures we apply the same procedures and standards consistently, wherever we operate. During August 2018, we also conducted a gap analysis of the CRMS against the new ISO 45001. This identified four observations for enhancement of the CRMS, which were addressed as part of the 2018 CRMS revision; implementation will occur in 2019. 2 The IFC, a member of the World Bank Group, is the largest global development institution focused exclusively on the private sector in developing countries. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 8 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT The UN Sustainable Development Goals SDG Roadshow 2018 For many years, international bodies have encouraged companies In September 2018, the UNGC Network UK SDG and governments to pursue sustainable, ethical and responsible Roadshow reached Edinburgh on its nationwide tour. development in the face of many global economic, social and We were delighted to support the event, ‘Making environmental challenges. Global Goals Local Business’, by presenting on our In 2015, world leaders committed to the UN SDGs. The 17 SDGs span experience of working responsibly and participating a range of prioritised areas including ending poverty and hunger, on the panel during the discussion session. ensuring access to energy, protecting ecosystems, addressing climate The roadshow sought to increase awareness change and improving gender equality. The SDGs offer businesses and understanding of the SDGs, and outline how and governments a comprehensive framework for more effectively businesses can contribute to, as well as benefit assessing the impact and value of our activities within a bigger from, achieving the Goals. picture of local, regional, national and potentially global sustainable development. This development agenda focuses investment and action A key insight arising from the event was that where they are most needed. every local contribution makes a positive step towards global sustainable development, and that Looking at these issues through the SDGs lens, we believe that Cairn businesses everywhere have the potential to have a can play a meaningful role in helping to address them. Not all the SDGs real impact on the SDGs. are relevant to our business in all circumstances, nor indeed to each of our assets. However, across the value chain, many of our activities add value to society, by contributing positively towards the SDGs. Similarly, we can see where we may need to mitigate for potentially negative impacts on both society and our environment. The potential for some goals to conflict with one another exists. For example, as an oil and gas company, we acknowledge that producing fossil fuels contributes to global climate change, but also provides affordable energy and promotes economic, social and human development. Aligning our efforts with the Global Goals helps inform the development of Impact Benefit Plans, which we now draft for every new country we operate in. These plans evolve with each project and evaluate the pros and cons of what we are doing to show the net value our activities bring. External recognition Cairn’s commitments, actions and progress towards achieving the SDGs have been recognised with two stars awarded by Support the Goals. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 9 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Creating Value Through compliance with our CRMS and putting CR at the forefront Effective risk management is critical to our CR performance. We of our activities, we believe we can generate value, not only for our regularly review how our most significant risks are being managed and shareholders, but also for the local communities and economies record them in a risk register. The risk register and stakeholder feedback we operate in. We create, add and realise this value through the are the two primary sources of information we use when determining exploration, development and production of oil and gas within a selfour priority issues. funding business model. Exploration offers stakeholders the potential for material value, whereas production provides the cash flow to sustain Working together and with others our exploration and development activities. We train our people to help them understand how to embed CR into our activities. Additional support is provided by a group of CR Strategic CR Objectives specialists, who work alongside project teams to ensure that potential Our strategic CR Objectives set our business direction for any given CR impacts are considered in project planning and during operations. year against the background of our long-term strategy. Developed We also leverage the experience, expertise and resources of our joint with the Board, they are grouped under four themes: Governance, venture partners, NGOs and industry bodies such as the IOGP. People, Society and Environment These themes span 19 topics and associated issues, which are identified as being the most important for Our Business Principles our business and our stakeholders through quarterly risk reviews and We have a long-established set of Business Principles that frame an annual materiality assessment. Proposed new CR Objectives are the way we work. We seek to improve by managing risks, and reviewed and approved by the Board. behaving ethically and responsibly to people, to the environment Our CR Objectives form part of our annual Key Performance Indicators and to wider society. (KPIs), which enable us to measure the delivery of our strategy and Our Business Principles are integrated into many of our systems and progress against our objectives. The ‘maintain licence to operate’ KPI processes, including our CRMS, Cairn’s Operating Standards, the Group encompasses the CR Objectives and measures our ability to deliver Risk Management Procedure and the People Management Manual. a range of social, environmental and economic benefits in a safe, secure, and environmentally and socially responsible manner The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring our culture of working (see Our Business Principles below). responsibly exists across the organisation. This is supported by three levels of assurance: Understanding our key risks To work responsibly, we need to identify and manage the risks that are – our project delivery process, as outlined in the Cairn Operating most significant to our business. By continuing to review, understand Standards; and mitigate these risks, we provide greater protection to our people, – key committees and groups, including our Senior Leadership Team society, communities and the environment. and Management Team, Group Risk Management Committee and Audit Committee, to provide internal oversight; and – internal and external assurance audits, and stakeholder opinions. Our Business Principles Overarching principle We manage risk and seek to continually improve Core principle We behave honestly, fairly and with integrity Behaving responsibly Behaving responsibly Behaving responsibly to people towards the environment to society We develop the potential of our people. We take a precautionary approach to We seek to make a positive social our effect on the environment. impact in every area in which we work. We foster a workplace that respects personal dignity and rights, We strive to prevent and minimise our We respect the rights and is non-discriminatory and provides impact on the environment. acknowledge the aspirations and fair rewards. concerns of the communities in which we work. We provide a healthy, safe and secure work environment. Our Business Principles frame the way we work to deliver value 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 10 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Working with Our Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Understanding stakeholder views is very important Plans in 2018 to Cairn. Engaging with them effectively helps us take their interests into account, and communicate our We have maintained a Stakeholder Engagement Plan (formerly performance transparently. known as a Public Consultation and Disclosure Plan) for Senegal By following the principles of materiality, inclusivity since we began our exploration and appraisal drilling programmes and responsiveness3, we gather internal and external in 2013. We have also shared it with our joint venture partner stakeholder perspectives, identify our most important to help us engage with stakeholders as part of the potential CR issues and respond in a structured way. development of the field. We hold regular meetings to discuss progress and review the outcomes of any engagement activities. New and existing projects are subject to bespoke Stakeholder Engagement Plans. These help us to During 2018, we also developed an initial Stakeholder identify stakeholder concerns and issues, understand Engagement Plan for Mexico. This has involved initial stakeholder risks, identify actions to mitigate those risks and foster mapping informed by independent studies, media monitoring effective communication during the project (see graphic and local staff, and an internal workshop to develop a plan across below). The Plans are reviewed regularly to ensure the different stakeholder groups. More detailed planning will be changes in project scope and stakeholder expectations conducted ahead of our first operations in Block 9. are taken into account. Although our UK and Norway operations are in mature markets, similar plans have been developed ahead of drilling in 2019. Initial stakeholder engagement has also started in Suriname, in preparation for our seismic work. Stakeholder engagement in our projects 1 2 3 Define strategic purpose Assign responsibility Identify stakeholders and and scope engagement their interests and concerns 8 4 Assess and review Managing our Develop strategy stakeholder engagement (consultation, engagement, disclosure, grievance mechanism) 7 6 5 Monitor and repeat Implement (revisit Outline strategy in Stakeholder strategy as needed) Engagement Plan 3 As defined in AA1000 APS. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 11 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Stakeholder Working with joint Engagement venture partners to transfer through the Year operatorship in Senegal We dedicate considerable time and effort engaging with stakeholders. Throughout the In December 2018, we handed operatorship of the SNE field development in year, this activity included: Senegal to our joint venture partner, Woodside Energy. Communicating the change in operatorship in advance to all those who could be affected has – presenting to analysts, investors and shareholders been paramount. Our priority was to ensure continuity, at a critical part of the at conferences; project, for our many different stakeholders and beneficiaries. – public consultation meetings and regulatory reviews In practice, this has meant transferring the knowledge, information and and inspections; contacts Woodside needs to take over and build on Cairn’s four years as – participating with peers at industry events; operator. This required a high level of stakeholder engagement, not just between Cairn and Woodside but also with the Senegalese Government, – safety briefings for employees and contractors; and the regulators and our local contractors. – drawing up Impact Benefit Plans with community Maintaining our approach to social investment has been an important partners. aspect of this transfer, so we were delighted that Alioune Dieng, the Health, We also respond directly to concerned individuals Safety and Environment Manager with our subsidiary Capricorn Senegal and organisations on a wide range of specific issues. Limited since 2015, transferred to Woodside in a similar capacity. Alioune’s In 2018, the topics included our company strategy and considerable experience was gained during our exploration, seismic financial position, and our responses to human rights appraisal and drilling activities, and has been vital in setting up and managing issues, modern slavery and climate change. our key social investment programmes. We had no complaints or grievances in 2018. Working with stakeholders on the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) for phase one of the SNE field development, the Read more about stakeholder engagement on consultation process was multi-staged: page 14 of our Annual Report and Accounts. – We worked with a National Technical Committee (NTC) for offshore oil and gas activities to agree terms of reference for the ESIA. This NTC was managed by the Ministry of Environment and Sustainable Development (Ministère de l’Environnement et du Développement Durable). – The terms formed the basis of stakeholder consultation in the regions of Thies and Fatick. Any concerns and recommendations were compiled into a report by the consultant (Earth Systems), assisted by an independent university professor, for all engagement with fishing communities. This report informed the initial scope of the ESIA. – The draft ESIA was then submitted to the NTC. At a meeting with other interested parties, including NGOs, academics and the media, the draft ESIA report was reviewed and further recommendations made. – The NTC met again later to confirm these recommendations had been addressed, before providing technical validation of the ESIA. – For ‘social’ validation, nearly 200 people attended public meetings in Thies and Fatick, where they could ask questions, offer recommendations and indicate their support for the ESIA. All but two people supported the project fully. – A final ESIA document, addressing all the issues raised at these public meetings, was submitted to the authorities, and validated in January 2019. Saraou Kombo and Alioune Dieng 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 12 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Prioritising Issues Reviewing our materiality process Methodology and analysis Reporting on environmental, social and governance issues has evolved The FRC’s guidance states: “Information is material if its omission or substantially over the last decade, in line with increasing stakeholder misrepresentation could reasonably be expected to influence the expectations. Understanding and prioritising the issues that matter to economic decisions shareholders take on the basis of the annual report our business and our stakeholders enables us to address the most as a whole.” This was the basis for examining our existing approach. relevant topics. In previous years, we looked at materiality using four themes: Business Following concern from the Board about the increasing ‘drift’ of these Relationships, Society and Communities, People, and Environment. material issues towards the high importance category and about overUnder these themes, we reported on 15 topics in total, covering a wide reporting in our Annual Report and Accounts, we engaged an external range of individual issues. These were plotted on a materiality matrix consultant to conduct an independent review of our materiality process showing both ‘importance to stakeholders’ and ‘importance to Cairn’. in May 2018. This involved: In 2018, we rationalised our themes – now titled Governance, People, – revisiting the latest non-financial reporting requirements and Society and Environment – and identified 19 topics covering a similarly guidance from the FRC and the London Stock Exchange; wide number of issues. Unlike our assessment in 2017, our revised assessment does not aggregate issues by topic, and now scores – considering industry-specific guidance from the GRI, Sustainability ‘importance to stakeholders’ across five different stakeholder groups Accounting Standards Board and IPIECA; and (investors, governments, employees, local community/interest groups – comparing our approach with that of 10 peer companies. and business partners/peers). The review identified areas in our assessment process that were An overview of all material issues still appears in this CR report. potentially leading to the reporting of issues that were not necessarily of high materiality, alongside those which were. An adapted methodology was developed and tested. Following a preliminary assessment of issues by the consultant, staff around the organisation were asked to feed in their perceptions of key issues from different stakeholder perspectives at a workshop. This was used to inform and validate the updated materiality assessment process. Materiality analysis and methodology Cairn risk register Risk reviews by Management Team and Board CR issue identification Cairn risk Cairn rating of CR issues Cairn assessment of Cairn stakeholder criteria applied according to probability stakeholder position importance and impact criteria applied Cairn CR issue ratings Cairn perception of stakeholder CR issue ratings Insignificant High Insignificant High Initial materiality matrix Updated matrix Low High External stakeholder included in Annual engagement Report and Accounts interviews every review by Board and two years internal stakeholders Adjusted final materiality matrix Low High 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 13 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Our 2018 material issues High – Business Partner Alignment – Tax and Payments to Govts – Funding – Investment Significant – Workplace Health – JV Partner Funding – Governments’ ABC – ABC Practices and Well-Being – Contractor Selection – Major Accident Prevention – Human Capital Development – Security of Personnel – Security and Human Rights – Office Security – Asset Security – Local Community Stakeholders Importance to Cairn (based on risk) – Demonstrating Value and Measuring Impact – Working Conditions/T&Cs – Ops in Sensitive Environments – Remuneration – Contractor ABC – Anti-Discrimination (Employees) – Infectious Diseases – Equal Pay, Equal Opportunity –C limate Change Policy Medium – Workplace Culture and – Indigenous People’s Rights and Planning Employee Leadership – Local Labour Development – Global Energy Transition – Talent Attraction – Economic and Physical Displacement – Workplace Safety – Freedom of Association – Local Content – GHGs, Flaring and Venting – Modern Slavery – Local Energy Access – Other Emissions – Discharges to Water and Land – Biodiversity and Sensitive Areas – Ineffective Whistleblowing – Advocacy and Lobbying – CR Governance – Materials Use – Data Protection – Management of Risks Low – Energy Use and – Cultural Heritage – Community Health Alternative Sources – Grievances – Social Investment – Environmental or Health – Water Abstraction and Use – Reduce, Recycle and Impact from Product Sales – Use of Local Resources Waste Management Insignificant – Anti-Discrimination – Anti-Competitive Behaviour (Non-Employees) Insignificant Low Medium Significant High Importance to stakeholders Theme Materiality Governance High materiality People Medium materiality Society Low materiality Environment To work responsibly, we need to manage the issues that are most significant to our business and to our stakeholders. We identify them through quarterly risk reviews and annual materiality assessments. By understanding and mitigating these issues, we provide greater protection to our people, communities and the environment. We are also better able to report on the issues classified as being of ‘high materiality’, as well as those deemed to be of ‘medium materiality’. These material issues are summarised in the graphic above and analysed in detail throughout this report. Issues of high material importance are covered in our Annual Report and Accounts. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 14 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Governance Strong corporate governance and effective risk management are vital if we are to remain a sustainable, successful business that brings long-term shareholder value. To ensure we deliver on our strategy and achieve our objectives, we rely on a comprehensive framework of policies and management systems including our Corporate Responsibility Management System (CRMS). These enable us to assess and manage risks effectively, including emerging risks. These are underpinned by our Code of Ethics and Cairn Operating Standards, both of which are widely understood and adhered to across the Group. ENSCO 101 drilling rig 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 15 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Strategic objectives Ethics, Anti-Bribery Maintain licence to operate and Corruption, and Deliver a sustainable business Transparency Principal risks Health, safety, environment and security Taking a clear and strong stand on ethical Fraud, bribery and corruption matters is the key to delivering value, Political and fiscal uncertainties building trust and maintaining our licence to operate. Our zero tolerance position on Access to debt markets issues such as fraud, bribery and corruption Inability to secure or repatriate value from continues to attract scrutiny from a wide Indian investments range of stakeholders and could affect our reputation, our ability to access funding, and 2018 performance our impacts on people and communities. We against CR Objectives also report transparently on remuneration We ensured that the Group Code of Ethics was rolled out to all new and existing personnel. and payments to governments. We conducted an anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) risk assessment for our Mexico operations. We performed a detailed review of our CRMS and a revision was issued in early 2019. 2019 CR Objectives Review and update our Code of Ethics.  ndertake a gap analysis of our CRMS against U AA1000 AccountAbility Principles.  ndertake an internal audit of our application U of the Corporate Major Accident Prevention Policy (CMAPP). Improve mechanisms for non-operated activity assurance. Improve the integrated audit plan, including ABC content. Simon Thomson, CEO and Ian Tyler, Chairman 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 16 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Operating with Integrity Our Culture At Cairn, we operate with integrity at all times, recognising that in We take our responsibility for operating in an ethical, transparent way doing so we will maintain the trust of our many stakeholders. We are seriously. It’s a key part of our approach and ensures we maintain committed to working responsibly as part of our strategy to deliver our licence to operate. At the heart of this lies a culture based on a value for all stakeholders, with a clear focus on working in a safe, commitment to working responsibly. This means having the right secure, and environmentally and socially responsible manner. values, principles and policies in place, embedding them in our systems and processes, and making sure our people uphold them. – The Board recognises its important role in promoting high standards of corporate governance, delivering its strategy in line Our Code of Ethics captures our values (the ‘3Rs’), the nine Cairn with shareholders’ long-term interests and engaging with other Business Principles and the expected behaviours of our people. The stakeholders to deliver benefits. Code underpins the way we work, as outlined in our Group CR policies and our business management systems, which detail the procedures – The Senior Leadership Team and Management Team provide and good practices we apply. oversight and guidance to the Company on vision, strategy, culture, corporate governance, CR, and health, safety and environment Our employees are expected to meet these requirements and their (HSE) matters. performance is assessed against them. All other parties that work on our behalf, including contractors and suppliers, must also be prepared As a company incorporated in the UK and listed on the London to demonstrate their conformance with them. We encourage our Stock Exchange, Cairn is required to report against the UK Corporate partners to adopt and apply similarly strong ethical positions. Governance Code, which was updated in July 2018 and came into force on 1 January 2019. The Code’s key revisions included a greater Code of Ethics emphasis on stakeholder engagement, diversity, succession planning In 2017, we combined our 3Rs, Business Principles and Code of and remuneration. We have since reviewed our governance framework Business Ethics to produce an integrated Code of Ethics. The Code was against the new Code and, while we believe we are well placed rolled out to all personnel across the Group in early 2018 and published regarding many of these aspects, we will continue to look for greater in full on our website. A new e-learning module, designed to educate transparency in these areas. and inform employees across all aspects of the revised Code, has been After completing a gap analysis in August 2018, we noted that the available to all staff since the end of 2017. new occupational safety standard ISO 45001 increases emphasis on Every employee is required to sign up to the terms of the Code employee engagement, which we will address in the coming year. as part of their employment conditions, and must abide by it in all We performed a climate change resilience review of our key assets their business activities. An internal auditor regularly assesses our in 2018, and continue to monitor other corporate governance compliance with the Code and, in turn, we audit contractors for developments, such as any specific requirements arising from the compliance with it and our CRMS requirements. Integrated audits are Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). also conducted on operational risk management, modern slavery, and One of the themes of our Board meeting in September 2018 was the anti-bribery and corruption (see next page). improvements to our CRMS, which details our requirement for working We will review the Code in 2019 and align it with our four CR reporting responsibly and includes our policies, procedures and guidance. themes of Governance, People, Society and Environment. This was strengthened in accordance with findings from our most recent biennial audit against the terms of Oslo/Paris Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the North-East Atlantic (OSPAR) recommendation 2003/5, completed in June. We also focused on our new CMAPP (see Economics and Funding), our materiality process and strategic CR matters for the coming year. In 2019, we will perform a gap analysis against the new AccountAbility Principles (AA1000) and our Code of Ethics will be reviewed, with further emphasis on strategic and emerging issues. Measuring performance Zero Zero incidents of non-compliance employee dismissals for with the Code non-compliance with the Code On board drilling rig 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 17 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Staff training on ABC issues Our business maintains zero tolerance of bribery and corruption. Having upgraded our gift and hospitality register and revised our due ABC assessments diligence procedures in 2017, we implemented an ABC training module for staff working in high-risk countries in November 2018. for new ventures This training module is now complemented by our new e-learning module on the Code of Ethics, which also covers ABC-related issues. All entries into new territories require an ABC risk assessment. These assessments are intended to highlight exposure to potential risks and ensure Employees trained in Cairn’s anti-corruption policies due diligence has been conducted across all and procedures (%) aspects of the project. This is particularly critical in high-risk locations, where standards may be less 2018 rigorous or inconsistently applied. 34 Our Investment Proposal (IP) process involves screening for a range of potential risks, including 2017 specific ABC risks. If the threat is significant, further 17 assessments will be undertaken, possibly by specialist consultants, and actions for managing 2016 the risk will be developed. These steps might 91 include taking mitigating steps to avoid or reduce the risks, or even deciding not to proceed. 2015 In all cases, staff are trained in our Code of Ethics 15 and our ABC management system. Where a heightened threat of ABC risks is identified in a 2014 new venture, the staff involved must complete 59 further training. Reporting issues of concern Employees are encouraged to report any incident they believe may compromise the Code using a confidential phone line or by speaking directly to their regional director. The whistleblowing charity Public Concern at Work also offers an external channel for staff to use, if they prefer. Where appropriate, independent investigations are conducted. The Group Whistleblowing Procedure can also be used when issues relating to modern slavery are suspected. There were no reported incidents raised through the whistleblowing procedure in 2018. ENSCO 101 drilling rig 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 18 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Ethical Issues Transparency and Reporting Our ability to do business relies on the trust of our stakeholders, As a listed public company, we report annually in line with UK including investors, governments, business partners, suppliers regulations. We responded to all queries associated with our 2017 and broader society. This means we need to work in an ethical and Annual Report and Accounts, and also to requests for information transparent way. We have maintained our efforts to track emerging from investor analysts, shareholder representatives and other ethical issues of importance, to both us and society in general. concerned stakeholders. We have paid particular attention to tracking the requirements of We also report on our business activities in a transparent and open the Modern Slavery Act and the Equality Act. Our integrated audit manner through investor roadshows and market updates, while plan assessed supply chain risks for all projects, with a focus on key the investors section on our website provides relevant, up-to-date topics including modern slavery, ABC, and health, safety, environment information, including details of our Group Tax Strategy. and security. The publication of this CR report is also intended to provide investors, All contractors receive our policies and our Code of Ethics, to which analysts, interest groups and broader communities with easy access to they must agree to conform. comprehensive information about our approach and CR performance. We apply global standards to ensure our reporting is of the highest Some of our assets are located in areas where ethical issues arise. quality, including reporting against the GRI2 Sustainability Reporting These range from the concerns of local people in occupied territories Standards at Core level (see About This Report). to the potential for environmental impacts in sensitive habitats. Download our full GRI Content Index for further information. – Our partner completed a 3D seismic programme offshore Western Sahara (a disputed territory regarded by Morocco as a province) in May 2018. Although we no longer have title to the acreage, we still have outstanding commitments, including submitting a final interpretation report to the regulator ONHYM1. We expect to complete our commitments fully in mid-2019. External recognition – In Norway, some of our operated and non-operated assets are located in the Barents Sea. There is some stakeholder debate around Cairn won the ‘Best use of digital by the extraction sector exploration in Arctic waters, mainly regarding potential environmental (oil, gas & mining)’ category at the Digital Impact Awards in impacts and climate change (see Climate Change, Energy and September 2018. Emissions). We believe our non-drilling activities in the Barents Sea meet the Norwegian HSE requirements, among the most stringent Cairn was nominated for ‘Best annual report’ for a FTSE 250 in the world, and can be managed to avoid and minimise adverse company in the CorpComms Awards 2018. impacts on this environment. We also have a track record of working responsibly in the Arctic. Remuneration and executive pay Remuneration, and executive pay in particular, remains an issue of keen interest among our shareholders and wider society. Following a Group-wide review of pay arrangements, we rolled out a new remuneration framework for performance and reward in 2017. During 2018, the Remuneration Committee carefully considered the new provisions incorporated into the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, published in July 2018. Although these requirements only apply to financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2019, the committee considers that several of them are already satisfied by our existing policies and practices. Where this is not the case, the committee has taken steps to ensure the Company will be compliant when the revised code takes effect. Full details are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report within our 2018 Annual Report and Accounts. 1 Office National des Hydrocarbures et des Mine. 2 The Global Reporting Initiative is an international independent organisation that helps businesses, governments and other organisations to understand and communicate the impact of business on critical sustainability issues such as climate change, human rights and corruption. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 19 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Payments to Governments Supporting disclosure and financial transparency Meeting our taxation obligations We support financial transparency in our sector, from how revenue Cairn operates in a number of locations with diverse tax obligations receipts are used to the tax contributions and other payments made and requirements, and seeks to ensure we comply with local rules to governments by oil and gas companies. We do this because we and regulations in every territory. The Cairn Group Tax Strategy, believe it will lead to long-term sustainable growth and build greater published on our website, is not to enter into any artificial tax planning trust in Cairn. and, in managing our tax affairs, to align any tax planning with genuine commercial activity. We report payments to governments in our Annual Report and Accounts, in compliance with EU legislation and as part of our voluntary The Group has been in arbitration against the Republic of India commitment to the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). under the UK–India Bilateral Investment Treaty since 2014. The main The EITI requires companies to publish what they pay to governments, evidentiary hearings were held in The Hague in August 2018 but the and governments to publish what they receive from companies; both outcome was still outstanding at the time of publication. See our are independently verified. Norway, Senegal and the UK have all joined Annual Report and Accounts for more information. the EITI, and Mexico has been approved for membership. We actively participate in EITI working groups in Senegal and are looking at the Participation in public policy requirements in Mexico as part of our forthcoming increase in activities. development and lobbying Cairn does not engage in party politics or make donations to political As in previous years, our 2018 disclosures included the payments to parties, candidates or lobbyists. Nonetheless, given the significance governments detailed in our EITI reporting, such as corporate income of legislation, regulation and the awarding of new licences to our tax, licence fees and withholding tax suffered. Additional payments business, the governments of the countries where we operate are key including VAT, payroll taxes and social security costs are also reported. stakeholders. Each of our assets is responsible for engaging with host Aligned to the EITI’s requirements in the UK, the publication of governments, as part of its local Stakeholder Engagement Plan, and payments to governments on a country-by-country basis is also operated in accordance with our Code of Ethics. required under the EU Accounting Directive. These include production Our involvement in public policy development and lobbying is entitlements, taxes levied on income, production or profits (excluding mainly conducted through industry bodies such as the International VAT, personal income tax or sales tax); royalties; dividends; and Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) or regional industry groups. signature, discovery and production bonuses. These include Oil & Gas UK, the Association of British Independent Oil Exploration Companies, the Irish Offshore Operators’ Association, the Mexican Association of Hydrocarbon Companies and the Norwegian Measuring performance Oil and Gas Association. US$32.6m Payments to governments ESIA public meeting in Suriname 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 20 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Strategic objectives Economics Deliver exploration and appraisal success and Funding Portfolio management Deliver operational excellence We aim to make a positive contribution to our Deliver a sustainable business people, the communities in which we operate and to society in general. We do this through Principal risks our activities, and by distributing value Volatile oil and gas prices through salaries, taxes and other payments to authorities, contractors and suppliers. We Securing new venture opportunities also recognise the emerging risks associated Delay in Senegal development plan with climate change, which have potential Kraken and Catcher operational and financial, regulatory, physical and social project performance implications for our business and our industry. However, whatever the increasing pressure Political and fiscal uncertainty we face to improve cost efficiency, we never Access to debt markets compromise our operating standards or undermine our commitment to working safely 2018 performance and responsibly. against CR Objectives We revised our CMAPP, rolled it out for the Ekland well and briefed the Board. We reviewed the CRMS against the new health and safety standard ISO 45001. We reverified the CRMS against the requirements of OSPAR recommendation 2003/5. We conducted a climate change portfolio resilience review. 2019 CR Objectives Deepen our understanding of future strategic climate change risks, develop an early warning dashboard of significant issues, include climate change resilience testing in IPs where relevant and feed back to the Board regularly. Wider roll-out of our CMAPP training and compliance programme. Track developments in TCFD reporting. Develop and implement an integrated audit programme. Implement the improvements recommended by our CRMS audit findings. James Smith, CFO 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 21 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Our Impact Our positive contribution Increasing standards in a challenging We are committed to making a positive contribution, wherever business environment we operate, by delivering tangible benefit to our stakeholders. We recognise the increasing pressure on our industry to improve These include: operating standards within a challenging business environment. Our sector faces changing and emerging risks, and an ongoing raising – governments, which grant permits and our licence to operate; of standards, against a need to focus on cost efficiency. Volatile oil – communities, which give us our social licence to operate; and prices continue to be a principal risk, so efficient capital allocation across the portfolio is crucial. It is important that cost reductions –  employees, contractors and suppliers, which provide the do not compromise our commitment to working responsibly. necessary expertise and resources to carry out our activities and create value. Similarly, the information about our CR standards and performance requested by analysts, shareholders and funding institutions is How we distribute value increasingly detailed. This includes our reporting and transparency We distribute value through payments to: requirements (see Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Corruption, and Transparency). – government, including taxes and duties; By participating in industry associations such as the IOGP, we can keep – promote social and community development in our host countries; up with the latest developments in good practice, incorporate them into – our contractors and suppliers; our CRMS and apply them, both at a corporate level and locally in our projects. For example, our Code of Ethics is available online. – our employees; and Improving how we manage corporate responsibility – those who provide us with capital. Increasingly, providers of capital want to ensure that we meet the highest CR standards across all our activities. This includes satisfying International Finance Corporation and OSPAR requirements, as well as compliance with international and national regulations. Our CRMS: – prescribes the requirements for working responsibly; – enables us to embed processes and procedures throughout the organisation; and – helps us to identify, evaluate and address potential health and safety, security, environmental and societal risks, benefits and impacts. Total value generated and distributed by Cairn business in 2018 Beneficiary Economic value distribution Value (Group) US$ Governments Taxes, fees, etc $32.6m Communities Social investment $0.086m Contractors and suppliers Capital expenditure $284.2m Employees Employee salaries and benefits $56.3m Interest charges, borrowing Investors costs and bank charges $27.7m 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 22 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT A new policy on preventing accidents Auditing and updating our CRMS In October 2017, we introduced the CMAPP, strengthening our We subject our CRMS to an annual audit, the most recent of which commitment to avoiding major accidents and mitigating risks as was conducted in June 2018. This included a verification of the required under the EU Offshore Safety Directive. It is a prerequisite environmental component against OSPAR recommendation 2003/5, for our licence to operate in the UK Continental Shelf (UKCS) and a requirement for operating in the UKCS and Ireland. Ireland. As part of our preparations for drilling an exploration well in The audit report had one finding (to increase communication with the the Ekland block, it was revised and resubmitted to the regulators (the Board on improvements to the CRMS) and made four observations. The Health and Safety Executive and the Department for Business, Energy subsequent action plan to address them was accepted by the auditor and Industrial Strategy, BEIS ) in July 2018 (see Accident Prevention and submitted to the UK regulator, BEIS. and Safety). We also reviewed the CRMS against the latest occupational health Cairn Operating Standards and the existing CR policies within our CRMS and safety standard, ISO 45001:2018 ‘Occupational health and safety have always given us stringent controls, but CMAPP provides a greater management systems – requirements’. A gap analysis, produced in emphasis on: August 2018, identified four observations. An appropriate action plan – the controls we have in place to manage Safety and Environmental was developed for implementation in 2019. Critical Elements and prevent a major incident; Our CRMS update was completed by year end, and included outcomes – demonstrating and verifying the high levels of competency among of audit findings, approved items from the Board and the latest IOGP our staff and selected contractors, and having appropriate training guidance issued during 2018. and succession planning in place to ensure that capability is maintained; and Assessing the CR risks of investing in new opportunities Investing in new opportunities is a significant part of our activities, – transparent assurance processes, including project planning and as either a potential operator or joint venture partner. To protect our operational oversight, document control, and data management investments, we continue to assess CR risks when evaluating new and storage. relationships or locations. Although some opportunities may be Following approval by the Board in September 2018, an enhanced financially attractive, it may be deemed that the ethical, safety or CMAPP training programme will begin in early 2019, along with a environmental risks cannot be viably managed to acceptable levels, roll-out to all other operated assets in the Group. An internal audit as articulated by our risk appetite statement. We also do not operate of CMAPP compliance is planned for the end of 2019. in UN World Heritage sites. Evaluating new ventures All new ventures require us to undertake Risk screening Investment proposal Board approval due diligence. Through our CRMS, we rigorously assess new opportunities, Health and safety Identify and Alignment with using a phased evaluation to understand evaluate risks strategy and all the risks associated with the location Social risk appetite and the investment, and to ensure the integrity and CR track record of Identify risk avoidance Human rights or mitigation measures Test implications the partners involved. This process of investment includes evaluating any CR-related Political concerns using IPs, and determining any necessary action. All significant new Corruption venture projects require Board approval. We plan to incorporate climate change Security resilience testing in our IPs from 2019. Environment 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 23 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Climate Change Risk and Reporting Global energy demand and transition Potential climate change risks and opportunities We consider climate change issues to present a number of emerging At Cairn, we recognise transition risks associated with climate change risks to our business, from both our own and our stakeholders’ and we take them very seriously, challenging our thinking and presenting perspective. These risks manifest themselves over a longer timescale potential business implications associated with a low-carbon economy. than many others we address in our Annual Report and Accounts. Changes in climate have the potential to create significant disruption and However, we consider it important to monitor developments closely uncertainty in the oil and gas business, as outlined below: in this area as risks change and new ones emerge. This is in line – Financial: Projects or assets become stranded due to an inability to with recent changes in Financial Reporting Council (FRC) reporting meet criteria for commerciality and therefore failure to release value, requirements. It helps us to understand the business implications as or changing expectations of the investment community adversely responses develop to the challenge of a carbon-constrained future, affect funding. and to proactively manage and communicate our strategy to our shareholders and other stakeholders. – Regulatory: Implementation of legislative instruments to restrict activities or emissions and implement carbon reduction We believe we have a significant role to play in helping to meet programmes, or specific Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) affordable, sustainable energy demand in a carbon-constrained world, commitments under the Paris Agreement. as part of the transition to a low-carbon economy. This applies in both developed and developing countries, to maintain supply as well as – P hysical: Facilities and infrastructure are adversely impacted by delivering economic and associated social benefits, while seeking extreme or changing environmental conditions associated with practical mitigation measures. temperature rise, wave conditions, precipitation or storm events, sea level rise and flooding, increasing costs or operational downtime. The International Energy Agency (IEA) World Energy Outlook 2018 In turn, this may increase safety risks and reduce revenue. indicates that between 2015 and 2040, world energy consumption is likely to increase by more than 25%. The analysis concludes that apart – Social: If the availability of natural resources such as water is from coal, the consumption of all fuel sources is projected to increase impacted, this has implications for project continuity, increased over that period, even with the significant growth in renewables that will local disruption from environmental conditions and impacts on be needed to meet the 2oC climate target scenario committed to under communities, and social unrest or changing expectations or needs the Paris Agreement3. It concludes that oil and gas will continue to be of local stakeholders. one of society’s main energy sources for many years to come. By contrast, we also recognise the potential for opportunities to arise for the business, for example the development of gas opportunities given its potential role as a transition fuel, or the future role of carbon capture and storage. Overall, our specific greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are restricted to exploration activities with non-operated production (see Greenhouse Gas Emissions) and, given our limited emissions profile, the main risks are considered longer-term strategic corporate issues. In 2018, we increased our emphasis on evaluating these strategic risks and opportunities for the business, and further developing a robust position to reassure ourselves and our stakeholders. UK Catcher export cargo lift 3 Countries across the globe adopted a historic international climate agreement at the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP21) in Paris in December 2015. In anticipation, countries publicly outlined their intended post-2020 climate actions under the new international agreement, known as their Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs). These became NDCs on signature. The climate actions communicated in these NDCs largely determine whether the world achieves the long-term goals of the Paris Agreement: to hold the increase in global average temperature to well below 2°C, to pursue efforts to limit the increase to 1.5°C and to achieve net zero emissions in the second half of the 21st century. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 24 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT In Tampico port, Mexico Financial risks management Physical and social risks management We have seen certain financial institutions reduce or remove their We gained further insight into the latest research associated with commitment to hydrocarbon investment in 2018. However, this potential physical risk by participating in the IOGP/JCOMM/WCRP does not detract from the viability and significance of our projects, workshop5. This workshop, attended by leading academic institutions both economically and socially. As part of our 2018 programme, we from around the world, examined the latest modelled predictions on completed a specialist climate change resilience review of our portfolio potential physical changes and impacts arising from climate change. against selected climate change scenarios and considered value Precise implications for the industry are difficult to predict but it is clearly creation under a variety of conditions. important to keep the latest information under review. This will ensure a Our robust methodology considered a range of plausible climate timely response for input into equipment design criteria, and will assist change scenarios derived by an external consultant from supply and in mitigation and adaptation in local communities. demand fundamentals, including taking a significant deterioration of market conditions from a business-as-usual baseline into account. Monitoring change and transparency This included the IEA ETP 2oC reduction scenario4 among others, We consider it important to monitor changes and developments and analysed discrete impacts associated with market discipline and regarding climate change. Therefore, in 2019, we will look to build on transition price shocks. The review covered our producing assets (nonthe 2018 resilience review by developing a monitoring dashboard to operated) and planned developments. help keep the Board informed of these developments. The results clearly indicated that our existing production (non-operated) When entering territories that are more heavily regulated, such as and planned unsanctioned assets within the portfolio create value the UK and Norway, we must ensure we still comply with any new in a carbon-constrained world, with all assets individually remaining statutory or regulatory reporting requirements. We continue to monitor NPV positive. Indeed, our stress testing covers wider scenarios with other corporate governance developments, such as any specific greater impact than experienced in these carbon change scenarios; requirements or recommendations from the FRC and the TCFD, formed consequently, our assessment of project viability remains robust. in response to COP21. This also conforms to our belief in transparent reporting overall. We aim to refresh our portfolio review annually for changes in circumstances or assets. Our approach to climate change continues to include: Regulatory – measuring and reporting our GHG emissions; As part of our Project Delivery Process, we are obliged to determine – promoting efficient energy use in our activities; the requirements set down in the jurisdictions under which we operate. This ranges from existing legislation to the planned commitments in – considering the climate change risks and opportunities associated NDCs during new venture or country entry assessment. with our projects; We continued to assess NDCs for locations we entered in 2018, – building climate change considerations into investment decisions; including Suriname, Mauritania and Côte d’Ivoire. In addition, in the – engaging with stakeholders on climate change mitigation and UK sector, we updated the Board on the status of Catcher and Kraken adaptation measures through industry associations; and assets (non-operated) under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme Regulations. This included partner strategy for meeting allowances to – contributing to local programmes that address environmental the end of phase three of the scheme, and flagging potential issues and social impacts. arising from Brexit. We also looked at preparedness for submissions under phase two of the UK Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme, which we anticipate will apply to Cairn. 4 International Energy Agency: World Energy Outlook Energy Technology Perspectives 2017. 5 International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP)/WMO-IOC Joint Technical Commission for Oceanography and Marine Meteorology (JCOMM)/ World Climate Research Programme (WCRP): Our Future Climate: Understanding the spread of physical risk for the oil and gas industry, September 2018. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 25 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT People We rely on our team’s commitment, competency and knowledge to deliver results safely and to build our shared success. We continue to develop a high-performance culture based on opportunity, equality and diversity, underpinned by our people strategy, our high-performing behaviours and our values. View of ENSCO 101 drilling rig 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 26 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Health and Well-Being Providing a safe working environment and maintaining people’s health and wellbeing are core corporate responsibilities, and of paramount importance to Cairn. This is the basis of everything we do. Strategic objectives Maintain licence to operate Principal risks Health, safety, environment and security 2018 performance against CR Objectives We improved our traveller support intranet. We developed health support programmes in Mexico. We designed and implemented an employee health and well-being programme. 2019 CR Objectives Implement health programmes in Mexico. Support our infectious disease prevention programme for travellers. Issue and implement our new travel policy. Roll out our well-being programme for 2019. Helicopter personnel, Aberdeen port 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 27 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Addressing International Ensuring Staff Health Challenges Well-Being We support all staff who may be exposed to health risks through Staff wellness continues to play an important role across our business. their work. The main threat remains the risk of exposure to infectious In July 2018, we launched a new health and well-being programme. It diseases, either where we have assets or during travel to prospective aims to help our staff understand how their behaviour and lifestyle can business destinations. In operational locations where endemic affect their health and well-being, explore their values and attitudes diseases are prevalent, such as malaria in Senegal, we have tried-andand, where appropriate, promote changes in behaviour. tested mechanisms in place to minimise the risk. We remain vigilant to A programme of activities, focusing on the two broad themes of any new or re-emerging epidemics and pandemics. mental health and nutrition, was launched in the UK and Norway, with a We perform Travel Risk Assessments for international travellers, in global rollout to follow in due course. Activities have included free fruit an effort to identify and reduce health risks in advance of travel. This every day, a weekly breakfast club, guided lunchtime and weekend includes inoculation and specific country briefings, as well as general walks, a running club and on-site massage. Regular ‘lunch and learn’ advice on basic travel health, natural disasters, security alerts and sessions have been held on topics such as dementia, mindfulness and female traveller security. We relaunched our improved Traveller Health depression. We have also delivered well-being programmes such as and Security intranet site at the end of the year, and updated our global a pedometer challenge (a virtual walk from Stavanger to Mexico City), risk software in October. In 2019, our ongoing efforts to support our stair-step challenge and Kiltwalk. A recent session held in Edinburgh travellers will include a new travel policy. on building resilience in business saw staff from Dakar, London, Mexico City and Stavanger attend via video conference. See Security for further information about how we keep our people safe. To support the launch, we invited a workplace well-being consultancy to run voluntary drop-in sessions and undertake biometric testing. In Limiting exposure to hazardous materials both Edinburgh and London, employees could have their heart rate, Although we have limited direct exposure to potentially hazardous and cholesterol and body fat levels measured, and also their metabolic chemicals and wastes, we still take rigorous steps to ensure our age determined. This information helped staff make informed choices contractors have the processes and systems needed to protect their about their lifestyle. people. Consequently, specific requirements for chemical and waste We also continue to offer optional annual health assessments for all management appear in our Corporate Responsibility Management members of staff. This benefit has been popular since it was introduced System (CRMS) to protect the environment and to avoid exposure. three years ago. These include selecting the least damaging materials wherever possible, providing suitable storage facilities and personal protective Recognising the impact of social interaction and strong working equipment as necessary, conducting work risk assessments and relationships on mental health, we have continued to provide staff having relevant handling procedures in place. with opportunities to socialise on a team, functional and company basis. These include team-building events and away-days, an Our contractors are expected to have made compatible arrangements annual family day, a summer dinner in Stavanger, a quiz night and to safeguard their workers’ health. These range from having a ceilidh. One of the largest events, held in late August, involved all appropriate detection and protection arrangements in place to running our geoscientists from across the Group gathering in Edinburgh for a emergency drills. We also require our contractors and other facilities three-day geoscience conference. A similar event was held in May for to provide suitable water supplies and wastewater disposal facilities to all finance staff. prevent infection and illness from water-borne or other pathogens. Training offshore Senegal 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 28 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Accident Prevention and Safety We continuously work to keep risks to people and the environment as low as reasonably practicable. Extensive safety measures and procedures to avoid accidents are in place for every phase of our activities, from planning to operations. Strategic objectives Maintain licence to operate Principal risks Health, safety, environment and security 2018 performance against CR Objectives We implemented the requirements of the Corporate Major Accident Prevention Policy (CMAPP) to conform to UK regulatory requirements. We exceeded our Crisis and Emergency Response Team (CERT) and Incident Management Teams (IMTs) readiness plans by completing five exercises, an in-house Secretary of State’s Representative (SOSREP) workshop and other team training. We also attended a regulator-sponsored SOSREP workshop. We updated all emergency and oil spill plans to meet operational activities. We revised our crisis and emergency portal to improve access and functionality, and upgraded our Incident Management Centre. 2019 CR Objectives A full roll-out of our CMAPP and training. CMAPP assurance programmes in the UK, Norway and Mexico. Review IOGP 1 process safety Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and improve our own KPIs to assess major accident prevention and align them with the CRMS requirements. Develop and implement local emergency response teams and capability for our operations in the UK, Norway and Mexico. Apply our emergency readiness tool before commencing operations. Implement the new IOGP Life-Saving Rules, now incorporated into our revised CRMS. Operational support personnel 1 International Association of Oil & Gas Producers – www.iogp.org. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 29 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Preventing Major Accidents Well engineering Our reputation for responsible exploration is underpinned by a rigorous approach to incident prevention. All our wells adhere to the highest industry standards, which require us to use appropriate materials, up-to-date installation methods and drilling fluids; these enhance drilling performance while meeting safety demands and minimising our impact on the environment. To prevent major accidents arising from well engineering and construction, we rely on the effective application of design criteria and safety barriers. These are built into our programmes and management systems, which we verify through a series of internal and external assurance processes, including independent inspections of proposed well designs. We also apply management-of-change procedures for modifications, which may impact the design or operation of a well to ensure we maintain its integrity. Our wells are designed to comply fully with the requirements of both our Well Engineering and Construction Management System (WECMS) and our CRMS. They are also designed (and assured) beyond the requirements for the expected geological conditions. Our well design, planning and inspection procedures conform to international good practice and existing legislation, and are applied wherever we operate. To ensure our UK well, Ekland, employed Semi-submersible drilling rig the same rigorous approach and obtained UK regulatory approval, we introduced our new Group-wide CMAPP at the end of 2017 (see Economics and Funding for more information). This was reviewed in June 2018 and, following consultation with the Well engineering controls regulators, we updated it to improve our commitment to key aspects of major accident hazard management. As part of this, we updated the sections on Well Engineering Standards on Risk Management, Well Primary well control Examination (independent review) and Competency. Our principal mechanisms for well control remain unchanged but were enhanced by the revisions. Wellbore full of fluid and managed drill fluid weight keeps the well stable These mechanisms are as follows: – Primary well control: Our dual-barrier approach involves control Activate secondary well control if the measures designed to maintain drilling and production fluids, and to primary well control fails test blow-out preventer (BOP) systems rigorously and regularly. If a test is unsuccessful, we make the well safe and stop drilling until the problem is found and any required remedial work completed. – Secondary well control: This includes measures to prevent wellbore Secondary well control fluids escaping from the well using a BOP. The BOP is made up of a series of hydraulically operated rams that can be operated in an emergency from the rig or a backup remotely operated vehicle. Well control incident procedure/methods and failsafe The BOP is rated for well pressures significantly higher than those mechanical sealing device (blow-out preventer) can expected. It is subjected to a series of regular maintenance and manage an incident and shut down a well test requirements. – Tertiary well control: This third line of defence covers well control Activate tertiary control if the primary and options such as drilling a relief well and using a capping device. secondary well controls fail Tertiary well control Toolbox of methods to address a well releasing hydrocarbons: relief well, sub-sea ‘cap and secure’ and oil spill contingency arrangements 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 30 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Preventing major incidents in operated assets Well assurance controls In 2018, as part of the application of the CMAPP, we looked closely at how our contractors manage and maintain Safety and Environmental Critical Elements (SECEs) of their equipment. This is required to comply External Internal with the revised CMAPP under the UK Offshore Installations (Offshore Safety Directive) (Safety Case) Regulations 2015 (see Economics and Funding). Although this work has been undertaken for our previous Planning and procedures drilling programmes, we strengthened our approach to demonstrate compliance with our CMAPP. This process started during contractor selection (see Contractor Major hazard assessment CPDP4 gate selection on page 37), subsequently ensuring that our management systems work together via bridging procedures, and continued throughout our operations until the project completed and contractors External well examiner Project risk register were released. Well experts and For the Ekland well, as well as our strengthened rig pre-drilling Corporate risk review peer review assurance processes, we focused on SECEs. This ensured that equipment maintenance back-logs were acceptable, specifications Regulator and WEC5 competency were being met and personnel were competent to fulfil their roles. partner review assessment For example, during operational drilling, we implemented weekly permit-to-work audits and a programme of verification activities. Rig inspection and DWOP1/TWOP2/LWOP3 These were used to check that contractors were following their own acceptance safety and environmental management systems, critical preventative Independent reviews maintenance and repairs were undertaken, and existing and Daily operations of critical equipment replacement personnel were suitably qualified for their roles. review meetings and systems As part of our continuous improvement process, we have also updated how we hand over to drilling contractors, in line with other leading well operators. We added more clarity to roles and ‘duty of care’ Well operations responsibilities (providing safe systems of work, and ensuring our people follow them) when a rig operator’s management-of-change processes (or our own) are used. Our approach initially focused on best 1 Drill Well on Paper practice in the UK on our Ekland operated well, but it will be rolled 2 Test Well on Paper out in 2019 for operated wells in Norway and Mexico, and a further 3 Logging Well on Paper well in the UK. This forms a wider initiative to demonstrate CMAPP 4 Cairn Project Delivery Process compliance across the Group. 5 Well Engineering and Construction We experienced no major incidents in our operated and non-operated activities in 2018. Project Delivery Process Our Project Delivery Process (PDP) ensures we understand and control risks at key stages in all our projects. During the oil and gas lifecycle, the PDP helps us focus on important CR issues and apply local and international standards for all operated projects under our control. Specific projects (seismic, drilling, etc) must meet defined criteria at designated stages. Each stage has defined actions and deliverables, which must be signed off by an internal, independent ‘gatekeeper’. This allows project integrity and performance to be reviewed throughout the process, and enables us to identify and implement corrective actions where necessary. Why How Ready Finished Learn Identify Assess Define Execute Evaluate Why are we doing How could we do Are we Ready to Have we Finished all What do we Learn this project? this project? sanction the work? we needed to do? and achieve? 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 31 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Managing Occupational Safety Our Management Team is responsible for embedding our CR pump, and a brief muster on a rig due to smoke caused by equipment approach and procedures across the Group. Overall accountability for failure. All relevant incidents were reported to the UK regulator working safely and responsibly remains with the Board but applying as required. these procedures in our operations falls to the Management Team. We had no Senegal field operations in 2018 and subleased our shore Regional directors are responsible for ensuring that operations adhere base to our Senegal joint venture partner company FAR Limited, to our health, safety and environment (HSE) standards and procedures, to assist in their operations. Our experienced base personnel also that all risks are managed to As Low As Reasonably Practicable2 transferred to FAR, providing a degree of continuity and applying levels and that plans are in place to manage these risks. Our robust our best practice experience of working in Senegal. incident management process ensures incidents are recorded and investigated, and lessons learnt. Performance updates are reported to Supporting safety and environmental the Board. management on non-operated assets In 2018, we continued to support our partners in the prevention of Managing day-to-day safety hazards involves several mechanisms to major accidents, and safety and environmental issues, on our nonpromote safe working procedures. These include management visits, operated assets in the North Sea. With increased production from audits, a permit-to-work system, toolbox talks, safety drills and training, both Kraken (operated by EnQuest) and Catcher (operated by all of which are monitored through our leading safety indicators. Premier), we continue to support improvements to both safety and Employees and contractors are personally responsible for following environmental performance. our Safe System of Work. The relative influence of joint venture partners depends on the In 2018, we reviewed and revised our CRMS in relation to the controlling party. If we are the operator, our joint venture partner may requirements of ISO 45001, the international standard for occupational seek to influence us through Operating Committee Meetings and health and safety management systems (see Operating with Integrity). Technical Committee Meetings. The opposite is true when our partner We will be implementing our findings during 2019, and improving our is the operator. Life-Saving Rules in line with updates in the IOGP guidance in this area. The slight exception to this is in Norway, where we continued Our performance in 2018 performing our ‘see to it’ duty during 2018. This is a requirement to In preparing for drilling operations at our UK Ekland well, we employed facilitate and monitor our partners’ regulatory requirements in a more our rigorous contractor selection and assurance procedures in relation formal way. We also monitored the planned Norwegian development to their safety management systems. We particularly focused on of our non-operated interest in Nova, which was approved by the competence, auditing them in line with the requirements of our CMAPP. regulator in October. Like the rest of the Group, Ekland well experienced no Lost Time Injuries New venture non-operated onshore blocks in Côte d’Ivoire were or Recordable Incidents, nor any oil spills. However, we experienced assessed in terms of planned activities and proposals of our partners. a high-potential incident in August during drilling operations, when a Given the location of these blocks along the country’s coastline, the section of drill pipe slipped 1.5 metres due to unsuitable suspension assessments were focused on safety, environmental impact and arrangements. The thorough investigation that followed confirmed community issues. We are also tracking developments in our that the way the incident was managed prevented it from becoming a non-operated activities in Mauritania. personal safety issue; however, improvements to equipment selection In 2019, we plan to review our approach to overseeing non-operated and control mechanisms were also identified and implemented. assets, to assist in addressing key risks and focusing our resources. Other incidents have been limited to a first-aid case, in which a worker was struck above the eye by an air hose when it disconnected from a Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) 2018* 2018* 0 0 2017 2017 0.96 1.88 0 0.27 2016 2016 1.03 1.04 0.27 1.04 2015 2015 0 1.21 0 0.29 2014 2014 1.54 3.88 0.36 0.65 Cairn total Cairn total IOGP benchmark IOGP benchmark We have included overall IOGP benchmark figures (average of onshore and offshore for employees and contractors). *IOGP benchmark figures are not yet available for 2018. 2 The point at which the cost of reducing the risk further is considered to be disproportionate compared with the potential benefit. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 32 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Crisis Management and Emergency Response Improving our emergency response capability Ongoing training To ensure we respond quickly and effectively in the event of a major In 2018, our CERT undertook a programme of five crisis management accident or incident, we have IMTs in place for tactical emergency and emergency response exercises. These included three specifically responses. These IMTs support local Incident Response Teams in all in preparation for our Ekland operations in the North Sea, with our operational locations. escalating involvement from key parties including CERT and IMT personnel, drilling and other contractors, and Police Scotland. Our CERT in Edinburgh provides both strategic and tactical support, depending on local capability. The CERT Leader can muster on-call The exercises were designed to build knowledge of Ekland operations specialists to: emergency scenarios, test the understanding of our primary control mechanism, and enhance organisational resilience by testing – advise HSE, Legal, Operations/Assets, Logistics, Human Resources, communication routes, facilities and equipment, contingency plans Finance and Corporate Affairs personnel; and assumptions. – assist in crisis and emergency management; and In addition, an in-house SOSREP workshop was held in October, and – help prevent escalation in accordance with the priority issues we also attended a regulator-sponsored SOSREP, coastguard and of People, Environment, Assets and Reputation – the so-called local authority workshop that took place the following month. We have PEAR principle. also conducted ‘Breaking Bad News’ training with senior managers, and family liaison training in January 2019. Other sessions included In preparation for drilling our UK Ekland well, we engaged a specialist exercises on security and non-operated activities. emergency response provider, Restrata, to support our IMT, given Restrata’s knowledge and expertise within the UK sector. We will Each role within the CERT has an online self-training module; further use a similar approach in 2019 for wells in both the UK and Norway. refresher sessions are held weekly, covering a range of scenarios, Meanwhile, in Mexico, we will be implementing an IMT to conform with including earthquakes, pandemics and business continuity. local regulatory requirements using specialist personnel. Restrata provided a dedicated on-call IMT in its Incident Management Centre in Aberdeen, approved by the UK SOSREP. Restrata can liaise with the drilling contractor’s onshore and offshore emergency response teams, and also with our CERT, depending on the nature of “Our programme of crisis any incident. management and emergency response exercises ensures that we remain ready, competent and confident in our ability to respond to any incident, wherever it may occur. By understanding how key partners and stakeholders work, everyone UK Emergency Response Framework can think and act as one cohesive team, ensuring that we meet Cairn’s highperforming safety behaviours CERT and values.” Strategic Response and Business Continuity Matt Smith, Health, Safety and Emergency Advisor, Cairn Energy Incident Management Team Tactical Response Offshore Incident Response Teams Operational Response 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 33 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Handling high-impact, low-probability events We always prepare our operations for the low probability of a highIn addition, for our Ekland operations, and as required under legislation, impact event and have robust plans in place to manage such incidents. we maintained membership of OSRL’s UK Continental Shelf (UKCS) Oil spill risk is of high concern to stakeholders (see Prioritising Issues), oil spill aerial surveillance service and the Offshore Pollution Liability and we remain committed to applying the IPIECA–IOGP industry Association compensation scheme. practice3. We continue to improve our preparedness in relation In 2018, we worked with OSRL to develop both an Oil Pollution to understanding local country spill management capabilities, Emergency Plan (OPEP) for our UKCS exploration activities and developing oil spill plans, equipment logistical arrangements and a Temporary Offshore Oil Pollution Emergency Plan (TOOPEP). deployment planning, and identifying the capabilities of contractors. These plans were approved by the regulator, the Department for We remain an associate member of Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL), Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, in July. The OPEP, subject to a specialist organisation working to help operators respond effectively administrational revision, remains valid for five years. This represents to oil spills. We also invest heavily in other supplementary OSRL a significant step towards acting as a ‘well operator’ on the UKCS for memberships to gain access to specialist response equipment and some time to come. techniques for containment, dispersal and surveillance. These include The TOOPEP was the offshore spill pollution response plan for our the Subsea Well Intervention System, which consists of: specific Ekland drilling activity. We will need a further TOOPEP for new – the Subsea Incident Response Toolkit, to assist with well debris wells in the UKCS, including Chimera in 2019. Preparations began on clearance, surveying and support equipment; similar plans for operated wells in Norway and Mexico as part of our 2019 programme. – the Global Dispersant Stockpile, which consists of substantial amounts of commonly used dispersants that can be drawn on We continue to plan for drilling relief wells as an option to address should local supplies run out; and a major event, depending on a range of factors relating to logistics and effectiveness. – the Capping Stack System, which gives us access to well-capping stacks at four strategic locations worldwide. These can be deployed Planning for the future to close off a well during a well control incident. Our plans for 2019 well operations in the UK, Norway and Mexico are progressing, with reviews of local capabilities, oil spill modelling, and the preparation of emergency and oil spill plans. Using our preparedness tool, all operations will be assessed before approval to proceed. This includes local regulatory approval, competency assessment and ensuring enough training has been conducted. Measuring performance We will continue to build our in-house capacity in terms of personnel and equipment. Zero oil spills in 2018 Helicopter crew transfer, Aberdeen 3 The IPIECA–IOGP Oil Spill Response Joint Industry Project (OSR-JIP) was set up to implement learning opportunities in respect of oil spill preparedness and response following the April 2010 well control incident in the Gulf of Mexico. As part of this effort, the OSR-JIP has produced more than 20 good practice guides. IPIECA is the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 34 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Strategic objectives Maintain licence to operate Contractors Principal risks Representing a significant proportion of Health, safety, environment and security our workforce, high-quality contractors play a critical role in our business 2018 performance against activities. We focus on building strong CR Objectives working relationships with contractors We assured that our contractors were competent and followed their systems to protect who share and deliver on the principles people and manage major accident hazards. and standards we support. We developed and implemented an integrated contractor audit plan to cover anti-bribery and corruption, modern slavery, HSE management and cost-effective delivery. 2019 CR Objectives Review and improve our Contractor Management and Selection Procedures. Implement a revised integrated audit plan for contractors. Ensure contractors selected for well operations in the UK, Norway and Mexico meet CMAPP requirements. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 35 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Using Contractors Contractors are fundamental to the success of our business. We Finding suitable contractors continue to rely on them to provide the expertise, equipment and Effective selection by Cairn, and good performance by our suppliers services that make up much of our operational capability. Our main use and contractors, can have a significant impact on our ability to operate, of local contractors in 2018 has focused on our UK Ekland well, and the and also on our overall HSE performance. selection of key contractors for 2019 drilling projects in the UK, Norway and Mexico. We need our contractors to share our beliefs and meet our standards, so that we maintain our licence to operate. Using a rigorous process, In 2018, our organisational workforce totalled 262 (77% were direct we select all our contractors on the basis of competitiveness, employees and 23% were consultants on fixed-term contracts). We experience, service capability, competence and good performance. also had contracts with 19 organisations, representing 173 contractor These selection criteria are embedded in our Contractor Management personnel. Contractors, who undertook 26% of the hours worked, and Selection Procedures, which include assessing contractors’ accounted for approximately 40% of our workforce. competency in HSE and related management systems. Our operations in Senegal moved on from exploration and appraisal Although contractors are usually international companies, we continue drilling to development planning in 2018. The selection and to use local services wherever we can, as long as they can meet management of key development and support contractors were our high CR standards. Large, multinational organisations are often delegated to our joint venture partner Woodside; this was part of the contracted through a Master Service Agreement, which specifies transition process and final transfer of operatorship to them, which the performance objectives and responsibilities of both parties. we completed in December 2018. We continue to support them in These agreements typically run for around five years before being development planning and delivery, including the appointment of retendered. We also encourage our principal contractors to engage contractors. We also continue in an assurance role as a non-operating local personnel, if appropriate skills and services exist. This approach joint venture partner. boosts the positive impact we can have on the local economy (see Society). Employees and contractors People who work for Cairn, whether employees or contractors, are united by our shared ambitions and priorities. Cairn workforce1 Contractors 262 Health and safety 173 Security Environment Social responsibility 1 This includes Cairn employees Men Women and other time-writing personnel who have been contracted for 152 110 Anti-bribery and corruption more than three months to an organisational position. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 36 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Contractor selection The tender process For our operated activities, when we initiate a tender, we engage with contractors we believe The effective selection of high-performing contractors is key to Cairn’s will have the appropriate HSE and CR credentials. success. We need our suppliers to share our beliefs and meet our standards, However, this must be demonstrated as part of so that we maintain our licence to operate. the tender process. As well as preparing invitation to tender documents, we include our Code of For many projects, we use Achilles’ First Point Assessment Limited (FPAL) Ethics, to which contractors are expected to database to source registered vendors. As a member and subscriber, we use conform. We also issue the prospective contractor FPAL as a pre-selection tool when looking for potential contractors across the with an HSE CR questionnaire, based on IOGP European oil and gas market. recommendations for working together in a contract environment. This is tailored to the project Given FPAL’s widespread appeal, we are working to establish a similar and the services required, and provided along with system for our operations in Senegal: the African Partner Pool. Suppliers can our terms and conditions, a scope of work and all register their interest in tenders, training and finance opportunities through relevant policies. this new portal, developed by the NGO Invest in Africa (IIA). IIA was set up four years ago to help small suppliers, initially in Ghana, to build skills and If a contractor scores zero in any section of the capacity, attract investment and provide credible services to the emerging oil questionnaire, and continues to do so even after and gas industry. follow-up requests, they are eliminated from the process. A benchmark score is used for passing this Capricorn Senegal Limited, our subsidiary in Senegal, is a founding member initial selection hurdle, ensuring that all selected of IIA in Senegal, alongside joint venture partner Woodside, BP and KOSMOS contractors can demonstrate the minimum Energy. Together, we provide cross-industry cooperation in promoting local acceptable level of competence in all aspects business development and economic growth in Senegal. of HSE management. Those not meeting these requirements are also eliminated, regardless of any separate commercial evaluation. The scores, along with any supporting documentation, inform the scope of any follow-up activities required, including acceptance audits of vendors deemed to be project-critical. This information may also highlight areas to address when setting up bridging arrangements. Support vessel in port, Aberdeen 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 37 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT CR issues for our contractors Ethics, anti-bribery and corruption Human rights and forced labour Data protection Our robust ABC policies are of Under the provision of the UK Modern The EU General Data Protection increasing importance as we move Slavery Act, we have installed measures Regulation (GDPR), in force since 25 into new areas around the world. Our to scrutinise our supply chain to avoid May 2018, has transformed the data contractors are assessed to ensure modern slavery, in line with our zero privacy landscape. It harmonises they apply compatible standards tolerance policy. We have incorporated data privacy laws across Europe, and and control, and have clear reporting a clause on modern slavery into all ensures businesses have the systems in mechanisms. We have a zero tolerance vendor contracts, to ensure contractors place to protect data. We have ensured approach to bribery, corruption understand their legal obligations and our policies and standards regarding and modern slavery (see Ethics, our requirements. Along with integrated the processing of personal data comply Anti-Bribery and Corruption, and auditing, we have built this into our with these new requirements. EY Transparency), and conduct riskglobal Master Service Agreements with completed a compliance audit in late based due diligence when selecting direct (Tier 1) service companies (see 2018 and found no high-risk exposure contractors. Human Rights). to the business. To support ongoing alignment with GDPR, we now have a Data Privacy Coordinator. Integrated contractor audit plan Total national and non-national contractors (%) To ensure all our activities conform to our CRMS, human rights and anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) management systems, we apply 2018 the Cairn Operating Standards. In 2018, we developed an integrated 80 20 contractor and supply chain audit plan, which focused on those contractors and locations considered to represent the greatest risk. 2017 The plan identified corporate and operational risks, and developed 19 81 an audit and assurance programme to demonstrate effective controls are in place. In 2018, it included audits of our rig, marine 2016 and aviation contractors for wells. 23 77 Each project is required to have an audit and assurance plan identifying requirements to be implemented before and during 2015 operations. Assurance audits and assessments check management 15 85 systems, equipment controls, and also personnel competency and their understanding of roles and responsibilities. We also understand 2014 what mechanisms are in place to promote good HSE behaviours. 17 83 These may need to be supplemented and integrated with our own to ensure clear processes are in place. National (%) Local, national and international contractors Non-national (%) The categorisation of local, national and international vendors depends on where in the world we are working. For example, local content requirements are a key consideration for Mexico. Under the Production Sharing Contract (PSC)4, we must achieve a certain threshold of local content through each phase of the licence. In Senegal, we categorise spend with a national registered company as fully qualifying for national spend, whereas the requirements underpinning what qualifies as national content in Mexico are much more complex, and stipulated by legislation. Beyond having a contract in place with a Mexican company, we need to understand the nationality of its personnel, and whether the equipment used is of Mexican origin. Given the need to track spend against specific categories and criteria, we are building an electronic platform to manage this information. We are also required to obtain an annual certification from each Tampico, Mexico supplier confirming the level of national content achieved. 4 A PSC is an agreement between contractor and government through which the contractor bears the exploration, production and development risks and costs in return for a stipulated share of the profit resulting from this effort. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 38 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Operational highlights: contractors Mexico We have started engaging with Tier 1 drilling contractors.  ore opportunities for in-country contracts to M supply logistics, waste management and vessel support services will follow. We also engaged site survey contractors for environmental and social baseline work. C  ontracting for key support contractors for the 2019 Mexico drilling programme was initiated and advanced by year end. Kraken FPSO Norway T  he tendering process for Nova, our first operated project offshore Norway, is under way.  e are using the Achilles FPAL platform to find W and validate potential contractors for this 2019 drilling project.  ite survey contractors were engaged for S environmental baseline work. UK We successfully planned and completed our Ekland well without major accident or incident. Tendering of long-lead contracts for our 2019 UK well programme commenced and good progress was made by year end. We conducted site surveys to establish environmental baselines and check for unexploded ordnance. Suriname Contracts for 2D seismic work offshore Suriname were completed as a fast-track project, with mobilisation occurring by year end.  e supported our partners W in Senegal in the transfer of operatorship for the SNE development project, to ensure knowledge was shared and standards maintained. Catcher FPSO 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 39 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Employees Our people, with their skills and experience, represent our most important resource. Through them, we develop and nurture the right relationships required to deliver our strategy. Given the level of their importance to our success, they are considered one of our key CR concerns. With a clear focus on business results, our efforts are underpinned by our core values of building respect, nurturing relationships and acting responsibly (the 3Rs) and our High Performing Behaviours. Read more about our culture in Governance. Strategic objectives Maintain licence to operate Principal risks Health, safety, environment and security 2018 performance against CR Objectives We designed and implemented a management development programme. We progressed work on our future talent management and succession planning strategy and programme. We worked with educational groups to encourage more women into science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) subjects. We implemented an employee engagement strategy. We launched a new health and well-being programme. 2019 CR Objectives Develop and implement a fit-for-purpose solution that gives visibility across the Cairn group to all planned learning and development events. While we remain below the 250-employee threshold required to formally report, we acknowledge the aims of the Gender Pay Gap regulations. In 2019, we plan to undertake a gender pay gap analysis and identify any actions arising. Articulate our approach to diversity and inclusion, addressing the UK Corporate Governance Code of Ethics requirements. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 40 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Training and Development Management development programme We believe managing people well is vital to being a high-performing In addition to attending their annual conference, each of our organisation. We have high expectations of our people managers’ geoscientists continued to develop their technical knowledge by abilities to support and motivate their teams to deliver optimum results. attending one of a series of field trips to Salt Lake City in the USA, the Karoo in South Africa or the Pyrenees in Spain. Our Management Bootcamp is a bespoke development programme for people managers, designed to support individual, team and We also continued to facilitate the development of our staff Company success. We completed phase one of the programme in through secondments to other parts of the Group. In 2018, these early 2018 and evaluated its impact on participants. included several overseas secondments for members of our Wells, Geoscience and Finance teams. The benefits of such assignments Given the success of the programme and the amount of positive are far-reaching, helping to broaden exposure to different post-attendance feedback, we progressed to a second phase of projects, interfaces, regulations and practices and, importantly for management development during 2018. Four new modules were geoscientists, different geological basins. The business also benefits designed and delivered between September and November; relevant from the opportunity to gain different perspectives. managers will have two years to undertake all four modules. By the end of 2018, 77% of our people managers had either participated To ensure awareness, understanding and compliance on in phase two of the programme or were scheduled to do so. important governance, regulatory and security topics, we also implemented mandatory e-learning across the Group. This included Other learning and development comprehensive modules on business ethics, ABC, GDPR and As in prior years, learning and development has continued to be cyber security. actively undertaken across the Group, both to support the delivery of our objectives and to further develop our people to enable them Total management and non-management training to realise their career aspirations. The learning and development (average hours per employee) activity was delivered in a variety of forms – including traditional classroom training, overseas secondments, workshops, conferences, 2018 field trips and e-learning – to ensure that all learning styles could be 34 49 accommodated. In total, close to 1,200 days were dedicated to training and development activity across the Group over the year (equating to 2017 approximately six days per employee). 36 33 At the beginning of the year, to tie in with the start of our 2018 performance management cycle, all staff across the Group 2016 participated in internal workshops on writing SMART5 performance 37 36 and behavioural objectives. The sessions supported the development of individual 2018 personal objectives, integrated with the team and 2015 Group KPIs, and helped position everyone for success, as well as 39 42 ensuring there was full alignment of our 2018 deliverables. 2014 Other training courses focused on how we could achieve greater efficiencies in the way we work, including priority management, project 12 21 management, internal consultancy and various software application skills sessions. Management grade employees Non-management grade employees Geoscience conference 5 Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Realistic and Time-bound. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 41 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Talent Management Diversity and Inclusion Our approach to diversity and inclusion across our Group aligns with the Corporate Code of Ethics, in that we recognise its relevance to the markets in which we operate, all our stakeholders and the communities we serve. We are firm in our view that diversity and inclusion are not simply about meeting quotas: we aim to make the diversity of our organisation work for the benefit of our people and shareholders. We recognise diversity in all its dimensions: national origin, age, race and ethnicity, religion/ belief, gender, sexual orientation and marital status. We also focus on other inherent traits such as socioeconomic background, education, training, sector experience, organisational tenure and personality types/cognitive diversity. Our People Management Policy guides how equality and diversity are built into all aspects of recruitment and selection, training and development, and remuneration and benefits. We also have policies on disability, religion and belief, and the treatment of part-time Video call with Dakar, Senegal office employees. We continue to develop our diversity metrics to keep pace with, or be ahead of, emerging expectations from the industry’s governance bodies as well as our broader stakeholder communities. Some of our To match the aspirations of our business strategy, it is vital that we current diversity metrics are detailed below: attract, retain and develop the best talent, enhance our breadth of diversity, and ensure that our people are deployed in roles and – 47% of Cairn staff were women; activities where they will add the most value. One of our key priorities, – 11.5% of Cairn staff worked part-time; therefore, is to continue our work on our robust talent management strategy and continue to enhance our high-performance culture. – 100% of women returned to work following maternity/adoption leave and 100% of men returned following paternity/adoption leave; Assessing our effectiveness An internal audit, Managing Talent, was conducted in 2017. This – 19 different nationalities were employed at Cairn; assessed the effectiveness of our processes for identifying current – 3% of the workforce had a disability; and future talent needs, and for recruiting or developing the people we will need. The review also considered processes to maximise – the average age at Cairn was 46; talent retention. – 25% of management roles were held by women; and The review highlighted several positive observations, ranging – two members of the Board were women (22%). from identifying talent requirements and aligning incentives with performance, through to developing leaders and engaging with staff. There were also some recommended areas for improvement Board member gender (%) regarding talent management. We have therefore adopted a new 2018 three-tiered approach: 78 22 – As part of our talent management strategy, we identified key roles in our business that require focused investment through an 2017 accelerated programme. 80 20 – Our new young leadership programme will be used to accelerate the development of our pipeline of future leaders. 2016 89 11 – For most of our people, our robust management performance system includes annual objectives and development plans agreed 2015 with line managers. As a natural output from this process, high89 11 performers will be diverted into either (or both) of the above tiers. 2014 86 14 Male Female 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 42 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Supporting a future pipeline of talent within oil and gas In 2018, we continued our sponsorship of, and attendance at, the Summer intern Geological Society Career Fair in Edinburgh. As in prior years, this well-attended event included academic, professional and industry programme presentations and an exhibition promoting MSc and PhD programmes. One of our graduate geoscientists presented at the event, highlighting Every year, we run a summer internship her own educational and career journey, and providing insight into the programme, offering placements across various role of a geoscientist in the oil and gas industry. functional disciplines to support our operational We also supported the 2018 Midlothian Science Festival, a series of capacity and develop our talent pipeline. In STEM-focused events dedicated to engaging, educating and inspiring September 2018, our latest intake of interns people of all ages and backgrounds. As well as Cairn supporting the finished their time with us. Some were still in the festival with a financial donation, two of our geoscientists volunteered third year of university, while others were taking at the ‘Dino & Rocks Day’, which showcased the various subdisciplines their first steps into corporate life. of geoscience. Over the two weeks, the festival attracted around Unlike previous years, all nine students started at 10,000 visitors, with more than 300 attending the Dino & Rocks Day. the same time, spending up to four months in our In addition, we ran a summer intern programme for nine university Edinburgh office. They were encouraged to bring students (see right), and also provided work experience opportunities fresh thinking and a new perspective to our work, to eight schoolchildren. and were set an initial challenge around how to best work as a cohort before they embarked on their internships across a variety of separate departments. Employee Engagement They were also tasked with a team project to identify efficiency savings across the business. Our people are the foundation on which our success is built, and we The group presented their ideas to members of are committed to providing the best possible employee experience. both the Senior Leadership and Management Within a positive, collaborative work environment, we aim to create the Teams, challenging perceived wisdom and conditions in which all our people can develop and fulfil their potential. questioning the status quo. As well as impressing the senior team with their confidence and Pulse surveys communication skills, they also identified £132,000 It is widely recognised that the way employees feel about their place of of potential savings that could be achieved through work materially affects the performance of that organisation. We want new processes and greater efficiency. our people to be the best they can be at work. Employees need to feel respected, involved, heard, well led and valued by their colleagues “My time spent as an intern at Cairn was and managers alike. We need to create the conditions in which they an extremely enriching and exciting can offer more of their capability and potential. experience! Whilst there, I had the rare opportunity to work across three separate In 2017, the Managing Talent internal audit (see Assessing our departments, giving me a real feel for effectiveness on previous page) identified a gap in how we assess each department’s involvement in the employee satisfaction and gather feedback from staff. It consequently projects at Cairn and a greater insight recommended that we reinstate employee satisfaction surveys, into the energy industry as a whole. The the last of which was conducted almost five years ago. opportunity was unparalleled. Whilst One of our KPIs in 2018 was therefore to develop and implement an in the different departments, I had the employee engagement strategy. As part of this strategy, following a chance to work with a variety of people successful initial pilot, monthly employee engagement ‘pulse’ surveys on real projects impacting the Company. were implemented across the Group in Q4 2018. Moving away from The employees at Cairn were extremely the traditional annual survey, this more dynamic approach uses short, welcoming, often looking out for me, regular ‘temperature checks’ to provide real-time insights and allow us and the HR team really took into to track progress over time. consideration my development. The participation rate for Q4 2018 was 90% and while it is too soon to In addition to this, I was lucky enough to measure the output from the surveys, initial indications are strongly be involved in the Summer Intern Project. positive. We anticipate that in time, the outputs will enable us to assess This gave me the rare opportunity to engagement levels and gather feedback from colleagues on a wide present business improvement ideas to range of topics. the Senior Leadership Team at Cairn, an opportunity not many interns get! All in all the experience was not only invaluable but allowed me to get hands-on insight into the energy sector, all whilst developing many skills that will help me progress in my career.” Peter, 2018 Cairn summer intern 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 43 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Security We have a duty of care to our people, assets, investments, reputation and data across our operational areas. This means we need to stay vigilant to emerging threats, and offer support, advice and training as necessary. Strategic objectives Maintain licence to operate Principal risks Health, safety, environment and security 2018 performance against CR Objectives We developed security plans for our Mexico operations, and are working on business continuity arrangements. We made improvements to our online traveller intranet site and migrated to an improved global risk monitoring platform. We reviewed our security guidance documentation but did not complete our planned guidance update. We undertook a review of our current cyber security systems and follow industry good practice to mitigate risks. 2019 CR Objectives Roll out our security arrangements in advance of offshore operations, including remote operational bases in Mexico. Complete the roll-out of security apps to travelling staff. Finalise the security guidance documentation and review application of the UN Voluntary Principles. ENSCO 101 drilling rig 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 44 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Keeping Our People Safe Against the backdrop of a volatile worldwide security landscape, Location threats in 2018 we maintain a precautionary approach to protecting the safety of We ran a Threat Assessment workshop for our Mexico operations, our people and our assets. We continued to monitor and respond with local personnel joined by members of our Edinburgh-based to emerging threats, acting on intelligence from embassies, civil HSE team. authorities and contractors, and promptly notify all those who may be affected. We also continued to attend the annual IOGP Security In addition to having specialist support personnel in our head office, Committee meeting, which was held in November 2018 operations in Senegal continue to be supported by a local security in Houston, Texas. consultancy. This provides additional assistance in the event of an emergency or serious threat. Our support and advice includes online training packages designed for personnel travelling on business. We also conduct bespoke risk Our active New Ventures team is visiting several locations for the first assessments for individual non-routine travel to mediumand time. This requires us to assess the risks associated with travel, and to high-risk countries. make the necessary security arrangements. For example, recent trips to Côte d’Ivoire have required us to arrange dedicated security teams, Entry into new countries drivers and interpreters. As well as monitoring the security situation in operational locations such as Mexico and Senegal, we also look at threats in potential Security breaches and cyber security countries of interest. This forms part of our due diligence process and Although we experienced no cyber security breaches from new country entry requirements as we explore opportunities in Latin deliberately malicious software during 2018, we regularly review our America, West Africa and northwest Europe. arrangements to ensure we continue to protect our IT infrastructure from such malware incidents. With a large number of staff travelling on any given day, we have established several mechanisms to assess and address the risks they We are seeing increasing convergence between physical and may face, both before and during travel. Such information is made cyber security management, so we continue to communicate available to all employees via our intranet (see Health and Well-Being). threats, strategies and improvement plans to maintain a holistic We migrated to a new Global Risk Manager system, which provides and collaborative approach to security management throughout us with daily safety alerts. It allows us to track travellers, and provides the Group. them with an SOS button should they get into distress. To keep up with potential threats in this fast-moving area and take the necessary measures to prevent security breaches and data loss, we actively participate in several industry bodies, including the Total security incidents (number) IOGP Security Committee, and take guidance from the Information Commissioner’s Office and the National Cyber Security Centre, run 2018 by GCHQ. 0 We have also gained Cyber Essentials accreditation (part of the UK 2017 Government’s 10 Steps to Cyber Security) and plan to complete Cyber 11 Essentials Plus by March 2019. 2016 0 2015 0 2014 12 1 Break-in at staff apartment. 2 Break-in at London office. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 45 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Society We understand our role in generating value to society through our activities but also recognise that they can affect the social and economic environment in which we operate. We seek to make a positive impact by managing and mitigating risks, delivering social and economic benefits, and respecting people’s rights, aspirations and concerns. The Hunger Project, Senegal 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 46 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Social and Economic Benefits We assess and manage the potential social and economic risks and opportunities for all new projects. This helps us to mitigate any negative impacts and enhance the positive benefits that arise from our activities. Since their introduction in 2015, we have used the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to provide an additional framework for our approach. Strategic objectives Maintain licence to operate Principal risks Health, safety, environment and security 2018 performance against CR Objectives We replaced our social investment criteria and guidelines and integrated them into new guidance on managing social risks and opportunities. We reviewed developments to integrate the SDGs into company strategy. We commenced impact benefit planning for our operations in Mexico. 2019 CR Objectives Revise our guidance on stakeholder engagement. Apply new guidance on managing social risk in new projects. Implement the Impact Benefit Plan for Mexico with metrics for success. The Hunger Project, Senegal 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 47 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Managing Social Risks Delivering social and economic benefit The SDGs Where challenging social issues such as land acquisition and Enhancing our existing approach for managing social risks and resettlement, water use, human rights or security arise in our projects, opportunities, we now use the SDGs as an additional framework in we consult extensively with a diverse range of stakeholders. This our guidance. The SDGs set out targets across 17 prioritised areas, stakeholder engagement helps us to identify and assess any potential including addressing hunger and poverty, improving access to energy, impacts associated with our activities. It also provides us with local protecting ecosystems and addressing climate change. knowledge with which to inform any action plans. This process enables Not all the SDGs are relevant to our business, nor indeed to every us to minimise risk, maximise shared economic and social benefits, asset. However, looking across the value chain, we can identify where and foster long-lasting relationships with communities, governments, our activities can contribute positively towards the SDGs or where we partners, investors and employees. can mitigate potentially negative impacts. This enables us to develop In 2018, as part of a rationalisation and simplification of our Corporate Impact Benefit Plans in every new country we operate in (see the case Responsibility Management System (CRMS), we looked at the study on page 50). procedures we have in place on social management, and how they fit Our guidance is also informed by IPIECA’s Mapping the oil and gas into our Project Delivery Process. The various elements of our CRMS industry to the Sustainable Development Goals: An atlas, which gives documentation – covering human rights, stakeholder engagement and the oil and gas sector a framework for making a positive contribution resource use – were developed and added at different times, making to the SDGs. the CRMS guidance difficult to navigate. To make the information easier to access, some of these processes and procedures have now been integrated into one document, Guidance on Managing Social Risks and Opportunities. Using the UN SDGs to help manage risk and opportunities fo r ri s k a n d o p p o r t u n e en it ie Scr s S co pe e so at nic c ia mu la sse Com ss m ent I m p le m rtu n i ties e nt p po ,m do on an i to ra ci al nd ris a k ev lu so at s e s es As D e fi n e s t r ate g y 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 48 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Assessing social impacts and opportunities in Mexico In accordance with our own CRMS, we are required to evaluate The methodology included discussions with key interest the potential social risks and impacts of any major activity groups in the potentially affected areas, including community we undertake. The scope and nature of that Social Impact members, fishermen and fishing cooperatives, local government Assessment (SIA) depends on local context and regulations. representatives, port captains and business owners. Often, the SIA is carried out as part of a combined Environmental The social management plan comprised: and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA). However, in Mexico, – a communication plan to establish effective engagement local regulations required a separate SIA to be carried out and between the project and interested parties, and to provide submitted for approval by the authorities. channels for feedback; In February 2018, Capricorn Energy Mexico (our operating entity) – impact mitigation plans; and finalised an SIA for our proposed exploration projects in Block 9, situated approximately 43 km offshore. Developed in line with best – a reporting and monitoring programme. practice, including the performance standards of the International Financial Corporation and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the assessment involved: – gathering and analysing data to determine a social baseline of the area to be directly and indirectly affected by the proposed activities; – evaluating the likely impacts; – designing impact mitigation measures; and – developing a social management plan. In Tampico port, Mexico 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 49 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Managing social impacts and opportunities in Senegal To deliver value from our operations and make a positive social This can be illustrated by our Impact Benefit Plan for Senegal. impact wherever we work, we aim to assist in the development of We drilled the first deep-water wells offshore Senegal in 2014 local community programmes, in consultation with governments, and made two major discoveries; one of these, the SNE field, was the public and other stakeholders. the largest oil find anywhere in the world that year. Since then, our exploration and appraisal drilling programmes have laid the Looking beyond our direct community impacts at a local level, we foundation for the development of the SNE field, with first oil also consider our broader social and economic contributions to expected in 2022. the countries that host our activities. To do this, we use the SDGs as a guiding framework for the development of Impact Benefit However, the positive impact we can have on the country extends Plans. These help us to focus our activities on areas where we beyond the development of its oil and gas sector. As outlined think we can make the biggest positive difference. below, we are contributing to several SDGs through a range of initiatives that support fishing communities, students, and smalland medium-sized enterprises (SME). SDG target SDG commitment Cairn contribution End poverty Provide support to communities, in Through a pilot project with The Hunger Project in all its forms particular the poor and the vulnerable, designed to drive community-led development, everywhere. to have equal rights to economic and we are supporting around 22,000 fishermen in seven natural resources, and also access to fishing villages around Yenne. basic services, ownership and control over land and other forms of property, inheritance, natural resources, appropriate new technology and financial services, including microfinance. Ensure inclusive Provide support to increase the numbers We are helping STEM students at the University of and equitable of young people and adults who have Dakar to develop their English language skills. Twentyquality education relevant skills, including technical and eight students received English language training and promote vocational skills, for employment, decent in 2018. lifelong learning jobs and entrepreneurship. We are supporting the development of an Institute for opportunities for all. Oil and Gas in Senegal. Promote sustained, Promote development-oriented policies In 2018, 79% of goods, supplies and services were inclusive and that support productive activities, decent purchased in-country. sustainable job creation, entrepreneurship, and We are a founding member of Invest in Africa (IIA) in economic growth, encourage the formalisation and growth Senegal, and are helping to raise awareness of local full and productive of micro-, smalland medium-sized opportunities among SMEs and prepare them for employment and enterprises. potential participation in the oil and gas industry. decent work for all. Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers. Ensure sustainable Reduce waste generation through As part of our waste management efforts, we have consumption prevention, reduction, recycling supported ECOBAG, a community-based plastics and production and reuse. recycling business, for three years through our social patterns. investment programme. Throughout the time of Cairn’s support, the number of ECOBAG employees grew from 5 to 30, and the weight of plastics processed increased from 18 to 50 tonnes per month. Build effective, Strengthen relevant national institutions Globally, we support the United Nations Global accountable through cooperation for building capacity Compact, promote efforts towards achieving the SDGs and inclusive at all levels. and are an active member of the Extractive Industries institutions at all Transparency Initiative. levels. We also work with institutions in Senegal to support English language training and other capacity building. There were 12 participants in our English language training programme for institutional stakeholders in 2018. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 50 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Supporting and strengthening local communities Community-led development Many of our assets are based offshore. Even so, we recognise that our activities can affect in Yenne, Senegal the people closest to our operations to some degree. For example, through the short-term Artisanal fishermen along the coast of Senegal face several challenges, including exclusion of fishing vessels from the waters falling incomes, competition from foreign boats, inadequate equipment, a lack of close to our drilling rigs, our operations can training and food insecurity. We are aware that our ongoing and potential activities limit the ability of local fishermen to exploit the in the area could impact their traditional way of life further. waters we share. In such instances, we work with the fishing industry to minimise disruption, To empower these communities to take the lead in their own development, we have share our current and future plans with fishing worked with The Hunger Project (THP), a global, non-profit organisation, since 2015. communities, and invite feedback on the THP’s ‘epicentre strategy’ helps communities develop social infrastructure (elected issues that affect them. committees) as well as physical community spaces, so they no longer need to rely on external investment and support. Through a 30-month pilot programme with THP that began in July 2017, we are supporting about 22,000 people in seven fishing communities around Yenne, south of “The pilot project with Dakar. The programme identifies leaders, helps them to understand their communities’ Cairn gives the fishing needs, and trains them to mobilise all local stakeholders to drive economic and social development. This is coordinated through a local fisheries committee (Comité Local de communities around Yenne Pêche, or CLP), comprising fishermen, small wholesalers and women fish processors. the means to understand Capacity building through training and cascading information, particularly among and address the challenges women and girls, spans topics including health and nutrition, education and literacy, they face. Women and water and sanitation, female empowerment, improved fishing methods, and opportunities for accessing credit and microfinance. So far, the project has had young people in particular several positive outcomes: are taking the lead, – the CLP now has more than 2,100 members; building capacity through – over 1,000 people have had life skills training; training, awareness-raising – 35 female fish processors have been trained in entrepreneurship and financial and investment.” management; Adama Ndiaye, animator (local leader), – 1,080 women have benefited from access to credit; Comité Local de Pêche – 42 facilitators have enrolled in THP’s Vision, Commitment and Action workshop; – 22 leaders have enrolled in technical and resource mobilisation training; – 91 women are being trained through the Women’s Empowerment Programme; and – new equipment, from octopus pots to life jackets, has been purchased and distributed among the fishermen. The project is steered by representatives of the Government Department of Maritime Fisheries, THP, Capricorn Senegal Limited, the CLP, communal authorities and the beneficiary villages. This steering group discusses progress in project implementation on the ground and ways to overcome challenges. Particular challenges that have been addressed include the following: – Improving the financial returns of fishing activities: Octopus pots provide refuge for reproduction, leading to improved volume and size of catch. After deploying 1,600 pots at the end of 2017, the weight of the octopus catch increased by 34% over the year. A further 1,700 pots were deployed in October 2018, 700 of which were financed by the community themselves, using the profits made from the improved catch in 2017. – Safety at sea: Fishermen have always cited limited access and poor quality as the reasons for not wearing life jackets. Through the CLP, an initial supply of 415 quality life jackets were made available at subsidised rates; the income earned is used to renew the stock, invest in other equipment or run training. Family members also took part in a campaign to encourage the fishermen to wear life jackets at sea. – Accessing finance for income-generating activities: The project has helped the communities develop a financing system adapted to women. This includes welltargeted financial education activities on the rational use of funds made available to them. A credit line of FCFA 25 million has been provided, with FCFA 14.5 million paid in 2017 and 10.5 million in 2018. Read more about how we are managing social impacts and opportunities in Senegal. The Hunger Project, Senegal 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 51 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Human Rights We respect every person who works for us or with us, and believe that upholding their rights to safe working conditions, fair treatment and reasonable reward for their efforts is essential. To develop and maintain effective relationships with employees, communities and other stakeholders, we have put mechanisms in place to ensure we continue to support international standards such as the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Strategic objectives Maintain licence to operate Principal risks Health, safety, environment and security 2018 performance against CR Objectives We included Modern Slavery Act requirements in all contract terms and conditions. We integrated human rights and modern slavery into our audit programme. We enhanced due diligence for human rights and modern slavery risks in new venture evaluations. 2019 CR Objectives Review and refresh our human rights guidance, and ensure modern slavery considerations are included. Develop and integrate an audit programme for 2019. Assess human rights issues for our forthcoming activities in Mexico. The Hunger Project, Senegal 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 52 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Our Approach to Managing Human Rights We respect and support internationally recognised human rights – Our human rights position is integrated in our Corporate standards and, over the years, we have followed a ‘rights aware’ Social Responsibility Policy and our Business Principles. approach. This means that we identify potential human rights – Our Human Rights Guidelines and our Guiding Principles on Business 9) Human issues rights assess in our activities, control and influence whether we have control or influence and Human Rights handbook define how we identify, assess and over them (see graphic below) and define appropriate action. Our manage potential issues at key stages of every project. approach includes ensuring that we have appropriate mechanisms in place for addressing the grievances of employees and external – Our Code of Ethics upholds our longstanding support for the stakeholders. UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Human rights control and influence Company Partners/Contractors Community Society Ensuring the human Using influence or management Ensuring the Company does Using influence to rights of employees controls to make sure partners/ not have a negative impact or develop policy that are respected Company contractors/suppliers are not Partners/Contractors Communitylegacy in the communities supports and rewards Society engaged in human rights abuses where projects/sites are responsible behaviour Ensuring the human Usingsuch influence or management as child the Company does not labour, forced labourEnsuringlocated Using influence to develop rights of employees andtomodern controls make sureslavery partners/ have a negative impact or legacy policy that supports and are respected contractors/suppliers are not in the communities where projects/ rewards responsible behaviour engaged in human rights abuses sites are located such as child labour, forced labour and modern slavery Cairn's reducing ability to control and inﬂuence Cairn’s reducing ability to control and influence Identifying and assessing human rights issues in our sphere of influence Step 1: Identify potential and actual impacts As outlined opposite, we have a five-step process for identifying and assessing human rights issues, at a Group, Human rights impacts assessment (scaled to risk and impact) project or asset level. This process and grievance mechanisms has been incorporated into our CRMS documentation. Potential impacts Actual impacts Operated projects Before entering a new country as an operator, we apply human Step 2: Planning, integrating and acting on findings rights screening as part of our due diligence process. We assess potential impacts through ESIAs or, where Prevent Response and remediation necessary, undertake a human rights mechanisms impact assessment. Mitigate If any current or potential issues are identified, we consider the most effective Step 3: Monitoring, measuring and tracking way to manage them by engaging with those who are likely to be affected. Account Non-operated projects When considering a non-operated joint venture, we identify and check Step 4: Communicating and reporting any human rights issues and establish any risks requiring management by the Step 5: Reviewing operator before proceeding. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 53 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Protecting People and Communities Following the introduction of the UK Modern Slavery Act in 2016, we Our approach follows a similar track to that used in our antiset CR Objectives to improve our position in 2017. Despite production bribery and corruption management system. We conducted a risk commencing in both Kraken and Catcher last year, our turnover did assessment across all countries where we operate to identify potential not reach the specified threshold; therefore, we did not fall within the vulnerabilities to modern slavery within our supply chain. We tend scope of the Act. Nonetheless, we published our first Modern Slavery to use specialist local contractors with well-developed employment Statement, relating to 2017 activities, in early 2018. We now fall under practices, who understand our requirements and standards, the provision of the Act, so we have revised this statement in relation to implement zero tolerance of any form of modern slavery and protect our 2018 activities. Our full Modern Slavery Statement is published on the rights of their workforce. our website, and a summary of our recent actions on modern slavery However, we are aware that our suppliers may have a subcontracting appears below. chain of their own, using agencies with unclear practices in locations that have less robust human rights regulations. Our influence diminishes down the supply chain but we will continue to press our contractors and suppliers to apply good practice. Our key actions on We have not identified any significant risk of forced or compulsory modern slavery labour in our supply chain in 2018. Protecting our employees Our People Management Manual contains our Group People Policy General human rights and modern slavery training for our and all employee-related policies and procedures. This manual employees was completed in early 2018. includes our requirements for personnel employment, including recruitment and selection, diversity, health and well-being, work–life Our procedure for selecting service providers incorporates modern balance, training and benefits. We expect our contractors to treat their slavery assessments. employees in the same way by having clear mechanisms in place. We continue to consult our workforce regularly on organisational and Our human rights assessment comprises a review of key indicators performance issues. We respect those contract employees who work under international classification indices such as the Global Slavery with us, as well as their membership of unions. We have identified Index1 and the US Trafficking in Persons Report2. specific risks and requirements in relation to unions in certain locations, such as Mexico, but respect their right to freedom of association and The standard terms and conditions within our project contracts collective bargaining. specify zero tolerance of modern slavery among suppliers and subcontracting parties, and include our right to audit. See Employees for more information. Protecting communities An integrated audit plan included modern slavery assessment of our contractors based on risk. The five audits conducted included Our position on human rights in the communities where we are an assessment of contractor modern slavery controls. located continues to be an important element of what we do. With limited shore-based operations, most of our activities are conducted offshore. We therefore focus our efforts on those communities with Our whistleblowing procedure includes an ability to report potential which we share marine resources, such as our work with THP to failure to comply with legal requirements and company policy, support the fishing villages in Yenne (see our Impact Benefit Plan for including modern slavery issues. The procedure, which includes Senegal case study). the mechanisms for reporting, has been supported by training. Addressing grievances Grievances from employees or external stakeholders are taken very seriously. When they arise, complaints are reported to the Management Team and the Board, and thoroughly investigated before any Measuring performance actions are identified. Our Group Whistleblowing Procedure covers responsibilities within the Company, the safeguards we have in place, the mechanisms for raising concerns and the investigation process. 100% 17% In some operating locations, separate grievance mechanisms are provided in local languages and published to allow community access. Some locations may also have external mechanisms for reporting of operations have been subject of employees have been trained concerns, such as the UK’s Public Concern at Work advice service, to human rights reviews or on human rights policies the Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority and the Modern impact assessments and procedures Slavery Helpline. 1 www.globalslaveryindex.org. 2 www.state.gov/j/tip/rls/tiprpt. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 54 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Environment Environmental protection is a key priority at Cairn. We take a precautionary approach, with rigorous risk assessment and robust working methods at all stages of our projects. In this way, we seek to minimise any adverse impact on the environments in which we work, and the communities that depend on them. ENSCO 101 drilling rig 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 55 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Climate Change, Energy and Emissions The global demand for energy is growing due to population growth, urbanisation and rising consumption. As society starts to transition to a low-carbon economy, we believe that balancing the ongoing need for energy with reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions will continue to require the efficient use of hydrocarbon fuels for some time to come. Strategic objectives Maintain licence to operate Deliver operational excellence Principal risks Health, safety, environment and security Kraken and Catcher operational and project performance 2018 performance against CR Objectives We continued to assess climate change risks for the business, including reporting. 2019 CR Objectives Compile our submission for the Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme. Complete the Environmental Impact and Risk submissions for wells planned in 2019. Ensure biodiversity risks are understood for new venture activities. In Tampico port, Mexico 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 56 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Resource Use Energy use Water management As we have no operated production, and our seismic and drilling We appreciate that our business both impacts and depends on water programmes are not constant, Cairn’s energy consumption fluctuates resources close to our operations. We also acknowledge that access year on year, depending on the level of activity. to clean, safe water is a fundamental human right, and of importance to local communities and the environment. Therefore, our water resource Our energy monitoring during 2018 means that we will be able to report strategy covers: under the UK Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme regulations in 2019, if required. Large UK enterprises have a mandatory requirement to – assessing the need for using and abstracting freshwater; report energy consumption-related data from their activities, and to – exploring ways to manage freshwater more efficiently; develop energy reduction and efficiency plans. We have been exempt under phase one of this programme, but remain prepared to submit – identifying and implementing ways to reduce the impacts of our information under the second phase if necessary; this scenario is likely operations on freshwater; and due to our increase in non-operated production and its value. – enhancing our reporting of freshwater resources management. Energy use elsewhere within the Group mainly comprises diesel fuel combustion in our field operations. In our 2018 exploration activity for the Ekland well, our use of freshwater was limited to drilling water and domestic use, both offshore and onshore. Total direct and indirect energy consumption (GJ) Read about our treatment of wastewater in Discharges, Waste and Sound. 2018 70,713 Chemical management The liquid and solid chemicals we use, such as drilling fluids for 2017 exploration, are selected to be fit for purpose but also to ensure that we 493,457 minimise any impact to the environment. They are then submitted for approval by the regulatory authority. 2016 We identify and assess the potential risks and impacts of chemicals 333,446 as part of our routine approach to planning operations. This includes selecting chemicals based on international good practice and local 2015 legislation, as captured in our Corporate Responsibility Management 361,962 System (CRMS). We also use Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) or similar tools to determine their potential 2014 impact, taking into account the local environment and the possible 857,795 impact of any emissions and discharges from our planned operations. For our UK Ekland well in 2018, we were governed by the Offshore Chemical Regulations. We made submissions, in line with our own CRMS requirements, in compliance with UK legislation. The chemicals we used were selected with preference given to those that minimise impact on the environment while still fulfilling their primary function. After this information was submitted and approved, we used a software tool to track use and discharges. Any changes to the chemicals required during drilling were similarly submitted to the UK Regulatory Authority for approval before use. Senegal is in the process of ratifying the Abidjan Convention1, which seeks to improve the standards and practices used for selecting and disposing of chemicals in West Africa. We welcome this and the convention’s consistency with Oslo/Paris Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the North-East Atlantic (OSPAR) requirements as a way to implement good practice in the region, and continue to engage all our partners in minimising their impact on ENSCO 101 drilling rig the environment. 1 Convention for Cooperation in the Protection, Management and Development of the Marine and Coastal Environment of the Atlantic Coast of the West, Central and Southern Africa Region, adopted by 11 governments. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 57 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reporting on climate issues and emissions In August 2018, we made our CDP submissions, for which the reporting requirements were more robust than in previous years. To present our position as transparently as possible, our submission was reviewed by a third party. We improved from Cin our 2017 submission to Bfor 2018. One major challenge we face is that we do not have carbon targets. Our operated exploration activities are hard to set targets for because the number and scope of our activities can change significantly year by year. Our production activities are more consistent over time, but as these are performed by non-operated assets, progress against targets is reported by our partners. We did review our production assets’ compliance in relation to GHG emissions and planned compliance with the EU Emissions Trading Scheme until the end of the current phase, and reported our findings to the Board. As we enter territories that are more heavily regulated with regard to reporting, such as the UK and Norway, we must continue to comply with any new statutory or regulatory reporting requirements. We Kraken FPSO continue to monitor other corporate governance developments, such as any specific requirements or recommendations from the Financial Reporting Council and the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures formed in response to the 2015 United Nations Climate GHG emissions from our operations arise mainly from the combustion Change Conference. of fuels. We monitor and manage the GHGs emitted during our activities and disclose them in accordance with industry requirements, Other emissions methodologies and standards. We strive to reduce the footprint of our We monitor and report on other air emissions in connection with our activities by operating efficiently, but not to the detriment of safety. activities. These include carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, sulphur dioxide, methane and volatile organic compounds. These are shown in the We report on an ‘operational control’ basis, which means we include Data Appendix. emissions from those assets that are operated by us but not those controlled by our partners. Around 95% of the GHG emissions associated with our sector occur in the supply chain, so the influence Total and normalised GHG emissions (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) we have on them is limited, other than through initial contractor selection and the application of modern, efficient equipment. GHG emissions (all scopes) normalised, Our GHG emissions are heavily influenced by the level of operational tonnes CO2e per 1,000 hours worked activity over any given period. They vary, in absolute terms, with the length of operations and project requirements, which are in turn 53 influenced by the nature of the work, safety considerations, ease of 48 drilling, the distance between operations and support bases, and local environmental and meteorological conditions. Most of our emissions arise from exploration and appraisal activities, but these are not 41 constant year on year. In 2018, our activities focused on exploration and 33 site surveys in Mexico, Norway and the UK, and drilling our UK Ekland well. Owing to the nature of our activities, we had no venting or flaring this year. 14 Tonnes CO2e In 2019, we have active drilling programmes planned in Mexico, Norway and the UK, and consequently, our emissions will rise compared with 2018. 59,395 Our total GHG emissions decreased in 2018, as we drilled two appraisal wells during 2017 in Senegal but just one well in the UK in 2018. Normalised emissions (per 1,000 hours worked) also reduced, primarily 48,782 as a consequence of using a less energy-intensive jack-up rig in the shallower waters of the UK Continental Shelf (UKCS) (compared with a 32,435 29,487 larger floating rig in the deeper waters offshore Senegal). ITPEnergised provided independent verification of our GHG emissions 3,217 2,606 2,471 4,624 2,625 for 2018. See our GHG Assurance Statement and our 2018 Data 402 355 2,140 343 351 251 Appendix, which includes data and methodology notes. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 Scope 2 (location-based) Scope 3 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 58 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Discharges, Waste and Sound For offshore activities, we carefully manage emissions to air and For all projects, we ensure that: discharges into the sea. As with GHGs, it is difficult for us to set specific – waste management regulations and facilities in-country are annual reduction targets due to variations in activity and equipment. understood before operations; Nonetheless, we are committed to minimising the environmental impact from our operations, and to reporting fully and transparently – local facilities and service providers have been audited, and gaps on our performance. identified and addressed; Waste – Waste Management Plans are informed by the findings from Our exploration activities generate different volumes and types of in-country reviews and audits; waste, including oil-contaminated wastes, chemical wastes, non– waste is transferred to approved waste management facilities, hazardous wastes from office and domestic operations, and clinical which may require specific licences or permits; wastes from medical facilities offshore. – waste management activities are supervised for the duration of Adopting the precautionary principle, our waste management operations for each waste stream; approach is in line with internationally accepted best practices, legal requirements and duty of care standards. We are committed – hazardous wastes that cannot be treated locally are transferred to maximising the reuse and recycling of waste, and minimising the to suitable treatment and disposal facilities in full compliance with amount sent to landfill. For example: international law, including the Basel Convention3; and – waste drilling fluids can only be discharged to sea if permitted under – waste transfer treatment and disposal records are maintained in local regulations and our CRMS. This year, waste drilling fluids were accordance with legislation and internal requirements. discharged to sea having met the UK Offshore Chemical Regulation In 2018, we ensured that our UK Ekland well complied with all aspects and OSPAR convention; of the waste legislation, including the Duty of Care and special – domestic and food waste generated during offshore support (hazardous) waste regulations applicable in Scotland. We used an operations (excluding drilling), such as domestic use on vessels experienced specialist shore base, which included professional and offshore rigs, is managed in accordance with MARPOL2 handling of wastes and appropriate record-keeping. This is standard requirements; practice on the UKCS, where well-defined disposal routes and contractors exist. – any waste that cannot be treated and disposed of at sea is segregated and transferred for further treatment and disposal Water and wastewater on land; and We use some freshwater (see Resource Use) in our offices and for – wastewater generated by our offices is treated through municipal drilling mud and domestic use on our rigs and vessels. In 2018, 100% sewage and wastewater systems. of our water withdrawal (6,251 m3) was freshwater, of which 65% was attributed to our UK well activity. In 2018, we generated 8 tonnes of hazardous waste and 81 tonnes of non-hazardous waste. Total hazardous and non-hazardous waste (tonnes) Total water withdrawal (m3) 2018 2018 8 81 6,251 0 2017 2017 150 374 19,303 11,140 2016 2016 245 381 2,285 8,511 2015 2015 33 273 2,514 6,302 2014 2014 172 489 5,832 29,945 Hazardous Freshwater withdrawal Non-hazardous Seawater withdrawal 2 International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL 73/78) under the auspices of the International Maritime Organisation, which has 174 nation members worldwide. 3 Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal, adopted by 53 nations worldwide. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 59 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Sound Through the use of air guns and vessel movement, Reducing the impact of seismic surveys generate underwater sound, which has the potential to impact marine mammals seismic surveys on marine and reptiles. The environmental impact of sound associated with our drilling activities is assessed in the life in Suriname environmental assessments we undertake ahead of all operations. Through our extensive ESIA process, we identified as many as 30 marine We submitted an ESIA in relation to our 2D seismic mammal species that may be present off the coast of Suriname. These programme in Suriname to the regulator, which include three species listed on the International Union for Conservation of was subject to public consultation. This looked at Nature (IUCN) 2018 Red List as ‘endangered’ (blue, fin and sei whales) and good practice for reducing the impact of sound on two that are classed as ‘vulnerable’ (sperm whale and West Indian manatee). marine mammals and marine turtles (see case study In addition, five local species of sea turtle are classified as ‘critically opposite). It was submitted in November 2018, and endangered’, ‘endangered’ or ‘vulnerable’. As the northern coast provides consultation meetings concluded in early November. important nesting sites, we have scheduled our seismic survey activities to We were given approval to commence activities in occur at a time that minimises any impact on these important species. December 2018 with appropriate mitigation. Through engagement with local stakeholders who have extensive knowledge and experience, including the World Wide Fund for Nature Product Stewardship (WWF) and the Green Heritage Fund Suriname (GHFS), we have committed to several location-specific mitigation measures. These supplement the The handling and stewardship of crude oil increased Joint Nature Conservation Committee 2017 guidelines and draw on a report in importance during 2017 when our UK non-operated from the regional MaMa CoCo Sea Project Committee, which detailed best assets, Kraken and Catcher, started production. practice for minimising the impacts of sound on marine life off the northern Although the day-to-day stewardship of crude coast of South America. derived from these assets remains the responsibility Based on these consultations, our mitigation plan involves: of the operator, we have a duty to ensure that any product over which we have an influence, share or –having specific species observers on our survey vessel, for both daylight control is handled properly. Crude oil is exempt from and night-time monitoring; the REACH4 regulations that specify registrations and –setting up a 500-metre Safety Exclusion Zone, to ensure that marine associated restrictions. mammals are not exposed to sound levels that could cause temporary or Our involvement includes ensuring that: permanent auditory trauma; – the crude is transferred from floating production, –using ‘soft-start’ procedures to give marine animals up to 40 minutes to storage and offloading (FPSO) units to customers move away before the array reaches full power; using appropriate, well-managed systems to –employing species-specific delays for deep-diving whales and sea turtles, meet the specifications of the recipient; and and even instigating shutdowns if certain species enter the Safety Exclusion – any trading of the product is carried out transparently. Zone; and –using passive acoustic monitoring during the night or when conditions prevent visual monitoring, with the same mitigation requirements as for visual monitoring. We have agreed to share the data we collect during our seismic survey with both the WWF and the GHFS, to help further the understanding of species distribution in the area. Typical West African fishing boat 4 REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction of Chemicals) is the system for controlling chemicals in Europe. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 60 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Strategic objectives Biodiversity Maintain licence to operate Global awareness of the threat to Principal risks biodiversity has increased dramatically Health, safety, environment and security in recent years. This places a greater responsibility on businesses like ours 2018 performance to recognise our potential impact on against CR Objectives the habitats, ecosystems and species We continued to promote a high standard of design and performance in our developments. that enrich our planet, and to commit to protecting them in the locations We submitted an ESIA for the Senegal SNE development, an Environmental Statement where we work. exemption in accordance with the UK regulations for our Ekland well, and an ESIA for our 2D survey in Suriname. We replaced our ageing biodiversity guidance with the latest guidance from IPIECA–IOGP. 2019 CR Objectives Ensure all our new venture and new country entry activities take biodiversity into account. Provide Environmental Risk Statements or supporting ESIAs for planned operations in the UK, Norway and Mexico. Include environmental sensitivity assessments in Investment Proposals. ENSCO 101 drilling rig 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 61 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Assessing Our Biodiversity Impacts We acknowledge that oil and gas exploration and development Assessing our biodiversity impacts activities have the potential to affect biodiversity, both on land and For all operations that could affect critical habitats, protected areas in the marine environment. Therefore, we adopt a precautionary or the welfare of local communities relying on ecosystem services, approach to assessing impact, believing that where threats of serious we undertake extensive assessments of their potential biodiversity or irreversible damage may exist, even if not scientifically proven, impacts. We also engage with technical specialists, government cost-effective measures to prevent damage should still be taken. For departments, non-governmental organisations and other local this reason, we do not explore, develop or enter into joint ventures that stakeholders to inform any subsequent mitigation activities. undertake operations in UNESCO World Heritage sites5. As a minimum, we always undertake environmental risk and impact Our Biodiversity Framework assessment work before starting any project. Although the extent varies Our Biodiversity Framework sets out a common approach, and with location, we assess the potential biodiversity impacts for all projects covers processes that apply to all our business and operations. as early as possible, and continue to do so through all stages in the oil Although ‘owned’ by senior management, it is implemented locally in and gas lifecycle. We consider the direct, indirect and cumulative impacts accordance with our Project Delivery Process. that our operations and our supply chain could have on biodiversity. All our commitments related to preserving biodiversity are covered When identifying, assessing and managing biodiversity risks and by our Business Principles and our Corporate Environment Policy. impacts, we follow the requirements outlined in the International Finance Corporation (IFC)6 Performance Standard 6 (Biodiversity We develop programme-specific Environmental and Social Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Management Plans, usually as part of the ESIA process, and Resources), and also the appropriate national legislation and Biodiversity Action Plans where there is either a significant risk internationally accepted good practice. Any project in which significant to biodiversity or a clear benefit for targeted conservation. We potential impacts to biodiversity are identified undergoes additional commission external independent consultants to develop our ESIAs or studies and a formal assessment to demonstrate how these potential risk assessments and, if required, to advise and assist with managing impacts will be managed. biodiversity risks and impacts. They draw on available environmental studies and background information to understand any habitats that Investment Proposals consider key biodiversity issues before approval. may be impacted. These assessments include impacts on local This helps us to define potential risks, including the presence of livelihoods due to the link between the environment and communities. sensitive sites and species, well in advance of entry into a new licence or location; it also helps us avoid any liability that may arise from preexisting conditions. As part of an ongoing review of our own guidance on biodiversity, we have adopted the IPIECA–IOGP’s7 comprehensive guidance. This guidance is widely supported by several organisations including the United Nations Global Compact and the IUCN. Biodiversity Framework Screening Scoping Interaction with Baseline studies Assessment Stakeholder project planning (existing data engagement and design collection and Predict magnitude of impacts new surveys) Evaluate their significance Investigate options for mitigation Reassess residual impact (as required) Management plans/mitigation register Reporting and disclosure 5 United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage – sites that may be buildings, monuments, sites or natural features of national or international importance. 6 The IFC, a member of the World Bank Group, is the largest global development institution focused exclusively on the private sector in developing countries – www.ifc.org. 7 Oil and gas industry bodies IPIECA and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers provide a variety of guides on assessing, protecting and managing biodiversity in oil and gas projects – www.ipieca.org/resources/good-practice/biodiversity-and-ecosystem-services-fundamentals. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 62 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT Environmental Baseline Surveys We are currently undertaking a significant amount of environmental Mexico baseline survey work, in preparation for drilling campaigns in the UK, The EBL survey for Block 9, one of our two operated licences offshore Norway and Mexico. Environmental Baselines (EBLs) enable us to Mexico, was approved by the Mexican regulator ASEA9 in August 2018. define existing biodiversity, environmental and other conditions near our activities, using a range of analytical techniques ranging from In addition, we completed our baseline assessment for Block B15, seabed sampling to photography. which also determined the extent of previous activities and existing infrastructure in the area. We have informed ASEA that we intend to As well as providing data for the assessment of potential impacts exclude some locations from exploration, including shallow water and on habitats and helping us develop mitigation plans, the EBLs may areas of coral, on the grounds of environmental sensitivity. also protect the Company from liabilities arising from the prior activities of others. Assessments in other locations In 2018, we completed a new country entry process for activities Senegal in Suriname, where we have undertaken an environmental impact We worked with our partner Woodside to submit an ESIA for the SNE assessment. The offshore biodiversity here is likely to host a variety of development in August 2018. Following regulatory scrutiny by the cetaceans and turtles. An ESIA was submitted to the regulator NIMOS10 Senegal National Technical Committee and at public consultation, all in November 2018, as part of our proposed 2D seismic programme for responses and modifications to the ESIA were submitted in November early 2019. 2018 to complement the exploitation plan. Final approval was granted in January 2019. We also screened sensitive environmental areas and vulnerable communities for various non-operated Investment Proposals. UK and Norway These included: Our site survey for the operated Ekland well, completed in January – an offshore block in Mauritania, with rich fishing grounds, the 2018, was used in the Environmental Statement exemption submission potential for deep-water coral and a nearby National Park, which is to the regulator, the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial also a World Heritage site; and Strategy, and incorporated into our well application in July. – five onshore coastal blocks in Côte d’Ivoire, with several protected We also undertook site and baseline surveys to identify sensitive areas (including National Parks). habitats in support of environmental impact work for the planned operated wells for 2019: the Chimera well in the UK, and the Lynghaug and Godalen wells in Norway. The Norwegian survey will be submitted to the regulator PSA8, along with an Environmental Risk Assessment and Environmental Management Plan, and the Environmental Statement (or exemption) will be sent to the UK regulator in early 2019. Mauritania fishing boats 8 Petroleum Safety Authority. 9 Agencia de Seguridad, Energía y Ambiente. 10 Nationaal Instituut voor Milieu en Ontwikkeling in Suriname. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 63 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT About This Report This report covers Cairn’s Corporate Responsibility (CR) approach and performance across our global operations from 1 January to 31 December 2018. Reporting standards Data and performance indicators Cairn reports its 2018 CR information in accordance with We measure our performance against Group-level Key Performance AccountAbility’s AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard founding Indicators (KPIs), which are aligned with the strategy and operational principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. This ensures programme of the Company. These are reviewed annually. The that we engage with internal and external stakeholders, identify and KPIs in 2018 were based on strategic business objectives in the assess our most important CR issues, and address and respond to following categories: them in a structured way. – health, safety, environment and security and CR; We also use the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards (Core – new ventures; option), following the GRI’s content principles of materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness, and its quality – exploration; principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability. For more information, download our 2018 GRI Content Index. – development; – production and cash flow; and Scope and boundaries We report on an ‘operational control’ basis. This means that we report – funding. on those assets and activities over which we had control in terms of Detailed CR Objectives and KPIs are included under the ‘Maintain CR policies and practices during 2018, irrespective of the licensed licence to operate’ strategic objective. CR KPIs amounted to 15% of operating party. We exclude data where we do not control operations, the total indicator score of performance across the Group in 2018, but we do consider risks associated with our partners’ position and 10% of which covered ‘leading’1 indicators. The remaining 5% covered their control of such activities. In line with this, our 2018 CR information ‘lagging’2 indicators. covers Cairn’s head office in Edinburgh, our regional offices in the UK, Norway, Senegal and Mexico, and field operations in the UK, Mexico and Norway. 1 Leading indicators are proactive actions aimed at improving performance or correcting potential weaknesses without awaiting a demonstrated failure. 2 Lagging indicators are reactive measures of performance resulting from failures in risk management, e.g. Lost Time Injury Frequency. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 64 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT A wide variety of data is collected over a range of issues and topics Uncertainties and estimates previously grouped under the themes of Business Relationships, We make every effort to ensure our data is accurate and transparent, Society and Communities, People, and Environment. These have been although it is not possible or practical to measure all data exactly (e.g. realigned for reporting purposes following our comprehensive review obtaining electricity consumption data for a small office that is part of of the materiality process in late 2018 into Governance, People, Society a larger building, or recording water effluent from an office or vessel and Environment. Our CR Objectives for 2019 have also been refined that has no water outflow meter). In such cases, we use accepted to reflect this change and to be more focused, as directed by the estimation methodologies that may involve the use of conversion Remuneration Committee and the Board. In turn, our CR Objectives will factors (e.g. calculating office data as a proportion of the figures for be used to direct our CR improvement programme for the year. Find the whole building, using volume-to-mass conversion factors for out more about the themes and structure of our reporting, and how calculating tonnage of waste, calculating greenhouse gas (GHG) they are informed by our materiality assessment. emissions). We highlight these methodologies with our data. The data we use for monitoring and reporting purposes is maintained in a database. This database records data by geographical region, Targets and defines the KPIs to be measured and the frequency at which We recognise the importance of both lagging and leading indicators, data should be recorded. Data entry and approval are tracked as well as targets, in driving positive behaviours and improvements within the database. in performance. These are linked to mechanisms for assessing both Company and individual performance, including incentives for our Our incident and accident data is recorded in a separate incident personnel. The greatest weight is given to leading indicators, as reporting system. This stores all relevant details and also emails they provide proactive measures to actively improve performance; if defined individuals across the business, including senior managers, implemented correctly, these also help drive good performance to inform them of progress. It also triggers an investigation into the as shown by lagging indicators. incidents, depending on their nature. We set lagging targets to exceed the industry norms published We use definitions set by the GRI and International Association of Oil annually by the IOGP. Some parameters, such as GHG reduction & Gas Producers (IOGP) to provide comparable and credible data that targets, have proven to be less meaningful in our business because can be benchmarked against our peers in the oil and gas sector. our levels of activity vary substantially year to year and we have Data is collected from our offices and field operations, including no steady-state operated production. We look at normalising GHG each individual rig, vessel, shore base and aviation contractor. Field emissions against hours worked but this too varies substantially with operations data is usually provided by the contractors involved. We the type of equipment used in different locations and under differing inform these contractors about our KPI requirements in advance of environmental conditions. the work, as part of the contracting process, and provide detailed Supporting data instructions about the data needed. These instructions include definitions of the KPIs, methodology notes (e.g. waste reporting with A full set of CR data is available in our Data Appendix. This document volume-to-mass conversion factors) and information on incident includes methodology notes and KPI definitions, with a particular reporting. The field operations data is collected monthly and entered focus on KPIs from subject areas that were assessed in our materiality directly into our database, via an online connection where possible, process to be the most important to our business and our stakeholders. or submitted in Excel spreadsheets. Data is queried by Cairn’s head External assurance office with the providers in their different locations, through the database or via email. An independent environmental data assurer, ITPEnergised, has provided assurance of our 2018 GHG emissions, as stated in our We update our methodologies on a regular basis, for example when Annual Report and Accounts and this CR report. Within the scope new methodologies are identified, best practice is improved or of the limited assurance engagement, the GHG statements made calculation factors are updated. Any factors used are reviewed annually. are found to be materially correct, a fair representation of the available GHG data and information, and prepared in accordance with the Baseline data methodology defined for reporting by Cairn Energy PLC. We report historical data from all our activities over the last five years. Levels of activity at Cairn vary considerably from year to year, so we do A full assurance statement, with details of the assurance scope, not have a fixed baseline or historical reference point. independence of ITPEnergised and recommendations, is available online. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report | 65
