Global RESPONSIBILITY 2019 Table of contents 1 Introduction 12 Our Food 22 Our Planet 1 Letter to stakeholders 13 Health and wellness 24 Climate change 2 Company overview 17 Food safety 32 Water stewardship 3 Highlights in 2018 19 Consumer education and marketing 34 Regenerative agriculture 4 Materiality 20 Transparency 39 Sustainable sourcing 8 Stakeholder engagement 46 Responsible sourcing 8 Public policy 10 Human rights 48 Our Workplace 56 Our Community 64 Appendix 49 Workplace safety 58 Increasing food security 64 Environmental data summary 50 Ethics and compliance 61 Advancing sustainable agriculture 66 Global Reporting Initiative index 51 Global inclusion 62 Strengthening hometown communities 71 United Nations Global Compact Principles 53 Employee engagement and development 72 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) reference table ©2019 General Mills. INTRODUCTION To our stakeholders: At General Mills, we know that food plays a we continue to increase transparency about This report describes General Mills’ strategies central role in people’s lives and has a profound our ingredients and how our food is made. and performance across four key areas: impact on the environment and communities Our Food, Our Planet, Our Workplace Feeding a growing global population depends worldwide. We believe that our company and Our Community. We have focused on on a healthy planet, so we are committed to can be a force for good. By using our global the topics that are most important to our treating the world with care. We continue taking scale and leadership, we work to create stakeholders and to our business. While we bold actions to advance sustainability, including value and make a difference for consumers, are proud of the progress we have made, driving progress toward our ambitious goals to workers, communities and the planet. hard work remains and we are motivated reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 28 percent by the opportunities that lie ahead. Jeffrey L. Harmening We face tremendous change in our industry, across our value chain by 2025 and sustainably Chairman, Chief with unprecedented social and environmental source our top 10 ingredients by 2020. We As always, we welcome your Executive Officer challenges. Navigating this landscape embrace our responsibility to help achieve questions and comments. General Mills requires transformation and innovation at a stable climate, healthy watersheds, strong Sincerely, every level, from how we source ingredients ecosystems and better lives for farmers. and make our products to how we engage Transforming our global food systems requires with consumers and other stakeholders. new levels of collaboration and transparency This transformation begins with understanding across our supply chain, and with businesses, consumer needs and delivering what they governments and nongovernmental Jeff want. Consumers increasingly demand food organizations. We support key global that reflects their values, from a company they efforts to advance the sustainability agenda, trust. We have greatly expanded our offerings including the United Nations Global Compact, in recent years to meet these expectations and which we have endorsed since 2008. We know that in order to deliver strong returns n S  ustainably sourcing ingredients, protecting General Mills has been a public company for for our shareholders, we must successfully at-risk watersheds and advancing soil almost 90 years, and our shareholders rely on us serve all our stakeholders – our consumers, health help to protect input availability to provide strong, stable returns. Transforming customers, employees and communities. and ensure we can make the food our business model to be even more financially, At General Mills, we prioritize financial, people love far into the future. environmentally, and socially sustainable will help environmental and social performance as n R  educing our natural resource usage us continue to deliver value for years to come. important measures of value and values. saves money while decreasing our Sincerely, This report describes initiatives that environmental footprint. In fiscal 2018 drive value in multifaceted ways: alone, our energy efficiency projects saved Donal L. Mulligan nearly $5 million while avoiding 6,000 Executive Vice President, n D  elivering products that meet diverse Chief Financial Officer metric tons CO₂e of GHG emissions. consumer needs creates market opportunities. General Mills n B  uilding a more sustainable business Don We reached more than $1 billion in net sales helps attract and retain the best from natural and organic products in the U.S. employees and supports the communities in fiscal 2018, up almost 50 percent since 2015. in which we do business. GRI 102-12, 14 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 01 Company overview Our purpose At General Mills, we serve the world by making food people love. We do this by embracing our five pursuits, which are at the heart of our company. Key metrics Net sales by segment, fiscal 2018* Carbon footprint, fiscal 2018 Total giving, fiscal 2018 (percentage of total) (percentage of total) (dollars in millions) n Agriculture and transformation 48% n North America Retail 64% n Packaging supply chain 7% n C orporate contributions US$33 n C onvenience Stores and n Producing 10% Foodservice 12% n F ood donations US$41 n Shipping 7% n E urope and Australia 13% n Foundation giving US$28 n Selling 5% nA  sia and Latin America 11% Total: US$102 million n Consuming 21% Total: US$15.7 billion Total: 15.3 million metric tons CO2e *Does not include US$1.1 billion of net sales from joint ventures. Our brands General Mills produces and markets more than 100 consumer brands in more than 100 countries on six continents. NEW COLOUR LOGO ™ GRI 102-2 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 02 Highlights in 2018 At General Mills, we work to create holistic value throughout our supply chain, from agriculture and operations to our consumers and communities. Below are some highlights of our progress in fiscal 2018. 2018 highlights 85 percent 2nd largest 100 percent of facilities worldwide of our 10 priority U.S. natural and ingredients organic food audited and/or certified for food sustainably sourced producer safety by independent third parties US$102 million in 13 percent 49 percent corporate giving decrease of greenhouse gas emissions of professional across our value chain in 2018 compared positions held worldwide to 2010 by women globally 55,000+ acres US$4+ million 90 percent of our of pollinator habitat invested in soil health solid waste recycled or planted through 2018 initiatives through 2018 processed for recovery 81 percent of our U.S retail sales 83 percent 29 million of our employees meals enabled through volume nutritionally improved worldwide volunteered food donations around since 2005 in their communities the world GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 03 Materiality* In 2018, we partnered with Hudson map and disclosure topics for stakeholders, most having a global with General Mills executives to validate Consulting to conduct an assessment the processed foods industry focus and representing a wide variety of and finalize the material issues list. to update our list of material global perspectives, including from academics, n T  he Dow Jones Sustainability Our final list is included on the following responsibility issues, last done in 2015. consultants, customers, investors, Index’s (DJSI) scoring framework page, with a visual representation Input for this analysis included: nongovernmental organizations for food products of where each issue has the most and suppliers. Just over 30 internal n M  aterial issues lists published impact across our value chain. n S  takeholder and consumer research stakeholders responded, representing all by several industry peers GRI 102-46, 47 Based on the input, we created and regions and a wide range of functions n I nput from General Mills global distributed a materiality assessment and areas of expertise. responsibility experts and executives survey to stakeholders to determine the Using this stakeholder input, we n T  he Sustainability Accounting relative importance of each issue. We developed a draft matrix and worked Standards Board’s (SASB) materiality received 30 responses from external Materiality assessment process Materiality matrix General Mills External Other stakeholder Importance for General Mills to address Results of 2015 executives disclosure and consumer Industry peers assessment and experts frameworks research HIGHER PRIORITY material issues (input from external stakeholders) List of issues for materiality assessment OTHER material issues External Internal survey survey HIGHER Impact on General Mills (input from internal stakeholders) *In this report, the terms “material” and “materiality” refer to topics that reflect General Mills’ significant environmental and social impacts or that substantially influence our global responsibility strategy. We are not using these terms as they have been defined by securities laws in the United States or in the context of financial statements and financial reporting. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 04 AGRICULTURE TRANSFORMING PRODUCING CONSUMING Material issues PACKAGING SHIPPING SELLING This table summarizes the issues that are most material to our global responsibility strategy, including several priority issues ranked highest by our stakeholders. We include information about our approach to and progress on these issues throughout this report and in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index. CIRCLES NOTE VALUE CHAIN PHASES FOR EACH RELEVANT ISSUE Climate change Advance programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and help mitigate the effects of climate change throughout the value chain. Sub-issues: adaptation and resilience; climate policy advocacy; mitigation Commodity availability Maintain reliable access to key commodities and inputs. Sub-issues: political disruption; severe weather; water-stressed areas PRIORITY MATERIAL ISSUES Corporate governance Operate with integrity and the highest standards of oversight, ethics and compliance. Sub-issues: anti-corruption; ethics and compliance; and ethics grievance processes; privacy and data protection Diverse consumer needs Diversify our product offerings and meet changing consumer preferences. Sub-issues: dietary needs; preferred agricultural practices; preferred ingredients Food safety Set and maintain the highest standards for food safety and quality. Sub-issues: audits; certification; recalls; training Health and nutrition Improve the variety and nutritional profile of our products and engage in public discussions on nutritious lifestyles. Sub-issues: increasing beneficial nutrients and food groups; decreasing nutrients to limit; nutrient-dense foods Human rights Protect and respect human rights throughout the value chain. Sub-issues: child labor; discrimination; fair compensation; forced labor; freedom of association and collective bargaining; gender equality; human trafficking; land rights; safe and healthy working conditions; working hours Responsible sourcing Improve social, environmental and economic impacts of raw material sourcing. Sub-issues: integrated pest management; organic/regenerative farming; risk assessments and audits; soil health; supplier diversity; supplier responsibility; traceability Water stewardship Reduce water use and ensure appropriate water management throughout the value chain, especially in water-stressed areas. Sub-issues: water use in agriculture; water use in packaging Animal welfare Ensure the humane treatment of animals throughout the supply chain. Sub-issues: animal testing; antibiotic use; the “five freedoms” Biodiversity Conserve a variety of plant and animal species through sustainable sourcing practices. Sub-issues: agricultural practices; forestry practices; vulnerable species Biotechnology Ensure responsible use of biotechnology tools and techniques in agricultural practices and food production. Sub-issues: consumer transparency; disclosure requirements; technologies (CRISPR, gene editing, genetically modified organisms) Deforestation Advance strategies to reduce tree clearing and associated environmental impacts. Sub-issues: biodiversity; climate change; endangered species; high-risk supply chains (cocoa, fiber, palm oil) Diversity and inclusion Foster a diverse and inclusive workplace. Sub-issues: board of directors diversity; equal opportunity/nondiscrimination; gender equality; workforce diversity (beliefs, cultural values, gender, perspectives, race, sexual orientation) OTHER MATERIAL ISSUES Employee health, Maintain a safe workplace for our employees, contractors and visitors, and help employees lead healthier lives. Sub-issues: accident, injury and safety and well-being illness prevention; physical and emotional wellness; work/life balance Employee recruitment Provide competitive pay and benefits, and invest in training and development opportunities. Sub-issues: compensation and benefits; employee and development engagement; employee recruitment and retention; training and development Energy use Reduce energy use and costs throughout the value chain. Sub-issues: energy efficiency; renewable energy use; total energy use Farmer livelihoods Support farmers’ capabilities and capacity to maintain viable operations. Sub-issues: economic empowerment for smallholder and women farmers; farm worker safety Food security Improve access to healthy, affordable food for the world’s growing population. Sub-issues: donations; food access and equity; food banks; food deserts; school meal programs Food waste Reduce food waste and loss from field to fork and beyond. Sub-issues: food rescue/recovery; packaging design to reduce food waste; product labeling Packaging footprint Reduce the environmental impact of packaging. Sub-issues: amount of materials used; lower-impact materials; materials selection (fiber, glass, metal, plastic); ocean plastic; packaging fees/bans; recyclability Public policy and Engage with policymakers to advance the interests of General Mills and its stakeholders, maintain the company’s license to operate, and engagement drive social and environmental improvement. Sub-issues: lobbying; policy advocacy; political contributions Responsible marketing Maintain the highest standards for marketing and advertising, including through adherence to internal and industry guidelines. Sub-issues: commitments and policies; marketing to children; nutrition and ingredient labeling Transparency Communicate openly with stakeholders about our products and business practices. Sub-issues: employment practices; ingredients; labeling; online access to information; supplier relationships/accountability GRI 102-46, 47 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 05 Priority issues: Goals and performance Progress Issue Commitment/Goal 2016 2017 2018 Food safety Ensure all facilities worldwide are audited and/or certified by independent third parties using globally recognized food safety criteria 100% 100% 100% (% of facilities) Achieve Global Food Safety Initiative certification of all General Mills owned facilities by 2020 (% of facilities) 80% 82% 84% Health and nutrition Continue to improve the health profile of U.S. retail products* (%) 79% 80% 81% Our food Comply with global industry front-of-pack calorie labeling Ongoing (see page 19) Diverse consumer Continue to expand product offerings to meet consumer needs and preferences needs n New product launches in the U.S. (number of SKUs) 235 310 265 n Gluten-free retail products in North America (number of products) 1,000 920 900 n Protein-rich retail products in the U.S. (number of products) 230 250 190 n Lower-calorie retail products in North America (number of products) 1,300 1,300 1,250 Reach US$1 billion in net sales from natural and organic products in the U.S. by 2019 (US$ million) $750 $1,045 $1,058 Climate change Reduce absolute GHG emissions across our full value chain by 28 percent by 2025 and 41-72 percent by 2050 (compared to 2010) N/A -11% -13% (% change compared to 2010) Reduce energy use by 2 percent annually** (% change) 0% 3% -2% Reduce production solid waste generation by 3 percent annually** (% change) 21% 11% 7% Achieve zero waste to landfill at 30 percent of our owned production facilities by 2020 and 100 percent by 2025*** (%) 12% 14% 20% Water stewardship Champion the activation of water stewardship plans for the company’s most material and at-risk watersheds in its global value Ongoing (see pages 32-33) chain by 2025 Reduce water use by 1 percent annually** (% change) 10% -5% -4% Our planet Responsible sourcing Sustainably source 100 percent of our 10 priority ingredients by 2020 (%) 69% 76% 85% Cocoa (%) 46% 59% 90% Vanilla (%) 22% 22% 32% Oats (%) 50% 61% 90% U.S. wheat (%) 36% 61% 74% U.S. sugar beets (%) 68% 81% 81% U.S. corn (dry milled) (%) 33% 67% 82% U.S dairy (raw fluid milk) (%) 38% 83% 91% Fiber packaging (%) 99% 99% 99.5% Sugarcane (%) 67% 58% 70% Palm oil (%) 100% 100% 100% * Represents percentage of U.S. retail sales volume that has reduced calories, fat, saturated fat, trans fat, sugar or sodium by at least 5 percent per serving or increased beneficial nutrients (including vitamins, minerals and fiber) by at least 10 percent per serving, compared to fiscal 2005. ** Applies to all General Mills owned production facilities. Normalized to production. *** These facilities sent no waste to landfill or incineration without energy recovery. Data includes facilities that were operating at the end of each fiscal year. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 06 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals General Mills supports the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a set of 17 broad goals and 169 more specific targets to drive the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development globally. We focus on the goals that most closely align with the company’s priority issues and areas of long-standing commitment, investment and progress. MATERIAL ISSUES n F  ood security n D  iverse consumer needs n W  ater stewardship n C  limate change n C  limate change n B  iodiversity n F  ood waste n F  ood safety Learn more. n F  ood waste n C  ommodity availability n D  eforestation n H  ealth and nutrition n H  ealth and nutrition Learn more. n E  nergy use n R  esponsible sourcing Learn more. Learn more. n P  ackaging footprint Learn more. Learn more. Also refer to our GRI index for a mapping to SDGs. Oversight The General Mills leadership team The Chief Executive Officer also SUSTAINABILITY has ultimate accountability for the convenes the Sustainability Governance GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’, CEO, CHAIRMAN PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY CEO, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD company’s global responsibility Committee three times per year. The OF THE BOARD COMMITTEE programs and performance. The team role of the Committee is to approve CHIEF SUPPLY CHAIN AND GLOBAL BUSINESS includes Jeff Harmening, Chairman and monitor strategy, policy and key SOLUTIONS OFFICER CHIEF INNOVATION, and Chief Executive Officer; John investments related to sustainability. TECHNOLOGY AND QUALITY OFFICER Church, Chief Supply Chain and CHIEF SUPPLY CHAIN CHIEF INNOVATION, CHIEF HUMAN Additional details about leadership CHIEF MARKETING AND GLOBAL BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY AND RESOURCES OFFICER OFFICER Global Business Solutions Officer; Jodi SOLUTIONS OFFICER QUALITY OFFICER and governance related to specific Benson, Chief Innovation, Technology global responsibility issues are included and Quality Officer; and Jacqueline in relevant sections of this report. Williams-Roll, Chief Human Resources GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY GLOBAL HEALTH AND GENERAL MILLS WORKPLACE FOCUS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY NUTRITION FOUNDATION Officer. The team meets regularly See Corporate Governance to learn and receives input from internal and more about the company’s broader r This graphic outlines governance and management of external experts. The Board of Directors’ corporate governance structures global responsibility focus areas at General Mills. Public Responsibility Committee and processes, including its Public provides oversight and receives regular Responsibility Committee. updates from the operating teams. GRI 102-19, 20, 26, 32 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 07 rs Cust plie om ers Sup Stakeholder engagement n A  nimal welfare n I ndustry n H  uman rights partnerships At General Mills, we engage with to shape standards across the consumer n P  roductinnovation R  egenerative Ind n stakeholders to accelerate progress packaged goods industry, which ust agriculture n S  ustainability ry S  ustainable collaboration ers as n on social and environmental initiatives. elevates overall sector performance. so sourcing um cia ns Our approach includes open dialogue, Co tio n F  ood safety n C  onsumer feedback/ We engage on issues that are material n Pns  ublic policy concerns collaboration and transparent n E  ducationand to our global responsibility strategy n R  egenerative agriculture responsible marketing disclosure. This strengthens our ability n S  ustainable sourcing and where we can have a substantial n P  roductneeds to balance business and societal and preferences positive impact. When engaging with interests; build robust relationships stakeholders, we assess potential globally across sectors; and ultimately, n P  ollinators and n D  iversity and inclusion alignment on objectives, organizational biodiversity n E  mployee satisfaction identify innovative solutions that n S  oil health n E  mployee well-being expertise, capacity, influence and Emp n W  ater stewardship T  raining and NGOs create shared, sustainable value. n loyees willingness to collaborate. development We are working to address shared issues – GRI 102-40, 42, 43, 44 such as health and nutrition, climate change and water stewardship – so n D  isaster relief n F  inancial performance n E  mployee volunteerism n G  overnance collaboration is essential to achieving n F ood security n R  eporting Regenerative long-term, enduring progress. We work n agriculture n B  iotechnology n C  limate change with other companies and organizations n F  ood waste Co m s This graphic un m n  ackaging P or st it i es n  esponsible R nve illustrates the marketing I range of issues on which we engage Regulators and public policymakers with stakeholders. w Public policy At General Mills, we engage in public public policy discussions to advance for the U.S. to remain in the Paris support for the National Organic policy issues that are important to environmental priorities, including: Climate Accord; support the U.S. Standards Board (NOSB) and our company and stakeholders. Environmental Protection Agency’s the Organic Agriculture Research w Leading on regenerative and (EPA) Clean Power Plan; and are and Extension Initiative (OREI). We are committed to conducting sustainable agriculture – General members of Business for Innovative these activities in an accountable and Mills is a leading voice on w Advancing water stewardship Climate and Energy Policy (BICEP). transparent manner. In 2018, we led a regenerative agriculture. We – We engage policymakers to See a list of our public actions here. landmark, transparent enhancement encourage collaboration and drive more sustainable water into our approach and priorities by investment by governments and the w Supporting stronger organic practices in key watersheds, launching Public Engagement for the private sector, such as our support standards – We’re proud of our long like California. Learn more. Greater Good. This extensive site details for the Regional Conservation history of engagement in developing w Addressing packaging and food our public policy engagement and Partnership Program (RCPP). strong U.S. organic standards, and waste – General Mills promotes highlights our focus in five key areas: have fought to promote and protect w Combating climate change – We policies to effectively and efficiently the integrity of the standards n P  rotecting and preserving our support a comprehensive, national increase packaging recycling and advance their continuous planet: We actively engage in climate policy; have publicly called rates and reduce waste. In the improvement. Learn about our GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 08 United States, we are a leader in Hunger Center and are proud to Political contributions the Minnesota Chamber of Commerce AMERIPEN – the American Institute have received the 2018 Corporate and the California Manufacturers and memberships for Packaging and the Environment Partner Hunger Leadership & Technology Association. – and are actively engaged in Award. We also work with several Our civic policy describes our approval We report additional details about multiple, multi-sector and industry initiatives to advance public process for corporate political our largest U.S. trade association coalitions aimed at reducing and policy at the state level that contributions. The Public Responsibility memberships annually in our civic ending food waste and loss. would increase food security. Committee of the Board of Directors involvement reports. We do not belong oversees the company’s political n D  elivering nutrition: We actively w Protecting people – We advocate activities, including our policy, disclosure to, or make payments to, any tax-exempt engage in public policy discussions for inclusive public policies organizations in the United States that of corporate political contributions, to advance nutrition priorities and add our voice to help lead write and endorse model legislation. membership in major trade associations consistent with those outlined in our change, including for inclusive U.S. and independent political expenditures Accountability: In 2018, the Center for U.S. Health Metric, including support immigration and LGBT policies. (although the company has not made Political Accountability rated General for strong Dietary Guidelines for w Strengthening our communities – In any). During 2018, we made US$2,500 in Mills in the top five of the CPA-Zicklin Americans; the U.S. Food and Drug addition to our philanthropic support direct political contributions. For more Index of Corporate Political Disclosure Administration’s efforts to reflect the for our hometown communities, we details and historical information, see our and Accountability, and the top newest scientific information on the also develop important community 2005-2018 Civic involvement reports. food company. This ranking, which definition of “healthy”; strong U.S. partnerships that drive economic includes all companies in the Standard school nutrition standards; and the The General Mills Political Action growth and increase connectiveness. & Poor’s 500 index, maintained our Supplemental Nutrition Program for Committee (G-PAC) is run by employees performance from past years. n I nforming consumers and increasing and uses employee funds to make Women, Infants and Children (WIC). awareness: We actively support political contributions to federal and, GRI 415-1 n E  nsuring safe food: We actively public policy efforts to inform in limited cases, state candidates. No engage in public policy discussions to our consumers and increase their corporate treasury funds are used for ensure safe food. We strongly support the Food Safety Modernization Act awareness about our products. For federal candidate contributions, but as Top 5 example, we are active members of allowed by law, the company pays G-PAC (FSMA) – the largest revamp of CPA-Zicklin Index several organizations that provided administration costs. Information regarding U.S. food safety laws in decades – comments to the U.S. Department of G-PAC transactions is available on the of Corporate Political and its goal of raising food safety Agriculture (USDA) requesting that Federal Election Commission’s website. Disclosure and standards across the food value more information about bioengineered Accountability chain. We supported the originating General Mills also advances its mission ingredients be made available to legislation for FSMA and the by partnering with trade associations consumers, not less. (See one example regulations for its implementation, and other independent organizations here.) Learn more about initiatives and have consistently called on that share our goals, including: to increase transparency in the Congress to continue adequate n I nternational organizations, such Our Food section of this report. funding for FSMA implementation. as EuroGlaces and the Brazilian Compliance: We comply with all n I ncreasing food security and Association of Food Industries. lobbying regulations where applicable. strengthening communities: n U  .S. public policy focused General Mills is registered as a lobbying We actively engage in public organizations, such as the Grocery entity at the federal level for the U.S. policy discussions in this area, Manufacturers Association and the House of Representatives and U.S. including the following actions: American Bakers Association. Senate and in the states of Minnesota w Increasing food security – At the and California. We file regular reports n S  tate or provincial agencies, federal level, we are a longtime on our lobbying activity (see links). local chambers of commerce and supporter of The Congressional GRI 102-12, 13, 44 manufacturing organizations, such as GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 09 Human rights We believe that societies, economies chain, we are committed to treating Standards and Ethical Sourcing Policy, n S upport for the Consumer Goods and businesses thrive when human people with dignity and respect. our Employee Code of Conduct and Forum’s Forced Labour Resolution rights are protected. Respect for human our Supplier Code of Conduct and Priority Industry Principles To inform our approach in this rights is fundamental to our purpose area, we look to the UN Guiding n U se of the Sedex Members Ethical of serving the world by making food Governance Principles on Business and Trade Audit (SMETA) protocol people love and to our commitment The Public Responsibility Committee Human Rights, the UN Universal n E  ndorsement of the UN to ethical business conduct. of the General Mills Board of Directors Declaration of Human Rights, and the Global Compact International Labour Organization’s oversees our work in this area. Our approach n S  ignatory to the UN Women’s 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Operational accountability rests with Our Policy on Human Rights outlines Principles and Rights at Work. Empowerment Principles Chief Supply Chain Officer, supported our approach. We respect and n M  embership in AIM-PROGRESS, The following also underpin our by members of the members of acknowledge internationally recognized a forum of consumer goods commitment to human rights: the leadership team including the human rights principles. Within our manufacturers focused on Chief Executive Officer and heads company and throughout our supply n G  eneral Mills’ Slavery and Human responsible sourcing of Legal and Human Resources. Trafficking Statement, our Workplace Supporting human rights across our value chain We work within a large, diverse value chain of partners and stakeholders. Each has a duty to respect human rights. General Mills expects our partners to adhere to ethical business conduct consistent with our own standards. Farmers Suppliers Employees Communities We work directly with smallholder farmers Our supplier base is large, complex and We are committed to maintaining a We are committed to providing safe from whom we source ingredients global. We address human rights through respectful, safe, secure and harassmentand healthy food, and we collaborate to help strengthen their farming a multifaceted approach, including free workplace, demonstrating fair labor to improve food access and security practices and their livelihoods, ensure supplier assessments, audits and direct practices and fostering a culture of for the world’s growing population. See safe and healthy working conditions engagement. Our Supplier Code of diversity and inclusion. See Our Workplace Increasing food security for more detail. and promote economic stability. See Conduct is the backbone of our program. for more detail. Sustainable sourcing for more detail. See Supplier responsibility for more detail. GRI 407-1, 408-1, 409-1 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 10 About this report The General Mills Global Responsibility n U  nless otherwise noted, data in this Feedback Report describes our commitments, report is not externally verified and We welcome your comments about goals, programs and performance may occasionally be restated due this report. Please send any feedback across a broad range of issues. The to improvements in data collection to Corporate.Response@genmills.com. company’s Global Sustainability methodology and/or accuracy. GRI 102-49, 50, 53, 54, 56 team has responsibility for the development of the report. Ultimate Stakeholder input accountability lies with the General For the last several years, General Mills Mills leadership team (see page 7). has engaged Ceres – a coalition of investors, environmental organizations The report is structured to explicitly and other public interest groups working align with the company’s material with companies to advance their global responsibility issues. environmental and social performance The Global Responsibility Report is and disclosure – to provide input on our an important part of a broader set of annual Global Responsibility Report. disclosures that provide stakeholders This year, nine stakeholders, including a multifaceted description of General investors, NGO representatives, Mills’ performance, including the corporate practitioners and industry company’s annual report, SEC filings experts, provided feedback on a and annual proxy statement. detailed report outline. We value this input and have incorporated much Report scope of their feedback into the report. n T he scope covers the company’s global operations in fiscal 2018 Reporting standards (52 weeks ended May 27, 2018), n T  his report references the GRI 2016 except where noted otherwise. Sustainability Reporting Standards, n E  nvironmental data related to as well as the Food Processing Sector General Mills’ production facilities Supplement. See the GRI index presented in this report and in for details. the Environmental Data Summary n T  his report references the Sustainability is reported on a May-April basis Accounting Standards Board’s (through April of the year noted). (SASB) Processed Foods Standard. n T  his report does not include data See the SASB index for details. from Blue Buffalo Pet Products, which n G  eneral Mills endorsed the principles of General Mills acquired in April 2018. the UN Global Compact in 2008. This n O  ur Scope 1, Scope 2 and a portion of report serves as the company’s annual our Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions Communication on Progress. See the have been verified by Bureau Veritas. UN Global Compact index for details. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 11 Our Food At General Mills, our purpose is to serve the world by making food people love. IN THIS SECTION Consumer education Health and wellness Food safety Transparency and marketing 81% 100% 2nd In fiscal 2018, 100 percent of our General Mills 81 percent of U.S. facilities worldwide is now the Retail sales volume are audited and/or second-largest met our Health Metric certified by independent U.S. natural and nutritional criteria. third parties using organic food globally recognized producer. food safety criteria. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 12 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Health and wellness Nutrition u Material issue | GRI 416-1, FP4, 6, 7 Our approach and growth for General Mills. The and safety, and product labeling. Health and Wellness Advisory Council: Bell Institute influences General Mills’ Responsibility for marketing Since 1989, we have benefited from Our goal: Our goal is to provide a diverse product development through: communications is held by the the guidance of our global Health and portfolio of products that can contribute n N utrition science research Chief Marketing Officer. The Bell Institute Wellness Advisory Council, a group of to the well-being of consumers and of Health and Nutrition reports directly leading external health and nutrition meet their various needs, including n I nsights on regulatory matters to the Chief Innovation, Technology and experts who provide perspective from nutrition. We are committed to making n H ealth communications to customers, Quality Officer and regularly updates academia and research institutes. The food with passion and putting people nutrition communities and consumers the Public Responsibility Committee council meets regularly and challenges first by improving the variety and health n R ecommendations for product of the Board of Directors on the us to continually advance health and profile of our products while adhering innovation and reformulation company’s health and wellness strategy. wellness strategies and practices. to high standards of food safety. Learn more on the Bell Institute website. Investment in research: We invest CEO, CHAIRMAN in research and development (R&D) OF THE BOARD to continuously improve the health profile of our products and help us better understand the impact Leadership and governance: CHIEF INNOVATION, of food on health and wellness. CHIEF TECHNOLOGY AND HEALTH AND WELLNESS Operationally, responsibility for MARKETING OFFICER QUALITY OFFICER ADVISORY COUNCIL Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition: product development and marketing General Mills’ global Bell Institute of lies within the R&D and marketing Health and Nutrition is the company’s organizations. The Chief Innovation, PRODUCT FOOD BELL INSTITUTE source for scientific health and Technology and Quality Officer MARKETING AND SAFETY AND RESEARCH AND OF HEALTH AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATIONS QUALITY NUTRITION nutrition expertise that creates value is responsible for product health Nutrient-dense foods At General Mills, we provide a diverse and granola bars containing whole grain and/ Cheerios, Fiber One and Lucky Charms are portfolio of products, including many or fiber, plays an important role in healthy examples of nutrient-dense cereals that nutrient-dense foods, which can help diets. They are important contributors to provide beneficial nutrients, such as key consumers meet dietary recommendations consumption of key food groups, including vitamins and minerals, whole grain and fiber. and fit into a healthy eating pattern. whole grains and dairy, and beneficial Low-fat and nonfat yogurts, like Yoplait nutrients like vitamins, minerals, protein and/ Original Style Yogurt, Go-GURT, Yoplait Light, While we traditionally report our progress as or fiber, while balancing nutrients to limit. Greek 100, YQ and Petits Filous yogurt are also increasing certain beneficial nutrients and Focusing on nutrient density helps tell the nutrient-dense choices. They are important reducing others, we also recognize that few whole story about the nutritional value of sources of essential nutrients, such as protein, foods are composed of a single nutrient. a food – beyond what has been increased calcium, and often vitamins A and D. Consumption of nutrient-dense foods, like or reduced – to help support consumers fortified cereals, low-fat and nonfat yogurts in adopting healthy dietary patterns. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 13 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Global nutritional improvements In 2005, General Mills began the journey toward improving the nutrition of our products with the implementation of our U.S. Health Metric. Over the past several years, we have expanded our efforts, applying similar criteria to encourage nutritional improvements globally. Here are some highlights of nutritional improvements worldwide since 2005 (fiscal 2005-2018 results). Global nutritional improvements since 2005 Increased beneficial nutrients and food groups Reduced nutrients to limit NUTRIENTS AND IMPACT* KEY CATEGORIES NUTRIENTS IMPACT*** KEY CATEGORIES FOOD GROUPS 300+ Provide at least 8 grams of cereal and savory snacks, frozen pizza, new products whole grain per serving snacks Reduced sodium canned vegetables, baking mixes, Whole grain 480+ products by 5 to 25% dry dinners, refrigerated dough, Sodium side dishes, soups and cereal 300+ Provide a significant source of cereal and new products dietary fiber per serving** snacks Fiber Reduced sugar 370+ products yogurt, snacks and cereal by 5-30% yogurt, cereal, Sugar 600+ Provide sources of key snacks, and fruit Vitamins and new products vitamins and minerals** and vegetable minerals products Reduced trans fat Provide at least 10% of the baking mixes, refrigerated dough 270+ products to 0 grams labeled 165+ recommended daily value of yogurt and and pizza products new products protein per serving (or are a snacks Trans fat per serving Protein source of protein)** *New products introduced FY05-FY18 containing beneficial nutrients and food groups at specified levels. **As defined per region. ***Existing products reformulated FY05-FY18 to reduce targeted nutrients at specified levels. Cereal Partners reformulating its global product portfolio Goal: By 2020, all CPW cereals to increase ingredients and nutrients that containing a green banner will be Worldwide are important to a balanced diet ­– such made of whole grain*** and free Our Cereal Partners Worldwide (CPW) as whole grain and fiber – and reduce of artificial colors and flavors. joint venture with Nestlé makes and ingredients like sugar and sodium. **Scope: All active recipes under Nestlé brand; markets cereals globally outside North % capture increase/decrease since the launch Progress: Since 2003, CPW has of each recipe; and based on 2018 volume. America. CPW is committed to making ***At least 8g of whole grain per serving. achieved 23 percent less sugar, 31 breakfast better by providing nutritious, Excludes: 1. Products where technology does percent less sodium, 58 percent more not allow the addition of whole grain; tasty and convenient breakfast cereals. 2. General Mills imported products. whole grain and 48 percent more r A few of the General Mills products introduced For more than a decade, CPW has been globally in fiscal 2018 meeting Health Metric criteria. fiber in their product portfolio.** GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 14 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Spotlight: U.S. Health Metric Since its inception in 2005, more than 1,500 products have been included in the U.S. Retail Health Metric. In fiscal 2018, 81 percent of our U.S. Retail sales volume met Health Metric criteria. U.S. Retail Health Metric achievement U.S. Health Metric criteria: or at least a half-serving of fruit, FY05-FY18 vegetables, or low or nonfat dairy. n R educe calories, fat, saturated More than 1,500 products included in FY05-FY18 fat, trans fat, sugar or sodium by n F  ormulate/reformulate products to 5 percent or more per serving. meet specific internal requirements, 76% 77% 79% 80% 81% n I ncrease beneficial nutrients – including including limiting calories, and 73% 68% vitamins, minerals and fiber – by meeting health or nutrition claim 64% 60% 10 percent or more per serving. criteria as defined by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). 45% n F ormulate/reformulate products 40% to include 8 grams of whole grain 33% 21% 16% Spotlight: Nutritional impacts across our North American portfolio* FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Fiber Whole grain Drivers of nutritional improvements n 1 9 percent of our North American product n A t breakfast, Big G cereals are U.S. Retail sales volume FY05-FY18* SKUs (300+ products) contain at least 10 the No. 1 source of whole grain percent of the recommended daily value of for Americans. fiber per serving. Examples include Fiber n 2 0 percent of our North American One Snack Bars and ready-to-eat cereals. product SKUs (550+ products) contain at least 8 grams of whole Protein grain per serving. Examples include FY2018 U.S. Retail Health Metric volume: ready-to-eat cereals and grain-based n 1 1 percent of our U.S. retail product SKUs snack bars. 16% 46% 38% (190+ products) provide at least 10 percent of the daily value of protein per serving. Products with increase Products with Products with n 2 9 percent of our Canadian retail Calcium in beneficial nutrients both increase in decrease in beneficial nutrients nutrients to limit product SKUs (165 products) are a n 2 4 percent of our U.S. retail product n Whole grain n Fiber AND decrease in n Sodium n Saturated fat source of protein. SKUs (300+ products) provide at n Vitamins/minerals nutrients to limit n Sugar n Total fat least 10 percent of the recommended n Protein n Trans fat Cal Calories daily value of calcium per serving. n 4 5 percent of our Canadian retail n 6 2 percent of our North American product SKUs (200+ products) are a product SKUs (1,250+ products) source of calcium. Examples include have 150 calories or less per serving. yogurt products, fortified cereals and n 3 0 percent of our North American Annie’s Macaroni & Cheese products. *The information on this diagram shows efforts we have made to improve the nutrition profile of our products. product SKUs (700+ products) have Divested products are not included. 100 calories or less per serving. *Status as of FY18; includes current products meeting specified criteria. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 15 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Diverse consumer needs u Material issue Our approach: At General Mills, diverse the way people eat and interact with approach to health and wellness. dairy alternatives, nutrition-driven and evolving consumer needs are at the our brands. Three key consumer-driven Wellness incorporates everything granola and probiotic drinks. center of our business. We include the trends that are influencing important from physical health to whole body voice of our consumers in every decision initiatives at General Mills include health, including mental health aspects. Changing demographic we make by understanding their needs, responsible living, wellness and balance, Food options across this wellness landscape motivations, values and behaviors. We and changing demographic landscapes. continuum increasingly are available Shifts in population demographics and consistently monitor key trends and in a variety of food categories, such consumer attitudes result in changing macro forces that can drive change in Responsible living as snacks and yogurt. For example: preferences and needs. For example, half The combination of an intensifying of General Mills consumers are multin G eneral Mills products recently TREND | COMPASS pull on natural resources and greater launched include YQ by Yoplait, cultural or 55+ years old. Multicultural awareness of social issues is leading to families and Baby Boomers, who are which delivers an excellent source of more personal consumer action. People becoming empty nesters and moving protein with less sugar, and Oui by increasingly are mindful of factors greater into retirement, increasingly are looking Yoplait French-style yogurt focused than themselves – others, animal welfare for products that fit their varied lives. on simple, everyday pleasure. and the environment – in their decisionFor example, Betty Crocker Mug Treats n G eneral Mills is the fourth-largest making. For example, General Mills offer single-serving options for smaller producer of gluten-free products natural and organic brands, like Annie’s, households, while innovations such as in the U.S.* One in five of our Epic, Cascadian Farm and Muir Glen, Cinnamon Toast Crunch Churros Cereal North American products is continue to fully integrate sustainability have multicultural consumers in mind. labeled as gluten-free. In 2018, we as a standard operating principle. In 250+ offered more than 900 gluten-free April 2018, we acquired Blue Buffalo, a product SKUs in North America. mission-driven natural pet food business. n 3 01 INC, General Mills’ business Wellness and balance development and venture capital In fiscal 2018, we introduced r General Mills constantly monitors key food trends, including the items highlighted As access to information grows, people unit, invests in products that more than 250 new products in this trend compass. are taking a more proactive and holistic deliver options like plant-based in the U.S. to meet diverse *Nielsen xAOC; 52 weeks ending Dec. 29, 2018. consumer needs. Investing in food innovations Our approach: Today’s fast-changing food with promising early-stage brands and also Our progress: We continue to grow our Partners: As of November 2018, we have 10 partners: industry requires rapid innovation and a steady helps make their food products accessible portfolio and support for entrepreneurial stream of new ideas. In 2015, General Mills to more people. By combining the vision brands. In fiscal 2018, we: began to invest in small food start-ups through and passion of these entrepreneurs n A dded Urban Remedy and GoodBelly 301 INC, the company’s business development with General Mills’ extensive capabilities Probiotics, two high growth potential and venture capital unit. The 301 INC team in areas such as product development, companies, to our portfolio. helps expand the vision of entrepreneurs supply chain, marketing, operations and channel development, we believe we can n H eavily reinvested in dairy-free yogurt meet consumer needs faster than ever. maker Kite Hill to help meet consumer demand for more plant-based options. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 16 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Natural and organic brands Since 2000, we have steadily expanded with organic ingredients; approximately our natural and organic business, including through brand acquisitions, to 370 organic product SKUs are available throughout the U.S. and Canada. Our natural and organic brands meet growing consumer demand. We n G  rowth – We committed to growing offer a mix of certified organic cereals, our natural and organic food business yogurt, vegetables, fruit products, ® to US$1 billion in net sales by 2019, and snacks, meals and baking products. reached US$1.058 billion in fiscal 2018.** Our progress: Sustainable supply: We are also ® n S  cale – General Mills is now taking steps across our supply chain to the second-largest U.S. natural ensure a long-term supply of organic and organic food producer.* ingredients. Learn more about how we are building our organic capacity in n P  roducts – One out of every 12 the Our Planet section of this report. products in our North American portfolio is certified organic or made *Based on SPINS NOMC Dashboard data through Sept. 16, 2018. **Nielsen updated through May 26, 2018; Natural Supermarkets updated through May 27, 2018; Whole Foods updated through May 26, 2018. Food safety u Material issue | GRI 416-1, 2, FP5 Our approach areas of concern, as well as collaborate n A  udits – Our Global Internal Audit of excellence and online training with industry peers and regulators to team periodically audits the academy. In fiscal 2018: Safety is a priority for our company help raise standards industrywide. effectiveness and efficiency of n O  ur General Mills food safety and central to our culture. Leading food safety controls and operating with safety – both in the workplace Systems: Our global food safety team included more than 400 procedures. Results are reported to and the food we make – is one systems focus on prevention, trained quality professionals. the company’s Global Governance of the key operating principles intervention and response: n W  e conducted Auditor Academy Council and Board of Directors. that guides our work. n P  rocesses – Food safety is training sessions attended by 25 n T  raceability – Our inventory control and Investment: We invested US$14.4 million integrated into all our processes, participants from two countries. supplier management systems include into food safety in fiscal 2018; equal beginning with R&D and extending These sessions help improve our the ability to trace the sources of our to 7.6 percent of our total essential across our supply chain. ability to identify and fix issues, ingredients, which is key to isolating risks capital investment for the year. as well as prevent food safety n R  isk mitigation – We conduct in the event of food safety concerns. We problems from occurring. Collaboration: Food safety leadership internal risk-based surveillance and evaluate our suppliers’ systems to ensure food safety testing at all General Mills n W  e provided food safety training is a differentiator for General Mills, but they meet our traceability requirements. not an area of competition. We freely facilities to identify and prioritize to more than 3,500 professionals Training: We provide food safety share our best practices and emerging specific areas of risk. across the supply chain. training through our global centers GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 17 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Governance: Performance conducted five voluntary product Our progress: recalls globally in fiscal 2018 (compared n D  etailed policies – Governance n 8  36 supplier audits were Our goals: to nine in fiscal 2017), including of General Mills’ food safety and conducted in 2018. n 1 00 percent of General Mills facilities recalls of snack bars, cereal, yogurt, regulatory matters begins with a n 9  8 co-producer audits were third-party audited and/or certified. and fat and tallow products. corporate Food Safety and Regulatory conducted in 2018. Policy signed by our Chief Executive n 1 00 percent Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) certification of all Suppliers n 7  8 percent of our global co-production Officer. This corporate policy is General Mills owned facilities by 2020. Our approach: sites are GFSI certified. supported by 18 detailed policies with accompanying standards and n A  udits – To help ensure the safety of  5 n 6 percent of global ingredient Our progress: External verification and guidance documents. These global certification of our facilities includes: the raw materials (ingredients and suppliers and 92 percent of our North policies cover a broad range of food packaging) we use in our products, American ingredient vendor sites are n 1 00 percent of our facilities worldwide safety areas, including regulatory we continue to expand the number GFSI certified. are audited and/or certified by compliance, trace and recall, labeling, of supplier and co-producer audits n 3  00+ suppliers were trained through independent third parties using globally claims, physical, chemical and we conduct globally. We perform recognized food safety criteria. supplier schools and webinars in 2018. biological hazards, transportation, direct audits and also encourage n 9  50+ supplier representatives and good manufacturing n 8 4 percent of our company-owned third-party audits and/or certification, production facilities are GFSI certified, participated in training sessions practices and sanitation. such as through GFSI, as an additional indicating they meet global standards in Australia, Brazil, China, n L  eadership – The Vice President preventive control measure. for food safety management India, Spain, Taiwan, Thailand of Food Safety and Quality has n S  upplier training – We bring together recognized in more than 150 countries. and the U.S. since 2011. direct responsibility for food our suppliers around the world to safety. The Global Internal Audit Recalls: When we learn about illnesses share food safety knowledge and team periodically validates that that may be linked to our products, communicate food safety expectations. 100 percent our food safety processes and we take quick action. We collaborate We conduct supplier training in of General Mills controls are operating effectively. with health officials to investigate the facilities are third100% classroom settings tailored to the needs The company’s Global Governance situation, communicate with consumers of each market. The seminars address party audited Council conducts a quarterly review and issue voluntary product recalls topics such as biological and physical and/or certified of risk, which includes food safety. to remove affected products from hazard controls, allergen management store shelves, when appropriate. We for food safety. and production facility sanitization. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 18 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Consumer education and marketing Consumer education GRI 417-1, FP4, 8 Our approach: General Mills provides Our progress: Around the world, Canada and Canadian Food Inspection more about General Mills’ food waste useful, fact-based information on our product labeling meets local Agency labeling requirements. reduction efforts in the Our Planet and packages to help consumers make regulatory requirements while remaining Our Community sections of this report. n E urope – All General Mills informed dietary choices. Our consistent with our global approach. package information complies product packages display accurate Examples of our compliance with local with European Food Information nutrition labeling as prescribed by and regional guidelines include: to Consumers Regulation. regulations in the country of sale. n A rgentina and Brazil – All General n U .S. – The majority of our U.S. products Our commitment: As a member of Mills package information complies now feature front-of-package labeling. the International Food and Beverage with local regulations and includes the Alliance (IFBA), General Mills has energy icon on the front of packaging. In the U.S., General Mills supports product made a commitment to adopt a labeling changes to help reduce food n A ustralia – The majority of our products common global approach to nutrition waste through clearer guidance for displayed nutrition intake information information on packaging that includes, consumers about food shelf-life. As of r The Annie’s Macaroni & Cheese box on on front-of-pack labeling in fiscal 2017, at minimum, the labeling of calories November 2018, we have updated more top shows the new standard “best if used consistent with the Australian Daily by” date label. on front-of-pack. This initiative was than 60 percent of our product packaging Intake Guide and IFBA requirements. implemented globally during 2014to comply with this voluntary date-labeling n C anada – All General Mills package initiative that uses standard nomenclature 2016 to inform consumers about specific product nutrition attributes. information complies with Health to reduce consumer confusion. Learn Responsible marketing u Material issue | GRI 417-1, FP8 Our approach: Whether marketing to lower-calorie, nutrient-dense products and other senior leaders of our U.S. stereotyping people and does not insult children or adults, we present the qualities and respects three key steps to healthier and international operating units. We or demean any demographic groups. and advantages of our products truthfully, living: balance, moderation and physical adhere to strict internal and industry Global commitment: As charter responsibly and with appropriate taste. activity. We take particular care around guidelines – that in many cases are more members of IFBA, we joined other We take special care with respect to the content and nature of advertising demanding than local regulations – in leading food and nonalcoholic beverage child audiences. We believe that children directed to children – including preproducing and reviewing ads to ensure companies in a public letter to the should be encouraged to consume screening of our ads by the Better they are appropriate for the intended Director General of the UN’s World lower-calorie, nutrient-dense foods that Business Bureau’s Children’s Advertising audience. Beyond complying with Health Organization in September 2014 support their growth and activity. Review Unit in the United States. applicable law, we ensure that our ads communicating a set of enhanced global are consistent with our core values. Policies: General Mills’ marketing General Mills’ marketing policies are commitments that included responsible When possible, our advertising aims to policies ensure that our commitment reviewed and updated annually by marketing and advertising initiatives. reflect the diversity of society. And our to responsible marketing underlies all our company’s Responsible Marketing advertising reflects generally accepted These standards encompassed of our marketing activities. Our childCouncil and reviewed with the standards of social behavior, avoids commitments around product directed advertising promotes only company’s Chief Executive Officer reformulation and innovation as well as GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 19 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community a common global approach to providing we comply with strict nutrition standards participants. We are not aware of any and high schools. This commitment nutrition information on packaging, for advertising to children under age 12 instance of non-compliance by General covers all forms of marketing (beyond the at the point of sale and through other in all markets in which we operate, either Mills in the past several years, and identification of the brand and product channels by the end of 2016. The the locally-applicable standards (if we are CFBAI has confirmed this in its reports. on menus and packaging). For example, enhanced commitments included an subject to a self-regulatory or regulatory In the unlikely event of any instance we do not depict or display food brands, expansion of IFBA’s global marketing program in that market) or the CFBAI of non-compliance, a core function products or logos on posters, signs, policy, in place since 2009, which standards (if nothing else is otherwise of our Responsible Marketing Council scoreboards or school equipment, nor do specified that members would only applicable in that market). Locallywould be to address such issues and we market foods by distributing product advertise products that meet better-forapplicable programs include the following: determine appropriate corrective action. samples or branded merchandise in you criteria or refrain from all product schools. There are no exceptions to this n A ustralia – Responsible Child Beyond our commitments under the marketing to children under 12 years old. commitment. In the United States, we Marketing Initiative of the Australian programs described above, we have operate the Box Tops for Education TM The 2014 commitments strengthened Food and Grocery Council made additional responsible marketing school fundraising program which, that policy in three core areas: media, n B razil – Enhanced Commitment commitments that exceed industry through sales of our products and those marketing and harmonized criteria. The to Responsible Advertising norms. For example, we have adopted of many other companies (primarily policy covers virtually all media and to Children pledge industry-leading standards regarding nonfood companies), has provided certain marketing techniques directed at n C anada – Canadian Children’s the responsible use of social media close to US$1 billion to schools since the children under the age of 12. Members Food and Beverage Advertising platforms. We do not, in the context program’s inception in 1996. Though have committed to working toward Initiative requirements of any child-directed communication, schools are the beneficiaries of this harmonizing global nutrition criteria to encourage children to visit any social n E urope – EU Pledge requirements program, we refrain from marketing the ensure that better-for-you foods are media service for which they are too n S ingapore – Singapore Food and program to school children (whether based on robust common standards. young (according to the terms of Beverage Industry Responsible inside or outside the school environment). those services), nor do we use our own To bolster our global commitment to Advertising to Children Initiative presence on these social media platforms In September 2018, General Mills joined comply with the IFBA pledge, General n U .S. – CFBAI requirements to direct any communications to children. other food and beverage companies Mills follows the Children’s Food and We fully comply with all requirements in signing a letter to the UN Secretary Beverage Advertising Initiative (CFBAI) We have also long committed to refrain of these programs. CFBAI, in particular, General highlighting commitments and nutrition standards in markets where from marketing food to children in schools publishes a report annually that achievements to reduce the burden of other regulatory or self-regulatory or at school events – and this commitment addresses the compliance of all of its non-communicable diseases in support standards do not exist. In other words, applies to all schools, even middle schools of UN Sustainable Development Goal 3.4. Transparency u Material issue | GRI 417-1, FP8 Our approach: At General Mills, we are and sustainable manner that respects our brands’ social media channels and committed to increasing transparency people, animals and the environment. on third-party sites, such as e-commerce about our food. We recognize that and transparency platforms. As we continue our journey to increase consumers, regulators, investors and other transparency, our focus is on providing Our progress: Some examples stakeholders seek information about our information to key stakeholders when of our current transparency products and processes. Consumers want and where they need it. For example, to initiatives are outlined here. to know what’s in their food, where it help consumers learn more about what n A nnie’s introduced products in April comes from and how it is prepared. They is in their food, we provide information also want assurance that food has been 2018 with information on each package in multiple ways – on packages, through grown and harvested in a responsible stating that ingredients used to make our company and brand websites, on 20 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community the limited-edition organic Honey resulting from sustainable land n I n the U.S., we provide product Bunny Grahams and Elbow Pasta & management practices, so consumers details through SmartLabel™, an Cheddar were grown in a way that know the brand’s meat industry initiative that seeks to share regenerated the soil. The ingredients – snacks are made digital product information with wheat, peas and oats – were traceable from beef cattle consumers. As of June 2018, we to two farms in Montana through a that were raised by have over 300 products listed on WATCH VIDEO specially designed, segregated supply ranchers in a way smartlabel.org. This information also line. Annie’s regularly shares stories that protects the land. can be accessed by downloading r Annie’s is committed to making foods about its contributions to a better the SmartLabel app and scanning a n W e provide consumers with answers that leave the planet better than we found food system through its website participating UPC or SmartLabel QR it by advancing organic and regenerative to questions about our food at (including the Farm-to-Yum framework code (if available on packaging). farming practices. askgeneralmills.com, including and its Why Organic and Soil Matters frequently asked questions, videos, Responsible sourcing: Details about pages) and social channels. blogs and other content. The site our ingredients, how they are sourced n I n October 2018, Epic Provisions includes 521 topics ranging from food and how we engage with farmers are debuted the first product in the ingredients to gluten-free products and included in responsible sourcing content U.S. featuring the Land to Market use of GMOs. More than 58,760 users in the Our Planet section of this report. Ecological Outcome Verification visited the site during the 12-month (EOV) seal. The verification program period ending November 2018. measures soil health improvements Biotechnology u Material issue | GRI FP8 Safety: Safety is our highest priority, and Alternatives: We respect consumers’ we find broad global consensus among varying views on the use of biotechnology. food and safety regulatory bodies that We offer organic and non-GMO approved GMOs are safe. Learn more. alternatives in most of our major product Non-GMO Project categories in the U.S. Learn more. Our approach: We agree with the UN’s We respect consumers’ U.S. Non-GMO Project, World Health Organization (WHO) Transparency: We are committed to varying views on the a nonprofit organization use of biotechnology. that provides information that the development of genetically transparency and have been disclosing We have enrolled 400 to consumers and thirdmodified organisms (GMOs) offers the presence of bioengineered products – especially our party verification for nonthe potential for increased agricultural ingredients on our U.S. packages organic products – in the GMO food and products. productivity and improved nutritional since 2016. The U.S. Department of value that can enhance human health Agriculture has finalized rules for and development. Incumbent with any disclosure moving forward, and we technology use is the need for supply will continue to voluntarily disclose chain stakeholders to regularly review, the presence of bioengineered identify and address issues associated ingredients on our U.S. packages using with the technology, including pest the allowed text under the rule. and weed resistance. Learn more. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 21 Our Planet Our sustainability mission is to treat the world with care. IN THIS SECTION Climate Water Regenerative Sustainable Responsible change stewardship agriculture sourcing sourcing 13% $4+million 85% Our greenhouse We have invested 85 percent of gas emissions over US$4 million in our 10 priority footprint decreased soil health initiatives ingredients 13 percent in 2018 through 2018. were sustainably compared to 2010. sourced in 2018. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 22 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Overview At General Mills, we are committed to treating the world with care, not just today but for generations to come. The health of our business depends on the health of our planet. The areas of greatest environmental impact in our supply chain – including more than two-thirds of GHG emissions and 99 percent of water use – occur outside General Mills’ operations, primarily in agriculture. We collaborate to drive change by promoting environmentally and socially responsible practices across our entire value chain, from farm to fork and beyond. Our sustainability pillars STABLE climate HEALTHY watersheds STRONG ecosystems BETTER lives for farmers Our actions Climate Water Regenerative Sustainable Responsible change stewardship agriculture sourcing sourcing We collaborate with We focus on water usage We promote regenerative We are committed to We collaborate with our farmers, suppliers, retailers from watershed to production, agriculture to protect and improving the environmental, global supplier base to make and consumers to drive to increase efficiency and intentionally enhance natural social and economic impacts our products with high transformation and combat resiliency. Our goal is to resources and farming of raw material sourcing. ethical standards; ensure climate change. Our goal is to champion the activation of communities. Our goal is to Our goal is to sustainably respect for workers and the reduce absolute GHG emissions water stewardship plans for advance regenerative farming source 100 percent of our environment; expand economic across our full value chain by the most material and at-risk practices on 1 million acres of top 10 priority ingredients opportunities; and protect 28 percent by 2025 (compared watersheds in our global value farmland by 2030. Learn more. by 2020. Learn more. animal welfare. Learn more. to 2010). Learn more. chain by 2025. Learn more. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 23 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Leadership and governance: At General Governance Committee three times each Committee, which regularly reviews Officer, and working closely with the Mills, our Chairman and Chief Executive year to review and approve strategies, the company’s sustainability objectives, Vice President of Global Sourcing and Officer has ultimate accountability for programs and key investments. strategies and performance. other key business leaders to develop, sustainability, which is included in his coordinate and execute programs Oversight of the company’s sustainability The company’s Chief Sustainability Officer annual performance objectives and to achieve companywide targets. work is provided by the General Mills stewards the company’s sustainability impacts his compensation. The Chairman GRI 102-9, 26 Board of Directors’ Public Responsibility work, reporting to the Chief Supply Chain and CEO convenes the Sustainability SUSTAINABILITY BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ CEO, CHAIRMAN GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY OF THE BOARD CEO, CHAIRMAN COMMITTEE Recognition in 2018 OF THE BOARD CHIEF SUPPLY CHAIN n C  DP Climate Change (A List) n F TSE4Good Index (member) AND GLOBAL BUSINESS SOLUTIONS OFFICER n C  DP Water Security (A List) n 1 00 Most Just Companies (No. 1 CHIEF INNOVATION, CHIEF SUPPLY CHAIN n 1 00 Best Corporate Citizens (No. 1 in in industry), Forbes/JUST Capital TECHNOLOGY AND AND GLOBAL BUSINESS QUALITY OFFICER SOLUTIONS OFFICER industry), Corporate Responsibility n M SCI Index (AA rating) CHIEF MARKETING OFFICER n D  ow Jones Sustainability Index (member n G reen Ranking (No. 2 in of North American and World indices) industry), Newsweek VP, CHIEF VP, GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY VPs, SUPPLY CHAIN SOURCING OFFICER Climate change u Material issues: Climate change; energy use; food waste; packaging footprint | GRI 301 2-3, 302 1-4, 305 1-5, 306-2 Climate change presents risks to humanity, from West Africa or almonds from Policy: Our General Mills Policy on Climate, and The Nature Conservancy (TNC) our environment and our livelihoods. California. We have active mitigation which focuses on mitigation, adaptation, to advance regenerative agriculture Changes in climate not only affect plans in place to address and minimize disclosure and advocacy, establishes a and soil health, as well as with Field to global food security but also impact our these types of disruptions. Reputational framework to track and reduce GHG Market: The Alliance for Sustainable ability to deliver quality products to our risks could arise from not addressing emissions across our value chain. Agriculture. See Agriculture and consumers and value to our shareholders. the emissions in our supply chain. transformation for more details. Collaboration: We directly control We are doing our part to reach an Risks: We have assessed the risks only a small portion of our value chain, Combating climate change also requires aggressive greenhouse gas (GHG) associated with climate change and so driving transformation across the collective action across industries and emissions reduction target and positively their potential impact on our business. entire system requires leadership our broader society. We are a founding influence the broader value chain. While Physical risks include supply chain and collaboration with suppliers, member of the Climate Collaborative regulatory changes present potential disruption due to severe weather farmers, packaging producers, product and have made public commitments to risks, we expect changes in the area of impacting a facility, or commodity transport providers, retailers and tackle climate change in seven areas: climate change would impact all food disruption for specific geographically consumers. We drive progress through agriculture, food waste, transportation, companies in a similar manner without concentrated ingredients such as cocoa partnerships and key initiatives, such energy efficiency, short-lived climate significant competitive disadvantage. as our work with The Land Institute pollutants, forests and packaging. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 24 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community We also participate in the Science-based goal: Reduce absolute that period. This reflects sales of lower See the Appendix for details on our following initiatives: GHG emissions across our full value GHG emissions intensive products, GHG emissions calculation methodology. chain by 28 percent by 2025 (compared as well as improved efficiency in For information on the risks and n S  cience Based Targets initiative (SBTi) to 2010). Our longer-term goal is to manufacturing and logistics. Our GHG opportunities General Mills faces n B  usiness for Innovative Climate & achieve sustainable emissions levels emissions fell 4 percent versus 2017, due to climate change, see our CDP Energy Policy (BICEP) coalition by 2050. This goal is approved by while net sales increased 1 percent. submission online. n W  e Mean Business the Science Based Targets initiative. We plan to accelerate recent progress Value chain: The sections on the n N  ew York Declaration on Forests Performance: In 2018, our GHG to reach our emissions reduction goals. following pages break down our footprint emissions footprint decreased 13 Our ongoing challenge is to decrease our by value chain phase and describe n U  N Caring for Climate Declaration percent compared to our 2010 baseline, footprint while growing our business. our efforts to improve performance. while net sales rose 6 percent during The path to 2050* 20 2025 goal** Reduce absolute GHG emissions across our full value chain by 28 percent 17.7 16.0 28% 15.3 2050 goal** Reduce absolute 15 GHG emissions across our full value chain to sustainable levels in line with scientific consensus 12.8 Million metric tons CO2e 4172% 10 7.7 Consuming 5 Selling Shipping Producing Packaging supply chain Agriculture and transformation 0 2010 2017 2018 2025 2050 * General Mills worked with Quantis, a sustainability and life-cycle assessment (LCA) consulting firm, to calculate our company’s GHG emissions footprint. The calculation methodologies align with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, developed by World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Relative size of value chain segments for 2025 and 2050 are based on 2010 data. Differences compared to the data reported last year are due to enhancements in calculation methodologies and accuracy. ** Compared to 2010. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 25 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Agriculture and transformation (48% of total value chain GHG emissions) 8.89 KEY DRIVERS (% OF PHASE IN FY18) Growing and transporting 7.52 7.38 6.40 crops, and turning them into food ingredients * Wheat, dry corn, oats ROW CROPS* DAIRY MEAT OTHER** ** Cocoa, soybean oil and 2010 2017 2018 2025 38% 22% 7% 33% GENERAL MILLS’ LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: sugarcane represent about MEDIUM EMISSIONS (MILLION METRIC TONS CO2E) one-third of this amount Agriculture and transformation Our approach: including GHG emissions. We engage manure, processing, transport of represents the largest source of GHG n R egenerative agriculture – Farming in similar ways with oats growers raw milk and other factors. emissions across our value chain, so practices such as diverse crop through the Canadian Field Print n D  eforestation – Healthy forests play a it is central to our reduction efforts. rotations and cover cropping can Initiative. We then hold workshops critical role in storing carbon, so we are Performance: Greenhouse gas emissions sequester carbon in the soil and and collaborate with local, trusted working to address deforestation in our in this category decreased 17 percent in reduce GHG levels in the atmosphere. agronomists to identify and implement fiber, cocoa and palm oil supply chains. 2018 compared to our 2010 baseline. This continuous improvement practices. n R ow crops – In the U.S., we partner was primarily due to reduced purchases with Field to Market and our suppliers n D airy products – Dairy management of GHG emissions intensive ingredients, to help growers of corn, sugar contributes to GHG emissions, such as dairy products. Emissions fell beets and wheat gather data on the due to feed production, methane by 2 percent from 2017 to 2018. impact of their farming practices, emissions from digestive processes, Packaging supply chain (7% of total value chain GHG emissions) KEY DRIVERS (% OF PHASE IN FY18) Producing and transporting 1.35 1.17 1.09 0.97 packaging materials FIBER METAL PLASTIC OTHER 2010 2017 2018 2025 GENERAL MILLS’ LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: HIGH EMISSIONS (MILLION METRIC TONS CO2E) 51% 22% 25% 2% We continually innovate to reduce the from 2017 to 2018 was partially due Recycled and recyclable materials: We External collaboration: We partner with environmental impact of packaging to a decline in soup and yogurt sales continue to increase our use of recycled industry and community organizations through better design – by decreasing and the resulting reduction in steel and recyclable materials. In 2018, recycled such as the Sustainable Packaging materials use, switching to lower impact packaging and aluminum lids, both of content represented about 45 percent of Coalition (SPC) and The Association of materials (including renewable) and which are GHG emissions intensive. General Mills’ product packaging weight Plastic Recyclers to improve recycling improving truckload packing efficiencies. in the U.S. Approximately 89 percent of effectiveness and availability. To Sourcing: General Mills has a target to our packaging in the U.S. was recyclable.* promote recycling, more than two-thirds Performance: Greenhouse gas emissions source 100 percent of our fiber packaging of our products with large enough in this category decreased 19 percent by 2020 from recycled material or from Plastics commitment: In early 2019, we packages now include How2Recycle in 2018 compared to our 2010 baseline. virgin wood fiber regions that do not announced our ambition that 100 percent labels, developed by the SPC. This was due to design improvements contribute to deforestation, and we of our packaging be recyclable by design and a shift toward products with lower achieved greater than 99 percent in 2018. by 2030. See our packaging statement. impact packaging. A 7 percent decrease *According to analysis conducted by General Mills in 2018. Packaging is considered recyclable if 60 percent or more of the U.S. population has access to recycling for the material. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 26 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Producing (10% of total value chain GHG emissions) KEY DRIVERS (% OF PHASE IN FY18) Making our products 1.75 1.73 1.58 1.26 (mixing and cooking) ELECTRICITY FUEL OTHER 2010 2017 2018 2025 GENERAL MILLS’ LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: HIGH EMISSIONS (MILLION METRIC TONS CO2E) 59% 24% 17% The amount and type of energy significant spending on energy. We Renewable energy: We have project in Concho County, Texas. We we use are the key drivers of GHG have recently evolved it to include all implemented numerous renewable estimate this will generate renewable emissions from our operations. General Mills manufacturing facilities, energy initiatives at facilities worldwide energy credits equivalent to more by focusing improvement efforts on that meet financial guidelines and than one-third of the power used by Performance: Greenhouse gas emissions common systems such as compressed support our environmental objectives. our U.S. facilities. As a result, General in this category decreased 9 percent air, lighting and steam/hot water. Examples include anaerobic digestion Mills rose to No. 32 on the Top 100 in 2018 compared to our 2010 baseline, (which captures and uses methane list of the Environmental Protection primarily due to our ongoing progress In fiscal 2018, we completed more than to generate electricity), and burning Agency’s Green Power Partnership. We in energy efficiency, consolidation 60 energy efficiency and reduction oat hulls and other bio mass. In June plan to pursue additional renewable of operations and reductions in the projects across the company. These 2017, General Mills signed a 15-year energy opportunities in fiscal 2019. average GHG emissions intensity saved over 12 million kWh, delivered virtual power purchase agreement with of the electricity we purchase. US$4.8 million in cost savings Waste reduction: We also work to Renewable Energy Systems (RES) for and avoided nearly 6,000 metric decrease waste, which saves money and Energy use: In addition to our GHG 100 megawatts of the Cactus Flats wind tons CO₂e of GHG emissions. materials and decreases our overall GHG emissions reduction goal, each General Mills production facility has a target to reduce energy use by 2 percent Renewable energy, fiscal 2018* annually, normalized to production. Generated and Generated and Renewable energy During fiscal 2018, this rate decreased Location Type used (GJ) sold (GJ) certificates (RECs) by 2 percent compared to the prior year. Input: Biomass (wood) Brazil (Cambara, Carolina, 320,150 0 N/A Efficiency improvements were partially Pouso Alegre) Output: Heat offset by increased production of more Input: Biogas (food waste) France (Arras) 3,218 1,548 N/A energy intensive product offerings to Output: Heat (used) and electricity (sold) meet consumer demands. Absolute Input: Biomass (oat hulls) United States (Fridley, Minnesota) 83,434 0 N/A energy use decreased by 7 percent. Output: Heat (used) United States (Murfreesboro, 5,825 (electricity) Input: Biogas (food waste) We identify and implement improvements 0 N/A Tennessee) 3,124 (steam) Output: Electricity (used) and Heat (used) through our Five-Step Energy United States (Cactus Flats wind 0 (100 MW Input: Wind Reduction Process, by working with our N/A N/A beginning in project in Concho County, Texas) August 2018) Output: Electricity (RECs) manufacturing plants to establish energy programs, conduct energy analyses, Total 415,751 1,548 develop and execute improvement Percent of total energy usage** 4.6% plans, and validate results. This process * The company’s facility in San Adrian, Spain, rented its roof to a solar company, which generated 5,294 GJ at that location in fiscal 2018. That amount is not included in this table. historically focused on facilities with ** Wholly owned or controlled production facilities globally. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 27 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community emissions. Each General Mills production solid waste globally was recycled, of our owned production facilities Solid waste by disposition* facility has a target to reduce production 11 percent was processed for energy by 2020 and 100 percent by 2025. (% of 2018 global total) solid waste generation by 3 percent recovery and 10 percent was disposed.* To view additional data about GHG annually, normalized to production. In n R ecycling 79% Worldwide, at the end of fiscal 2018, emissions, energy usage in our fiscal 2018, this rate increased by n E nergy recovery 11% 10 General Mills production facilities (20 directly controlled operations, and 7 percent, while absolute waste rose by n D  isposal 10% percent of the global total) met our zerowater and solid waste, see the 1 percent. Main factors included waste*This graph refers to production waste-to-landfill criteria.** We continue Environmental Data Summary. waste. Disposal includes intensive changes in operations and working to meet our target to achieve landfill and incineration overall decreases in production. During without energy recovery. zero waste to landfill at 30 percent the year, 79 percent of our production *Disposal includes landfill and incineration without energy recovery. **These facilities sent no waste to landfill or incineration without energy recovery. Shipping (7% of total value chain GHG emissions) KEY DRIVERS (% OF PHASE IN FY18) Transporting ingredients to our facilities and our 1.46 1.35 1.14 1.05 products on to stores FUEL OTHER 2010 2017 2018 2025 GENERAL MILLS’ LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: HIGH EMISSIONS (MILLION METRIC TONS CO2E) 80% 20% We work with our suppliers, co-packers, Strategies: n P rioritizing shippers with strong n O  ptimizing our customer service transportation providers and customers n O ptimizing transportation modes, environmental credentials. In facility and inventory footprint to to reduce the environmental impact of including moving loads to modes with North America, 94 percent of decrease outside storage, which shipping our products around the world. less impact, such as from truck to rail. our transportation spend is with requires additional handling. SmartWay certified carriers.* Performance: Greenhouse gas n U sing innovative technologies emissions in this category decreased such as lightweight truck cabs. n I mproving logistics planning, 22 percent in 2018 compared to regionally sourcing products, filling n C ollaborating with suppliers our 2010 baseline, due to shifts to trucks more completely and using and customers to increase more efficient transport modes and load optimization software. capacity utilization and providing improvements in truck fuel efficiency. customers incentives to use our Direct Plant Ship program. *Twelve months ending November 2018. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 28 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Selling (5% of total value chain GHG emissions) KEY DRIVERS (% OF PHASE IN FY18) Making food available for purchase and daily 0.93 0.90 0.85 0.67 operations of our business STORAGE AT RETAIL EMPLOYEE COMMUTE BUSINESS TRAVEL OTHER 2010 2017 2018 2025 63% 10% 5% 22% GENERAL MILLS’ LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: LOW EMISSIONS (MILLION METRIC TONS CO2E) We support the efforts of our customers Sales and marketing: This category sales fleet by 29 percent per mile driven, In fiscal 2018, at our Minneapolis who are working to reduce energy use also includes General Mills activities that decreasing annual GHG emissions per headquarters, we reduced overall and associated GHG emissions related to support sales and marketing, such as vehicle by nearly 0.8 metric tons CO₂e. waste by 10 percent and waste to storing and refrigerating our products. business travel and our corporate offices. landfill by 30 percent, while increasing Efforts to decrease waste and energy We continue to reduce impacts in this composting collection by 50 percent, Performance: Greenhouse gas emissions use at our corporate offices include area through increased use of virtual compared to the prior year. in this category decreased 9 percent expanding recycling and composting meeting technologies and upgrades to in 2018 compared to our 2010 baseline, streams, reducing printing, optimizing From 2015 through 2018, we saved more efficient fleet vehicles. From fiscal largely due to a decrease in the volume building energy controls and US$800,000 through energy use 2010 through fiscal 2018, we reduced of products that require cold storage. improving lighting energy efficiency. reductions, decreasing GHG emissions the GHG emissions intensity of our U.S. by more than 6,700 metric tons CO₂e. Consuming (21% of total value chain GHG emissions) 3.34 3.33 3.29 KEY DRIVERS (% OF PHASE IN FY18) Enjoying food (shopping, 2.40 preparing and eating) and disposing CONSUMER TRIPS HOME COOKING HOME STORAGE END OF LIFE TO STORE 2010 2017 2018 2025 GENERAL MILLS’ LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: LOW EMISSIONS (MILLION METRIC TONS CO2E) 47% 27% 13% 13% Consumer transportation to and from Performance: Greenhouse gas that do not require cooking or waste. In 2018, we enabled 30 stores determines the largest part emissions in this category decreased refrigeration by the consumer. million meals for food-insecure of emissions in this phase, followed 1 percent in 2018 compared to our people around the world through n F ood waste: General Mills supports by product specifications such as 2010 baseline, reflecting a shift food donations. Learn more. several initiatives to combat food preparation and storage requirements. in our portfolio to more products GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 29 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Food waste 29 million Food waste is a major social, security, advance the sustainability environmental and economic of agriculture and strengthen challenge that undermines food our hometown communities. Collaborating to security; contributes to climate Approach: We take a broad reduce food waste General Mills food change; consumes water and other approach to addressing food In September 2018, General Mills donations enabled natural resources; and adds costs to waste, from reducing waste in our joined Friends of Champions 12.3, 29 million meals families, communities and businesses. a group of companies and other for food-insecure operations and collaborating across organizations working to drive Tackling this complex issue is a the industry, to empowering food progress toward the UN’s Sustainable people around the business, moral and sustainability businesses in surplus food recovery, Development Goal Target 12.3, to world in 2018. imperative for General Mills, and educating consumers on how to halve per capita global food waste strongly aligns with the company’s save food at home and engaging at the retail and consumer levels and purpose. Reducing food waste with communities worldwide. The reduce food losses along production enables more people to eat and saves General Mills Food Waste Action and supply chains, including postharvest losses, by 2030. businesses and individuals money Team – composed of employees from to invest in other needs. Efforts in global sustainability, philanthropy, this area support progress against supply chain, government affairs our GHG emissions reduction and and environmental standards – zero-waste-to-landfill goals, as collaborates to drive progress and well as our philanthropic priorities identify new opportunities for impact. to increase community food Food waste impact* 1/3 8% $1 trillion Every year, oneWasted food is Global food loss/ third of the food responsible for waste represents produced worldwide 8 percent of global nearly US$1 trillion is wasted. GHG emissions. annually. *Source: UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 30 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community A multifaceted approach to address food waste Operations Industry Food retailers Consumers Communities We closely monitor and manage Any one company alone cannot General Mills is committed to We educate consumers on ways General Mills provides our manufacturing processes solve food waste. Meaningful increasing surplus food recovery, to save food at home: philanthropic support to to keep surplus food out of the change requires strong especially among consumerleading nonprofits that makes it n G  eneral Mills promotes Save waste stream. In fiscal 2018, partnerships and collaboration facing food businesses – possible for food manufacturers, The Food, a U.S.-based 57 percent of our production across the industry. We grocery stores, restaurants grocers, restaurants, distributors, campaign from the Natural waste was food waste, and actively participate in industry, and other food outlets. These trucking companies and Resources Defense Council only 2 percent of that amount nonprofit and government organizations collectively other organizations to donate and the Ad Council that went to landfill. We are making groups focused on food waste account for 40 percent surplus food so it can be provides tips on how to progress toward our zero-wastereduction as well as surplus food of all food waste, roughly distributed to people in need. store, cook and save food. to-landfill targets at General recovery, including AMERIPEN, 50 billion pounds (more n O  ur US$1 million investment Mills production facilities. (See the Food Waste Reduction than 20 million metric tons) n S  ince more than 40 percent of in the MealConnect food details in the Producing section.) Alliance, the Foundation for per year in the U.S. alone. food waste happens at home, recovery technology platform Ten facilities (20 percent of the Food and Agriculture Research, General Mills developed and Over the past three years, has enabled the recovery and global total) met our zero-wastethe Grocery Manufacturers launched the #tastenotwaste our global investments in redistribution of more than 1 to-landfill criteria in fiscal 2018. Association, the International initiative on bettycrocker.com food recovery technology billion pounds of surplus food. Food Waste Coalition, ReFED in 2018. The program helps We also work to reduce food have empowered 30,000 (Re-think Food Waste through consumers minimize food n G  eneral Mills food donations waste in our office buildings. At retailers to participate in Economics and Data) and the waste by providing articles, enabled 29 million meals our headquarters, we increased systematic food rescue. U.S. Food Waste Challenge. tips and creative recipes for for food-insecure people compost collection by 50 using remaining produce around the world in 2018. percent in fiscal 2018 compared General Mills is part of an and ingredients. After just to the prior year and reduced industry-wide effort by the Learn more about our food one month of promotion, we landfill waste by 30 percent. largest grocery producers rescue and recovery efforts in achieved more than 18 million and retailers to standardize the Our Community section. consumer impressions. food product date labels to improve clarity about quality and safety. This will help reduce consumer confusion and decrease the amount of Over the past three years, our global food that’s thrown away when investments in food recovery technology it’s still good. As of September 2018, we have updated more have enabled the recovery and than 60 percent of our U.S. packages and will continue redistribution of more than transitioning the remainder. 1 billion pounds of surplus food. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 31 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Water stewardship u Material issue | GRI 303-1, 2, 3 Water is essential for life – for drinking with stakeholders and improving the and sanitation, and to grow food, health of watersheds that are critical generate power, support commerce and to our business. Improving watershed Feeding Ourselves Thirsty nurture ecosystems. Agriculture uses 70 health requires extensive collaboration In the 2017 update of its Feeding how companies are responding to water Ourselves Thirsty analysis, Ceres ranked risks in governance and management, percent of global freshwater withdrawals, to protect the water quality and General Mills No. 4 of 21 packaged food direct operations, the manufacturing and the food sector faces increasing risks supply that benefit our growers, companies (and No. 5 of 42 food sector supply chain and the agricultural related to water quality and availability. communities and the environment. companies overall). The study assessed supply chain. This underscores the leadership role that Our goal: Champion the activation of General Mills and other food companies water stewardship plans for the commust take to address water stewardship in eight priority watersheds across data and irrigation intensity data pany’s most material and at-risk waterissues. We focus on water usage from our worldwide operations. (See the from the University of Minnesota. sheds in its global value chain by 2025. watershed to production, identify watersheds map on the next page.) Risk-based approach: Water issues are Water use in operations: Although this opportunities to increase efficiency and One of those watersheds is in phase 2 local, so we take a risk-based approach category only represents about 1 percent conservation, and continually improve (analysis and action planning), four are to address the specific challenges facing of our water footprint, every General performance and enhance resiliency. in phase 3 (collaboration) and three have targeted geographies. We follow our Mills production facility has a target to Policy: The General Mills Water Policy advanced to phase 4 (transformation). decrease water use by 1 percent annually, four-phase approach to develop and provides a framework for engaging To determine locations, in 2016 we normalized to production. In fiscal 2018, implement watershed health strategies updated a risk assessment of the this rate decreased by 4 percent, due watersheds that support our business mostly to elevated levels the prior year General Mills’ water footprint* globally. We assessed 15 key ingredients associated with facility closures. In fiscal in 36 sourcing regions and 66 facilities 2018, absolute water usage related to Packaging supply chain (14%) (including 17 supplier partners), our manufacturing processes equaled Reducing materials use and using lower impact materials (such as covering 41 watersheds globally. This 13.7 million cubic meters, 9 percent recycled content) are the main process, which updated the analysis we less than in fiscal 2017. Main factors strategies that positively impact conducted with TNC in 2013, included included reductions in the number Agriculture and water use related to packaging. factors such as water quantity, water of facilities and overall production. transformation See the Packaging supply chain quality and baseline water stress. We (85%) section for more information. To view additional data about We focus on used the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) water usage in our directly the highest-risk Producing (1%) Water Risk Filter and the World Business controlled operations, including watersheds that we Although this represents a small Council for Sustainable Development withdrawal by source, see the impact globally. See part of our footprint, we control this (WBCSD) Global Water Tool, as Environmental Data Summary. the map for details. phase directly and are committed well as facility water consumption to continual improvement. See the Producing section for details. *Water consumption data is from 2012. Data in the Shipping, Selling and Consuming phases was considered to be immaterial. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 32 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Four-phase approach to sustainable supply chain water use PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 Assessment Analysis and Collaboration Transformation A study of key operation and growing action planning Establish multi-stakeholder water Implement water stewardship program region watersheds, using external stewardship plan to implement identified Deep-dive analysis of at-risk growing areas, with public education and advocacy, standards and building on work completed improvements in conjunction with external experts funding, and monitoring and reporting with The Nature Conservancy (TNC) General Mills’ priority watersheds Snake Yongding He IDAHO, U.S. HEBEI/SANHE (BEIJING), CHINA Growing region (wheat, potatoes) Growing region (dairy), facility RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH PHASE 4 PHASE 3 General Mills is tracking the Eastern Snake We are in the process of implementing River Plain Aquifer Comprehensive Aquifer the Alliance for Water Stewardship Management Plan to drive progress toward standard at our facility and the watershed sustainability. We support TNC to surrounding catchment. help farmers implement water management and soil health practices that reduce Huang He (Yellow) groundwater withdrawals and address SHANGDONG, CHINA declining water levels and watershed health in this area. In 2017, the Natural Resources Growing region (dairy) Conservation Service (NRCS) allocated RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH $5.2 million to promote and implement PHASE 2 irrigation and water saving projects through This watershed is in the analysis phase. its Regional Conservation Partnership Program. TNC also received a grant from Yangtze (Chang Jiang) the NRCS to help develop the business case for farmers to reduce water use. Rio Grande/ SHANGHAI, CHINA Also see Southern Idaho Fieldprint Project and the TNC soil health roadmap. Rio Bravo Facilities NEW MEXICO, U.S. RISK LEVEL: HIGH PHASE 3 San Joaquin Facility We are in the process of implementing CALIFORNIA, U.S. RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH the Alliance for Water Stewardship PHASE 4 standard at our facilities and the Growing region (dairy, nuts, We contribute to the Rio Grande Water surrounding catchments. fruits and vegetables), facility Fund’s work to help advance water RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH conservation and education efforts in the PHASE 3 Albuquerque community, including restoring Ganges General Mills has supported TNC and forests to reduce catastrophic wildfires that MADHYA PRADESH, INDIA Sustainable Conservation to develop threaten the area’s water supply. Recently, Growing region (wheat) resources such as the groundwater our Albuquerque cereal and snack plant RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH dependent ecosystem tool and the partnered with TNC to collect rain water. PHASE 3 groundwater recharge assessment tool to See Saving Every Drop. We are tracking General Mills and TNC completed a assist development of groundwater Water 2120: Securing our Water Future, the detailed assessment of the sustainability plans. Through the California county water utility's 100-year water supply watershed, farming practices and Water Action Collaborative, we share plan for the metropolitan area. improvement opportunities. We are resources and information with other food collaborating with another food and beverage companies, suppliers and conservation organizations to improve water South Florida Basins company to develop a water fund FLORIDA, U.S. and to pursue other opportunities for security in the San Joaquin watershed. We the region. To better understand the recently supported development of the Growing region (sugarcane) challenges and possible solutions in Groundwater Exchange, a resource and RISK LEVEL: HIGH this area, we also met with numerous collaboration portal that helps water PHASE 4 local farmers. Learn more. managers, water users and community General Mills is tracking The Central Everglades members implement the Sustainable Planning Project (CEPP) that is currently being Groundwater Management Act. implemented according to the Integrated An interactive version of this map, which is updated periodically, is also available online. Delivery Schedule, a collaboration created with multi-stakeholder input. Risk levels are based on the WWF Water Risk Filter, customized to General Mills. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 33 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Regenerative agriculture u Material issues: Biodiversity; climate change; deforestation; responsible sourcing; water stewardship | GRI 102-12, 13, 201-1, 304-2, 3 Our approach: We aim to connect best n P  roduct and supply chain – Cultivate biodiversity and farmer economic practices in regenerative agriculture to and scale regenerative farming resilience are still in development. 1 million real outcomes across three key areas: practices in our supplier base. We will advance regenerative We also launched Version 1.0 of the agriculture practices on 1 million Healthy soil – Soil is a complex n P  olicies and partnerships – Advance General Mills Regenerative Agriculture acres of farmland by 2030. ecosystem that forms the base agricultural systems change through Scorecard, a self-assessment of the food chain for humans strategic partnerships and research. tool to help farmers understand and land animals. It plays an essential role how their practices influence soil Up to one-third of global greenhouse n E  ducation and inspiration – Build in cleaning and storing water, supporting health, biodiversity and economic gas (GHG) emissions stems from the awareness and influence change biodiversity and regulating the climate. resilience in farming communities. food system, an estimated 80 percent by educating and inspiring of which comes from agriculture.* Biodiversity – Diversity in crop consumers, farmers, suppliers, Life-cycle assessment: In 2018, General To positively impact our planet, varieties, grazing animals, industry peers and our employees. Mills worked with Quantis, White Oak it’s imperative that we adapt the wildlife and pollinators supports Pastures and Michigan State University to Measuring impact: During fiscal 2018, approach to farming, natural resource resilient ecosystems can better withstand conduct a life-cycle assessment of White General Mills developed a Regenerative management and energy usage. disease, pests and climate shocks. Oak Pastures, which produces beef for Agriculture Measurement Protocol, We believe that the most promising our EPIC brand. Preliminary results of Farmer economic resilience – which outlines how we determine the solutions start with healthy soil. the study determined that restoration of Regenerative agricultural impact of agricultural management on degraded cropland to perennial pastures We are on a journey to make a practices reduce the need soil health throughout General Mills’ and regenerative agricultural practices meaningful difference through for more expensive inputs by fostering network of regenerative farmers and sequestered enough carbon in soil to regenerative agriculture, which we natural nutrient cycling. These ranchers. In fiscal 2018, we collected offset as much as 68 percent of the define as agriculture that protects and practices can strengthen whole farm and analyzed soil samples from 10 farm’s overall GHG emissions footprint intentionally enhances natural resources profitability and resilience over time. pilot farms in the U.S., totaling 7,500 and decrease the footprint per pound of and farming communities. This approach acres of conventional and organic We follow three strategies to beef produced by 88 percent compared is a powerful lever for change across land. Protocols for above-ground drive progress: to a conventional beef system.** the agricultural supply chain. It not only sustains natural resources but can restore them for generations to come. Regenerative agriculture: examples in our supply chain To achieve these benefits at scale, we BRAND DESCRIPTION PRODUCTS believe all types of agriculture – organic and conventional – should be addressed. Partnered with Montana farmers to create two limited-edition products with organic ingredients grown using regenerative practices. Regenerative agriculture can help address climate change by sequestering carbon in the soil and reducing GHG Working to commercialize Kernza, a perennial relative of annual wheat, whose emissions in the atmosphere. deep roots show promise in building soil health and ecosystem resilience. Our goal: Advance regenerative agriculture practices on 1 million Partnering with the Savory Institute to launch Land to Market – the first verification acres of farmland by 2030. standard for regenerative supply chains. *Vermuelen, S., Campbell, B. & Ingram, J. (2012). Climate Change and Food Systems. Annual Review of Environment and Resources, 37, 195-222. https://www.annualreviews.org/doi/abs/10.1146/annurev-environ-020411-130608 **Value for comparison calculated based on Rotz, 2013. Assumes no carbon loss or storage in cow-calf stage. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 34 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Soil health More than 99 percent of our food to TNC, the Soil Health Institute with deep roots that shows promise management practices that produce comes from the soil.* Soil conservation and the Soil Health Partnership to in increasing soil health, carbon economic and environmental benefits. practices, including planting cover crops, develop tools and resources to help sequestration, water infiltration and n C  anadian Roundtable for Sustainable rotating diverse crops and reducing farmers, landowners and supply biodiversity. Through fiscal 2018, General Crops (CRSC) – In Canada, where tillage can improve soil health. chain leaders achieve widespread Mills has contributed US$1 million to the General Mills sources the majority of adoption of soil health practices. Forever Green Initiative at the University its oats, we use the CRSC’s Canadian Research and investments of Minnesota to support efforts such as National Wheat Foundation: In Field Print Initiative platform, which Through 2018, General Mills has measuring the GHG mitigation potential November 2017, General Mills invested in is analogous to the FTM Fieldprint invested more than US$4 million of Kernza and improving genetics and soil health practices on U.S. agricultural Calculator. We also support research in initiatives to advance soil health management practices to increase farmland with a US$735,000 grant to with farmers and agronomists in on U.S. agricultural lands. and maintain yields. Learn more. the National Wheat Foundation. The Manitoba and Saskatchewan to Soil health roadmap: In November 2016, funds will support soil health research on better understand the soil health Supplier and grower General Mills and TNC unveiled ReThink wheat farms and educational outreach and emissions implications of partnerships Soil: A Roadmap to Soil Health, which to more than 125,000 wheat farmers various farming techniques. makes the case for better soil health across the Northern and Southern Plains. Since 2010, General Mills has worked n M  idwest Row Crop Collaborative – We management practices on U.S. working with row crop suppliers and growers Perennial crop investments: In 2017, participate in this organization, which lands in the agricultural supply chain. to advance progress toward our Cascadian Farm and parent company accelerates use of environmentally commitment to sustainably source Partnerships for soil health: In fiscal General Mills launched a project with preferable agricultural practices our top 10 priority ingredients by 2017, General Mills made a threeThe Land Institute to help commercialize across the Upper Mississippi Basin, 2020. Key collaborations include: year, US$2 million commitment organic Kernza, a perennial grain including cover cropping, low or n F  ield to Market – We partner with no tillage and extended rotation. Five principles of regenerative Field to Market and use their Fieldprint Platform to support growers of corn, agriculture and soil health sugar beets and wheat in driving towards continuous improvement in sustainability for U.S. crops. n N  ational Association of Wheat Growers (NAWG) and the Soil Health Partnership (SHP) – Through our investment with NAWG and SHP and by leveraging our ongoing work with Field to Market, six demonstration farms will identify, test and measure *Pimentel, D. Environ Dev Sustain (2006) 8: 119. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10668-005-1262-8 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 35 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Organic farming General Mills is dedicated to increasing Bailey and Nate Powell-Palm to create We are a founding member of the U.S. Large-scale land conversion: In fiscal the long-term capacity of our organic limited editions of two of our top items, Organic Grain Collaboration, which 2018, General Mills and Gunsmoke Farms supply chain and expanding organic Elbow Pasta & Cheddar and Honey increases the domestic supply of LLC signed an agreement to convert acreage. These efforts align with our Bunny Grahams, with organic ingredients organic grain by funding research, field 34,000 acres of conventional farmland growth objectives, consumer demand grown using regenerative practices. We days and other educational events. to certified organic acreage by 2020. and our commitment to regenerative sourced the oats, peas and wheat for We provided support to the Prairie Located west of Pierre, South Dakota, the agriculture. Our goal is to more than these products directly from the farmers, Organic Grain Initiative, dedicated farm will grow certified organic wheat double our organic acreage from deepening our understanding of the to achieving resiliency and stability and other organic crops as part of a 120,000 acres to 250,000 acres farming practices behind the ingredients. in the prairie organic sector. diverse rotation. General Mills will use the between 2015 and 2019. Through fiscal Since 2008, Annie’s has partnered with wheat to make Annie’s pasta products, Research: We support the Organic 2018, we reached 200,000 acres. Organic Valley, a cooperative of more including its signature Macaroni & Cheese. Farming Research Foundation’s efforts Since 2000, General Mills has steadily than 2,000 family farmers, to provide to encourage widespread adoption As part of this agreement, General Mills grown our organic business with new some of our organic dairy ingredients. In of organic farming practices through has partnered with Midwestern BioAg products, such as Progresso Organic 2017, we worked with Organic Valley, the research, advocacy and education. to provide on-the-ground mentorship Soup, and brand acquisitions, including Carbon Cycle Institute and the California for the farm operators to advance Through Annie’s, we also have longCascadian Farm, Muir Glen and Annie’s. Resource Conservation Districts to assist leading regenerative soil management standing relationships with the Midwest three farms in California in developing practices. In addition, nearly 3,000 acres Supplier partnerships: Cascadian Farm Organic and Sustainable Education carbon farm plans, which can be of pollinator habitat will be planted is partnering with Grain Millers, the Service, which helps farmers adopt used to help identify and implement throughout the farm in partnership largest organic oat supplier in the U.S., and improve organic practices, and climate-beneficial farming practices. with the Xerces Society for Invertebrate to promote continuous improvement The Organic Center, which provides Industry collaboration: In 2017, we Conservation (Xerces Society). within organic farming. We committed evidence-based research on the US$125,000 through 2022 to conduct launched and hosted two meetings environmental and human health impacts This type of long-term, direct contracting soil testing, host field days, share best of the Organic & Regenerative of organic food and farming. In fiscal is unprecedented for General Mills and practices and help remove hurdles to Agriculture Transition Council, which 2018, we funded research conducted by the industry. This agreement provides advancing the organic movement. brings together sustainable agriculture The Organic Center to explore the link farmers and landowners a high level leaders, farmers and industry between organic farming management of security, which supports them in In 2018, Annie’s partnered with stakeholders to advance organic and practices and soil health outcomes. making a transition of this magnitude. innovative Montana farmers Casey regenerative agricultural practices. Scaling up our organic business top 2 200,000 175% 34,000 General Mills is now the secondWe reached 200,000 acres General Mills is among the We have increased the number We are working with Gunsmoke largest U.S. natural and organic of organic acreage through top five organic ingredient of acres from which we source Farms LLC to convert 34,000 food producer. fiscal 2018. purchasers in the North American organic ingredients by 175 acres of conventional farmland packaged foods sector. percent since 2009. to organic acreage by 2020. *Based on SPINS NOMC Dashboard data through Sept. 16, 2018. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 36 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Pollinators Thirty-five percent of crop production worldwide relies on pollinators such General Mills investment in pollinators as bees, birds and butterflies. Diverse FUNDING TIMEFRAME COMMITMENT PROGRESS (THROUGH OCTOBER 2018) native populations of bees and PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS other insects are a sign of healthy and productive ecosystems. Expansion of the Xerces Society’s Biologists provided conservation General Mills Pollinator Conservation Program by Many of our products contain honey, corporate $1,250,000 planning and technical support to contributions adding eight full-time field biologists in key fruits, nuts, vegetables and other 350 farms regions of the U.S. ingredients that require pollination, so healthy and abundant bee FY17 FY21 $750,000 populations are a priority for General 100,000 acres of pollinator habitat Mills. We work with our suppliers and 55,000 acres of habitat planted planted by 2021 leading conservationists to conserve $2,000,000 and expand bee habitats, and we fund research to better support BRAND COMMITMENTS the recovery of honey bees. 5 miles of hedgerow and wildflower strips Since 2011, General Mills and our brands $400,000 FY14 Completed on supplier’s 2,500-acre almond ranch have invested more than US$6 million to support pollinator habitat and research 20 acres of habitat on 500 acres of land $15,000 FY17 Completed efforts. See chart at right for details. owned by two organic dairy suppliers Public-private partnerships: In fiscal 3,300 acres of pollinator habitat planted $1,650,000 FY17 FY21 1,300 acres of habitat planted 2017, we launched a five-year project by 2020 with the USDA and the Xerces Society to protect and establish healthy pollinator Pollinator habitat support on habitats. General Mills is donating $1,185,000 FY17 FY21 41 acres of habitat planted supplier farmland US$400,000 each year, matched by the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) division of the USDA OTHER GENERAL MILLS CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS for a total of US$4 million across the five years. These funds support eight Applied research on bee health in Europe; $370,000 FY15 FY18 beekeeper training; pollinator habitat 500 acres of habitat planted full-time NRCS field biologists who assist expansion, including Yoplait sourcing regions growers in implementing pollinator habitats. This commitment will help Advanced research on honey bee Honey bee cell culture research; knowledge viruses and nutritional supplements to plant more than 100,000 acres of $550,000 FY12 FY18 sharing and collaboration among pollinator for bee health; promoted best pollinator habitat through 2021. researchers worldwide beekeeping practices “General Mills is the global pioneer in pollinator conservation, both in terms of the investments they’ve made and in terms of creating a model that works.” – E ric Lee-Mӓder, Pollinator Program Co-Director, the Xerces Society for Invertebrate Conservation GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 37 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Brand partnerships: Several of our pathogens, pesticides and nutritional surpassing our goal of 200 million brands (see table on prior page) deficiencies – at the cell level. seeds. During fiscal 2018, we distributed have also invested in expanding and seeds to 5.5 million households. Consumer education: Honey Nut strengthening pollinator habitats in their Cheerios launched its Bring Back the Neonicotinoid pesticides: General supply chains. For example, our Yoplait Bees campaign in the U.S. and Canada Mills recognizes the concern about the business in France has developed a in fiscal 2017, to raise awareness about unique role of neonicotinoid pesticides strategic partnership with Observatoire the declining pollinator population. In a in pollinator health decline and supports Francais d’Apidologie (OFA) to week, we distributed 1.5 billion wildflower further study of this important issue research why bees are disappearing seeds to 2.5 million households, far as outlined in the Pollinator Research and to help regenerate healthy bee r Since 2011, General Mills and our brands Action Plan. Consistent with our have invested more than US$6 million colonies. Since 2015, in partnership with historic commitment to integrated pest to support pollinator habitat and Yoplait, OFA has planted two billion research efforts. management (see below), we advocate flowers through the Flowers for Bees for the responsible use of neonicotinoids program to create pollinator habitat in in our supply chain and expedited U.S. France. Environmental Protection Agency review. Research: During fiscal 2018, as part of our ongoing support of the University of Minnesota Bee Lab, the General Mills r Bring Back the Bees distributed wildflower seeds Foundation provided a US$100,000 to households in the U.S. grant to enable scientists to address and Canada. issues that impact bee health – such as Integrated pest management Integrated pest management (IPM) publication of the report “Making and wheat. The study determined that we plan to have the IPM Institute strategies – such as biological control, Decisions About Neonicotinoid Seed current levels of IPM adoption are low present best practices at each of our changing farmer behavior, and the use of Treatment Use in Iowa.” This document in corn, slightly higher in soybeans and North American grower sustainability resistant varieties – minimize the threat provides guidance about which corn much higher in oats, sugar beets and engagement workshops in corn, oats, of pests and the need to use pesticides and soybean pests may be targeted wheat. Reliance on pesticides ranges sugar beets and wheat regions. on crops. General Mills has been a leader effectively with neonicotinoid seed from very high in corn, which has in supporting IPM practices for decades. treatments, when scouting should occur multiple pests, to very low in oats. We fund IPM research, share results and to inform related decisions and how to These results inform our approach work with our suppliers and conservation scout for these early season pests. to IPM adoption across our supply organizations to drive progress. In fiscal 2017, we received results from chain. Through our Field to Market We collaborated with the Xerces an analysis we commissioned from engagements, we help growers capture Society, Iowa State University and the the IPM Institute of North America to information about pesticide use, USDA’s NRCS on a project launched assess the scope of IPM adoption and including energy used in the application in June 2015 to improve IPM practices pesticide use throughout our North of pesticides and embedded GHG in corn and soy systems. In fiscal American supply chains for five major emissions, and apply those findings 2017, the initiative concluded with crops: corn, oats, soybeans, sugar beets to improve sustainability. Additionally, GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 38 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Deforestation We are committed to eliminating understand and address related social contribute to deforestation. In fiscal 2018, deforestation of the world’s rainforests risks. We are signatories to the 2014 99.5 percent of our fiber purchases and the resulting impacts on biodiversity, New York Declaration on Forests. met this criteria. endangered species and climate change. Cocoa: Since signing on to the World Palm oil: To help ensure our palm Deforestation is a major contributor Cocoa Foundation’s Cocoa and Forests oil purchases do not contribute to to climate change, accounting for an Initiative in March 2017, we have worked deforestation of the world’s rainforests or estimated 15 percent of greenhouse closely with suppliers, NGOs and negatively impact the communities that gas emissions globally. Meanwhile the Proforest to identify strategic actions depend on them, we have sourced 100 production of agricultural commodities to protect and restore forests, increase percent of our palm oil from responsible including cocoa, fiber and palm oil is sustainable production, and promote and sustainable sources since fiscal often associated with a range of human social and community engagement. 2015. See our updated statement r In fiscal 2018, we sourced greater than 99 percent of our fiber packaging from recycled rights and labor rights issues such as on responsible palm oil sourcing. material or from virgin wood fiber regions Fiber: General Mills has a target to source land tenure, forced labor and sustainable that do not contribute to deforestation. 100 percent of our fiber packaging by The Sustainable sourcing section livelihoods. We are working to eliminate 2020 from recycled material or from provides more details about our deforestation in our cocoa, fiber and virgin wood fiber regions that do not efforts in each of these areas. palm oil supply chains and to better Sustainable sourcing In fiscal 2018, we sustainably u Material issues: Commodity availability; farmer livelihoods; human rights; responsible sourcing | GRI 102-12, 13, 203-1, 2, 204-1, FP4 We focus on improving the We continue to make progress To drive progress toward our 2025 85% sourced 85 percent of our 10 priority environmental, social and economic toward our goal to sustainably goal to reduce absolute GHG emissions ingredients. impacts of raw material sourcing. This source 100 percent of our 10 priority across our full value chain by 28 percent aligns with our core values and helps ingredients by 2020. In fiscal 2018, (compared to 2010), we increasingly ensure availability of the ingredients we achieved 85 percent, up from 76 assess our global raw material we need to make our products. It also percent the prior year. We continue purchasing through a climate lens. helps us meet our consumers’ growing to move our supply chain toward desire to understand the link between sustainable sourcing through originthe food they purchase and its origin. direct investment, continuous Using finite resources and natural improvement and verification efforts systems more efficiently is essential with farmers and supplier partners, to feeding a growing population. connected data partners and NGOs. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 39 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Performance dashboard: Sustainable sourcing Commitment: Sustainably source 100 percent of our 10 priority ingredients by Progress: 85 percent of these raw materials were 85% 2020, representing 40 percent of our annual raw material purchases. sustainably sourced in fiscal 2018. Progress* (% of volume sustainably Primary focus** sourced as of May of the year noted) Strategy Sustainability definition Raw material/ingredient FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Environmental Social Cocoa 10% 28% 46% 59% 90% Direct investment at origin to improve smallholder farmer livelihoods and ingredient quality Vanilla 45% 45% 22% 22% 32% Origin-direct investment Driving towards continuous improvement using Oats 35% 40% 50% 61% 90% industry-based environmental metrics with at least 25 percent of acres under measurement U.S. wheat 15% 24% 36% 61% 74% Driving towards continuous improvement using Field U.S sugar beets 34% 47% 68% 81% 81% to Market framework or comparable metrics with at least 25 percent of acres under measurement Continuous improvement U.S. corn  6% 26% 33% 67% 82% (dry milled) Driving towards continuous improvement U.S. dairy  20% 20% 38% 83% 91% as outlined in the ICUSD’s Stewardship and (raw fluid milk) Sustainability Framework for U.S. Dairy*** Recycled material or virgin wood fiber from Fiber packaging 99% 99% 99% 99% 99.5% regions not contributing to deforestation Sourced from independently verified lowSugarcane 42% 59% 67% 58% 70% risk regions, or compliance with Bonsucro or comparable standards in high-risk regions Verification RSPO mass balanced, segregated sustainable Palm oil**** 83% 100% 100% 100% 100% palm or PalmTrace Credits *Progress numbers may vary from year to year due to changes in suppliers, market conditions or improvements in data tracking methodology. All numbers calculated based on volume except fiber packaging, which is based on percent of spend sustainably sourced. Aggregate percentage is based on the percentages sustainably sourced for each ingredient, weighted by spend. **Our efforts are focused on areas of significant challenge at the point of origin where we can have the greatest impact. ***Measured using the National Milk Producers Federation’s Farmers Assuring Responsible Management (FARM) Environmental Stewardship module (formerly called FarmSmart). ****Palm oil target 100 percent by fiscal 2015. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 40 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Origin-direct investment We rely on farmers and farming communities for our ingredients. When farmers can earn a good living and take care of the local environment, their lives are better and their communities are more stable. We invest in smallholder farmers and their communities to improve livelihoods and the sustainability and quality of our ingredients. More than 90 percent of the cocoa we purchase is grown in West Africa. Cocoa Status: 90 percent of the cocoa General Mills purchased in fiscal In Ghana, we are working with cocoa supplier In Côte d’Ivoire, we partner with Cargill and CARE in 20 communities to form village 2018 was sustainably sourced.* cocoa suppliers Barry Callebaut cooperatives and provide technical assistance and Cargill to help smallholder and educational support to more than 2,300 farmers. Our support of the Cargill smallholder farmers. Cocoa Promise program with the Challenges: humanitarian NGO CARE in Côte n E conomic viability – the ability of d’Ivoire benefits 10 communities. smallholder farmers to earn enough Our support of Barry Callebaut’s In Nigeria, participating farmer communities are Cocoa Horizons program helps from the crop to support their families. farmers in 65 cocoa cooperatives provided with a comprehensive support package reflecting our vision and the Olam Livelihood n D eforestation – due to the expansion improve productivity through Charter principles of finance, improved yields, labor training, support and financing.* of cocoa plantations in some areas. practices, market access, quality, traceability, social investment and reduced environmental impact. n L ow productivity – low yields, Learn more about the impact of our NGO partnerships in Our Community. crop loss due to pests or disease, *Impact from General Mills funding and donations from other companies are combined for maximum impact in the Cocoa Horizons program. and degraded soil fertility. n C hild labor – helping families to address social and environmental keep children in school. issues in the cocoa supply chain. Progress: In 2018, we expanded our Since signing on to WCF’s Cocoa and work with key suppliers to provide Forests Initiative in March 2017, we have direct support to cocoa-growing worked closely with suppliers, NGOs communities in West Africa. and Proforest to identify strategic Since January 2017, 100 percent actions to protect and restore forests, of our powdered cocoa has been increase sustainable production, sustainably sourced. During fiscal and promote social and community 2018, we worked to transition nearly engagement. We collaborated with all of the chocolate we purchase to those organizations to aggregate and sustainable sourcing programs. integrate information to develop a draft General Mills action plan with intended Collaboration: We work directly with investment and forecasted impact our suppliers to address systemic through 2022 for both Côte d’Ivoire and challenges and enforce our Supplier Code Ghana. We submitted our plan to WCF of Conduct, which prohibits forced and in late 2018 and aim to publish the final child labor. In addition, we are a member version in spring 2019. This initiative of the World Cocoa Foundation (WCF), r Our partnership with CARE provides smallholder farmers like Felicia education and training will also drive progress toward our which works with the food industry on good agronomic practices. 2025 GHG emissions reduction goal. *Cocoa includes chocolate as well as cocoa powder, converted into cocoa bean equivalents. See the definition of sustainably sourced for this ingredient on page 40. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 41 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Progress: During fiscal 2018, we to new localities and farmers. We The majority of the vanilla we purchase Vanilla increased sustainable vanilla purchases launched a village savings and loan is grown and cured in Madagascar’s to 32 percent despite ongoing market association with Positive Planet to Sava region. Status: 32 percent of the vanilla General Mills purchased in fiscal 2018 volatility and geopolitical instability. expand farmer outreach and technical was sustainably sourced.* assistance, which drove increases We continue developing innovative in sustainable vanilla volumes. opportunities in Madagascar to produce enough sustainable vanilla to achieve Collaboration: Our key partners include Challenges: our commitment. During fiscal 2018, our supplier Virginia Dare and industry n E conomic viability – the ability of we elevated work with a key vanilla group Sustainable Vanilla Initiative. 1 smallholder farmers to earn enough supplier, Virgina Dare, and the NGO from the crop to support their families. Positive Planet to expand our program 1 Madagascar Continuous improvement Row crops and dairy are among the most resource intensive of our 10 priority ingredients. To source these raw materials sustainably, we measure year-on-year progress in field-level resource efficiency and drive continuous improvement over time with farmers in our supply chain. Strategy: We partner with farmers in our key sourcing regions using frameworks Increasing sustainability across North America* developed by Field to Market and the Innovation Center for U.S. Dairy and the Canadian Field Print Initiative. For U.S. General Mills’ priority row crops, we collaborate with third SASKATCHEWAN ingredients sourced from MANITOBA parties such as Agrible and Syngenta, these regions: which integrate Field to Market’s NORTHERN RED PLAINS sustainability metrics into their farm RIVER VALLEY Oats management software platforms to streamline data collection. For U.S. raw SNAKE REED CITY, U.S. wheat MICHIGAN RIVER CENTRAL fluid milk, our dairy partners deploy the WISCONSIN U.S. sugar beets National Milk Producers Federation's EASTERN CORN BELT Farmers Assuring Responsible EASTERN NEBRASKA EASTERN ILLINOIS Dry milled corn SOUTHERN EASTERN KANSAS Management (FARM) Environmental PLAINS Stewardship module (formerly called Dairy FarmSmart) to measure and track farm sustainability. The data is evaluated against key environmental indicators to *Map represents main areas of sourcing; is not comprehensive. establish a natural resource efficiency Progress: During fiscal 2018, we on new supplier partners to continuous improvement practices. baseline for each grower. We then continued to elevate sustainability advance progress. See page 44 of the General Mills hold workshops and collaborate with as central to our global sourcing 2017 Global Responsibility Report Since 2010, we have worked with more local, trusted agronomists and other strategy. We launched engagements for a graphic illustrating our annual than 275 growers to collect data on a experts to identify and implement in new regions and brought grower engagement cycle. cumulative total of over 1,311,000 acres. *See the definition of sustainably sourced for this ingredient on page 40. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 42 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community n W  ater quality – address water quality of over 117,000 acres in Manitoba, n W e expanded to western Manitoba and Oats issues related to agriculture. Saskatchewan, and North Dakota. North Dakota with key supplier partner n O  at supply – decreased oat production. We expanded on-the-ground Paterson Grain and collaborated on Status: 90 percent of the oats sustainability programs to measure oat agronomic research at Paterson’s General Mills purchased in fiscal Grower engagements: 2018 was sustainably sourced.* natural resource efficiency against research farm in Winnipeg. n P  aterson Grain in Manitoba key environmental indicators. n I n Saskatchewan, we launched soil and North Dakota In fiscal 2018: health research with local agronomic Challenges: n E  xceed Grain Marketing, n I n collaboration with our suppliers and advisor Shark Ag Consulting. Richardson, Shark Ag Consulting, n C  limate change – reduce GHG We compared soil health across data partners, we brought together and Viterra in Saskatchewan emissions across the supply chain. several cropping systems to better 76 farmers to review environmental Progress: n S  oil quality – improve soil health. footprints and identify continuous understand outcomes resulting n T  hrough fiscal 2018, we have from key management practices. improvement opportunities. collected data on a cumulative total Grower engagements: In fiscal 2018: n I n the Snake River region, 65 percent of growers reported using three or Wheat n Thresher Artisan Wheat in the n I n collaboration with our suppliers and Snake River region data partners, we brought together more conservation practices such Status: 74 percent of the U.S. wheat 197 farmers to review environmental as managing ground cover and General Mills purchased in fiscal n ADM in the Northern Plains, Southern 2018 was sustainably sourced.* footprints and identify continuous service residue, split application Plains and Eastern Corn Belt regions improvement opportunities. of fertilizer, and integrated pest Progress: management techniques. n I n the Northern Plains region, all Challenges: n T  hrough fiscal 2018, we have collected growers reported using at least n T he Southern Plains engagement with n C  limate change – reduce GHG data on a cumulative total of over one conservation practice to ADM and Agrible (recently acquired by emissions across the supply chain. 932,000 acres using on-the-ground manage erosion, improve water Nutrien) was recognized as the Field to sustainability programs to measure n S  oil quality – improve soil health. Market Collaboration of the Year at the quality or preserve soil moisture. natural resource efficiency against n W  ater quality – address water quality 2018 Sustainable Agriculture Summit. key environmental indicators. issues related to agriculture. Grower engagement: natural resource efficiency against n 5 3 percent of sugar beet fields in Sugar beets n Amalgamated Sugar in the key environmental indicators. the Red River Valley engagement Snake River Valley region In fiscal 2018: implemented conservation Status: 81 percent of the U.S. beet practices such as cover crops, grass sugar General Mills purchased in n American Crystal Sugar in the n In collaboration with our suppliers and fiscal 2018 was sustainably sourced.* waterways, field borders, filter Red River Valley region data partners, we brought together strips or contour strip cropping. n Michigan Sugar in Michigan more than 40 farmers to review environmental footprints and identify n G rowers participating in the Red River n Western Sugar in the Mountain West Challenges: Valley engagement demonstrated continuous improvement opportunities. Progress: n C  limate change – reduce GHG a 19 percent higher yield compared n W e expanded to include three emissions across the supply chain. n Through fiscal 2018, we have collected to the regional benchmark. additional sugar beet cooperatives data on a cumulative total of over n S  oil quality – improve soil health. and had active engagement from 151,000 acres using on-the-ground n W  ater quality – address water quality all suppliers. sustainability programs to measure issues related to agriculture. *See the definition of sustainably sourced for this ingredient on page 40. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 43 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community n W  ater quality – address water quality sustainability programs to measure n 6  0 percent of cornfields in the issues related to agriculture. natural resource efficiency against Wisconsin engagement used Corn key environmental indicators. conservation tillage practices and Status: 82 percent of the U.S. dry Grower engagements: In fiscal 2018: managed soil erosion 79 percent milled corn General Mills purchased in n Didion in South Central Wisconsin fiscal 2018 was sustainably sourced.* more efficiently than the n Bunge in Illinois, Kansas and Nebraska n I n collaboration with our suppliers and regional benchmark. data partners, we brought together n ADM in East Central Illinois 20 farmers to review environmental n M  ore than 9,200 acres benefited Challenges: Progress: footprints and identify continuous from a combination of conservation n C  limate change – Reduce GHG n T  hrough fiscal 2018, we have collected practices such as grass waterways, improvement opportunities. emissions across the supply chain. data on a cumulative total of over field borders and conservation cover. n S  oil quality – improve soil health. 112,000 acres using on-the-ground n A  nimal welfare – address animal facility of all directly sourced raw The majority of our directly sourced Dairy care issues, such as dehorning. fluid milk for our Reed City facility. raw milk comes from the U.S. Status: 91 percent of the raw fluid milk Producer engagements: In fiscal 2018: General Mills purchased in the U.S. in n S  uppliers to our Reed City, Michigan, n I n collaboration with our suppliers fiscal 2018 was sustainably sourced.* and participating dairies, we reviewed 1 yogurt facility. environmental footprints and best Progress: practices, and discussed advancing Challenges: n T  hrough fiscal 2018, U.S. milk producers continuous improvement opportunities 2 n C  limate change – reduce GHG have used the FARM Environmental related to feed production, milk emissions across the supply chain. Stewardship module to collect data production and manure management. n W  ater quality – address water quality and calculate the sustainability 1 United States issues related to agriculture. impact from farm to production Verification We continue to increase the sustainability of fiber packaging, sugarcane and palm oil by working across the industry to improve practices, and we validate progress by using verification in high-risk regions. Strategy: Ninety-nine percent of our fiber Progress: In fiscal 2018, we assessed Ninety percent of the fiber we use in packaging supply is considered at low risk suppliers in China to better understand Fiber packaging for contributing to global deforestation certifications in use and confirmed our packaging comes from the United States and Canada – areas at low risk Status: Greater than 99 percent because the packaging uses either that our fiber purchased from China for deforestation. of the fiber packaging General Mills purchased in fiscal 2018 was recycled materials or virgin fiber that is is only sourced from suppliers that sustainably sourced.* sourced from regions where deforestation have FSC Mix certification or better. 2 1 is not occurring. The remaining one percent is sourced from countries Challenges: considered at high risk, including China. n D  eforestation – in some parts We follow pulp, paper and packaging of the supply chain caused by sourcing guidelines developed by sourcing fiber for packaging. the Consumer Goods Forum. 1 United States 2 Canada *See the definition of sustainably sourced for this ingredient on page 40. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 44 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Strategy: More than half of the purchases in regions where certified suppliers include Cargill, American sugarcane we purchase globally is grown sugarcane is not available at volume. Sugar Refining, United and Imperial. Sugarcane in low-risk countries, such as the U.S. Status: 70 percent of the sugarcane During the year, we continued and Australia. We continue to leverage The majority of the sugarcane we General Mills purchased in fiscal working with Proforest to map our purchase comes from the Western our Bonsucro membership and the 2018 was sustainably sourced.* sugarcane supply chain and improve Hemisphere. organization’s Production Standard, transparency to origin. We also plus related credits to help farmers and started evaluating impact investment Challenges: mills in our supply chain measure and opportunities through Bonsucro 1 n L  abor rights – including child and forced increase productivity while reducing 2 and other collaboratives to support labor, and working conditions related key environmental and social impacts. sustainable practices development in to worker health, safety and hours. Progress: In fiscal 2018, 70 percent key sourcing regions. As part of our 3 n V  isibility – improve lack of visibility of the sugarcane we purchased was work with Bonsucro, we encourage to origin of purchased sugarcane. sustainably sourced, up from 58 suppliers to conduct benchmarking and 1 United States  ater n W quality – address water quality percent the prior year. This reflects gap analyses as the first step toward 2 Mexico 3 Brazil issues related to agriculture. an increase in Bonsucro credit verification. Our major sugarcane prior and informed consent. As part of Click here for a list of our current global Most of the palm oil we purchase Palm oil our concern about deforestation in palm direct palm oil suppliers. The most comes from Malaysia and Brazil. Status: 100 percent of the palm oil oil growing regions, we supplement our recent list of mills supplying our direct General Mills purchased in fiscal 2018 initial commitment with our statement suppliers can be found here and here was sustainably sourced.* on responsible palm oil sourcing, which and will be updated periodically. We was strengthened significantly in 2018. are driving toward increased public Progress: In fiscal 2015, we met our transparency regarding upstream supply Challenges: 2 1 commitment to source all palm oil and now expect all of our palm oil 3 n D eforestation – palm plantation through sustainable purchases that suppliers to follow a similar practice. expansion harms rainforests, meet RSPO standards, and we have Hurdles remain in the palm oil supply biodiversity, endangered species 1 Malaysia maintained that performance through chain. If an audit or other highly credible 2 Indonesia and the environment. fiscal 2018. We have continued to shift source reveals or confirms that a 3 Brazil n I ndigenous rights – irresponsible toward mass balance and segregated supplier is seriously violating the stated immediately remediate the concern, practices can threaten the rights palm oil – accounting for 98 percent of principles of our policy, and if that General Mills will suspend or eliminate of indigenous peoples. our purchases in 2018 – and away from supplier does not acknowledge and palm oil purchases from that vendor. Strategy: Although General Mills is a certificates. In cases where certificates relatively minor user of palm oil, our are needed, we are aligned with and purchasing practices can help move using the industry standard of PalmTrace. Purchasing of RSPO certified volumes (metric tons) the industry forward. We are dedicated Traceability: In 2018, we continued CY2016* CY2017 CY2018 to sourcing palm oil in a socially and working with Proforest to trace our palm environmentally responsible manner. Mass balance volume 56,970 76,000 76,923 oil supply chain, identify sustainability Our initial commitment in 2010 included Segregated volume 11,550 6,140 902 risks and ensure responsible and compliance with our Supplier Code RSPO PalmTrace Credits** 6,600 3,740 153 sustainable sourcing. At the end of 2018, of Conduct, as well as prevention and 99 percent of our palm oil volume was Total 75,120 85,880 77,978 resolution of social and/or land conflicts categorized as traceable to the extraction *Calendar year consistent with the principle of free, mill – among the best in our industry. **Formerly known as Green Palm Credits *See the definition of sustainably sourced for this ingredient on page 40. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 45 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Responsible sourcing u Material issues: Animal welfare; commodity availability; human rights; responsible sourcing | GRI 102 12-13, 40, 42-44, FP11-12 Supplier responsibility Our supplier base is large, complex and We require corrective action plans global, with thousands of suppliers in more and resolution for any identified nonAudit results in fiscal 2018 than 25 countries. We address responsible compliances. In fiscal 2018, 67 of our Type of Locations with Number of audits % resolved* % in process* sourcing issues through a multifaceted owned locations and co-packers were location non-compliances approach, including supplier assessments, audited, representing about 28 percent of Owned 20 (6 North America, 12 100% 0% audits, and direct engagement. the total, compared to 62 locations the locations 14 international) prior year. Assessment frequency is based 47 (26 North America, Our Supplier Code of Conduct, the Co-packers 31 84% 16% 21 international) backbone of our program, outlines on each site’s performance in past audits. Tier 1 53 (38 North America, 51 89% 11% our expectations. It covers four pillars When significant issues arise in audits, a suppliers 15 international) of responsible sourcing: human rights, Critical Finding Alert email is issued to key *As of November 2018. Represents percentage of locations with all non-compliances resolved (fourth column) and health and safety, the environment and General Mills team members, including percentage of locations with resolution underway (fifth column). business integrity. We include the Code in regional leadership, division counsel and provide supporting documentation n I nclude a standardized supplier purchase orders, contracts and ongoing and subject matter experts. This group on policies, procedures and previous responsibility review in their interactions with suppliers to drive gathers to review the relationship with the audits, when available. Depending on category strategies. adoption and continual improvement facility, discuss findings and determine the results, some facilities are required n E valuate the risk of prospective throughout our supplier base. next steps. Regular progress review to undergo an onsite third-party audit, suppliers, using due diligence guidance. Owned locations and co-packers: meetings occur until the issue is resolved. based on the SMETA protocol, covering n I nclude language in contracts Since 2009, third-party firms have Tier 1 suppliers: During fiscal 2017, we human rights, health and safety, the related to social and environmental conducted independent audits of our worked with Bureau Veritas (BV) to environment and business integrity. These performance, if appropriate. owned locations and co-packers, which expand and elevate our responsible facilities develop corrective action plans n M eet with strategic suppliers cover human rights, health and safety, sourcing program in our Tier 1 supplier to address identified non-compliances. twice a year to discuss progress the environment and business integrity. base. After conducting a high-level During fiscal 2018, 196 Tier 1 supplier and provide feedback using a (These are separate from food safety risk assessment and segmentation of facilities completed self-assessments performance scorecard, which audits.) In fiscal 2018, we transitioned 2,300 Tier 1 direct supplier* facilities and 53 underwent third-party audits. includes responsible sourcing. co-packers to the Sedex Members worldwide, we identified about 1,200 Governance and integration: Our Continual improvement is required. Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) protocol. facilities that have inherent risk, based supply chain and sourcing executive This framework is widely recognized on environmental, social and governance To ensure alignment across the function, leadership teams have accountability by companies in the food sector, which factors. We also assessed suppliers that all sourcing employees complete for our responsible sourcing programs. enables suppliers to share audit results provide raw materials or ingredients online learning on our Supplier Code of These teams meet at least twice a year with customers and improve efficiency. covered by our sustainable sourcing Conduct. In 2018, we also trained more to review progress. We also have a Another benefit is that remediation goals, as well as natural and organic than 190 supply chain employees on our dedicated responsible sourcing manager of identified non-compliances will be products. During fiscal 2018, we began responsible sourcing, supplier diversity who oversees our work in this area. managed and independently verified inviting facilities globally to participate and sustainable sourcing programs as We are integrating supplier responsibility part of formal onboarding for all new by a third-party. By fiscal 2020, our in our responsible sourcing program. into our global sourcing standards global sourcing employees. co-packers will follow the same overall We require facilities identified as having and processes. As of fiscal 2019, audit process as our Tier 1 suppliers. inherent risk to complete a self-assessment all General Mills buyers: *Direct suppliers provide ingredients or commodities used in our food products or packaging. Indirect suppliers provide products or services such as office supplies, telecommunications and travel that support our business more generally. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 46 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Supplier diversity General Mills is committed to establishing program. Sourcing product category Spending with diverse suppliers in North and growing relationships with certified managers incorporate diversity into their America decreased between fiscal diverse suppliers.* This provides strategic plans to drive progress and 2016 and fiscal 2018, due to declining opportunity to underrepresented groups, share results with sourcing leadership. volumes and supplier consolidation. while fostering job creation and economic We are active members in national development. These efforts also support and regional advocacy organizations, General Mills’ spending with diverse suppliers in our company by delivering innovation, agility, cost savings and market insights such as the National Minority Supplier North America* (US$ million) Development Council (NMSDC), North about our increasingly diverse consumers. FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Central Minority Supplier Development The Supplier Diversity team, which Council (NCMSDC), Women’s Business Minority-owned businesses $359.6 $313.0 $248.8 is embedded in our global sourcing Enterprise National Council (WBENC), Women-owned businesses $162.8 $89.7 $97.0 organization, builds partnerships across Women’s Business Development Veteran-owned businesses $12.0 $11.5 $12.7 the company to match diverse suppliers Center (WBDC), and the National LGBTQ-owned businesses $0.3 $0.0 $0.3 with business needs and opportunities. LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC). The team integrates supplier diversity Through these organizations and Total $534.7 $414.2 $358.8 into the standard sourcing process, other industry groups, we benchmark, Total (% of spending with suppliers) 6.1% 4.9% 4.3% trains all sourcing buyers in this area share best practices and network *Although some suppliers are certified in multiple categories of diversity, spending with those businesses is and provides tools to advance the with prospective diverse suppliers. included in only one category in this table. Animal welfare General Mills is primarily a plant-based Chickens: Eggs are an important of Cruelty to Animals and processed such as procedure timing and use food company, with large businesses such ingredient in ice cream, baked goods using multi-step, controlled atmospheric of analgesics and/or anesthetics. as Cheerios and Nature Valley. We also and doughs, and we strive to ensure stunning. We will ask suppliers to Pigs: General Mills supports the use some animal-derived products and that the hens laying them are treated demonstrate compliance through humane treatment of pigs in our supply have long worked to support the humane humanely. Our commitment is to certification or third-party auditing. chain. This includes the development treatment of animals in agriculture. purchase only 100 percent cage free Cows: General Mills encourages all and implementation of pregnant sow The foundation of our Animal Welfare eggs for our operations globally by suppliers in our dairy supply chain housing alternatives, which we recognize Policy is support for the internationally 2025. In 2018, 40 percent of our eggs to support industrywide efforts that will take the industry time to achieve. In recognized “five freedoms” for all animals purchased worldwide were cage free. promote the humane treatment of the meantime, we will favor suppliers across our global supply chain. We General Mills will work to transition 100 cattle, including by addressing issues that provide plans to create traceability routinely engage with key stakeholders percent of the broiler chickens we buy of pain relief due to dehorning, tail and to end use of gestation crates within focused on animal health and welfare in the U.S. to meet a higher standard docking and castration. We support the U.S. pork supply chain. We’re also and participate in industry initiatives of animal welfare by 2024. Also by that polled genetics breeding programs, an working to understand and address that advance livestock production. year, we will use only breeds accepted approach that has worked in the beef the issue of pain relief and potential These efforts and commitments by the Global Animal Partnership or industry. Until dehorning is eliminated, elimination of castration and tail docking. demonstrate our values and align the Royal Society for the Prevention we support best management practices closely with consumer expectations. *Businesses owned by minorities, women, veterans, and disabled, lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender individuals. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 47 Our Workplace Our goal is to foster a safe, inclusive and rewarding workplace where all employees can thrive. IN THIS SECTION Workplace Ethics and Global Employee engagement safety compliance inclusion and development 9% 49% 90% We reduced our Forty percent of Ninety percent global total injury company officer of leaders feel rate to 0.77 injuries positions and Engaging Leader per 100 employees 49 percent of training will positively in fiscal 2018, down professional affect business results. from 0.85 in 2017. Our positions are held ultimate goal is zero by women globally. injuries and illnesses. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 48 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Our approach operational level, the Human Resources At General Mills, it’s all about our organization leads key employee Awards initiatives in partnership with company General Mills received numerous awards in 2018. Listed below is some of the recognition, people. We’re proud of our efforts to business leaders at multiple levels. illustrating our commitment to being an employer of choice for all employees. create a safe and inclusive workplace Reflecting the importance of people n G  lobal 2000: World’s n 1 00 Best Companies, n M  ilitary Friendly whether you’re at a Cheerios plant, a Best Employers Working Mother Media Employer, Viqtory to our business, General Mills employs meeting at headquarters or out in the (No. 104), Forbes n B est Companies for n M  ost Reputable a Director of Diversity and Inclusion; sales field. And because people are n T  op Employer (China) Multicultural Women, Companies in the United a Director of Global Health Services; our greatest resource in building our n 1 00 Most Just Companies Working Mother Media States (No. 11), Reputation and a Vice President of Engineering, Institute’s US RepTrak® business and upholding our values, (No. 1 in industry), Forbes/ n T  op Companies for Global Safety and Environment. At the JUST Capital Executive Women: n H  arris Poll Reputation we invest in them at every life stage – Quotient® Rankings board level, the Public Responsibility n C  itizens Awards for Best National Association within and beyond our office walls. for Female Executives, (No. 30) Committee maintains responsibility Community Improvement Program, U.S. Chamber Working Mother Media n T  he 25 Most Loved Brands Governance: Governance for our for issues related to labor practices. of Commerce Foundation n B est Places to Work for Overall (Pillsbury No. 3, labor practices lies primarily within Betty Crocker No. 8, Corporate Citizenship LGBTQ Equality, Human our Human Resources, Law and Center Rights Campaign General Mills No. 24), Supply Chain organizations. At an n 1 00 Best Corporate n 5 0 Best Companies for Morning Consult Citizens (No. 1 in industry), Diversity, Black Enterprise Corporate Responsibility Workplace safety u Material issue: Employee health, safety and well-being | GRI 403-1, 2, 4 Our approach employees in fiscal 2018, down n 1 6 locations had zero lost-time n A  uditing – We continued expansion from 0.85 in 2017. Our ultimate accidents due to injuries. of our enterprise-wide auditing General Mills is committed to creating a goal is zero injuries and illnesses. capabilities for safety and environment Zero-Loss Culture in all our locations by We continued reinforcing our under our Zero-Loss Culture strategy. continually mitigating workplace hazards n O ur global lost-time injury safety systems, training and frequency rate was 0.38 per auditing programs in fiscal 2018: and reducing environmental impacts. Systems 100 employees in fiscal 2018. Our goal: Our goal is to provide incidentn S tandards – We developed and We communicate safety information free workplaces for our employees, Results were due to increased published additional advanced and measure progress using contractors and visitors. Our actions engagement and rigor around our safety standards to support our the following systems: are guided by three safety principles: foundational safety processes. global Environmental and Safety Management System (ESMS). n W  e continue the process of phasing n W e lead with safety. We gathered safety data from 202 in a single, standardized ESMS at our tracked locations in fiscal 2018, 54 of n M easurement – Our Global Safety n E very incident is preventable. supply chain locations. Our focus which are production facilities and Tracking and Environmental includes applying our Zero-Loss Culture n W e are all accountable. Innovation, Technology and Quality Management System (GSTEMS) strategy to our foundational health centers. Those 54 locations were the is now fully configured and and safety standards to obtain uniform Our progress main focus of our safety improvement capable of sharing enterprise-wide compliance and reduce risk worldwide. Historically, General Mills has a strong work. Safety highlights from those information across all regions. record of safety leadership. We continue locations in fiscal 2018 include: w Through GSTEMS, we track n T raining – We began the safety data at all production to improve the safety of our operations:* n 1 1 locations operated injury-free. process of training regional site facilities worldwide, document n W e reduced our global total professionals on the safety aspects n 2 1 locations had a total injury necessary actions to reduce injury rate to 0.77 injuries per 100 of our global work system. rate (TIR) below 1.0. future risks and communicate *Global incident data includes all General Mills owned/operated facilities, including Yoki and Yoplait International, Häagen-Dazs shops and global offices. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 49 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community progress. Using GSTEMS, we w Advanced mitigations, which are oversees safety leadership, culture. The council, which includes monitor key measures such as: critical to eliminating hazards structure, processes and actions. key members of the company’s and permanently mitigating executive leadership team, reviews w Leading safety indicators, including n S enior-level responsibility for workplace risks across the company. safety progress and key initiatives. compliance with internal standards, safety lies with the Director of Global regulatory compliance and our Safety and Environment, who reports n W orkplace health and safety is the safety observation contact rate – Leadership and to the Vice President of Engineering, responsibility of line management the percentage of employees responsibility Global Safety and Environment. and each individual employee. whose safety behaviors are n O ur Global Safety Governance Our Corporate Safety Council is All employees are expected to observed in a given time period Board (GSGB), composed of led by our Chairman and Chief work safely by following policies, so coaching can be provided to regional operating vice presidents, Executive Officer, who is responsible procedures and training. help employees work safely. for General Mills’ policy and safety Ethics and compliance u Material issue | GRI 102-16, 17, 205-1, 2 Our approach value of doing the right thing all the example, our Supplier Code of Conduct More than 13,000 employees worldwide time; employees are encouraged to (found on our General Mills website) are enrolled in our online training General Mills is committed to conducting speak up if something doesn’t seem outlines our ethical expectations and is courses. In addition, we supplement business in an ethical manner that right or if they have questions about included in our contracts with business online training with face-to-face antiupholds best practices, complies doing the right thing. The program partners. We also screen higher-risk third corruption training in markets where with regulations, demonstrates includes extensive online resources parties for corruption risk. Internally, there is a higher risk of corruption. integrity, provides equal opportunity and self-directed courses. Our courses our anti-corruption program includes and supports fair labor practices. Action: All allegations of employee and communications illustrate how an anti-corruption/anti-bribery policy misconduct, including bribery and Our comprehensive Code of Conduct our Code of Conduct and employee and online and live training modules corruption, are promptly and thoroughly and Ethics & Compliance program policies apply to our employees’ dayfor employees. In addition, we ask investigated in accordance with our promote ethical behavior in all aspects to-day responsibilities. Our Ethics & detailed questions related to corruption ethics and compliance procedures and of our employees’ work. Our Code of Compliance website provides access risk during each routine, in-depth corporate policies. The Audit Committee Conduct describes the principles that to program resources – available in 10 business unit audit conducted by our of our Board of Directors reviews the govern our business conduct, and languages – and employee policies are Global Internal Audit team. Along investigation and resolution of these points employees to policies and other available in our Global Policy Center. with our anti-corruption assessments, allegations. Upon completion of the resources to answer their questions. we continually assess regulatory Our Ethics Line allows employees investigation, our Ethics & Compliance requirements, enforcement trends Annually, our company leaders – from to raise questions or concerns group ensures appropriate disciplinary and industry best practices to update managers upward, nearly 10,000 employconfidentially and anonymously, where actions (including termination of our Ethics & Compliance program. ees – must attest to compliance with our allowed by law. It is accessible globally third-party relationships), remediation Code of Conduct and business conduct by a toll-free phone call or online at Training: Using both in-person and steps and internal/external reporting. policies. This certification is evidence generalmillsethics.ethicspoint.com. online program modules, we train of our high expectations for ethical employees extensively on corruption Equal opportunity Anti-corruption: We continue to conduct in every aspect of our business. risks and other business concerns, We believe every General Mills employee strengthen our anti-corruption program. including conflicts of interest, has the right to be treated fairly and We assess risks in this evolving area, Program competition law, protecting confidential deserves the opportunity to stretch review program enhancements Ethics and compliance: Our Ethics information, preventing fraud and and grow throughout their career. and apply best practices, including & Compliance program supports our maintaining a respectful workplace. addressing third-party risks. For GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 50 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Policy: To provide a comfortable General Mills does not accept abusive Labor-management safety practices. We maintain good and safe working environment for all conduct or harassment – a policy made relationships with our unions, and our relations employees, General Mills prohibits clear from an employee’s first day of labor contracts are typically settled on discrimination based on age, race, orientation. Employees are expected Globally, General Mills is committed to time and without work disruption. color, religion, sex, national origin, to report situations that compromise providing workplaces that are among Measurement: General Mills has marital status, disability, citizenship, their ability to do their jobs. Formal the safest production facilities in the established key metrics and sexual orientation, gender identity or channels are available for employees world for all our union and nonunion measurement approaches to expression, military service or other who seek advice or a solution, and production employees. In addition, understand our performance as it characteristics protected by law. This our policies strictly prohibit retaliation we work to achieve full employee relates to labor relations and a decent equal employment opportunity policy against employees who express engagement as the foundation of work environment. Examples include applies to all employment practices and concerns. We manage our business our mutual success; strive to create a a refined performance management procedures, including compensation. operations so that employees feel they culture that champions respect and process, annual employee surveys and are being treated fairly and respectfully. inclusion; offer competitive rewards; Practices: Everyone has the right to a clearly articulated Code of Conduct. and implement clear health and work without fear or intimidation. Global inclusion u Material issue: Diversity and inclusion | GRI 405-1 Our approach n W  orkforce inclusion – Ensure we Our progress: recruit, retain, develop and advance Our goal: Our goal is to foster a n 2  0 percent of U.S.-based a workforce that reflects the culture of inclusion that allows all our employees are people of color.* diversity of the consumers we serve employees to thrive. Ensuring diversity n 4  9 percent of employees in our markets around the world of input and perspectives is core to our globally are women.* at all levels of the organization. business strategy. We actively cultivate n 4  0 percent of company officers a culture that acknowledges, respects n C  ultural inclusion – Ensure an inclusive culture that encourages all employees globally are women.* and values all dimensions of diversity – including gender, race, sexual orientation, around the world to share their n A  mong the 12 members of our values, backgrounds and beliefs. unique perspectives and ideas in a Board of Directors, five are safe and respectful environment. women (42 percent) and four are Our strategy: In August 2018, we n C  onsumer inclusion – Ensure our brands ethnically diverse (33 percent).** adopted a new global inclusion strategy r General Mills global inclusion framework to enable greater levels of engagement and products consider the needs of To publicly reaffirm our commitment, in n B  enchmarking to compare General Mills an increasingly diverse consumer with our employees around the world 2018 General Mills Chairman and CEO with other leading global companies. and customer base around the world and drive growth with consumers and Jeff Harmening signed the CEO Action customers. This holistic approach to n G  athering feedback from while creating consumer messages for Diversity and Inclusion pledge to inclusion in all its forms is a driving employees through interviews, that are respectful of that diversity. take measurable action in advancing force for how we lead, develop and focus groups, listening sessions n S  ocietal inclusion – Ensure our diversity and inclusion in the workplace. grow as individuals and as a company. and engagement surveys. external impact is inclusive of diverse Our journey to develop this global We are focusing on four areas that communities in our markets around inclusion strategy included: will drive growth for the company: the world through philanthropy, volunteerism and social good. *Includes professional positions (professional job band and above). Data as of Nov. 30, 2018. **Represents board composition as of Dec. 31, 2018. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 51 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Leadership for their respective organizations and and inclusion is incorporated into our n V eterans Network ensuring that their talent pipelines senior level talent reviews. Our senior n B lack Champions Network We believe that leadership advocacy reflect the diversity of our consumer leaders also support our inclusion and support of our inclusion efforts are n H ispanic Network base. Our Chief Executive Officer and efforts through their sponsorship critical to creating the culture we strive Chief Human Resources Officer review of each of our employee networks, These networks help employees to have. Each of our senior leaders is inclusion progress multiple times a year, recruiting and mentoring diverse create more personal and professional responsible for creating inclusion plans employees, and ensuring diverse talent connections within our global work v The General Mills Women’s Leadership is represented in our leadership pipeline. environment. The ability to connect Network hosted a companywide event on with others who are focused on similar International Women’s Day in March 2018. Women from all functions and levels across Employee networks topics allows for more transparent the company met to discuss a variety of communication between all employees, Members of our six employee topics ranging from gender parity to building networks support each other and including participating leaders. Our allies for women in the workplace. Events were held in more than 20 locations around reinforce our culture of inclusion. Women’s Leadership Network is the the world. A panel of General Mills women first of our networks to expand its Our employee networks include: officers, pictured here, shared insights about how they push for progress to support reach with global chapters in countries n W omen’s Leadership Network advancement, influence policies and benefits, such as Brazil, India and France. and enable a culture of courage for women. n A sian Leader Network n B etty’s Family Network (LGBTQ) Employee Network Summit More than 600 employees gathered for the General Mills Employee Network Summit in August 2018, bringing together members across our six employee networks. Network members participated in leadership development, community building, exchanging ideas and immersion in the company’s new global inclusion strategy. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 52 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Employee engagement and development u Material issues: Employee recruitment & development; employee health, safety & well-being | GRI 404-2, 3, FP4 Employee engagement Our approach we’ve added two new Employee convenient opportunity to strengthen n 8  7 percent of employees told us they Pulse surveys to our feedback cycle. team connections at the end of feel highly connected to their teams. We know that engaged employees the workday in a casual setting. create value and drive business  ngagement n E Council – This crossn 8  0 percent said they feel supported performance. We are working to build functional team helps ensure n C  lubs and groups – More than 25 by their manager – an improvement a more agile, engaged organization collaboration across the company employee clubs and more than 600 of 2 percentage points from 2016 due by listening to employees, taking to help create an engaging Yammer groups (online social networks) to implementation of our Engaging action and measuring progress. workplace; cultivate pride in our enable employees to foster relationships, Leader initiative. products, purpose and values; discuss shared interests and collaborate. n E  mployees also voiced concerns inspire trust in leadership; and capture employee input. Our progress around our ability to execute quickly. We used our first Employee Results from our 2018 Engagement n E  xchange social hours – These weekly Pulse survey to find out more. Survey of salaried, professional events onsite at our headquarters employees worldwide included: locations provide employees with a r Drivers of General Mills employee Engaging leaders at all levels engagement Engaging Leader expansion all employees so every employee can role clarity and decision-making lead from every seat – and can help effectiveness were favorable within In 2018, we expanded our Engaging Leader Examples of our engagement leaders stay accountable, providing immediate teams – with an opportunity initiative to include all leaders and all initiatives include: feedback for continuous improvement. for more clarity across teams. employees. We launched Engaging Leader n P  roductive discourse – Employees n L eadership development – See the in July 2017 to transform the way our Employee Pulse Surveys leaders support employees and consistently identified an opportunity for leaders Engaging Leader story for details. We introduced Employee Pulse surveys live our values to drive performance and to do more to seek out different in 2018 to provide two additional n L istening – Senior leaders host engagement. More than 90 percent of points of view and real-time feedback touchpoints in our feedback cycle. We monthly lunch sessions to hear from leaders participated in development from all levels of the organization. used our first employee Pulse Survey in employees at our headquarters facility. sessions across 22 countries to build skills We know that changing leadership behaviors September to gather feedback about and behaviors for increasing employee takes time and requires that we maintain our three key Engaging Leader behaviors: n A ssessment – General Mills regularly engagement and awareness of the impact focus and check progress along the way. We n A pply appropriate effort – Employees surveys our employees to gather of their leadership on culture and results. continue to gather feedback through regular reported progress in priority setting, feedback. Our annual Employee The initiative grew in 2018 to include: Employee Pulse Surveys as employees and understanding the level of effort Engagement Survey is an in-depth n N ew and enhanced tools and programs to managers build skills and commitment required and shifting resources review of a wide range of topics. We reinforce, inspire and activate Engaging to become more engaging leaders. to the highest priorities. use employee feedback to improve our Leader behaviors by all leaders. n E xplicit understanding of how to processes and strengthen our culture. n N ew comprehensive interactive work – Employees told us that In order to hear from our employees resources to build awareness among even more often on different topics, GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 53 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Development and training Our approach We respect, develop and invest in our people. We have a long history of making employee development a key priority for the company. In order to attract and retain competitively superior talent, we develop all employees. General Mills provides a range of development opportunities throughout employees’ careers through: n H ands-on experiences, including challenging work assignments and robust job rotations. n G uidance from others, including feedback from managers, mentors and peers. n R eal-time learning resources for leaders and all employees. n S tructured learning – offered both in person and online – including onboarding for new employees, professional development for all and leadership development. n N  inety percent of leaders feel available, more than 50 percent of Engaging Leader training will our salaried employees accessed Our progress positively affect business results. the GoLearn site, resulting in over n I n 2018, we expanded the Engaging 45,000 learning impressions. n W  e launched GoLearn, our new Leader initiative to advance employee and leader development site n W  e expanded our development leader learning, development and that provides a single point of access programs for new leaders to ensure engagement across the company. for all learning and development consistency around the world and a (See story for more details.) resources, including employee cohort experience for new leaders n T hrough the Engaging Leader initiative, professional development, leader to learn together and interact as 4,000 leaders committed to improving development, functional training they grow. This multi-session, realtwo behaviors, leading to the potential and companywide topics. The site time learning experience has been for 76,000 change impressions for provides real-time access to content completed by more than 400 new employees around the world. on key topics in six languages. During managers around the world. the first 100 days that the site was GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 54 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Performance management and rewards Performance management Recognition Each year, approximately 14,000 General Our Champions Award celebrates Mills employees globally participate outstanding achievements and Expanded employee benefits in our performance management leadership by individuals and teams At General Mills, we put people first – and that starts with our employees. In a work process. The process includes setting at General Mills. Since the late 1980s, environment that spans five generations, priorities, frequent check-ins and we have been recognizing award everyone values different things. We’ve feedback, and a formal performance recipients who have overcome obstacles spent a lot of time talking with employees evaluation process. Employees with determination and persevered and asking questions about their pain also create individual development to deliver significant results for our points and what contributes to feeling plans as part of the process, further business, our employees and our torn between work and home. As a result, helping to facilitate and encourage communities. Based on our Champions in August 2018 we announced expanded employee benefits beginning in fiscal professional development and growth. Award criteria, employees are able to 2019 for every life stage, including: nominate colleagues who exemplify n E nhanced maternal leave and our core values: play to win; win as a parental leave for fathers, partners team; act boldly and move quickly; and adoptive parents. grow and inspire; and do the right n N ew caregiver leave, improved thing all the time. In 2018, we added bereavement leave and shortEngaging Leader behaviors to the term disability benefits. criteria. Seventy Champions Award n E xpanded benefits eligibility to r General Mills performance management winners were selected in 2018. include domestic partners. process Employee well-being Our approach dining choices and programs at our adding digital ways to engage with n C  areer – We support our facilities, and provide opportunities counseling, support and resources to employees’ career development We believe that providing wellness to increase physical activity. help reduce barriers and start breaking with numerous opportunities for opportunities for our employees the stigma. Many locations also offer personal and professional growth, and their families is crucial to n E  motional – Our LifeWorks Employee stress and resilience programs. as well as resources to promote upholding our company values. Assistance program helps build work/life balance. Learn more. resiliency through counseling, n F  inancial – We support the financial Our progress emotional support and referrals for well-being of our employees by n S  ocial/community – We help U.S. employees and their families. providing them with competitive connect employees with communityIn April 2018, we launched our new In 2018, we added a digital sleep programs, resources, salaries and based programs where they can My Well-being program in the U.S. program focused on helping those benefits. Learn more. We also have volunteer, receive support and that takes a holistic approach and with troubled sleep get the resources financial wellness tools and resources strengthen connections. Learn supports many aspects of well-being. and care they need. In 2019, we are that allow employees and families more about our community A sampling of our programs includes: changing the way we approach to get on track toward their shortengagement programs in the Our n P hysical – We encourage good mental health: We’ve started by and long-term financial goals. Community section of this report. nutrition, offer employees healthy GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 55 Our Community Our aim is to build strong, resilient and sustainable communities. IN THIS SECTION Food security and hunger Sustainable agriculture Hometown communities $102 million 29 million 83% We gave US$102 Our food donations 83 percent million to charitable enabled 29 million of our employees causes in fiscal 2018, meals for foodworldwide including General Mills insecure people volunteered in Foundation grants, across the world their communities. corporate contributions in 2018. and food donations. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 56 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Our approach Fiscal 2018 corporate giving 102 million General Mills’ philanthropy is aimed at IMPACT FRAMEWORK SPOTLIGHT: supporting flourishing communities and $ Smallholder farmers a thriving planet and ties closely to our The amount we gave to charitable causes in fiscal 2018 We develop impact frameworks company’s purpose, core business and for each of our priority issue food systems knowledge. We partner Foundation giving areas. Our focus on sustainable in innovative ways with nonprofits Food donations $28 million agriculture includes support for smallholder farmers. $41 million to harness our collective impact in key areas, while engaging employees Why we invest: We invest to enhance through volunteerism. In short, we work the well-being and livelihoods of to harness the power of food for good. smallholder farmers in our supply Corporate contributions chain so they have the capacity $33 million (knowledge, skills, empowerment, GRI 201-1 relationships and other resources) and resiliency necessary to achieve and sustain farm productivity and incomes that meet their families’ Global focus areas: advancing solutions in our priority economic and social needs. WATCH VIDEO issue areas, we use an outcomesIncreasing food security Targeted outcomes: based philanthropic approach. Led – expanding food n F armers have capacity and r See how General Mills uses food as a by our Foundation program officers access for families, alleviating resiliency to withstand shocks force for good. with input from internal and external (market, climate, etc.), lowering hunger in communities. subject matter experts, we leverage risks to farms and families. Leadership and governance: General Advancing sustainable the evidence base to develop logic Mills’ philanthropy and community n F arm yield increases (land agriculture – empowering models and impact frameworks for engagement programs are led by productivity and crop quality), growers, protecting habitat and each of our priority issue areas that expanding farm revenue. the Executive Director of the General conserving natural resources. clearly define the end outcomes (social Mills Foundation with support from n H ouseholds are food and Strengthening hometown and environmental) we are targeting; nutrition secure. program officers. The Foundation communities – making the key activities and interventions staff includes experienced specialists n F armers can develop savings meaningful impact in the communities that best support those outcomes; and build assets. who lead and steward the company’s where our employees live and work. and the key measures we will use to philanthropy. In addition, employee n C ommunity members have access assess our impact and progress along councils located across our key global Targeted impact: To ensure General to capital to start or expand the way. (See the smallholder farmers ventures to improve livelihoods. operating communities assist with local Mills’ giving is well informed and making impact framework example at right.) grant-making by helping to identify a meaningful difference by strategically n F armers have greater access and recommend nonprofits to be to markets through farmer cooperatives and collectives. considered for grants. The Foundation is governed by a Board of Trustees and n W omen influence and can control Corporate Contributions Committee household economic decisions. that includes the company’s CEO and n C hildren are enrolled in school leaders from human resources, finance, and attend regularly. legal, R&D and sales functions. n C hildren do not participate in inappropriate farm labor. r Our philanthropy work is strongly aligned with many of the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including goals 2, 12 and 13. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 57 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Increasing food security u Material issues: Food security; food waste | GRI 102-13, 40, 42-44, FP4 Community food systems n F ood banks in more December 2018, our community food than 30 countries systems grants in North Minneapolis Our approach: We strengthen community food systems by: were supported have supported 14 projects spanning What is a foodand strengthened 11 nonprofit organizations, including: secure community? n E xpanding food access – Together by General Mills grants. Our primary n T he opening of a new full-service When all community members with our nonprofit partners, we are food bank network partners grocery store that offers health have physical, social and economic taking aim at food deserts in and include the Global Foodbanking access at all times to a wide range services and food and around our hometown communities Network and Feeding America. of foods that meet their nutritional, wellness education. to help ensure that all members cultural and economic needs. of the community have affordable n T he expansion of a farmers market access to a wide range of foods. and food hub to enable local food growers to clean, prepare and sell fresh announced US$1 million in grants to 13 n S upporting surplus food recovery foods in the community year-round. Buffalo-area nonprofit organizations and redistribution – General Mills n 2 018 grants included support supporting programs including: supports food banks in more than 30 n G rowth of a youth-run social for new food bank networks countries, as well as other nonprofits enterprise that grows, prepares n A  new food co-op and a mobile established in China and India. in our key markets globally. and sells innovative food grocery store to serve Buffalo’s In Minneapolis we are working with products in their community. food desert neighborhoods. Our goals: the Greater Twin Cities United Way In fiscal 2018, we worked with the n E  xpansion of urban gardens on a grants program that provides n L everage philanthropic partnerships support to nonprofits focused on United Way of Buffalo and Erie County and the development of a to help enable 30 billion meals increasing food accessibility, variety, to create a food systems grant new urban greenhouse. for hungry people by 2030. availability and affordability in the program tailored with and for the n H  ealthy Corner-Store Initiative to n E liminate food deserts and increase Buffalo, New York community. We city’s Northside neighborhoods. As of increase the availability of fresh food food access in at least four General in neighborhood corner-stores. Mills communities by 2020. n E  xpansion of a community farm n I nvest to expand the capacity of enabling refugee communities to at least 20 food banks across our cultivate culturally preferred foods. key global markets by 2020. n C  ulinary and food skills training Our progress: for youth. n O ur philanthropic partners enabled 30 countries 3.5 billion meals worldwide in 2018. n C ommunity food systems grant programs have been implemented in two hometown communities General Mills grants – Minneapolis, Minnesota, and supported and Buffalo, New York – to increase strengthened food banks food access and food equity in in more than 30 countries. underserved neighborhoods. r In Buffalo, members of the Somali Bantu community cultivate culturally preferred foods at the Somali Bantu Community Farm, supported by a General Mills grant program in partnership with United Way of Buffalo and Erie County. (Credit: Lori Joyce Photography) GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 58 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community School meals Our approach: Knowing that schools can be one of the most powerful levers for increasing food and nutrition security among children, we work to improve and expand access to school meal programs around the world. In the U.S., Canada and U.K., our school meals work is focused on helping schools (predominantly serving children living in poverty) launch or r The World Food Programme supports fortified school meals for students in India. expand breakfast programs to eliminate (Credit: WFP/Isheeta Sumra) missing meals. In India, China and Brazil, n O ur support for Instituto Melhores our work is focused on strengthening Dias in Brazil enables nourishing school feeding programs through r Children receive nourishing meals through Breakfast Club of Canada. (Credit: Breakfast Club school meals and holistic schoolprojects that improve the capabilities of of Canada) based programs. Since 2016, Instituto central school kitchens and/or increase Melhores Dias has nourished 62,700 Working in partnership with local n B  reakfast Club of Canada is the the nourishment of school meals. schoolchildren at 176 schools, school district leaders, principals, leading provider of school breakfast Our goals: established 52 school gardens, parent groups, anti-hunger to Canadian children in need. Since n E nable or improve 100 million and engaged 3,772 teachers and advocacy groups and state child 2012, our partnership with Breakfast school meals for youth living 241 cafeteria workers with General nutrition agencies, FRAC used Club of Canada has enabled nearly in poverty by 2020. Mills’ support. Our support will funding from General Mills to help 12,000 children gain daily access to a enable Instituto Melhores Dias to school districts add or expand school nourishing meal at school. General Mills n E mpower 150 schools serving expand programs that will nearly breakfast programs in 11 General Mills employees also volunteer their time at-risk children in General Mills double their impact and reach communities. To date, our partnership to serve meals with Breakfast Club operating communities to add a 124,011 children at 304 schools. with FRAC has enabled more than of Canada. Our support will enable daily school breakfast by 2020. 14,100 students at 93 schools in Breakfast Club of Canada to continue Our progress: Our philanthropy is our hometown communities gain to provide nourishing school meals connecting more children than ever daily access to to children at clubs in nearly every before with school meals, ensuring a nourishing province and raise that they are nourished and ready to school breakfast. awareness about learn. Our support has enabled more child hunger n T  hrough our partnership with No Kid WATCH VIDEO than 540,000 children worldwide in Canada. Hungry, we supported a multiyear to access a nourishing school hunger relief campaign focused on 116 million meal daily, resulting in 116 million r Learn about the impact of nourishing meals expanding school breakfast programs meals a year. Examples include: provided by Instituto Melhores Dias to students in Florida, Michigan, Nevada, Texas, in Brazil with support from General Mills. n I n the Indian states of Uttar Pradesh Washington and Wisconsin. As of The number of meals and Odisha, our partnership with the n I n the U.S., through our partnership 2018, this effort helped launch provided to more World Food Programme is enabling with the Food Research & Action programs that connect more than school and government officials to 67,000 children than 540,000 children Center (FRAC), we provide school nutritionally fortify school meals breakfast start-up grants to schools in from low-income worldwide in 2018 with served to 322,000 students daily General Mills communities that serve households to daily General Mills support. (77 million meals per school year). children from low-income households. school breakfasts. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 59 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Food rescue and recovery organizations to donate their surplus food 29 million pounds of surplus food as slightly damaged packaging. As so it can be distributed to people in need. to date and empowered 2,974 retail a result of the pilot, MealConnectOur approach: We catalyze innovative locations in the U.K. with systematic Logistics has been adopted by more nonprofit programs that expand surplus In the United States, General Mills provided food recovery capabilities, including than 20 trucking companies. food recovery practices around the globe. a US$1 million grant to Feeding America Tesco, Asda and Waitrose stores. to refine and scale the MealConnect n T  hrough our original US$1 million Our goals: food recovery technology platform Our progress: investment in MealConnect, we n I nvest in food recovery networks that gives food donors like grocery have enabled the recovery and n O ur global investments in food and platforms to empower stores, restaurants and cafes a free, easy redistribution of more than 1 billion recovery technology over the past 25,000 food retailers in surplus way to reduce waste and transform pounds of surplus food. three years have empowered more food rescue by 2020. their surplus food into nourishing than 30,000 retailers worldwide to n G  eneral Mills food donations enabled meals for food-insecure neighbors. n D onate General Mills’ surplus food participate in systematic food rescue. 29 million meals for food-insecure to enable 200 million meals for In the U.K., General Mills provides people across the world in 2018. n I n 2018, General Mills piloted food-insecure people by 2020. philanthropic support to FareShare, with Feeding America the use of In addition to these food rescue and which pioneered a retail food n E nable 10 community nonprofits MealConnect by trucking companies recovery programs funded through rescue technology platform called in North America to expand their in the U.S. to help them donate philanthropy, General Mills works FareShareGO that has recovered capacity for food recovery. surplus food from loads that were across many fronts to prevent and rejected due to circumstances such reduce food waste. Learn more in the Our partners: General Mills provides Our Planet section of this report. philanthropic support to leading nonprofits that makes it possible for 4.2 billion food manufacturers, grocers, restaurants, WATCH VIDEO distributors, trucking companies and other The number of pounds of surplus food recovered by our hunger relief partners r With support from General Mills, r Watch this video to see how General over the past 12 months to FareShare in the U.K. last year recovered Mills support is helping scale use of the feed hungry people (rather enough surplus food to help enable 30 MealConnect app to recover and redirect million meals for hungry people. surplus food across the U.S. than going to waste). Feeding Better Futures As the world’s population continues to her work fighting hunger as founder and rise, we know we must work together to chief executive gardener of Katie’s Krops. address food security and hunger. In January Launched in 2008 when Katie was nine years 2018, General Mills launched the Feeding old, Katie’s Krops empowers kids to grow Better Futures Scholars Program asking vegetable gardens and donate the produce young people – ages 13 to 21 – to share to people in need. Since then, the program their innovative solutions. Five finalists were has grown to 100 gardens around the country WATCH VIDEO selected, each having launched successful and donated thousands of pounds of fresh programs to reduce hunger or improve produce. Katie received US$50,000 to help sustainable agriculture in their communities. expand Katie’s Krops, presented her ideas r Learn more about the General Mills In June, Katie Stagliano of Charleston, South at the Aspen Ideas Festival and is currently Feeding Better Futures Scholars Program. Carolina, was selected as the winner for being mentored by an industry leader. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 60 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Advancing sustainable agriculture u Material issues: Farmer livelihoods; biodiversity; water stewardship | GRI 203-1, 2, FP4 Our approach: We leverage philanthropy n I nvest in water stewardship funds has used our US$1 million, 3-year grant continue to support the work of field to advance the sustainability of and coalitions in General Mills’ over the past 18 months to identify biologist teams who are partnering agriculture and support the conservation most at-risk watersheds. the most effective measurements to with farmers to establish and of natural resources around the world. assess existing soil health, monitor expand pollinator habitats across n S upport the engagement of farmers in Aligned with our company’s broader progress and track the environmental key agricultural regions in the U.S. programs to expand pollinator habitat sustainability goals and commitments, impact. The institute has collaborated around agricultural working lands. w We continue to support research we philanthropically invest in NGO-led with scientists and established more on bee health by the University Our progress: programs and initiatives that improve the than 120 research sites across North of Minnesota Bee Lab through well-being and resiliency of smallholder n S mallholders – We provided support America to evaluate the relationship our US$150,000 grant in fiscal farmers, promote regenerative agricultural to NGO partners in Côte d’Ivoire, between soil health indicators and 2018, building on US$100,000 practices, conserve watersheds and Ghana and Madagascar who are changes in yield, economics, water grants in 2017 and 2016. expand pollinator habitats. We believe currently reaching more than 28,000 quality and GHG emissions. these actions have a vital and sustaining smallholder farmers and their family w We provided US$125,000 in fiscal 2018 to Observatoire Français benefit to society and the environment, members through programs to improve d’Apidologie (OFA) in France to while helping to ensure food producers farming practices, empower female support OFA bee research, the will be able to feed a growing world. farmers, establish farmer cooperatives, European Beekeepers Network improve food and nutrition security, Our philanthropically funded work and pollinator habitat plantings. support youth education and prevent to advance sustainable agriculture complements the efforts of our child labor. Our NGO partners in this w These philanthropically funded work include CARE and Positive efforts complement the company’s supply chain and business n W  ater stewardship – During 2018, Planet. These efforts complement the commitments made by our teams to improve water stewardship, our contributions supported water collaborative work of our business brands to support pollinator habitat. the health of ecosystems – including stewardship collaborations in four out teams and suppliers described in the (See details in the Our Planet soil health, pollinators and biodiversity – of eight priority watershed regions. Our Planet section of this report. section.) and sustainable sourcing of ingredients. (See more details in the Our Planet Learn more in the Our Planet section section.) For example, we provided of this report. a US$200,000 contribution to Sustainable Conservation to improve Our goals: Our philanthropic goals and advance water conservation within sustainable agriculture include: practices on U.S. dairy and feed farms. n I mprove the well-being of 30,000 n S oil health – Now at the midpoint of our n P  ollinators: people (farmers and their families) three-year, US$3.25 million investment by 2030 in smallholder farming in soil health, we continue to support w Through our five-year communities from which General US$2 million initiative the Soil Health Partnership, Soil Health Mills sources cocoa and vanilla. (US$1.25 million from the Institute and The Nature Conservancy, General Mills Foundation and n I nvest in nonprofits to support extending the complementary US$750,000 from Annie’s) widespread adoption of soil health investments of our business teams with the Xerces Society for best practices, such as no-till farming described in the Our Planet section. Invertebrate Conservation, we and the use of cover crops. For example, the Soil Health Institute GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 61 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Strengthening hometown communities GRI 413-1, FP4 Our approach: Just as we care strengthen communities since our about the communities where our Foundation was established in 1954.* ingredients are grown, we care about n W e invested in over 50 global Box Tops for Education the communities our employees call hometown communities with Our approach: Box Our progress: n 3 0 million households home. Around the world, we make a Tops for Education™ is participating. local grants during fiscal 2018. n U S$882 million provided meaningful impact in our hometown a program operated by through Box Tops for n 7 0,000 U.S. schools communities through employee General Mills that provides Education since the benefiting from volunteerism and community giving. Our funds for participating program began in 1996. the program. employees are General Mills’ greatest U.S. schools, which can n U S$42 million earned by be used for supplies asset, and they are often leaders in their U.S. schools during the and other priorities. communities. Supporting local causes 2017-2018 school year. they are passionate about invigorates our employees and communities. Our goal is to strengthen hometown our annual Global Volunteer Week with marketing challenges. Since communities by: r This team of General Mills employees to help strengthen our hometown the program’s inception in 2009, helped build a house with Habitat for n M aintaining an employee volunteerism Humanity. communities around the world, giving more than 230 volunteers have rate of 80 percent worldwide. a total of 6,100 volunteer hours. completed 51 pro bono projects n E xceeding US$2.5 billion in cumulative Employee volunteerism n N ourishing students in Canada – through GoodWorks with rave reviews from the nonprofit organizations corporate charitable giving by Our approach: Empower our employees Employees in Ontario prepare and benefiting from their work. 2020 to strengthen communities. to apply their skills, expertise and serve breakfast to approximately 100 passion to help their community. students every day of the school year n W  ater conservation – Employees n I nvesting in General Mills hometown at a public school in Mississauga. More from our Albuquerque, New Mexico, communities globally to help Our progress: General Mills than 40 employees participate – facility partnered with The Nature our local communities around employees volunteer their time and each person volunteers one hour Conservancy to assist a local the world grow and thrive. talents in more ways than ever: every three weeks in groups of elementary school with a water Our progress: n P artners in Food Solutions – More two or three people. In 2018, they than 500 General Mills employees served more than 16,400 breakfasts n 8 3 percent of our employees have served as volunteers for this to hungry students, providing a worldwide report volunteering in international NGO, founded by nutritious start to the school day. their communities, sharing their General Mills a decade ago that is time and talent in ways that serve n S kills-based volunteerism – General strengthening food security across both people and the planet. Mills employees across our marketing Africa. (See story on the next page.) n I n fiscal 2018, we contributed and consumer insights functions n G lobal Volunteer Week – From more than US$102 million in engage in skills-based volunteerism prepping meal kits in Hong Kong through our GoodWorks program. charitable giving worldwide. to planting gardens in the United These employees give back to the n G eneral Mills and our Foundation r These General Mills employees Kingdom, over 3,000 employees community by leveraging their skills have provided more than US$2.4 volunteered at the University of Minnesota at 42 different locations in 24 to help nonprofit organizations Bee Lab by building frames for bee hives. billion in cumulative giving to countries raised their hand during *Since 1954, General Mills, Inc. and the General Mills Foundation have contributed US$2.4 billion. This figure includes Foundation grants, Box Tops for Education™ giving, corporate contributions and the company’s global food donations. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 62 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community conservation project. Our volunteers disaster relief partners are resourced during these times help to ensure that helped install rainwater barrels, which and equipped to help communities our NGO partners are ready to help have collected more than 2,500 during their most urgent times of need. affected communities. Food banks are gallons of recovered rainwater used to lifelines for communities recovering Our progress: During fiscal 2018, our irrigate the school’s vegetable gardens. from disaster, providing immediate philanthropy in the wake of disasters food access and extended support. included more than US$650,000 to Disaster relief American Red Cross, CARE and Feeding General Mills provided post-disaster Our approach: When disaster strikes grants to help 22 food banks recover America and nearly 500,000 pounds in the communities where we operate, and build resiliency following the horrific of donated food to support emergency General Mills is ready to contribute natural disasters of 2017 and 2018. relief and community recovery r General Mills employees presented a in ways that provide relief and help following hurricanes Harvey, Irma and grant to the Houston Food Bank in the wake these communities recover. Through of Hurricane Harvey. Maria, cyclone Enawo, the California financial grants and General Mills food wildfires and earthquakes in Mexico. donations, we help to ensure that our General Mills’ cash and food donations Partners in Food Solutions Partners in Food Solutions (PFS) and PFS also works with other notable Impact: PFS results since 2008 include: Ghana, Kenya, Malawi, Nigeria, its partner companies are committed to organizations like TechnoServe, funded Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia. n N early 1,500 early-stage food companies improving food security, nutrition and by USAID and the Bill & Melinda Gates n 3  1 percent of PFS client businesses are received support and training to economic development in Africa. Founded Foundation, and impact investors such owned and/or managed by women. help improve food safety and quality by General Mills in 2008 and now an as Root Capital and Grassroots and improve their businesses. n 9  4,000 hours were contributed by nearly independent nonprofit organization, Business Fund to support African n S erving food processors and millers in 1,500 volunteers from six companies. PFS links the technical and business food processors and mills. nine countries: Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, expertise of volunteer employees from General Mills and other food companies with high-potential food processors and millers across nine African countries. Partners: The work of PFS is supported by six corporate partners: General Mills, Cargill, DSM, Bühler, The Hershey Company and Ardent Mills. Collectively, these companies have nearly 700 years of food know-how and tens of thousands of employees whose expertise and wisdom can help advance the African food landscape. r In Accra, Ghana, PFS volunteers r PFS has worked with Soy Afric, a r PFS support for Praise Exports, a producer helped develop and implement a quality producer of soy, millet, sorghum and maize of cooking oil, canned vegetables, cereals, management system with Eden Tree, a products in Nairobi, Kenya, on projects seasonings and peanut butter in Accra, producer of fresh fruits, vegetables and ranging from product formulation to brand Ghana, includes conducting shelf-life studies sauces sourced from 100 local farmers. redesign to investment planning. and providing process engineering support. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 63 APPENDIX Environmental data summary (wholly owned or controlled production facilities globally)* In thousands, except rate data 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Energy usage rate (GJ/metric ton of product) GRI 302-3 1.92 1.92 1.90 1.89 1.88 1.87 1.86 1.91 1.88 Energy usage (GJ) GRI 302-1 9,565 9,367 8,875 10,537 10,526 10,358 10,124 9,787 9,029 Direct energy usage by primary source (GJ) 5,435 5,265 4,892 5,910 5,979 5,889 5,672 5,629 5,057 Fuel oil (GJ) 85 79 81 84 52 32 35 67 55 Natural gas (GJ) 4,979 4,863 4,560 4,988 5,083 5,072 4,947 4,848 4,493 LP gas (GJ) 62 15 10 105 98 53 85 95 92 Solar panels (GJ) 0 0.30 0.44 0.43 0.44 0.42 0.47 .052 0 Cogeneration electric (GJ) 98 91 64 64 73 59 65 18 6 Cogeneration steam (GJ) 204 188 110 142 161 162 117 91 6 Biomass (GJ) 8 29 67 527 513 511 423 458 403 Indirect energy consumption (electricity) (GJ) 4,129 4,102 3,983 4,627 4,547 4,469 4,452 4,205 3,972 International (GJ) 498 506 540 1,177 1,100 1,057 1,052 931 890 North America (GJ) 3,631 3,596 3,444 3,450 3,447 3,412 3,399 3,274 3,081 Energy usage, by region International (GJ) 945 966 1,022 2,587 2,498 2,407 2,382 2,202 2,064 North America (GJ) 8,620 8,401 7,852 7,945 8,015 7,952 7,742 7,585 6,965 GHG emissions rate (metric tons CO2e/metric tons of product) GRI 305-4 0.204 0.206 0.206 0.181 0.173 0.171 0.162 0.165 0.160 GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2)** (metric tons CO2e) 1,017 1,006 961 1,013 965 945 882 831 765 Scope 1 (metric tons CO2e) GRI 305-1 285 273 251 281 284 277 265 254 235 Fuel oil (metric tons CO2e) 5 5 5 5 4 2 2 4 4 Natural gas (metric tons CO2e) 277 267 246 270 274 271 258 245 226 LP gas (metric tons CO2e) 4 1 1 6 6 3 5 5 5 Scope 2 (metric tons CO2e) GRI 305-2 732 733 710 732 681 668 616 576 530 GHG emissions from renewables (not in Scope 1 or 2) 0 1 3 44 48 48 40 43 38 GHG emissions, by region International (metric tons CO2e) 87 91 95 143 132 127 124 117 111 North America (metric tons CO2e) 930 915 866 870 833 818 757 714 654 Water usage rate (cubic meters/metric ton of product) 2.19 2.11 2.14 2.90 2.79 2.86 3.16 2.99 2.86 Water withdrawal (cubic meters) GRI 303-1 10,800 10,300 10,000 16,200 15,800 15,800 17,400 15,100 13,700 Groundwater (cubic meters) NA 2,000 1,800 7,800 7,100 7,200 6,400 6,400 5,800 Municipal (cubic meters) NA 8,300 8,200 8,400 8,700 8,600 11,000 8,700 7,900 Solid waste generation rate (metric tons/metric ton of product) 0.037 0.037 0.034 0.034 0.033 0.035 0.043 0.045 0.048 Solid waste (metric tons) 183 178 159 190 186 193 233 228 231 Percentage of owned production facilities that achieved zero waste N/A N/A N/A 12% 16% 17% 12% 14% 20% to landfill*** (%) * Data in this table is reported on a May-April basis (through April of the year noted). Energy, GHG emissions, water, and solid waste generation absolute and rate data are from wholly owned or controlled production facilities globally and reflect our footprint in that fiscal year. Past fiscal years have not been adjusted for acquisitions or divestitures. Solid waste data in this table is from production and excludes waste associated with construction as well as non-production activities such as new product trials. Some segments do not add up to total, due to rounding. Some data are restated compared to reporting in prior years to reflect improvements in data gathering and tracking methodologies. Beginning in 2013, data reflects the acquisition of Yoplait and Yoki. Yoplait solid waste data for 2013 and 2014 and all Yoki data for 2013 and 2014 were estimated. Beginning in 2017, data reflects the acquisition of Carolina. ** Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions data were calculated using the location-based method. These data were externally verified for 2010, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. *** These facilities sent no waste to landfill or incineration without energy recovery. Data includes facilities that were operating at the end of the relevant fiscal year. For years prior to 2013, General Mills did not report this data. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 64 Greenhouse gas emissions GRI 305-1, 2, 3 Methodology: We work with Quantis to calculate GHG emissions across the value chain by scope* (metric tons CO2e) our global GHG emissions footprint each fiscal 2018 year, following the guidelines of the GHG Protocol Value chain phase Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total 2017 total 2010 total Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. Agriculture and transformation 0 0 7,380,000 7,380,000 7,520,000 8,890,000 This footprint covers our complete value chain, from the farms that grow our ingredients to Packaging supply chain 0 0 1,090,000 1,090,000 1,170,000 1,350,000 consumers who use our products. Producing** 236,000 538,000*** 809,000 1,580,000 1,730,000 1,750,000 Shipping 1,600 0 1,140,000 1,140,000 1,350,000 1,460,000 We work to continually update our methodology, visibility and accuracy, and update results as Selling 47,000 53,000 749,000 849,000 905,000 933,000 appropriate each year. Consuming 0 0 3,290,000 3,290,000 3,330,000 3,340,000 Total 284,000 591,000 14,500,000 15,300,000 16,000,000 17,700,000 *Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. **Data in the Environmental Data Summary are from wholly owned or controlled production facilities globally. The data in this table include those locations as well as other wholly owned or controlled facilities globally (such as offices and Häagen-Dazs Shops) as well as fleet vehicles. ***This data is calculated using the location-based method. Workforce and governance data summary GRI 102-8, 405-1 Workforce by region and gender* Workforce by employment type and gender* Board of Directors diversity (% of total)* Female Total Female Total Male 58% Africa 0 1 Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time Female 42% Asia 7,471 13,224 Apprentice 82 25 82 25 African-American 17% Australasia 151 312 Casual 3 195 3 195 Asian 0% Europe 1,596 4,047 Intern 43 3 43 3 Hispanic 17% North America 6,191 14,903 Regular 11,779 4,093 11,779 4,093 Native American/American Indian 0% South America 1,746 5,796 Seasonal 79 9 79 9 Age 50+ 92% Total 17,155 38,283 Temporary 253 591 253 591 *Represents board composition as of Dec 31, 2018. *Data at end of fiscal 2018; excludes Blue Buffalo employees. Total 12,239 4,916 12,239 4,916 *Data at end of fiscal 2018; excludes Blue Buffalo employees. Workforce benefits GRI 401-2 Highlights of the benefits offered by General Mills* Pay Employees earn a competitive salary and annual bonus when they meet our ambitious goals. Salaries are reviewed each year, with increases based on performance and the market value of the position. Annual cash bonuses are based on performance (individual, company and, in some cases, business unit). Health benefits General Mills offers employees and eligible dependents medical, dental and vision plans starting on the first day of employment. Retirement and savings plans General Mills offers tools and resources to manage current and future savings goals. Eligibility for General Mills’ 401(k) Plan starts on the first day of employment. Employees can access free, confidential education on managing money, college and tax savings, and more. Stock options and ownership Company stock is available in the 401(k) Plan. Our voluntary stock purchase program allows another ownership opportunity. Annual stock option grants are available to some management-level employees. Insurance Life, long-term care, legal, and auto and homeowners insurance is available, plus company-paid shortand long-term disability insurance. Education assistance Loans and scholarship opportunities are available for employees and family members, plus reimbursement for job-related courses. Employees may be eligible for an unpaid leave of absence to further their education. Flexible work We offer telecommuting, flextime and part-time arrangements where business conditions allow. Parenting benefits General Mills offers maternity leave benefits to birth mothers and also offers benefits to new fathers and adoptive parents. Credit Union Employees and their families are eligible for complete banking and financial services from the General Mills Federal Credit Union, established in 1935. *Benefits may vary for employees by location and other factors. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 65 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index* UN UN Disclosure Location/comments Disclosure Location/comments SDGs SDGs GRI 102: General Disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures (cont.) Organizational profile Governance (cont.) 102-1 Name of the organization 2018 10-K 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, GeneralMills.com/Investors 16 environmental, and social topics 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Introduction, 2018 10-K 102-22 Composition of the highest governance GeneralMills.com/Investors 5, 16 102-3 Location of headquarters 2018 10-K body and its committees 102-4 Location of operations GeneralMills.com/ 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body GeneralMills.com/Investors 16 Company/Countries 102-24 Nominating and selecting the GeneralMills.com/Investors 5, 16 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2018 10-K highest governance body 102-6 Markets served GeneralMills.com/ 102-25 Conflicts of interest GeneralMills.com/Investors 16 Company/Countries 102-26 Role of highest governance body in Introduction, Our Planet 102-7 Scale of the organization 2018 Annual Report setting purpose, values, and strategy 102-8 Information on employees Appendix 8 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body's GeneralMills.com/Investors and other workers performance 102-9 Supply chain Introduction, Our Planet 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, GeneralMills.com/ 16 102-10 Significant changes to the 2018 Annual Report environmental, and social impacts Investors, Introduction organization and its supply chain 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes GeneralMills.com/ 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our Planet Investors, Introduction 102-12 External initiatives Introduction, Our Planet, 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, GeneralMills.com/ Our Community and social topics Investors, Introduction 102-13 Membership of associations Introduction, Our Planet, 102-32 Highest governance body's role Introduction Our Community in sustainability reporting Strategy 102-33 Communicating critical concerns GeneralMills.com/Investors 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO letter, 2018 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 2018 Proxy Statement Annual Report 102-35 Remuneration policies 2018 Proxy Statement 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2018 10-K 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 2018 Proxy Statement Ethics and integrity 102-37 Stakeholders involvement in remuneration GeneralMills.com/Investors 16 102-16 Values, principles, standards, Introduction, Our 16 and norms of behavior Workplace Stakeholder engagement 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and Our Workplace 16 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Introduction, Our Planet, concerns about ethics Our Community Governance 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Approximately 30% of U.S. 8 production employees 102-18 Governance structure GeneralMills.com/Investors are covered by CBAs. 102-19 Delegating authority Introduction 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Introduction, Our Planet, 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Introduction Our Community environmental, and social topics *Using GRI 2016 Sustainability Reporting Standards. Reporting disclosures may not be applied fully for all Standards. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 66 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index (cont.) UN UN Disclosure Location/comments Disclosure Location/comments SDGs SDGs GRI 102: General Disclosures (cont.) GRI 200 Economic Standards Series (cont.) Stakeholder engagement (cont.) GRI 201: Economic Performance (cont.) 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Introduction, Our Planet, 201-2 Financial implications and Our Planet, Carbon 13 engagement Our Community other risks and opportunities Disclosure Project due to climate change 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Introduction, Our Food, Our Planet, Our Community 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations 2018 10-K and other retirement plans Reporting practice GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 102-45 Entities included in the 2018 Annual Report consolidated financial 203-1 Infrastructure investments Our Planet, Our Community 2, 5, 7, statements and services supported 9, 11 102-46 Defining report content Materiality section of Introduction 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Our Planet, Our Community 1, 2, 3, 8, and topic boundaries 10, 17 102-47 List of material topics Materiality section of Introduction GRI 204: Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending Our Planet 12 102-48 Restatements of information Appendix Environmental on local suppliers Data Summary GRI 205: Anti-corruption 102-49 Changes in reporting Introduction 205-1 Operations assessed for risks Our Workplace 16 related to corruption 102-50 Reporting period Introduction 205-2 Communication and training Our Workplace 16 102-51 Date of most recent report Apr-18 about anti-corruption policies and procedures 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series GRI 301: Materials 102-53 Contact point for questions Introduction regarding the report 301-2 Recycled input materials used Our Planet 102-54 Claims of reporting in Introduction, Appendix GRI Index 301-3 Reclaimed products and Our Planet accordance with the their packaging materials GRI Standards GRI 302: Energy 102-55 GRI content index Global Reporting Initiative index 302-1 Energy consumption within Our Planet, Appendix 7, 8, 12, 102-56 External assurance Introduction the organization Environmental Data Summary 13 GRI 200 Economic Standards Series 302-2 Energy consumption outside Carbon Disclosure Project 7, 8, 12, of the organization 13 GRI 201: Economic Performance 302-3 Energy intensity Our Planet, Appendix 7, 8, 12, 201-1 Direct economic value Our Community, Our Planet, 2, 5, 7, Environmental Data Summary 13 generated and distributed 2018 Annual Report, 2018 8, 9 Proxy Statement 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Our Planet 7, 8, 12, 13 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 67 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index (cont.) UN UN Disclosure Location/comments Disclosure Location/comments SDGs SDGs GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series (cont.) GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series (cont.) GRI 303: Water GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Our Planet, Appendix 6 306-1 Water discharge by We do not discharge untreated 3, 6, 12, Environmental Data Summary quality and destination sanitary wastewater to land or 14 surface waters at any of our 303-2 Water sources significantly Our Planet 6 locations. Wastewater discharges affected by withdrawal of water primarily consist of organic 303-3 Water recycled and reused Our Planet 6, 8, 12 matter from ingredient handling, food production and cleaning processes. Our production facilities GRI 304: Biodiversity are governed by applicable 304-2 Significant impacts of Our Planet 6, 14, 15 regulations as well as our activities, products, and compliance management program. services on biodiversity 306-2 Waste by type and Our Planet 3, 6, 12 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Our Planet 6, 14, 15 disposal method GRI 305: Emissions 306-3 Significant spills There were no significant spills 3, 6, 12, at our manufacturing locations 14, 15 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Our Planet, Appendix 3, 12, 13, during the reporting period. Environmental Data Summary 14, 15 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste The quantity of hazardous 3, 12 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope Our Planet, Appendix 3, 12, 13, waste produced and shipped 2) GHG emissions Environmental Data Summary 14, 15 is insignificant relative to the 305-3 Other indirect (Scope Our Planet, Carbon 3, 12, 13, amount of solid waste generated 3) GHG emissions Disclosure Project 14, 15 at General Mills. Hazardous waste shipping and disposal is restricted 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Our Planet, Environmental 13, 14, 15 by government regulations. Data Summary 306-5 Water bodies affected by No water bodies are significantly 6, 14, 15 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Our Planet 13, 14, 15 water discharges and/or runoff affected by company discharges. 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting Ozone-depleting substances 3, 20 Our production facilities are substances (ODS) (ODS) are most commonly used governed by applicable regulations in small quantities for closedas well as our compliance loop refrigeration systems management program. and occasional fumigation GRI 307: Environmental Compliance activities. ODS emissions are strictly regulated. 307-1 Non-compliance with General Mills incurred 3 Notices 16 environmental laws of Violations (NOVs) and 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur Air emissions primarily include 3, 12, 14, and regulations no significant fines during oxides (SOX), and other particulate matter and organic 15 the reporting period. significant air emissions compounds from ingredient handling, cooking and drying, as GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment well as emissions associated with 308-1 New suppliers that Supplier Code of Conduct fuel combustion. Our production were screened using facilities are governed by applicable environmental criteria regulations as well as our compliance management program. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 68 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index (cont.) UN UN Disclosure Location/comments Disclosure Location/comments SDGs SDGs GRI 400 Social Standards Series GRI 400 Social Standards Series (cont.) GRI 401: Employment GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time Appendix 8 409-1 Operations and suppliers at Our Planet 8 employees that are not provided to significant risk for incidents of temporary or part-time employees forced or compulsory labor GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 403-1 Workers representation in formal Our Workplace 8 412-1 Operations that have been Our Planet joint management-worker subject to human rights reviews health and safety committees or impact assessments 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, Our Workplace; Although we had 3, 8 412-3 Significant investment agreements Our Planet, Supplier 16 occupational diseases, lost days our most statistically safe year and contracts that include human Code of Conduct and absenteeism, and number in the history of the company, rights clauses or that underwent of work-related fatalities we tragically lost four lives – human rights screening one General Mills employee GRI 413: Local Communities and three contractors – in two separate fatal incidents in FY18. 413-1 Operations with local community Our Planet, Our Community engagement, impact assessments, 403-4 Health and safety topics Our Workplace 8 and development programs covered in formal agreements with trade unions GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment GRI 404: Training and Education 414-1 New suppliers that were Supplier Code of Conduct 5, 8, 16 404-2 Programs for upgrading Our Workplace 8 screened using social criteria employee skills and transition 414-2 Negative social impacts in the Our Planet 5, 8, 16 assistance programs supply chain and actions taken 404-3 Percentage of employees Our Workplace 5, 8 GRI 415: Public Policy receiving regular performance and career development reviews 415-1 Political contributions Civic Involvement, 16 Introduction GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 405-1 Diversity of governance Our Workplace, Appendix, 5, 8 bodies and employees GeneralMills.com/Investors 416-1 Assessment of the health and Our Food, Our Workplace safety impacts of product GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining and service categories 407-1 Operations and suppliers in Our Planet 8 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance Our Food 16 which the right to freedom concerning the health and safety of association and collective impacts of products and services bargaining may be at risk GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling GRI 408: Child Labor 417-1 Requirements for product and Our Food 12 408-1 Operations and suppliers Our Planet 8, 16 service information and labeling at significant risk for incidents of child labor GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 69 Specific Standard Disclosures UN UN Disclosure Location/comments Disclosure Location/comments SDGs SDGs Food Processing Sector Supplement Food Processing Sector Supplement (cont.) Across All Aspects of Sourcing Product and Service Labeling (cont.) FP1 Percentage of purchased volume Our Planet, Supplier FP9 Percentage and total of animals General Mills does not 2, 15 from suppliers compliant with Code of Conduct raised and/or processed, by raise or process animals in company’s sourcing policy. species and breed type. its production operations. Meat that is used in our FP2 Percentage of purchased volume which Our Planet 2, 12, 14, products is processed by our is verified as being in accordance with 15 suppliers. For information credible, internationally recognized on our approach to animal responsible production standards, welfare, see our policy. broken down by standard. Animal Husbandry Healthy and Affordable Food FP10 Policies and practices, by General Mills does not FP4 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any Our Food, Our Planet, 2, 3 species and breed type, related physically alter animals or use programs and practices that promote Our Community to physical alterations and anaesthetics. For information access to healthy lifestyles; the prevention the use of anaesthetic. on our approach to animal of chronic disease; access to healthy, welfare, see our policy. nutritious and affordable food; and improved welfare for communities in need. FP11 Percentage and total of animals Our Planet raised and/or processed, by species General Mills does not Customer Health and Safety and breed type, per housing type. raise or process animals. FP5 Percentage of production volume Our Food 2 For information on our manufactured in sites certified by an approach to animal independent third party according to welfare, see our policy. internationally recognized food safety FP12 Policies and practices on antibiotic, Our Planet 2 management system standards. anti-inflammatory, hormone, and/ Animal welfare policy FP6 Percentage of total sales volume of Our Food 2 or growth promotion treatments, consumer products, by product category, by species and breed type. that are lowered in saturated fat, trans Transportation, Handling, and Slaughter fats, sodium and added sugars. FP13 Total number of incidents of General Mills does not FP7 Percentage of total sales volume of Our Food 2 non-compliance with laws and transport, handle or slaughter consumer products, by product category, regulations, and adherence with live or aquatic animals. that contain increased nutritious voluntary standards related to ingredients like fiber, vitamins, minerals, transportation, handling, and phytochemicals or functional food additives. slaughter practices for live Product and Service Labeling terrestrial and aquatic animals. FP8 Policies and practices on communication to Our Food 2 consumers about ingredients and nutritional AskGeneralMills.com information beyond legal requirements. SmartLabel.org GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 70 United Nations Global Compact Principles Principle Information in report Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Ethics and compliance Human rights Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Ethics and compliance Human rights Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Human rights collective bargaining; Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Human rights Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Human rights Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. Ethics and compliance Global inclusion Supplier Code of Conduct Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Climate change approach Sourcing approach Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Climate change performance Responsible sourcing Producing Water stewardship Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Climate change performance Responsible sourcing Producing Water stewardship Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Supplier Code of Conduct Code of Conduct GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 71 General Mills SASB Reference Table The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is an independent, standards-setting organization that promotes disclosure of material sustainability information to meet investor needs. This table references the Standard for the Processed Foods industry as defined by SASB’s Sustainable Industry Classification System (SICS) and identifies where General Mills addresses each topic. Note that some responses may not be fully aligned with SASB’s definition, but represent the content most closely aligned with that indicator. Topic SASB accounting metric Category Location or response Energy Management (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity, (3) percentage renewable Quantitative Environmental Data Summary, Our Planet Water Management (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, percentage of each in regions Quantitative CDP Water with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress Number of incidents of non-compliance associated with water quantity and/or Quantitative GRI Index quality permits, standards, and regulations Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies and practices Discussion and Analysis Water stewardship, CDP Water to mitigate those risks Food Safety Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) audit (1) non-conformance rate and Quantitative Zero critical non-conformances in FY18 (2) associated corrective action rate for (a) major and (b) minor non-conformances Percentage of ingredients sourced from Tier 1 supplier facilities certified to a Quantitative Food safety Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) recognized food safety certification program (1) Total number of notices of food safety violation received, Quantitative No food safety violations were (2) percentage corrected received in FY18 (1) Number of recalls issued and (2) total amount of food product recalled Quantitative Food safety Health & Nutrition Revenue from products labeled and/or marketed to promote health and Quantitative Health and wellness nutrition attributes Discussion of the process to identify and manage products and ingredients related Discussion and Analysis Health and wellness to nutritional and health concerns among consumers Product Labeling & Marketing Revenue from products labeled as (1) containing genetically modified organisms Quantitative We label all of our FDA regulated products (GMOs) and (2) non-GMO as either “Produced with” or “Partially Produced with Genetic Engineering” if they contain more than 0.9% GMO ingredients. Number of incidents of non-compliance with industry or regulatory labeling Quantitative Responsible marketing and/or marketing codes Packaging Lifecycle (1) Total weight of packaging, (2) percentage made from recycled and/or renewable Quantitative Climate change packaging Management materials, and (3) percentage that is recyclable, reusable, and/or compostable Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental impact of packaging Discussion and Analysis Climate change packaging throughout its lifecycle Environmental & Social Percentage of food ingredients sourced that are certified to third-party Quantitative Sustainable sourcing Impacts of Ingredient environmental and/or social standards, by certification scheme Supply Chain Suppliers’ social and environmental responsibility audit (1) non-conformance Quantitative Supplier responsibility rate and (2) associated corrective action rate for (a) major and (b) minor non-conformances Ingredient Sourcing Percentage of food ingredients sourced from regions with High or Extremely High Quantitative CDP Water Baseline Water Stress List of priority food ingredients and discussion of sourcing risks due to Discussion and Analysis Sustainable sourcing environmental and social considerations GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 72
